Graphs That ends a cracking game of cricket. We enjoyed bringing it to you. We are left with just two games in the 2015 World Cup. India or Australia , who is going to be the second finalist ? New Zealand are waiting and we are waiting as well. Looking forward to your company on Thursday for the second semi-final. The SCG will be packed to the rafters. We 'll start our coverage nice and early. Make sure you tune in early as well. Ta Ta Bye Bye ! Before we leave , here are a couple of thoughts. Firstly , ever since their readmission in 1992 , fielding has been one of South Africa 's greatest strengths , but today it has cost them badly. It has cost them a place in a World Cup final and potentially the World Cup itself. Secondly , Grant Elliott , born in Johannesburg , has denied his country of birth and done it for his adopted country. Elliott himself would n't have dreamt of playing such a match-winning innings and that too in a World Cup semi-final. In fact , Elliott was n't even in the picture for a long time. It was only just before the World Cup that he was included in place of Neesham on the back of some good performances in the domestic circuit. In 1992 , Inzamam-ul-Haq hurt Eden Park , but 23 years later , it has its own hero in Grant Elliott and the ghosts have been laid to rest. That Martin Crowe-led side can sleep peacefully now . There were so many potentially game-changing moments in this thriller. AB de Villiers failing to run-out Corey Anderson. Quinton de Kock missing an easy run-out chance of Grant Elliott in the 41st over. de Villiers missing a direct-hit when Vettori was well short. The ball landing between two fielders when Elliott mistimed one. Duminy colliding with Behardien to drop Elliott , when it was a simple catch to the latter and then de Kock missing the target in the last over when Elliott was desperately trying to get back on strike and eventually Elliott went on to win the game . Let 's take a look at some of the best tweets from this thrilling encounter : @ ShaneWarne : What a game of cricket in NZ , please hold your heads high South Africa , you 've done everyone proud as you gave it absolutely everything ! ! @ mohanstatsman : It has taken New Zealand 39 yrs , 9 months , 18 days and six semi-final losses to make their first WC final ! @ bhogleharsha : What a match though ! With all that is happening around us , thank god for sport ! # cwc15 # NZvsSA @ scottbstyris : Congrats South Africa on this performance and your tournament. Quite simply the best match I 've ever been to live ! Worthy of a final @ SPFleming7 : What an unbelievable game. So proud of the @ BLACKCAPS and what they have achieved. Also feel the raw pain of @ OfficialCSA on an amazing day . @ RoshanCricket : This game is not for the faint hearts. The Pendulum has swung again with the wicket of Ronchi. This is what a WC should be made off . @ MichaelVaughan : Bloody loving this game... Whoever wins deserves it... Not having either team being called chokers if they lose.. # CWC15 @ cricketaakash : Got ta feel for the South Africans...they would 've won this one if it was n't for the rain break. Played like champions. Well done ! @ Swannyg66 : WHAT A GAME ! ! ! ! The eruption of Eden park there was spine tingling huge ! Grant Elliot take a bow # cricketisawesome @ fwildecricket : Tears of joy , tears of pain. Sport you beautiful bastard. # CWC15 # NZvSA # NZ # SA @ cheteshwar1 : What a game of cricket , perfect semi , both teams played real good cricket @ ICC # CWC2015 # NZvSA @ swildecricket : South Africa should have run out Anderson on 33 , run out Elliott on 65 and caught Elliott on 75. Truth is , the pressure told on them Here 's the parting shot from Jamie as the World Cup ends its New Zealand leg - Crazy , people cried , jumped , banged tables , hugged , the scorers shouted. the hospitality staff went berserk , immense - he says , about New Zealand 's last gasp victory " I have said it time and time again , this is the greatest time of our lives as players. We are enjoying the experience. It 's been an incredible ride all the way through. The crowds that we had turn up in New Zealand and support this team and the brand of cricket we are trying to play , it 's been phenomenal. I hope they are all dreaming as much as what we are. We 've got a huge occasion in a few days time and jeez it will be nice to win it. We do n't mind ( the opposition ) . Both are quality teams that are obviously playing the other semi-final. We know that if we play the cricket that we can , then we will have a good chance. But we 'll worry about that after tonight I think ( smiles ) . Credit to our boys as well. Probably I have n't talked enough about them ( the whole team ) . We 've got a tremendous team spirit amongst the group. We have got guys contributing across the park and off the park as well. An outstanding management team and a group of guys who are headed in the same direction and it 's really proud to represent New Zealand. Thanks crowd ! " McCullum : " It 's pretty amazing. South Africa gave us as good as they got all day and I thought the game was outstanding. Great advertisement for cricket and I am sure everyone that was here will remember this for the rest of their lives. I know that our boys will. We will give ourselves a chance at World Cup glory , which is a fine achievement , really proud of all the boys ' efforts. Keep raining ( smiles , when asked what he was thinking when it started to rain when South Africa were batting ) They were obviously setting it up quite nicely and there were two set batsmen and two very destructive batsmen at the crease as well. I still looked at the innings and the way we kept giving in the field and the way we bowled I still thought we were controlling everything we possibly could. Sometimes you come against people who play significant hands and that 's what those guys were doing. We just knew we just needed to hang in there and even with the bat as long as we could hang in there we gave ourselves a chance towards the end. What a great innings from Grant Elliott. Came out of the wilderness not long ago and he 's just played a match-winning innings in the semi-final and the partnership he had with Corey ( Anderson ) , just such calmness about them as well. It 's a tremendous achievement from them and all the boys. It 's bits and pieces when it boils down to the significance of the innings that Grant played. We had to try and generate some sort of run rate early when you are chasing such a big score. And that 's obviously what we tried to do. Again credit to South Africa. I thought the way they played throughout this game and throughout the tournament has been outstanding. It 's a great advertisement for their country and cricket in their country as well. So full credit to AB ( de Villiers ) , especially he 's led the way and to all the South African guys for their part in this tournament and obviously giving us one hell of a run today. " AB de Villiers shakes hands with McCullum as he walks off . de Villiers : " Amazing game of cricket , this is probably the most electric crowd I 've ever heard in my life. Credit to the crowd here tonight. They were really here to support their team. I guess the better team came out on top today. We gave it our best. We left everything out here on the field and I could n't ask anything more from my boys. We do n't go back with any regrets , but I guess we had our chances and it 's hurting quite a bit. So it will take us a while to get over this. That ( rain coming down when South Africa were set for a big score ) is probably the worst of it all. We are not playing for ourselves. There is a bigger picture. We are playing to make a difference in our country back home. Hopefully the way the passion we showed here did make a difference in our country back home and I hope people back home can still be proud of us no matter about the fact we lost tonight. I felt we had a wonderful thing going as a team in this tournament. Really had a good feeling. I do n't want to single out any individual because we are a unit and the unit came unstuck today. But we had very good individual performances throughout the tournament. So credit to all those who did well. And to the teams in the final , all the best , whoever wins. " AB de Villiers was very emotional and he could not talk much. Credit to Simon Doull for not asking too many questions . Elliott : " Yeah , it 's great. I mean I do n't think this win is for myself , not for the team , but it 's for everyone here. The support has been amazing. We ( him and Anderson ) just wanted to take it as deep as we could and Corey ( Anderson ) batted fantastically well and I think we timed the pace of the innings to perfection. Probably not ( when asked if he was calm during the final stages ) , but when you have got 40,000 fans screaming at you every ball , it has been an absolute pleasure playing at Eden Park , playing in front of the home crowd. I think we have had a good run and it is the first final we have been in as a New Zealand team and we are a very leveled team. We will approach it as every other game and when we look back at the end of the day hopefully , it falls in our place ( talking about the final ) . Nothing , nothing , I did n't even know where the ball went ( smiles ) ( when asked what was going through his mind when he hit the last six ) . " Grant Elliott is the Man of the Match for his unbeaten 84. He received the award from former West Indian captain , Sir Clive Lloyd . New Zealand will be brimming with confidence when they will face up to the winner of Australia/India at the MCG in the grand final . Earlier , de Villiers ' marvellous fluency and Faf du Plessis ' well-constructed fifty helped South Africa to make a smart recovery after they lost wickets up front. Once it was reduced to 43-overs-a-side , David Miller blazed his way to a 18-ball 49 to lift South Africa to a sizeable total. However , with short boundaries and the dew factor coming into play , New Zealand would have been confident of chasing down the target . One has to also remember that Brendon McCullum set up the game for New Zealand as he waltzed through to a 26-ball 59. He clouted the likes of Steyn and Vernon Philander to all corners of the ground to stun the opposition into silence. In fact , McCullum clobbering Steyn down the ground for a monstrous six has to be one of the highlights of the day . For South Africa , it was Morne Morkel , who struck twice in quick succession and Imran Tahir bowled parsimoniously to pull the batting side back. In fact , Morkel and Tahir were excellent with the ball in hand. However , for a brief period , Anderson and Elliott seemed to have taken the game away from their grasp. Anderson and Luke Ronchi 's wickets then gave South Africa genuine hopes of coming back into the match , but New Zealand just about held their nerve to win the match. South Africa would rue the fact that de Villiers , one of the best fielders going around , missed an easy chance to run out Anderson. Steyn leaking runs and not having a regular fifth bowler did n't help their cause. Steyn also seemed to be troubled by a hamstring problem . Grant Elliott 's nerveless fifty and Corey Anderson 's thrill-a-minute knock helped New Zealand to win a cliffhanger. In a game that was reduced to 43-overs-a-side due to rain , both sides fought tooth and nail before Elliott turned the game on its head to steer New Zealand to their first final in the history of the World Cup and leave the crowd in a state of ecstasy. With five runs needed for a famous win , Elliott thwacked Dale Steyn for a six to finish the game off in style. Anderson too played his part by composing a power-packed innings under pressure. With confident strides , Elliott showed good defence and when needed , played the big shot. Back in 2009 , Elliott had done something similar in the Champions Trophy semi-final against Pakistan when he played with a calm head on his shoulders to guide them to victory. This is also the highest run-chase by any team in a knockout game in World Cups . Phew ! What a game of cricket. Fireworks go off. Pure emotions at Eden Park. Elliott is pumped , he has both his arms aloft , let 's out a roar and swings his bat in joy. Even the ever calm Vettori shows his emotion by running across and hugging his partner. The New Zealand players come down to shake hands with their opponents. AB de Villiers and Rossouw too are crying. The New Zealand fans are delighted. Elliott gets a hug from Ronchi. Brendon McCullum gives Steyn a tight hug as well. The South African fast bowler was in disbelief and none of his team-mates came near him. QDK patted him and Duminy too , but Steyn was just staring into space. The New Zealand players then wave to the crowd. Mills comes out and consoles Morne Morkel. The man of the moment , Grant Elliott is mobbed by his team-mates , Williamson , who failed today gives him the tightest of hugs. And just when the winnings runs were hit , the New Zealand dug-out went berserk as each and every member , hugged , high-fived and congratulated each other . 42.5 Steyn to Elliott , SIX , New Zealand have qualified for a World Cup final for the first time. What a blow from Elliott. What an innings he 's played. Look at that roar from the Eden Park crowd. Ian Smith goes berserk on air. Length delivery from Steyn , a shocking ball at this stage of the innings , Elliott goes deep in the crease , shuffles across slightly , takes his front leg out of the way and smashes it high over long-on. Elliott punches the air in delight and has his hands aloft before Vettori hugs him. AB de Villiers is down on his knees. Oh my word ! This is heartbreak for South Africa. Such a good team they have , but they somehow did not manage to hold their nerve under pressure. Morne Morkel is crying. Parnell consoles Morkel. Faf du Plessis looks gutted as well The field is well spread now 42.4 Steyn to Vettori , byes , 1 run , short of length delivery from Steyn , Vettori swings and misses , Elliott sets off , de Kock misses the stumps , Steyn collects the ball and has a shy at the bowler 's end but misses. Had de Kock hit the stumps , Elliott would have been out. Vettori races across and dives , he would have made it even if Steyn had hit the stumps 42.3 Steyn to Vettori , FOUR , oh boy ! Steyn is livid ! How has he managed to hit that for four ? Full toss and wide outside off stump , Vettori backs away and then somehow manages to stretch and guide it past backward point , third man is very fine and he ca n't get there New Zealand need 10 off 4 to win this game , but remember , 9 will take them into the final . Oops ! Steyn is stretching his left hamstring. He calls for the physio. What drama ! ABdV has a long chat with Steyn. The physio is attending to Steyn , who is down on the ground. The New Zealand substitutes come out with a drink and probably a message for both the batsmen. Also is this a ploy from Steyn to disrupt the batting momentum of the Black Caps ? Meanwhile , chants of " Daniel Vettori , Daniel Vettori " reverberate around Eden Park . 42.2 Steyn to Elliott , 1 run , full toss outside off stump , Elliott drives it uppishly , Miller rushes in from cover but it does n't carry. He does well to get his body behind the ball , only a single available New Zealand need 11 to win , but 10 will be enough as a tie will see them through . 42.1 Steyn to Vettori , byes , 1 run , short of length delivery from Steyn , Vettori pulls and misses , Elliott races to get back on strike and he succeeds in stealing a bye 41.6 M Morkel to Elliott , 2 runs , he 's mistimed it. And ohhhh ! Behardien was right under the ball but Duminy came right across him and they spill it. Behardien had it covered at deep backward square. It was an easy catch for him but Duminy came running from fine leg , dived in front of him and put his mate off. Short delivery outside off stump , Elliott mistimes the pull high in the air , it should have been a wicket , but Duminy collided with Behardien. Meanwhile , both the Black Caps batsmen were ball watching and were n't running for a while. There was an easy third run , which the batsmen miss out on. This also means Vettori will be on strike. Will this come back to haunt New Zealand ? It 's 14 needed off 7 now . 41.5 M Morkel to Elliott , FOUR , what a shot ! Morkel misses the length and bowls a juicy full ball outside off stump , Elliott shuffled across to the off-side , does n't try to over-hit the ball , just lofts it over extra-cover and it races away for four 41.4 M Morkel to Vettori , 1 run , that is a brilliant save from Steyn diving full length to his right. Great committment , he stretches his right hamstring after fielding the ball. Vettori walks across the stumps and helps this short ball down to long leg , but he could get only one run 41.3 M Morkel to Elliott , 1 run , slower ball bumper outside off stump , Elliott under-edges the pull to mid wicket 41.2 M Morkel to Elliott , 2 runs , in the airrrrrr and it 's landed safely between two converging fielders. Full and outside off stump , Elliott looks to slog this hard after clearing his front leg out of the way , du Plessis runs back from mid-wicket , Amla rushes in from the deep , but the ball beats both fielders Fine leg is back. Mid-off , mid-on and square leg in . 41.1 M Morkel to Vettori , 1 run , full toss , crashed hard. Oh , that 's a great diving save to his left from Amla , stopped a certain boundary. Vettori hit that hard towards extra-cover , but Amla intervened at short cover Morne Morkel [ 8.0-0-48-3 ] is back into the attack Decent over from Steyn under the circumstances. New Zealand need 23 off the last two overs . 40.6 Steyn to Elliott , no run , a direct-hit would have been curtains for Vettori. Low full toss on the leg stump , Elliott flicks it straight to ABdV at short mid-wicket , Vettori was backing up too far , the fielder had a shy but missed 40.5 Steyn to Vettori , 1 run , backs away , Steyn fires in a yorker , somehow Vettori manages to squeeze it out to Rossouw at backward point , who dives to his right and stops the ball 40.4 Steyn to Elliott , 1 run , slower ball on the leg stump , glanced away to fine leg 40.3 Steyn to Elliott , 2 runs , oh dear , Quinton de Kock. A run-out chance goes begging. Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , Elliott flicks it to backward square leg and wants two , rushes back , Rossouw fires a good throw adjacent to the stumps but in anxiety , de Kock fumbled and whipped the bails off without the ball. Elliott was well short despite a full length dive 40.2 Steyn to Elliott , 2 runs , nice hit , third man is very fine and Elliott guides it past backward point for a couple of runs Daniel Vettori , left handed bat , comes to the crease 40.1 Steyn to Ronchi , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! What have you done Luke Ronchi ? A nothing shot and it 's a simple catch at deep square leg. He ca n't believe it ! Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , a harmless ball in fact , Ronchi flicks but does n't bother to keep it down , the fielder waits for the ball to come and swallows it easily. Maybe Ronchi was trying to go over mid-wicket. Anyway , Steyn has given a breakthrough for South Africa at a crucial time. Ronchi c Rossouw b Steyn 8 ( 7 ) [ 4s-1 ] Steyn to Ronchi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Dale Steyn [ 7.0-0-59-0 ] is back into the attack 29 needed off 18. Remember , if it 's a tie , New Zealand will go through to the final because they finished higher in the group stage . 39.6 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Ronchi drives it down to long-off , the fielder makes a fine sliding save 39.5 Tahir to Ronchi , FOUR , what a shot ! Just a flick of the wrists and away she went , someone would say ! Flatter delivery on the leg stump , Ronchi flicks with a strong bottom hand grip and hits it over mid-wicket to pick up a much needed boundary 39.4 Tahir to Elliott , 1 run , 'caaaatch ' is the cry from Tahir but it does n't carry to the man , who was running to his left from deep square leg. Elliott pulled that off the back foot 39.3 Tahir to Elliott , no run , very full on the off stump , driven back to the bowler. This is a top over so far. Captain ABdV likes it 39.2 Tahir to Elliott , no run , on the leg stump , Elliott flicks it to mid-wicket 39.1 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , googly on the stumps , not sure if Ronchi picked it , but he 's managed to tap it to point Imran Tahir [ 8.0-1-33-0 ] is back into the attack 36 to get off 24 balls. Do n't take your eyes off this ! 38.6 de Villiers to Ronchi , 1 run , oh that is a great effort from ABdV ! He flies to his right in no time after delivering the ball as Ronchi drove this uppishly to long-on , unfortunately for South Africa , Ronchi hit it hard enough to beat ABdV 's acrobatic dive 38.5 de Villiers to Elliott , 1 run , slogs very hard but hits it straight to deep square leg. A couple yards either side of the fielder would have been more runs 38.4 de Villiers to Elliott , SIX , in the airrrr and all the way ! Timely hit this from Elliott. Too short from de Villiers , no pace whatsoever to trouble the batsman , who rocks back and pulls it high over deep square leg 38.3 de Villiers to Ronchi , 1 run , driven nicely but Behardien is stationed very straight at long-on 38.2 de Villiers to Ronchi , no run , on the off stump , defended back to the bowler 38.1 de Villiers to Elliott , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Elliott drives it to long-off Jamie , who 's watching from the ground is n't sure if it hit the spidercam wire , but it went miles up in the air , Faf waited for an eternity before holding on Luke Ronchi , right handed bat , comes to the crease Alright , 46 to get off 30 and South Africa have a new batsman to work with. What an over that was from Morkel. Just one run in it and the big wicket of Anderson . 37.6 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , out Caught by du Plessis ! ! Is there a twist in the tale ? This is the just the breakthrough South Africa wanted at this stage. Slower delivery shortish and outside off stump , Anderson goes for the pull but gets a top edge , it goes high in the air , square leg settles under it and holds on to the skier. That was a very good catch from Faf , who had his hands outstretched in joy , while he was flat on the ground. Faf is pumped and he gets a pat from Steyn. Oh hang on ! They are checking if the ball hit the spider cam. Anderson is waiting near the boundary. Not sure if the ball flicked the string on its way down. The third umpire says it 's fine and Anderson has to go. Remember , if the ball had touched the wire , it would have been a dead ball. End of a terrific knock from the all-rounder. Corey Anderson c du Plessis b M Morkel 58 ( 57 ) [ 4s-6 6s-2 ] M Morkel to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.5 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , short and down the leg-side , big appeal for catch from de Kock as Anderson misses the hook , but umpire Gould was n't keen. No bat or glove involved 37.4 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , almost knocked the leg stump out ! Anderson does n't move his feet while trying to run it down to third man , the short of length delivery just nips back in and goes just over the stumps 37.3 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Anderson is cramped on the cut and he picks out point 37.2 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , steeply rising short of length delivery on the stumps , Anderson hops and keeps it out 37.1 M Morkel to Elliott , 1 run , dabbed down to third man for an easy single Morne Morkel [ 7.0-0-47-2 ] is back into the attack 36.6 de Villiers to Corey Anderson , FOUR , short and pulled in the air , more importantly pulled in the gap. Anderson was n't impressed after playing the shot and shook his head as he knew it was airborne and not too far away from Amla , who moved to his left. Short and down the leg-side , Anderson sends it between backward square leg and short fine leg 36.5 de Villiers to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , slogged across the line , not great timing but it goes wide of long-on and it 's good enough for a couple of runs. Good running from Elliott as he quickly raced back for the second Vernon Philander is off the park . 36.4 de Villiers to Elliott , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Elliott pulls it to deep square leg 36.3 de Villiers to Elliott , no run , huge shout for LBW , not given and South Africa do n't have their review. Short of a length delivery just shaping back in , Elliott goes across the line and gets an inside edge onto pad 36.2 de Villiers to Corey Anderson , 1 run , short of a length delivery outside off stump , Anderson goes hard at it and ends up flat-batting it to long-off. The timing was n't great though 36.2 de Villiers to Corey Anderson , 1 run , short of a length delivery outside off stump , Anderson goes hard at it 36.1 de Villiers to Corey Anderson , no run , very full , drilled back to the bowler AB de Villiers [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack New Zealand have scored 35 runs in the 4-over batting powerplay , but more importantly , have not lost a wicket. It 's down to 55 off 42 now . 35.6 Tahir to Corey Anderson , 1 run , every single run is being cheered. South Africa are under serious pressure. Flighted from Tahir , driven to long-on 35.5 Tahir to Elliott , 1 run , on the leg stump , driven down to long-on 35.4 Tahir to Elliott , FOUR , excellent hit to bring up fifty. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Elliott does n't try to over-hit the ball , just lofts it over extra-cover with the spin and gets four more. Big cheer from the capacity Eden Park crowd 35.3 Tahir to Elliott , no run , oh ! The Giraffe slipped and the ball almost escaped. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Elliott flicks it to backward sqaure leg , Morne runs to his left , slips but manages to stop the ball to his right 35.2 Tahir to Corey Anderson , 1 run , a sensational fifty under pressure from the youngster. He 's scored at a brisk pace as well. This is his 4th ODI fifty. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Anderson drives it to long-off and raises his bat to acknowledge the applause 35.1 Tahir to Corey Anderson , FOUR , short and outside off stump , cut very hard , Amla dives full length to his left but it 's not good enough. Amla moved from cover-point but Anderson hit it in the gap 35.1 Tahir to Corey Anderson , wide , not the ideal start , sprays the flatter delivery down the leg-side , de Kock takes the bails off , but Anderson had his back foot grounded Imran Tahir [ 7.0-1-21-0 ] is back into the attack New Zealand need 67 off 48 balls. This is well within their reach. South Africa need a couple of quick wickets . More from Jamie as the match veers towards a tense finale : Crowd getting behind every ball. They can sense something special. But its a tricky situation. Loud boos after Morkel pulls up . 34.6 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , 1 run , driven to mid-off and he 'll keep strike 34.5 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , FOUR , goes aerial , there is no one at long-off and it 's a misfield as well. Fullish delivery outside off stump , Anderson goes for the loft , he was looking to go straight but the bat turned in his hands and it went wide of mid-off , AB gave chase from mid-off , he dived very early , the ball hit his elbow and then the knee pushed the ball to the rope. AB is very disappointed Morne stops as he was about to release the ball and the crowd boo him . 34.4 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anderson dabs it to point , Rossouw makes a diving save to his right 34.3 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , oops ! Anderson gets hit on the box. He feels a bit of pain , but he 's fine though. Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , Anderson tries to work it on the on-side , but gets an inside edge and gets hit Milne , Ronchi and Shane Bond have a bit of smile in the dressing room. Looks like that New Zealand change room is relaxed 34.2 M Morkel to Elliott , 1 run , fullish and outside off stump , Elliott flicks it to deep square leg 34.1 M Morkel to Elliott , SIX , has he hit that well enough ? Yes , he has ! Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Elliott slogs across the line and sends it high over deep square leg , there is no one in the deep and that is a safe shot. Great start to the over for the Black Caps 33.6 Steyn to Elliott , 1 run , nice and full on the stump , Elliott drives it down to mid-on , ABdV flies to his left and makes a diving save , deflects the ball towards mid-off , he recovers and dives again but does n't get there. Anyway , Tahir was there in position to stop the ball 33.5 Steyn to Elliott , 2 runs , in the airrrr but just wide of the fielder. Faf it was at cover , who was diving full length to his right. Full and outside off stump , Elliott does n't control the drive on the rise and gets away with it. Tahir runs back from mid-off to save two 33.4 Steyn to Corey Anderson , 1 run , lets the length ball to come and and guides it late to third man , they think about the second run as the throw goes towards mid-wicket , but there was a man backing up 33.3 Steyn to Elliott , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Elliott fails to glance it away and it rolls off the thigh pad towards backward square leg 33.2 Steyn to Elliott , no run , attempts a lazy dab away from the body , but the outswing on this short of length delivery beats him all ends up 33.1 Steyn to Corey Anderson , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , Anderson dangerously guides the ball very late to third man Coming back to that run-out miss , the throw came in on the half-volley , but AB , who was so excited to effect the run-out , broke the stumps with his hand without the ball. He fell over , but tried to run Anderson out on the second attempt , still could n't uproot the stumps. Even while lying flat on the ground he tried to pull the stumps out , but could n't. Is that the game ? Dale Steyn , who had a good view , knew straightaway that they 've missed a great opportunity . Jamie chirped in to say that there was a mellow rection from the crowd when AB came onto bowl , but there was a huge roar when he fluffed that run-out chance 32.6 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , dabbed to short third man 32.5 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anderson goes for the pull and misses 32.4 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Anderson defends off the back foot 32.3 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anderson looks to go hard but toe-ends it to the right of the bowler 32.2 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , oh he decides to take the bat away at the last moment to this good length delivery. He could have easily dragged that back onto the stumps 32.1 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , FOUR , smashed ! Full and outside off stump , Anderson drives very hard , mid-off was very square and he had no chance. That was hit with immense power Morne Morkel [ 5.0-0-30-2 ] is back into the attack New Zealand have taken the batting powerplay. Remember , it 's only for 4 overs. In fact , ABdV was coming in to bowl , but since they opted for the powerplay , he threw the ball to Morne . 31.6 Steyn to Elliott , FOUR , Morne Morkel ca n't stop it at third man. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Elliott guides it gently , the Giraffe runs to his right , tries to stop it with his right hand , but the pace on the ball was too much for him and he could n't make a clean stop 31.5 Steyn to Elliott , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Elliott drives it to cover 31.4 Steyn to Elliott , no run , short delivery outside off stump , Elliott left alone 31.3 Steyn to Elliott , no run , what a moment ! Surely an easy run-out but ABdV failed to hold his nerve under pressure. South Africa needed to break this stand. Fullish delivery outside off stump , Elliott defends it to point , Corey Anderson races for a run but Elliott sends him back , the throw comes in adjacent to the stumps , but de Villiers , who rushed in from mid-on , could n't stop himself in time and his hand hit the stumps before grabbing the ball as he could n't control the momentum Run-out check sent upstairs. This is a big moment in the game. Has ABdV broken the stumps without the ball ? Anderson is the man in question. Oh no ! Looks like he does n't have the ball while disturbing the bails. " I need a closer angle , " says umpire Llong. He gets a different angle. " Two bails are off and there is no ball involved , so it 's not out , " adds Llong . 31.2 Steyn to Corey Anderson , 1 run , driven along the ground but there is a man sweeping on the off-side 31.1 Steyn to Corey Anderson , no run , Anderson was late to defend this one but he manages to keep it out though. This good length delivery shaped back in and almost went through the gate 30.6 de Villiers to Elliott , no run , on the leg stump , flicked to mid-wicket. Just 4 singles in it and that 's a very good over in the context of the game 30.5 de Villiers to Corey Anderson , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Anderson drives hard , de Villiers tries to grab the ball in his followthrough , but fumbles and it goes to mid-on 30.4 de Villiers to Elliott , leg byes , 1 run , full and down the leg-side , Elliott misses the flick and is hit on the pad , the ball rolls to square leg and Anderson takes a run. The ball was going down the leg-side and the umpire was n't interested in the appeal for LBW 30.3 de Villiers to Corey Anderson , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Anderson flat-bats it to long-off 30.2 de Villiers to Elliott , 1 run , bit of inswing on this attempted yorker , Elliott whips it away through backward square leg. New Zealand bring up their 200 , much to the delight of the capacity crowd at Eden Park 30.1 de Villiers to Elliott , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , defended back to the bowler AB de Villiers , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Wow ! This is interesting , ABdV brings himself on. I think he 's got a wicket every match he 's bowled in the last 4-5 games . It was Corey Anderson , who decided to take the mantle of steering New Zealand to victory by thrashing a few boundaries. He then bludgeoned Philander for a six over deep square-leg and took full advantage of a full toss from Duminy by tonking it down the ground for another six. At the other end , Grant Elliott has played with composure . JP Duminy landed a crucial blow by getting the wicket of Ross Taylor , with Quinton de Kock showcasing sharp reflexes to take the catch down the leg side. Vernon Philander , on occasions , troubled the batsmen with subtle seam movement. With Philander , it feels like batsmen struggle to pick any hints from his wrist position and he hardly gets the ball to move in the air. It is only after pitching that he surprises the batsman with seam movement. Unfortunately , Philander also undid the good work by invariably bowling a loose delivery every over. If South Africa win this game , the credit has to go to Imran Tahir as he has bowled parsimoniously. New Zealand 's batsmen have certainly not picked Tahir 's googly . 29.6 Steyn to Corey Anderson , no run , oh ! He 's missed the pull shot and they appeal for a caught-behind. Not a convincing appeal though. Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Anderson goes on the back foot and tries to pull , the ball skids on and probably kept a bit low as well and beat Anderson. Top over from Steyn , who went for 46 runs in his first four overs 29.5 Steyn to Corey Anderson , no run , wow ! He wants a sighter. Full and outside off stump , left alone 29.4 Steyn to Elliott , 3 runs , driven nicely and in the gap as well at cover. ABdV races back from mid-off , the ball slows down and helps his cause as well , he puts in the slide and throws the ball back but Elliott quickly takes the third run and pushes his partner 29.3 Steyn to Elliott , no run , full and outside off stump , driven towards cover , where Miller is so swift to get to the ball and prevent a run 29.2 Steyn to Elliott , no run , a tentative poke away from the body and Elliott is beaten all ends up. Maybe just a bit of shape away from the right-hander on that occasion , Elliott looks to defend but gets away with it 29.1 Steyn to Elliott , no run , fullish and on the stumps , Elliott defends it towards mid-on Dale Steyn [ 4.0-0-46-0 ] is back into the attack Steyn returns with one slip . 28.6 Duminy to Corey Anderson , SIX , he 's lost it ! A friendly full toss and Anderson is not going to miss out. South Africa will have to be very tight with the ball if they are to pull this off , ca n't offer freebies and Anderson has absolutely smashed this over long-off 28.5 Duminy to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , oh dear ! That 's a bad ball but he 's got away with that as Amla tidies up in the deep. Slider down the leg-side , Anderson helps it past short fine leg , deep backward square leg runs to his left and saves two 28.4 Duminy to Elliott , 1 run , spinning back in , Elliott flicks it through backward square leg , de Villiers makes a diving save to his right 28.3 Duminy to Corey Anderson , 1 run , on the stumps , gently nudged to mid-wicket , there is no one there , Duminy hunts the ball and keeps the batsmen down to one 28.3 Duminy to Corey Anderson , wide , down the leg-side , left alone , easy call for the umpire 28.2 Duminy to Elliott , 1 run , stays round the wicket , full and on the stumps , worked away through square leg 28.1 Duminy to Corey Anderson , 1 run , starts off from round the wicket and delivers a flatter ball on the off stump , punched to long-on Jean-Paul Duminy [ 4.0-0-30-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Tahir to Elliott , no run , spinning away outside off stump , Elliott defends it towards point with an angled bat. Good over from Tahir , just four singles in it 27.5 Tahir to Corey Anderson , 1 run , Anderson goes on the back foot and tries to pull this short ball , but mistimes it to long-on. Maybe the ball kept a bit low on that occasion 27.4 Tahir to Elliott , 1 run , defends this googly off the front foot to backward point and gets off strike 27.3 Tahir to Corey Anderson , 1 run , the Giraffe ( Morne ) needed to do a better job. Googly outside off stump , Anderson cuts off the back foot , short third man dives to his left , but does n't manage to stop the ball cleanly 27.2 Tahir to Corey Anderson , no run , this one spins back in , Anderson was on the back foot and he dangerously defends it towards cover 27.1 Tahir to Elliott , 1 run , nicely floated up ball from Tahir , Elliott drives it along the ground to long-off 26.6 Philander to Elliott , 1 run , gets across the sticks and tucks the short of length delivery to backward square leg 26.5 Philander to Elliott , no run , beaten ! This good length delivery just nips away off the deck and beats Elliott 's attempted dab down to third man 26.4 Philander to Elliott , FOUR , full and in the slot , an excellent front foot drive and even a full length dive to the left by the fielder at cover was n't good enough. Elliott did n't try to over hit the ball , just timed it to perfection and it raced away. Philander bowled three dots balls in the over , but all the good work has been undone 26.3 Philander to Elliott , no run , Philander keeps the good length close to the off stump , Elliott gently defends it into the off-side 26.2 Philander to Elliott , no run , pushes this with an angled bat towards point , Rossouw makes a diving save to his right and keeps the batsmen calm. Elliott was looking for a run there 26.1 Philander to Elliott , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Elliott defends it towards cover One slip in place . South Africa are slighty ahead at the moment but that has n't doused the enthusiasm in the crowd. They are still cheering the home team on , says Jamie Drinks are on the field now. The game is still in the balance. The run rate is fine for New Zealand , wickets in hand will be the key. On the other hand , if South Africa are to travel to Melbourne , they need wickets and wickets at regular intervals. We are all set for a cracking finish ! 25.6 Tahir to Corey Anderson , no run , googly again just outside off stump , cut to point this time 25.5 Tahir to Corey Anderson , no run , looks defend this off the front foot , again does n't pick the googly and gets beaten 25.4 Tahir to Corey Anderson , no run , Anderson fails to pick this googly. It was short and outside off stump , he thought he could power it off the back foot over mid-wicket , but the ball spun away from him and foxed him One slip in place 25.3 Tahir to Elliott , 1 run , Tahir bowls a slider on the leg stump , Elliott punches it off the back foot to long-on 25.2 Tahir to Elliott , no run , goes for the sweep , but the ball spins away and goes past the under edge. Luckily for Elliott , it was n't on the stumps 25.1 Tahir to Elliott , no run , tossed up on the stumps , defended off the front foot Imran Tahir [ 5.0-1-16-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Philander to Corey Anderson , SIX , horrible delivery from Philander , he once again releases the pressure off the last ball. Banged in short , not much pace on that , Anderson rocks back and muscles the pull over deep square. That was hit flat and travelled all the way 24.5 Philander to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , Philander drags the length back , Anderson is quick to go back and pull it in front of square , he did n't middle it , hence only the couple 24.4 Philander to Corey Anderson , no run , pitched up on off , Anderson middles the on-drive , ABD runs to his right and makes a sprawling stop 24.3 Philander to Corey Anderson , no run , Philander is keeping it tight , on a length close to off , Anderson presses forward and blocks it to cover 24.2 Philander to Corey Anderson , no run , short of length on off , knocked down the wicket 24.1 Philander to Corey Anderson , no run , good length ball on off , Anderson presses forward and defends in front of cover 23.6 Duminy to Elliott , no run , goes back over the wicket , Elliott mistimes the drive to short mid-wicket , the bat turned and the ball went off the inner half 23.5 Duminy to Elliott , FOUR , poor bowling from Duminy. Darts it in just outside leg , Elliott goes down on one knee and sweeps it hard and fine , Miller had 10 metres to move and he could n't get there as the ball rocketed to the fence 23.4 Duminy to Corey Anderson , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Anderson drills it down to long-off 23.3 Duminy to Corey Anderson , no run , pushed through , Anderson defends it to silly point , where ABD is quick to react 23.2 Duminy to Corey Anderson , FOUR , Anderson should look to be positive. Quicker on leg-stump , Anderson goes quickly onto his knee and sweeps it behind square , there was a fielder in the deep but he was a mere spectator as that was hit hard Still a leg slip and silly point in place for Anderson 23.1 Duminy to Elliott , 1 run , Duminy continues round the wicket , flighted on middle and leg , Elliott sweeps it to deep backward square leg 22.6 Philander to Corey Anderson , no run , good delivery to end the over , in and around the off-stump , Anderson knows where his off-stump is , lifts his bat and lets it go 22.5 Philander to Corey Anderson , FOUR , that should make him feel better , pitched up around off , Anderson presents the full face of the bat and drives it past Elliott , the fielder at mid-off was square and he could n't cut that off 22.4 Philander to Corey Anderson , no run , beaten neck and crop ! This is the Philander we all know. It hits the seam and nips back in , Anderson is cut into half , beaten off the inside edge and the ball goes over the stumps. It kept moving even after going past the batsman , QDK had to dive to his right to collect that 22.3 Philander to Corey Anderson , no run , on a length close to off , Anderson defends with an angled bat to backward point 22.2 Philander to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length on off , Anderson stays back and knocks it to cover , he actually closed the bat face and got a soft leading edge ABD attacking with two slips in place 22.1 Philander to Corey Anderson , no run , superb delivery to start the new spell , on a length and holds its line , Anderson pokes at it and is lucky not to have edged it behind Vernon Philander [ 5.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Duminy to Corey Anderson , 1 run , pushes it through and gets it to zip , Anderson hangs back and punches it to sweeper cover 21.5 Duminy to Corey Anderson , no run , drifts onto the pads , Anderson misses the forward defensive , wears it on the pads. It was heading down leg though 21.5 Duminy to Corey Anderson , wide , fired down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease A leg slip and silly point in place. . 21.4 Duminy to Ross Taylor , out Caught by de Kock ! ! The part-timer has struck. QDK went up straightaway and the umpire obliged. Another big wicket for South Africa and they keep plugging away. It was touch quicker and turned as well , Taylor looks to glance , but gets it too fine , QDK moves quickly to his left and hangs onto a good catch. Ross Taylor c de Kock b Duminy 30 ( 39 ) [ 4s-4 ] Duminy to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Goes over the wicket. . 21.3 Duminy to Ross Taylor , no run , slower and on off , Taylor knocks it gently to short mid-wicket 21.2 Duminy to Ross Taylor , no run , straigher one , Taylor plays for the turn , closed the bat face early , the soft leading edge rolls towards cover 21.1 Duminy to Elliott , 1 run , Duminy starts from round the wicket , Elliott milks it away behind square leg , for a run Jean-Paul Duminy [ 2.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 M Morkel to Elliott , 1 run , back of a length around off , Elliott knocks it in between cover and point , retains the strike with the single 20.5 M Morkel to Elliott , no run , peach ! That was a beauty from Morne. It hits the seam and jags back in at 145kph , Elliott was stuck in the crease as he pushed at it , the ball beats the inside edge and zips over the stumps 20.4 M Morkel to Elliott , no run , shortish and outside off , Elliott watches it sail past him 20.3 M Morkel to Elliott , no run , short of length on off , Elliott stands up on his toes and drops it down the wicket with a loose bottom hand 20.2 M Morkel to Elliott , no run , fuller and on off , Elliott closes the bat face , the leading edge rolls to backward point , Rossouw has a shy at the striker 's end , but Elliott was in A leg slip in place now. . 20.1 M Morkel to Elliott , FOUR , fabulous shot ! But it looked a bit pre-meditated. Back of a length delivery on off , Elliott shuffles a long way across and glances it fine , beats the man in the deep. He just used the pace of Morkel there Morne Morkel [ 4.0-0-25-2 ] is back into the attack The New Zealand camp would be pleased with Taylor slowly but steadily finding his form back. Unfortunately from their perspective , Guptill was run out on the back of a terrible mix up with Taylor. Taylor is n't exactly known for his good judgment while taking singles. With dew factor coming into play , it may just help out the batting side . With New Zealand losing wickets in quick succession , AB de Villiers missed a trick by not utilising Imran Tahir 's services when Ross Taylor first took strike. It was obvious that de Villiers wanted to get through the fifth bowler 's quota , but it just allowed Martin Guptill and more importantly , Taylor to pick up useful runs. Guptill even clobbered JP Duminy for a six. Vernon Philander , who suffered at the hands of Brendon McCullum made a good comeback. He extracted subtle seam movement to occasionally trouble the batsmen . 19.6 Tahir to Elliott , 1 run , flipper on the stumps , Elliott goes back and works it to the right of mid-wicket. Had he missed that , he was right in front of the sticks 19.5 Tahir to Elliott , no run , nice floaty delivery , Elliott blocks it off the outer half to short third man 19.4 Tahir to Elliott , no run , full and on off , Elliott drives and picks out short mid-wicket Tahir still has a leg slip and silly point in place for Elliott 19.3 Tahir to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up on off , Taylor wrists it along the ground to long-on 19.2 Tahir to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on off , Taylor defends it to cover 19.1 Tahir to Elliott , 1 run , Elliott was almost deceived in the flight , he came down the track and Tahir held it back , Elliott did well to adjust and tap it towards point 18.6 Steyn to Ross Taylor , FOUR , top shot to end the over. Full and on off , it was not a bad delivery , just that it was a tad overpitched , Taylor got well forward and flicked it beautifully to the right of mid-on , the timing was excellent as the ball raced away to the fence 18.5 Steyn to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , too straight from Steyn , on middle stump , Taylor leans forward and flicks it past mid-wicket for a brace 18.4 Steyn to Ross Taylor , no run , fuller and around off , Taylor defends it towards mid-off Taylor was not pleased himself for running out Guptill , he threw his gloves away in disappointment. That just tells you how important that wicket was for South Africa 18.3 Steyn to Ross Taylor , no run , full and targeting the stumps , Taylor plays round his pads , works it to short mid-wicket 18.2 Steyn to Ross Taylor , no run , on a length close to off , Taylor chops it towards backward point , he allowed the ball to hit the bat , instead of the other way round 18.1 Steyn to Elliott , 1 run , good length ball around off , Elliott steers it to third man with an angled bat Dale Steyn [ 3.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack As predicted Steyn is back into the attack. . 17.6 Tahir to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted close to off , Taylor blocks it back to the bowler After South Africa got rid of Guptill , they gathered around in the huddle. And this time it was Steyn who did all the talking. We might just see him come on to bowl. It was a very motivating pep talk from him . 17.5 Tahir to Elliott , 1 run , Tahir once more slips in the googly , Elliott goes down and sweeps it to long leg 17.4 Tahir to Elliott , no run , wrong 'un around off , Elliott blocks it off the inside part to the on-side 17.3 Tahir to Elliott , no run , tossed up on off , defended off the front foot A leg slip and silly point in place 17.2 Tahir to Elliott , FOUR , nice way to open the account , Tahir had his hands on his head , but Elliott had played that well , flighted on off , Elliott kneels down and kneels down and paddles it to the fine leg fence Grant Elliott , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.1 Tahir to Ross Taylor , out Guptill Run Out ! ! A wicket gifted away by New Zealand. The double centurion from the previous game has been sent back. There is always tension when Taylor is running. He taps the leg break towards point , takes a couple of steps and hesitates , Guptill was late to take off , Amla moves forward , picks up the ball and under-arms it to QDK , who does the rest. Taylor was distraught as he saw Guptill not making his ground. This could just be the turning point in the game. Guptill run out ( Amla/de Kock ) 34 ( 38 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Tahir to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Guptill has been run out ! 16.6 Philander to Ross Taylor , 1 run , " catch it " was the shout from some of the South African fielders. On a good length just outside off , Taylor pushes hard , the ball takes the outer half and eludes the outstretched left hand of the backward point fielder 16.5 Philander to Guptill , 1 run , pitched up on off , Guptill defends it to long-on , for a single 16.4 Philander to Ross Taylor , 1 run , stifled appeal for lbw , but there was some wood on that. Fuller and around off , Taylor looks to force it off the front foot , ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls to the on-side 16.3 Philander to Ross Taylor , FOUR , Miller is not happy with himself , he hits the turf hard with hand in disappointment. Short from Philander , Taylor fetches it from outside off and pulls it in front of square , Miller runs to his left from deep square , dives full length and pulls it in , but the ball hits his right hand and rolls away to the fence 16.2 Philander to Guptill , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Guptill is hurried on the pull , mistimes it to deep backward square leg 16.1 Philander to Guptill , FOUR , superb shot ! Guptill almost took off Taylor 's head. Fullish delivery on off and middle , Guptill presents the full face of the bat and hammers it past the non-striker , mid-on inside the ring had no chance 15.6 Tahir to Ross Taylor , no run , googly around off , Taylor reads it well , leans forward and blocks it to the on-side 15.5 Tahir to Ross Taylor , no run , tucks it behind square on the leg-side , wants the single but Guptill sends him back as Morne swoops in on the ball 15.4 Tahir to Guptill , 1 run , nicely tossed up , Guptill eases it to long-on , for a single 15.3 Tahir to Ross Taylor , 1 run , low full toss , Taylor reaches forward and drives it to long-on 15.2 Tahir to Guptill , 1 run , floated up on middle , swept away to deep backward square leg 15.1 Tahir to Guptill , no run , fired in full on the stumps , Guptill was shaping to play the sweep , decides against it and pushes it to short mid-wicket 14.6 Philander to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length on off , Taylor knocks it to the right of the bowler , Faf runs to his left from short mid-wicket and fields the ball 14.5 Philander to Ross Taylor , no run , on a length just outside off , Taylor goes for the square drive , mistimes it to point. He went too hard at that and it was very close to his body 14.4 Philander to Ross Taylor , no run , shortens the length and gets a hint of away movement , Taylor is opened up slightly as he bunts it to cover 14.3 Philander to Ross Taylor , no run , fuller and around off , Taylor walks into the drive , finds ABD at mid-off 14.2 Philander to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length around off , Guptill punches it to sweeper cover 14.1 Philander to Guptill , no run , Guptill has a smile on his face after being beaten. Fullish and close to off , Guptill went for the flick , closed the bat face early , the ball moved away to beat the outside edge 13.6 Tahir to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up on off , Guptill goes down on one knee , sweeps it to deep backward square , Steyn makes a slight fumble , but the duo do n't risk the second run 13.5 Tahir to Ross Taylor , 1 run , another wrong 'un from Tahir , Taylor nudges it with the turn to backward square leg 13.4 Tahir to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted on middle , Taylor stays low and taps it in front of short mid-wicket 13.3 Tahir to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , good running from Taylor , he wanted two as soon as he played that , he got it easily in the end. Googly , Taylor leans forward and works it to deep square leg , split the two fielders in the deep to perfection 13.2 Tahir to Guptill , 1 run , skids on after pitching , Guptill stays back and nurdles it behind square leg , for a single 13.1 Tahir to Guptill , no run , slower through the air , Guptill goes back and glances it to short fine , Taylor says no to the run Imran Tahir [ 1.0-1-0-0 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Philander to Ross Taylor , no run , good length ball around off , Taylor comes forward and defends back to the bowler , Philander thinks about throwing it back , but does n't. That was enough to get the crowd going as they boo Philander 12.5 Philander to Ross Taylor , no run , tad short and just outside off , Taylor dabs it towards backward point , the fielder dives to his left and saves the run 12.4 Philander to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length on off and middle , Guptill goes up on one leg and tucks it to deep square leg 12.3 Philander to Ross Taylor , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Taylor cuts it to third man During the drinks break , ABD was seen talking to his players. He was very animated in his conversation. So , was Steyn who had a few words for his team-mates. Even the substitute Behardien egged them on before leaving the field 12.2 Philander to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length just outside off , Taylor punches and picks out JPD at cover 12.1 Philander to Guptill , 1 run , short of length and on leg-stump , Guptill glances it to fine leg Vernon Philander [ 2.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack Jamie reckons that the team which can handle pressure better will win this game. The match is nicely poised at the moment. Both teams have n't done well at the semis stage of a World Cup , which team can absorb pressure better ? Time for a drinks break. What a start it was from Baz. He set the ball rolling for the Black Caps with his 22-ball fifty. However , Morne struck twice to put the brakes on the scoring , but they need to keep chipping away , if they have to qualify for the final . 11.6 Duminy to Guptill , 1 run , flatter and on off , punched off the back foot to long-on 11.5 Duminy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , South Africa need to do something about the paddle , Taylor picks up another comfortable single down to fine leg , thought about the second but decided against it 11.4 Duminy to Guptill , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Guptill nudges it to the right of mid-wicket , easy single 11.3 Duminy to Guptill , SIX , that is a typical Guptill shot. He does n't bother to watch the ball. Floated up on off , Guptill kneels down and slog sweeps it into the crowd at deep mid-wicket. He only saw the ball when it was sailing into the crowd 11.2 Duminy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , too full and on off , Taylor bends down and paddles it to long leg 11.1 Duminy to Ross Taylor , no run , Taylor was shaping up to play the cut , the ball bounced a bit extra , he plays a controlled cut towards backward point , where Amla makes a tumbling stop 10.6 M Morkel to Guptill , no run , beauty ! Short of a length just outside off , Guptill 's feet went nowhere as he pushed away from the body , the extra bounce that Morkel generates beats the outside edge 10.5 M Morkel to Guptill , no run , short of length on off , Guptill hops back and across , tucks it to square leg 10.4 M Morkel to Ross Taylor , 1 run , good comeback from Morne , keeps it in the channel around off , gets a bit of extra bounce , Taylor does not go hard at it , the outside edge goes quickly to ground and rolls down to third man 10.3 M Morkel to Ross Taylor , FOUR , bad delivery from Morkel. Short and wide , plenty of width on offer , Taylor pounces onto it , he goes back and cuts it in front of square on the off-side , no sweeping on the off-side 10.2 M Morkel to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length on off , Guptill gets inside the line and works it towards mid-on , for a single 10.1 M Morkel to Guptill , no run , short and outside off , Guptill drops his gloves and lets it to go the keeper For South Africa , Dale Steyn bowled a few outswingers early on , but he had no answer to McCullum 's pyrotechnics. With Philander being smacked all over the park , AB de Villiers then introduced Morne Morkel into the attack. It was Morkel , who extracted bounce to take the vital wickets of McCullum and Kane Williamson and lift South Africa 's sagging spirits. The ball seems to be zipping through the wicket under lights and the outfield is lightning quick . Brendon McCullum played a breezy knock to give New Zealand a great start. McCullum showed his ability to pick the length early and amazing bat speed by clouting Dale Steyn over deep extra cover for a stunning six in the first over and played a thunderous shot down the ground for another six in the fifth over of the same bowler. He also thrashed Vernon Philander for two fours and a six in the second over. In short , McCullum played with a dash of fearlessness to put the opposition under pressure. He reached his fifty in just 22 balls ! 9.6 Duminy to Ross Taylor , no run , slows this up , Taylor wrists it to the right of the bowler , Duminy dives across and parries the ball to the on-side , the mid-wicket fielder was backing him up and there was no one on the on-side , but the batsmen do n't risk the run as Duminy gets to the ball quickly 9.5 Duminy to Ross Taylor , no run , flatter and on off , Taylor punches and finds short mid-wicket 9.4 Duminy to Ross Taylor , FOUR , Duminy errs in line and Taylor makes him pay for that. Quicker and on leg-stump , bowled at 87.4kph , Taylor kneels down and paddles it fine , no chance for the short fine fielder to stop that 9.3 Duminy to Guptill , 1 run , goes back and nurdles it to the left of square leg , where Amla is a tad slow to react 9.2 Duminy to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted on off , Taylor gets to the pitch and eases it to long-on A slip in place for Taylor 9.1 Duminy to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up , turning into the pads , Guptill leans forward and nudges it wide of mid-wicket Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack New Zealand were 71/0 after 5 overs. In the next 4 overs , they have lost McCullum and Williamson and have added just 10 runs . 8.6 M Morkel to Ross Taylor , no run , on a length close to off , Taylor is half-forward and defending to cover , he practices the defensive shot again Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 8.5 M Morkel to Williamson , out Bowled ! ! Dragged on ! Once again Morkel provides the crucial breakthrough for South Africa. Williamson is a disappointed man as he hangs his head back as soon as he heard the death rattle. Short of a length around off , Williamson went for the pull , it was too close to his body , the inside edge finds its way back onto the stumps. The Proteas are right back in it. Williamson b M Morkel 6 ( 11 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Morkel to Williamson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 8.4 M Morkel to Williamson , FOUR , lovely shot ! It was trifle short and Williamson was onto it in a flash. He goes back and pulls it in front of square to the right of mid-on , the timing was superb as the ball raced away 8.3 M Morkel to Williamson , no run , Morkel gets away with a half-volley , Williamson pushes it gently to mid-off. He should have put that away 8.2 M Morkel to Williamson , no run , another solid defence from Williamson , moves forward and blocks the length delivery back down the wicket 8.1 M Morkel to Williamson , no run , tight line and length from Morkel , good length on off , Williamson comes forward and defends to cover Jamie pings in and says that the home supporters have gone ballistic , plenty of support behind this chase and the atmosphere is electric 7.6 Philander to Guptill , no run , on a length close to off , Guptill presses it to cover after coming half-forward 7.5 Philander to Guptill , FOUR , fullish on off , Guptill goes for the flick , the bat turns in his hands , he wanted to go through mid-wicket , but the ball goes behind square , Morkel does n't even bother to chase it from fine leg Third man in and mid-on out 7.4 Philander to Guptill , no run , back of a length on off , Guptill punches to the right of the bowler , Philander ca n't reach it but mid-on backs up 7.3 Philander to Guptill , no run , good length ball attacking the stumps , Guptill plays round his pad and knocks it to mid-on. Dangerous shot to play Two slips in place 7.2 Philander to Guptill , no run , short of length on the fourth stump line , Guptill stands tall and looks to force it through the off-side , the ball nips back in and beats the inside edge of the bat 7.1 Philander to Williamson , 1 run , Williamson walks down the pitch , he clips it to the vacant mid-wicket region Vernon Philander [ 1.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 6.6 M Morkel to Williamson , 1 run , too straight from Morkel , on middle and leg , Williamson walks across , inside edges it onto the thigh pad and the ball dribbles to the left of QDK Now the second slip moves to gully. To prevent the dab down to third man.. . 6.5 M Morkel to Williamson , no run , back of a length just outside off , Williamson stands tall and punches it to backward point , picks out Rossouw there 6.4 M Morkel to Williamson , no run , good length ball on off , Williamson gets right behind the line and defends to the right of the bowler ABD has a chat with his bowler. Does n't change anything in the field. Morkel is still operating with two slips . 6.3 M Morkel to Williamson , no run , back of a length on off and middle , Williamson gets behind the line and tucks it to square leg , straight to the fielder 6.2 M Morkel to Williamson , no run , lifter to greet the new batsman , Williamson ducks under it and allows the ball to sail over him Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.1 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , out Caught by Steyn ! ! " Game on Doully " , says Graeme Smith on air. Huge moment in the game and the South Africans know it. Steyn throws the ball up after completing the catch. He knows the importance of this wicket. It was a short of length delivery , McCullum comes down the track , goes leg-side and flat-bats , he was trying to go over mid-on , ca n't get the elevation and offers a simple catch to Steyn. Brendon McCullum c Steyn b M Morkel 59 ( 26 ) [ 4s-8 6s-4 ] M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Morne Morkel [ 1.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Tahir to Guptill , no run , slider on leg-stump , Guptill misses the flick , is rapped on the pads. It was sneaking down leg 5.5 Tahir to Guptill , no run , googly that turns back in , Guptill goes for the big drive , the inside edge is found and it hits the pad 5.4 Tahir to Guptill , no run , flighted on off and middle , Guptill kneels down and misses the sweep , is struck on the back thigh. Tahir thought he had his man , so did QDK as the pair asked ABD to go for the review. Hawk-Eye showed that the ball pitched in-line and was going over the stumps. That was a top decision from umpire Tucker South Africa have reviewed an LBW appeal against Guptill. The front foot is fine , can we move on says the third umpire. Let 's go to RTS here. Just rock and roll that , thank you. There is definitely no bat. Can we go to ball tracker please. Tuck , I am coming to you. There is a green , stay with your onfield call , says umpire Nigel Llong 5.3 Tahir to Guptill , no run , tossed up on off , Guptill drives and picks out mid-off 5.2 Tahir to Guptill , no run , stifled appeal for caught behind , the googly , Guptill misses the forward defensive , the ball lobs off the pad , QDK moves to his left and takes it. It did n't take the bat on the way 5.1 Tahir to Guptill , no run , slider on middle and leg , Guptill fails to clip it away , wears it on the pad , the ball was heading down leg Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 4.6 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , no run , a rare miss from McCullum , shimmies down the wicket , Steyn fires it full and wide of off , McCullum had made just a bit too much room , he ca n't connect. 25 runs off the over and New Zealand are flying at the moment 4.5 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , McCullum is toying with the field now. This is a terrific shot from the skipper. Fuller and around off , McCullum opens the bat face at the last instant , drives it between point and cover , the ball speeds away to the fence 4.4 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , this is carnage at Eden Park. The premier fast bowler in the world is being taken to the cleaners. Low full toss down leg , McCullum gets some wood and tickles it fine , fielder in the ring and it is easy pickings 4.3 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , SIX , What a man ! McCullum gets to his 31st ODI fifty in just 22 balls. Banged in halfway down the wicket , McCullum rocks back and pulls it over backward square , the crowd are enjoying the onslaught. He raises the bat and acknowledges the applause from the Eden Park faithfuls There is only one slip in place . 4.2 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , brute power ! This is all muscle from the Kiwi skipper. Steyn has a wry smile on his face. Short of a length delivery , McCullum advances down the wicket and flat-bats it to the right of mid-off , ABD could only watch it go past him 4.2 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , wide , sprays it down leg , McCullum ca n't connect with the glance , easy call for the umpire 4.1 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , SIX , monster hit ! McCullum is tearing the South African bowling apart. The 50 comes up in just the 5th over. Gives the charge to Steyn , converts it into a length delivery , he hammers it straight down the ground and it is the biggest six of the game 3.6 M Morkel to Guptill , FOUR , Morkel bowls a juicy full ball on middle and leg , Guptill says thank you very much and puts it away. He leans forward and flicks it elegantly , the timing on that takes it to the fence 3.6 M Morkel to Guptill , wide , splays it down leg , Guptill ca n't lay bat on ball , wide given 3.5 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , short delivery with bit more pace , McCullum is hurried on the pull shot , he splices it in the air and the ball drops in the unmanned mid-wicket region 3.4 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , even mistimed shots are going to the boundary. McCullum was waiting for the short of length delivery , he swivels and toe-ends the pull through mid-wicket. Even though it rained , the ball travels to the fence 3.3 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , no run , Morkel keeps it shortish and around off , McCullum is cramped for room , he chops it towards cover , lifts his hand up and calls " wait on , wait on " for the single 3.2 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , McCullum inside edges the pull onto the thigh , the ball rolls down the wicket. Baz shakes his head in disappointment 3.1 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , McCullum greets Morkel to the crease with a boundary. Short of a length , McCullum goes back and pulls it over mid-on , goes on the bounce to the rope. He almost took out the camerman there Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 2.6 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , sensible batting , on a length close to off , McCullum did n't have the width to free his arms , taps it to the vacant cover region and collects the single 2.5 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , South Africa are bowling to McCullum 's strength. Short and plenty of room on offer , McCullum flays it just over mid-off , ABD runs to his left , jumps up but ca n't reach 2.4 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , no run , short of length just outside off , McCullum goes back and punches it sweetly , that was on it 's way for four before Rossouw dives to his right at backward point and intervenes. That had four written all over it Some problem with Steyn 's shoe. The umpire is tightening the screws on the studs. All sorted out and he is ready to go . 2.3 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , no run , tad short and outside off , McCullum throws his bat at that , fails to make contact. It was there to be put away and McCullum missed out 2.2 Steyn to Guptill , 1 run , run-out chance missed ! Guptill was out by a long way. It just needed a direct hit. Good length ball around off , Guptill taps it towards point , sets off before being sent back , Duminy runs to his right and fires at the striker 's end , Guptill was not even in the picture. They collect an overthrow as there was no one backing up 2.1 Steyn to Guptill , no run , Guptill wants to join in the fun , fullish and outside off , Guptill goes for the ambitious drive , the ball swings enough to beat the outside edge 1.6 Philander to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , poor first over from Philander. Baz has straightaway put pressure on him. Remember he is playing his first game after many days. Back of a length delivery , McCullum gets inside the line and whips it behind square leg , fine leg was inside the ring and that was easy pickings 1.5 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , another one that comes right off the middle , but a nice field set by ABD. He has stationed himself right on the edge of the 30-yard circle at mid-off , McCullum finds him with a crisp drive 1.4 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , once more McCullum is charging down the wicket , he ca n't get the desired connection , inside edges it onto the pad , the ball dribbles towards backward point 1.3 Philander to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , Philander not learning from his mistakes. Keeps it short of length on off and middle , McCullum pulls it in front of square , did n't get it off the middle , hence the ball did n't travel the distance 1.2 Philander to Brendon McCullum , SIX , ca n't bowl short to Baz , it was on leg-stump as well , McCullum swivels across and pulls it over backward square for his second six. He is up and running already and so is this crowd 1.1 Philander to Brendon McCullum , byes , FOUR , Philander sees the batsman skip out of the crease , digs it in short , McCullum decides to take it on , but the ball get big on him , he misses and QDK ca n't reach it even with a leap. Bonus runs for New Zealand Vernon Philander , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Steyn to Guptill , no run , good length ball around off , Guptill prefers to stay in the crease and knock it to cover AB brings in an extra catcher. A fielder has been placed at gully. . 0.5 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , McCullum opens the bat face and guides it to third man. It was in the air for a while , but there was no gully in position 0.4 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , SIX , what a way to get going. Shortish and sat up nicely for Baz outside off , McCullum stands up and forehands it over extra cover , short boundaries carry the ball all the way 0.3 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , no run , shortish and outside off , McCullum looks to flay it over point , but the extra bounce does him there Takes a bit of time to put it on and in the meantime Guptill walks up and has a chat with him . 0.2 Steyn to Brendon McCullum , no run , what happened there ? McCullum 's right shoe comes off. Short of a length delivery , McCullum goes back to defend , he knocks it towards cover , loses his balance and falls over. That was because his shoe came off 0.1 Steyn to Guptill , 1 run , edged and just wide of the fielder. Graeme Smith on air was excited as Doull tells him to take it easy. Fullish and on off , Guptill brings his bat down at an angle , the outside edge flies to the left of backward point and down to third man Guptill and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. Steyn will open the attack The South Africans are in a huddle. ABD is having a pep talk before they enter the field. Most of the Proteas have a towel with them to keep the ball dry. McCullum and Guptill are in the middle. The latter will take strike. This is going to be one heck of a chase if these two get going. Steyn has the new ball. He will start with two slips. Here we go.. . Boult : " Yeah , it is. Credit to the South African batsmen for pushing it to 280 odd. 40,000 people do that to you ( referring to the nerves at the start of the innings ) . We are familiar with this wicket , it is all upto us now. Let 's see what we can do. " The deck is good for batting and with short boundaries in place , New Zealand still have a chance of chasing down this target. However , their batsmen need to handle the pressure of playing a knockout game . Earlier , Trent Boult produced a fine exhibition of swing bowling to give New Zealand a slight edge. Hashim Amla and de Kock could n't make their mark as Boult snared their wickets. However , du Plessis and Rilee Rossouw soothed the tangle of nerves in the dressing room with a fine stand. Once Rossouw was dismissed on the back of a stunning catch taken by Martin Guptill at backward point , de Villiers burst forth with a wide range of versatile shots . de Villiers even showcased his ability to play strokes in a 360-degree arc by essaying delectable shots through the third man region. His deft touch echoed cheekiness in stroke-play. Their opponents , New Zealand , would rue the fact that Kane Williamson dropped a tough chance at the cover region. In fact , it was n't a great day for New Zealand in the field as they missed a series of half chances. In a big game and against a formidable opponent , those chances need to be taken . du Plessis played with steady perfection and looked unfazed by the loss of early wickets. He mainly targeted straight boundaries. However , once du Plessis reached his fifty , he played with precise metre of timing to nonchalantly loft Matt Henry for a six. It was a quality knock from du Plessis. de Villiers too crafted a splendid innings. He cut , drove and pulled ; unhurried and languid. de Villiers also effortlessly essayed strokes down the ground with a stamp of authority. It was in the 33rd over of the innings when de Villiers cracked a couple of boundaries off Henry to send warning signals to the opposition. He also took a heavy toll of some poor bowling by Corey Anderson to tonk him for 15 runs in the 36th over. The way de Villiers came down the track and pulled Anderson for a six , gave a glimpse of his shot-making ability. It continued to rain fours and sixes from de Villiers ' bat as he bisected gaps in the field with customary ease . In the backdrop of a charged up atmosphere created by a raucous crowd , Faf du Plessis and AB de Villiers constructed marvellous knocks to take South Africa to a very good total. For a while rain stopped play and New Zealand now will chase down a D/L adjusted score. Once play resumed after a rain break , David Miller cracked power-packed shots to put them in a position of strength . So , South Africa finish on 281 in their 43 overs. Time to get the calculators out. The final D/L target for New Zealand would be somewhere close to 298. Let 's just wait for the final confirmation. Alright , we have the revised target , New Zealand need 298 runs in 43 overs , just under 7 rpo . 42.6 Corey Anderson to Duminy , 2 runs , short of length on off , Duminy mishits the pull in front of square , AB pushes Duminy for the second and the pair make it in comfortably 42.5 Corey Anderson to Duminy , 2 runs , on a length just outside off , Duminy goes for the inside out loft , mistimes it and gets it just over extra cover , McCullum tries his best to get there , but ca n't even get a finger on it , the sweeper mops up 42.5 Corey Anderson to Duminy , wide , short and well over the batsman , easy call for the umpire 42.4 Corey Anderson to Duminy , FOUR , dropped ! Nathan McCullum on as a substitute misjudges it completely. Full and outside off , Duminy stretches out and lofts the drive , McCullum standing at the edge of the ring at extra cover , jumps and gets a finger on it , but he ca n't hang on 42.3 Corey Anderson to Duminy , no run , Duminy tries something fancy and it does n't come off , back of a length on off , Duminy walks across his stumps and tries to lap it over short fine , fails to do so Jean-Paul Duminy , left handed bat , comes to the crease 42.2 Corey Anderson to D Miller , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! A magnificent innings comes to an end. ABD congratulates him on his way. Miller missed out equalling the fastest World Cup fifty. It was cleverly bowled by Anderson , saw the batsman moving away to the leg-side , pushed it well wide of off , Miller had to reach out and he could only manage a feather through to Ronchi. D Miller c Ronchi b Corey Anderson 49 ( 18 ) [ 4s-6 6s-3 ] Corey Anderson to D Miller , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.1 Corey Anderson to D Miller , SIX , Miller starts the over with a six. The catch is dropped in the crowd. Fuller and around off , Miller shuffles across and tonks it over long-on , it landed on the second tier Last over of the innings coming up. It will be Anderson to bowl the crucial over . 41.6 Southee to de Villiers , no run , good finish to the over. Just the 7 runs off it. Slower ball bouncer , de Villiers is early into the pull , Miller thought about pinching another run , but ABD was in no position to respond as he got himself into an awkward tangle 41.5 Southee to D Miller , byes , 1 run , AB is quick in calling Miller for a quick bye. Southee goes short and angles it across , Miller ca n't connect with the pull , the batsmen steal a brisk single 41.4 Southee to de Villiers , 1 run , good ball from Southee , almost in the blockhole , de Villiers squeezes it straight down the ground , long-on tidies up 41.3 Southee to de Villiers , no run , AB is struggling for timing after the break. Banged in midway down the pitch , de Villiers has a wild swing at it and does n't make contact. He is not happy with himself 41.2 Southee to D Miller , 1 run , much better from Southee , too full and around off , Miller drills the drive to long-off , where a fielder has been placed now 41.1 Southee to D Miller , FOUR , Southee is not helping Baz here. Continues bowling length deliveries , even though it was a off-speed ball , it was on a length , Miller hammers it past mid-off , no chance for the Kiwi skipper to stop that 40.6 Corey Anderson to D Miller , 1 run , short and at the body , Miller swivels and pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg 40.5 Corey Anderson to D Miller , SIX , that is more like it. It was in the arc and was sent soaring out of the park. Length ball close to off , Miller steps forward and plays the pick up shot over deep mid-wicket. The ball travelled a long way 40.4 Corey Anderson to D Miller , SIX , what a shot ! The short boundaries helping Miller. Short of a length delivery , Miller comes down the track and backs away to the leg-side and flat-bats it over the bowler 's head , goes flat and for a 69 metre six 40.3 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , AB missed out there , low full toss , angling in from round the wicket , de Villiers mistimes the hoick to deep mid-wicket , just a single 40.2 Corey Anderson to D Miller , 1 run , too full and on off , almost a yorker , Miller could n't get under it , drives it to long-on 40.2 Corey Anderson to D Miller , wide , bumper on the stumps , Miller ca n't connect with the pull , wide called for height 40.1 Corey Anderson to D Miller , FOUR , after rain , it is raining fours from Miller 's bat. Length delivery from round the wicket , Miller goes for a wild heave across the line , the top-edge flies over short third man , almost travels the distance Coming to the Faf wicket , once the decision was made. He walked past his skipper and ABD punched his gloves as if saying well played . 39.6 Southee to D Miller , 1 run , cramps the batsman for room with the short delivery , Miller plays the short-arm pull to deep mid-wicket , retains the strike 39.5 Southee to D Miller , FOUR , fourth boundary off the over and Southee is under pressure. Slower delivery around off , Miller drills it past AB at the non-striker 's end , Baz dives over the ball at mid-off and it races away to the fence 39.4 Southee to D Miller , FOUR , Southee once again misses the yorker , ends up dishing out a full toss outside off , Miller relies on placement , he lofts it to the right of mid-off , Baz has no chance of stopping that 39.3 Southee to D Miller , no run , sees the batsman give charge , digs it in short , Miller tries to take it on , but it is just too quick and goes over his bat. The umpire signals one for the over 39.2 Southee to D Miller , FOUR , poor delivery from Southee , goes for the wide yorker , provides plenty of width , Miller reaches out and squeezes it to the third man fence. No chance for the fielder in the deep as it went fine Switches to round the wicket. . 39.1 Southee to D Miller , FOUR , smashed ! Stand and deliver stuff from Miller. Full delivery from round the wicket , right in the arc for Miller , who clears his front leg and goes straight , mid-off was inside the ring and it goes on the bounce to the boundary Tim Southee [ 7.0-1-32-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , short delivery outside off , de Villiers tries to reach and upper cut , but ca n't make the required connection 38.5 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 2 runs , nice juicy full toss , de Villiers stays leg-side of the ball and slices it towards sweeper , the bat turned in his hands. Hence did n't get the timing right. Elliott runs to his left and taps the ball into play Goes round the wicket 38.4 Corey Anderson to D Miller , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Miller flat-bats it to long-on , for a single McCullum still attacking , he has a slip in place for the new batsman. Anderson goes over the wicket. . 38.3 Corey Anderson to D Miller , 2 runs , continues round the wicket for the left-hander , full and around off , Miller leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket , AB pushes for two and gets back easily for the second David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 38.2 Corey Anderson to du Plessis , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Anderson goes up for a caught behind appeal , but nothing from Ronchi. But , Baz has gone for the review. Umpire Gould even signalled it a wide. The front foot is good says the third umpire. Can you zoom in on the glove ? Asks the TV umpire. He wants a much closer look on that. The RTS is coming up now. There is a spike on the Snicko. Ian , I have got clear evidence. You are on camera , you can change your decision. The finger is raised and Faf is walking back to the pavilion. That was a top review from Anderson , who convinced Baz. Coming to the ball , it was short and down leg , du Plessis goes for the pull and looks to help it on the way , the ball kisses the glove on the way to Ronchi. The keeper was not sure , but the bowler was. du Plessis c Ronchi b Corey Anderson 82 ( 107 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] Corey Anderson to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.1 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , super stop by Henry , saved three runs there. Full delivery on the stumps , de Villiers backs away and drills it to long-on , Henry runs to his left , dives and stops the ball going any further Starts from round the wicket. . The lights are on and it is nice and clear. The stumps are back in place. The big rope is going round the outfield. All set for the resumption. Waiting for the umpires who will take the ground any time now. ABD and Faf make their way out to the middle. The former walks in practising a few swings with the bat. Anderson is on top of his run-up. Baz making the last minute field changes . 18 : 30 Local Time , 05 : 30 GMT , 11 : 00 IST : South Africa were in the middle of the batting powerplay and had 2 more overs left , but that has been cancelled. New Zealand will have 9 overs of mandatory powerplay and 4 overs batting powerplay. Three bowlers can bowl 9 overs while 2 can bowl 8. So , Boult and Vettori have finished. Southee , Henry and the other ( Anderson/Williamson/Elliott ) bowler have to bowl the 5 overs . 18 : 26 Local Time , 05 : 26 GMT , 10 : 56 IST : Play to start at 18 : 45 local time. The match has been reduced to 43-overs per side. Meaning , that South Africa have only 5 more overs to bat. We 'll keep you updated on the revised playing conditions . 18 : 14 Local Time , 05 : 14 GMT , 10 : 44 IST : Loud cheer from the crowd at Eden Park as the covers are being removed. The groundsmen are working on drying the outfield. The big rope is being used to clear the water. There is a lot of water gathered on the cover as well. So , it will take a few minutes before play resumes . 18 : 06 Local Time , 05 : 06 GMT , 10 : 36 IST : Rain has stopped. It is clearing up and blue skies hover across the west side of the ground. Still no update on how many overs will be deducted. The BlackCaps just tweeted this a minute back , " The rain has stopped at Eden Park. No action from the groundsmen yet. A few of the punters are returning to the uncovered seats. # nzvsa " 17 : 50 Local Time , 04 : 50 GMT , 10 : 20 IST : Well , it 's been an hour since play was stopped. We 'll start losing overs from now . 17 : 40 Local Time , 04 : 40 GMT , 10 : 10 IST : We only start losing overs after play has been halted for an hour. Till now it has been only 50 minutes. And some good news from Eden Park as the covers are being peeled off. Strike all that. The covers are back on. It 's that kind of a day. Jamie strolled out to check on the weather and that 's when it started to drizzle again . 17 : 32 Local Time , 04 : 32 GMT , 10 : 02 IST : Another update from Jamie , he says , the rain has slowed down. Hopefully , it is for the good this time. The rain has cleared in the background. Just waiting for it to completely stop . 17 : 25 Local Time , 04 : 25 GMT , 09 : 55 IST : Oops ! The rain has gone a bit heavier says Jamie. With the rain easing off , the umpires were expected to have a look at the conditions shortly , but for now , they will have to postpone their inspection . 17 : 10 Local Time , 04 : 10 GMT , 09 : 40 IST : There is a reserve day , just to keep you informed , but the rain is not all that heavy and there is nothing threatening on the radar as well. As I type this , Jamie says that the rain is easing off . 17 : 01 Local Time , 04 : 01 GMT , 09 : 31 IST : It is still raining out there. South Africa would hope that this is just a short delay as these two are looking solid to score at a brisk rate. If overs are lost and D/L comes into play , New Zealand could have a bit of an advantage , especially with shorter boundaries. A 12-minute delay was good enough to spoil South Africa 's party 23 years ago. Fingers crossed . 16 : 51 Local Time , 03 : 51 GMT , 09 : 21 IST : The rain has arrived and the umpires have called for the covers. It 's not all that heavy though. The hessian comes on before the plastic sheets are put in place . 37.6 Boult to du Plessis , FOUR , Boult misses the yorker and bowls a low full toss outside off stump , du Plessis does n't try to overhit the ball , with mid-off very square , places it close to the non-striker and it races away. The hundred partnership is up off just 71 balls 37.5 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , pulls the short ball to deep mid-wicket 37.4 Boult to de Villiers , FOUR , freakish hit that ! With third man inside the ring , de Villiers , who was standing across the stumps , went deep in the crease and waited for the short of length delivery to come. He guided it at the last moment to send it between backward point and short third man 37.3 Boult to du Plessis , 1 run , goes across the stumps , waits for the slower ball bouncer to arrive and helps it behind square on the on-side 37.2 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , carefully tucks this good length delivery to the left of short fine leg for a run 37.1 Boult to du Plessis , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , du Plessis cuts it to deep backward point. The fielder in the ring dived to his right and got his fingertips to it Trent Boult [ 8.0-0-41-2 ] is back into the attack Fine leg and third man are inside the ring . 36.6 Southee to du Plessis , 1 run , just misses the yorker and du Plessis works it away through backward square leg to keep strike 36.5 Southee to du Plessis , no run , yorker outside off stump , du Plessis jams it out to cover 36.4 Southee to de Villiers , 1 run , in the airrrr and it 's landed between two converging fielders. Short and on the stumps , de Villiers goes for the pull , is hurried by the pace on the ball a bit , the ball hits the splice of the bat and goes up , mid-wicket ( Taylor ) runs to his right and the man from the deep ( Henry ) runs forward as well , but the ball evades both fielders. de Villiers was a worried man for a moment 36.3 Southee to du Plessis , 1 run , yorker cramping the batsman for room , du Plessis flicks it to deep square leg as he loses balance 36.2 Southee to de Villiers , 1 run , slower ball just outside off stump , de Villiers drives it to mid-off and sets off , Baz runs forward quickly and fires a direct-hit but de Villiers was quick to make his ground. The umpire goes upstairs to be safe and de Villiers was well in 36.1 Southee to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis waits for the length ball to come and dabs it to third man Tim Southee [ 6.0-1-27-0 ] is back into the attack Great start to the powerplay for South Africa. 15 runs off the first 6 balls . 35.6 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , short of length just outside off stump , de Villiers works it to the right of mid-wicket , where the fielder is swift to get to the ball 35.5 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , FOUR , 6 , 4 , 4 after being dropped. That 's why you do n't drop a guy like de Villiers. Gentle length ball from Anderson , de Villiers steps out and drives it along the ground past the non-striker. That brings up his 46th ODI fifty , de Villiers raises his bat to acknowledge the applause 35.4 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , FOUR , full and outside off stump , de Villiers drives it wide of mid-off and the fielder had no chance as it was hit to his left 35.3 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , SIX , straightaway he starts to hurt ! Short of a length delivery from Anderson , de Villiers advances and smashes the pull very hard and it goes high over deep mid-wicket 35.2 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , in the airrrrr and dropped. My word ! How costly is it going to be ? Good length delivery outside off stump , de Villiers slaps it hard , does n't bother to keep it down , Williamson moves to his left at cover , gets both hands to it but spills it 35.1 Corey Anderson to du Plessis , 1 run , short of length delivery angling away from the right-hander , du Plessis drives it to deep cover 34.6 Matt Henry to de Villiers , FOUR , deft touch ! There was a man at fly slip , but McCullum moved him wide for this ball and de Villiers has picked the gap between the keeper and slip. Great placement there from de Villiers. He waited for the short of length delivery to come and just opens the face of the bat at the last moment to dab it fine to the third man boundary 34.5 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 1 run , easily dabbed down to third man 34.4 Matt Henry to de Villiers , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , de Villiers guides it down to third man Looks like de Villiers jammed his helmet onto his face as he dived there. He takes a bit of time. Maybe the dust went into his eyes as well. He 's fine now 34.3 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 1 run , ohhh ! A direct-hit would have been very close. Faf du Plessis , make sure you get your call right. He hit it straight to cover and set off , remember , Faf ran out ABdV in that quarter-final four years ago against the same opposition. Thankfully for South Africa , Kane Williamson , who took a long time to throw the ball missed the stumps. In fact , the athlete that he is , ABdV just made his ground as the ball passed the stumps 34.2 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 2 runs , driven off the back foot , the fielder at cover dives to his left but the ball escapes. Elliott misfields the ball running forward from sweeper and South Africa get an extra run 34.1 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , pushed into the off-side 33.6 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , FOUR , this is a poor bowling from Anderson. Bangs the slower ball short , it is not short enough to fox the batsman either , de Villiers waits on the back foot and pulls it easily through mid-wicket. Expensive over that , 13 came off it. South Africa are shifting gears nicely before the batting powerplay 33.5 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 2 runs , again very short and wide outside off stump from Anderson , de Villiers cuts it in front of square on the off-side , Southee runs to his right and saves two 33.4 Corey Anderson to du Plessis , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , du Plessis flicks it to deep mid-wicket 33.4 Corey Anderson to du Plessis , wide , sprays the slower ball way outside off stump , left alone 33.3 Corey Anderson to du Plessis , FOUR , short and outside off stump , du Plessis fetches the pull nicely , hits it from the middle of the bat and rolls his wrists over the ball to keep it down and it raced away to the deep mid-wicket boundary. That brings up the 50-run stand as well 33.2 Corey Anderson to du Plessis , no run , walks across the stumps , shortish slower ball from Anderson , du Plessis taps it to cover 33.1 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , short and width on offer , de Villiers cuts it to the man sweeping on the off-side Corey Anderson [ 1.0-0-3-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now 32.6 Matt Henry to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length and following de Villiers , who arches back and drops the ball to third man , for a single For the first time in the innings B Mac has taken out a slip for a fast bowler 32.5 Matt Henry to de Villiers , FOUR , de Villiers is turning it on now. Goes deep in his crease and drills the full ball wide of mid-on. Used the depth of the crease well there. Miller has a smile , as does de Villiers 32.4 Matt Henry to de Villiers , 2 runs , shortish outside off , another cutter , de Villiers cuts off the front foot to deep extra cover , two taken 32.3 Matt Henry to de Villiers , no run , well bowled by Matt Henry. Saw de Villiers advancing and dug it in short , de Villiers played it well too , arching back and letting it go to Ronchi 32.2 Matt Henry to de Villiers , no run , full outside off , left alone 32.1 Matt Henry to de Villiers , FOUR , classy from de Villiers. Rocks back and punches the slower delivery from Matt Henry wide of mid-on. Dead-straight bat from de Villiers as he transferred his weight back and then found the gap. The followthrough was great too 31.6 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , de Villiers skips out and dabs wide of cover , looks for two , not there 31.5 Vettori to de Villiers , FOUR , that is smashed. de Villiers comes down the track and takes it on the full , drills it past the left-hand of Vettori , long-off had no chance as that was hit with immense power 31.4 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis gets forward and eases a drive to long-on 31.3 Vettori to du Plessis , FOUR , now an outside edge runs through vacant slip. Vettori is disappointed. But gave du Plessis the width , cut and edged , beats Henry at short third. Raced away 31.2 Vettori to du Plessis , no run , B Mac anticipates the drive and moves quickly to his right at short cover to stop. du Plessis came down and hit it well , but B Mac was too good 31.1 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , flatter and de Villiers punches square of the wicket 30.6 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 2 runs , now aggressive running , gives him two , turned through square leg , he races back for the second. Superb from Faf 30.5 Matt Henry to du Plessis , SIX , du Plessis has a smile on his face after that six. Down the track and then lofted straight back over the bowler 's head. Carries a long way into the stands. This is a small ground and once you connect , it goes a long , long way 30.4 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , good length outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at point 30.3 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 2 runs , du Plessis gets to fifty with a pull over mid-wicket , hit in the air and in the gap too. Raises his bat and de Villiers walks up to him , shakes his hand. The South African contingent are up on their feet applauding 30.2 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , back of a length outside off , not short to pull , but du Plessis goes through with the shot , right off the toe-end and the ball rolls to short cover Wondering why a couple of paras of text have popped in ? Then let me remind you that , we are detailing events that have happened every 10 overs. So that you do n't miss out on anything. So that 's why you will see text coming up after the end of every 10 overs. Just a heads up ! 30.1 Matt Henry to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length outside off , de Villiers taps it to deep square leg Matt Henry [ 5.0-2-9-0 ] is back into the attack On occasions , Rilee Rossouw has n't looked convincing against spin in his brief career. However , he too looked in fine touch when facing up to Daniel Vettori. Rossouw then tonked Grant Elliott for a six. At the other end of the spectrum , New Zealand 's captain , Brendon McCullum , continued to look for wickets. He is known for trying out a part-timer and it should n't surprise anyone that he introduced Kane Williamson into the attack. Williamson could have produced the vital breakthrough by snaffling the wicket of du Plessis , but New Zealand did n't go for a review after the on-field umpire turned down an appeal for lbw. Just in the nick of time , it was Corey Anderson , who took the wicket of Rossouw as the raucous crowd came back to life. Anderson certainly has a habit of breaking partnerships. Credit also has to go to Martin Guptill for plucking a catch out of thin air at backward point . It was Faf du Plessis , who looked to shore up South Africa 's innings. du Plessis believes in the old maxim of playing each ball on its merit. He used his feet to loft Tim Southee and then played a crisply timed shot down the ground to collect a couple of boundaries in the 21st over. du Plessis targeting straight boundaries just goes to show that he is a street-smart cricketer . 29.6 Vettori to du Plessis , no run , slower on leg , softly nudged to short mid-wicket 29.5 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , very full on the stumps , driven to long-on 29.4 Vettori to de Villiers , no run , the crowd thought de Villiers had hit it straight back at Vettori. Bump ball as de Villiers advances and drills it back at the bowler 29.3 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis is on the back foot and wrists it to backward square leg , quick single taken 29.2 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , de Villiers shows the full face of the bat and drives to long-off 29.1 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis comes down the track and drives to long-off Rain and Cricket form a pair in New Zealand and Jamie informs that some dark clouds are moving across from the west. Expect a rain delay shortly , as it happened during the SA-PAK match 28.6 Boult to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers grimaces as he completely mistimes the on-drive , the ball finds mid-on. de Villiers completes a 360 degree turn in disappointment 28.5 Boult to du Plessis , 1 run , short and on the stumps , du Plessis rolls his wrists to pull it down to deep backward square leg 28.4 Boult to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and outside off , du Plessis dabs to the right of slip who runs to his right and prevents the quick single Now just a slip and Boult is coming from round the wicket 28.3 Boult to du Plessis , no run , back of a length outside off , du Plessis defends to mid-off , no chance of a run that time B Mac has given Boult two slips 28.2 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length outside off , de Villiers punches to the left of cover and sets off This is the contest that everyone were looking forward to. Could well decide the game , right here , right now 28.1 Boult to du Plessis , 1 run , look at de Villiers run. du Plessis pushed out at that and took his bottom hand off the bat handle while playing that , the ball drops in front of the 2nd slip and de Villiers charges across , makes it with ease Trent Boult [ 7.0-0-38-2 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis uses his feet and drives it to long-on 27.5 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , de Villiers skips out and pushes it past the bowler 27.4 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , du Plessis goes on the back foot and nudges it to deep backward square leg 27.3 Vettori to du Plessis , no run , KW , Vettori are up appealing for a caught behind. B Mac has a chat and decides against the review. Superb delivery from Vettori , slowed it up and it gripped on the surface , turned past the forward poke of du Plessis , there was a sound as the ball passed bat , but need a replay to confirm everything 27.2 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , de Villiers gets forward and drives with an open face wide of KW at point 27.1 Vettori to de Villiers , 2 runs , short of length outside off , punched to deep extra cover , du Plessis takes on Southee and comes back. Very quick running 26.6 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , de Villiers charges Corey Anderson and is able to adjust on that short delivery , forehands it down and controls the pull shot , wide of mid-on for a single 26.5 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , good length outside off , punched wide of mid-off , now B Mac runs and then dives to his right at mid-off to save runs. This is outstanding fielding Boult is warming up. Expect him to come in from the other end to de Villiers 26.4 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , Gups again at point , makes a sprawling save , de Villiers comes down the track and punches to the right of point and Gups is there 26.4 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , wide , banged way too short and easy call for the umpire. Ronchi had to leap and collect 26.3 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers shuffles across and sees the good length delivery outside off , leaves 26.2 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , how did that miss the stumps ? Corey Anderson and Ronchi ca n't believe it. de Villiers early into the pull , one leg up in the air as he went for the shot , off the glove and misses the stumps , falls and goes through to Ronchi. What a moment that would 've been AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease 26.1 Corey Anderson to Rossouw , out Caught by Guptill ! ! What.A.Catchhhhhh ! The crowd come to life once again. Caught one-handed and Corey Anderson strikes. The golden arm of the Black Caps has done it again. Short of a length outside off , Rossouw opens the face of the bat and punches , it was flying to the right of point and swerving away from Gups , but he moved and stretched his long right-hand and voila it stuck. That was a screamer - one more added to Gups ' ever-increasing collection of astounding catches. Rossouw c Guptill b Corey Anderson 39 ( 53 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Corey Anderson to Rossouw , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 26.1 Corey Anderson to Rossouw , wide , the Eden Park crowd boo that decision from the square leg umpire. Dug in short and outside off , Rossouw had left it alone Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 25.6 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , punched to long-on Now Vettori round the wicket to Rossouw 25.5 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up outside off , driven to sweeper cover 25.4 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , down leg , but Rossouw had already pre-meditated the reverse paddle , gets it down to backward point 25.3 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , skids on , to off stump , Rossouw punches and finds short cover 25.2 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , round the wicket to du Plessis , du Plessis uses his feet and drives to long-on 25.1 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , shortish outside off , flat-batted to long-on , Vettori is bowling from over the wicket to Rossouw now 24.6 Elliott to du Plessis , no run , du Plessis dabs that to point and immediately says 'no ' to Rossouw for the quick single 24.5 Elliott to Rossouw , 1 run , slower delivery on off , defended to backward point 24.4 Elliott to Rossouw , SIX , very short boundary straight and that 's gone for six. Just a lofted hit from Rossouw , through the line and hit very straight. Clean striking 24.3 Elliott to du Plessis , 1 run , very full on the stumps , punched past the dive of short mid-wicket 24.2 Elliott to du Plessis , no run , Elliott will bowl cutters , du Plessis is hard on the push and finds short mid-wicket 24.1 Elliott to Rossouw , 1 run , back of the hand slower delivery , down leg , pushed into the gap at wide long-on , two was the call , but they settle for a single Grant Elliott , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 23.6 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , 'catch ' was the cry from Ronchi. Rossouw early into the drive and just eludes the diving Gups at short cover. He went to his left but could n't haul it back in. Close shave for Rossouw 23.5 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , slower from Vettori , softly nudged to deep backward square leg , for a single 23.4 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , on the pads , flicked to deep backward square leg 23.3 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up on middle , du Plessis gets forward and drives to long-on 23.2 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , flat-batted wide of mid-off , Anderson runs and dives to his right to save three. Superb effort 23.2 Vettori to Rossouw , wide , fires it down leg , Ronchi does well to stop more runs 23.1 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , bit of extra bounce for Vettori as Rossouw gets forward to defend Coming back to that loud shout for lbw , all three reds on Hawk-Eye. But the umpire gave it as runs. If New Zealand had reviewed that , du Plessis would 've have been gone. There was a loud appeal from KW but he did n't review. Will that prove costly ? 22.6 Williamson to du Plessis , no run , du Plessis uses his feet and works it to the right of short mid-wicket 22.5 Williamson to Rossouw , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , Rossouw gets forward and drives it to long-on 22.4 Williamson to du Plessis , 1 run , comes down the track and takes it on the full , drives it wide of mid-off 22.3 Williamson to Rossouw , 1 run , gets forward and drives to long-on 22.2 Williamson to du Plessis , 1 run , that has been given as runs. Looked like it went straight off the pad , du Plessis missing the flick and looked dead to the naked eye , just that it pitched outside leg. The umpire is quick to turn down the appeal. Replays show that it had pitched in line Williamson stays around the wicket to du Plessis 22.1 Williamson to Rossouw , 1 run , low full toss from round the wicket , Rossouw gets forward and drives it to long-on Kane Williamson , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Apologies for mentioning that Rossouw has come in ahead of AB. Thanks to my ever attentive colleagues who spotted that error. Except for one game in the tournament , AB has never come in at 4 , ahead of Rossouw. Totally forgot that AB was batting at 5 in the tournament. My bad ! 21.6 Vettori to du Plessis , no run , straightens on middle , du Plessis wants to work it to leg , but defends it softly back down the track 21.5 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , now even Vettori is diving. Driven to his right and despite mid-off in , they take a quick single. Well done for it was played wide of the fielder 21.4 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , flatter and Rossouw drives to short cover , straight to the fielder 21.3 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis is diving to get back and does so , taps it to the right of short mid-wicket and set off. Rossouw responded in kind too 21.2 Vettori to du Plessis , no run , down leg , drifting in too , du Plessis gets an inside edge on the flick , onto the pad and dies down quickly 21.1 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , down leg , flicked to deep backward square leg , for a single 20.6 Southee to du Plessis , FOUR , the mid-off fielder was taken out and put in at slip after du Plessis had hit a four over the man earlier in the over. B Mac 's move has backfired there , Southee went for the yorker , du Plessis advanced and took it on the full , driven past the left-hand of Southee. Easy boundary 20.5 Southee to du Plessis , no run , good length outside off , left alone Southee and B Mac have a chat. Now three slips and a gully in place 20.4 Southee to du Plessis , no run , on the off stump , turned into the on-side 20.3 Southee to du Plessis , FOUR , down the track and there is no one at long-off. Safe hit that ! Good length delivery outside off stump , du Plessis steps out and lofts the drive over the infield and brings up the fifty partnership 20.2 Southee to du Plessis , no run , allows the length ball to come and looks to dab it down to third man , but the fielder at gully intervenes 20.1 Southee to du Plessis , no run , the gentle outswinger goes full and outside off stump , du Plessis drives and picks out the man at short cover " He [ Henry ] swings the ball late , has got a quick bouncer and he bowls wicket-taking deliveries , " Peter Fulton , Canterbury 's skipper , was quoted as saying by Stuff.co.nz. Interestingly , Henry has a history of being troubled by back problems. In 2012 , he even had a major surgery on his lower back. Henry gave a good account of himself as well by keeping the opposition in check. Daniel Vettori , the wily slow left-arm orthodox , was also introduced into the attack. For South Africa , it was Rilee Rossouw , who looked to break the shackles with a fine shot down the ground off Boult. Faf du Plessis played with a calm head on his shoulders . With Brendon McCullum looking for wickets , Trent Boult was given a lengthy spell. To make it intriguing , Boult bowled with five fielders in the slip cordon. It was Matt Henry , who replaced Tim Southee at the other end. Henry does n't just hit the bat hard , but can also generate swing with the new ball. It is always good to have a pacer , who hits the bat hard in the shorter forms of the game. He has been bowling with good rhythm too as Henry snared six wickets for Canterbury against Central Districts in Nelson just a few days ago . 19.6 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , on the stumps , defended 19.5 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , goes for the reverse-sweep , but it goes down the leg side and Rossouw fails to make contact 19.4 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , stays round the wicket to the left-hander and delivers a flighted delivery on the off stump , defended nicely by Rossouw 19.3 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , flatter delivery just outside off stump , du Plessis stays in the crease and punches it to sweeper cover 19.2 Vettori to du Plessis , no run , steps out but does n't get to the pitch of the ball , hence defends it to cover 19.1 Vettori to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , there was just a little bit of turn for Vettori on that occasion , du Plessis defends with an angled bat and the ball rolls to short third man off the outside half of the bat 18.6 Southee to Rossouw , no run , almost a yorker on the off stump , Rossouw digs it out 18.5 Southee to Rossouw , FOUR , inside edge but it 's gone past the stumps. Fullish and just outside off stump , Rossouw drives with hardly any feet movement , the ball takes the edge and escapes the stumps. Southee has his hands on his head 18.4 Southee to Rossouw , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , defended 18.3 Southee to du Plessis , 1 run , fullish and just outside off stump , after a shuffle across the stumps , du Plessis flicks it wide of mid-on , Vettori runs to his right , picks up the ball and has a shy at the bowler 's end but misses 18.2 Southee to du Plessis , no run , easily defended off the back foot again 18.1 Southee to du Plessis , no run , walks across the stumps and defends the length ball back to Southee Tim Southee [ 4.0-1-14-0 ] is back into the attack Did n't have the time to mention about Rossouw 's promotion ahead of AB. Now is the time to apologise and mention it. The move has worked well so far. Boult vs AB was the battle everyone were expecting to see. But AB has pulled off a fast one over B Mac. Kept himself back for the late charge and could well prove to be a masterstroke. Will it turn out to be a match-winning one ? Only time will tell. But AB has certainly caught New Zealand off-guard by that decision. New Zealand would n't have expected that 17.6 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , look at B Mac fly , he goes acrobatically to his right at short mid-wicket and stops the clip. Saved a single 17.5 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , Rossouw gets forward and drives to short cover 17.4 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , down leg , glanced straight to the fielder at short fine 17.3 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , angling in , tucked to deep square leg , for a single 17.2 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , Rossouw gets forward to punch and it runs off a thick outer half , wide of point 17.1 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , defended to short mid-wicket off the back foot 17.1 Vettori to Rossouw , 5 wides , that is poor from Vettori. Slipped it down leg and Ronchi had no chance. Five bonus runs 16.6 Matt Henry to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length outside off , punched to the left of mid-off , quick single taken as du Plessis has to hurry and does so 16.5 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , short of length on off , defended to cover , Matt Henry giving nothing away 16.4 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Rossouw turns it to mid-on 16.3 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , full and outside off , Rossouw 's bat face turns and he mistimes the drive to mid-on 16.2 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and outside off , left alone 16.1 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 1 run , short and on the stumps , du Plessis rolls his wrists and pulls it to deep square leg , played it down 16.1 Matt Henry to du Plessis , wide , short and down leg , wide called Matt Henry was called in to replace Adam Milne and he leapfrogged Kyle Mills and Mitchell McClenaghan in the playing eleven. Must be nervous times indeed. But he has gone on to bowl 2 maiden overs on a trot. Jamie feels that the reception from the Auckland crowd must have eased him in. Here 's more : 'Lovely atmosphere. The crowd chanting Henry 's name was quite something. He must have fed off that. What a field to get from McCullum too. Fine spell from the World Cup debutant, ' he says . Drinks are on the field now. That was some 70 minutes or so of action. Phew ! The Eden Park is the place to be today. A fitting venue for a World Cup semi-final. Crowd at their raucuous best. Almost rowdy like. In a good and sporting way that is. Wanting their team to win. A dot is cheered loudly , while a boundary is met with pindrop silence. Thrilling stuff 15.6 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , this drifts into du Plessis , who turns it to deep backward square leg for a single 15.5 Vettori to du Plessis , no run , Gups at short mid-wicket , gets across quickly and parries the hard drive from du Plessis back to Vettori , just flicked it on the half-volley back to the bowler , saving the single 15.4 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , tossed up from Vettori , Rossouw gets forward and dabs it square of the wicket , for a single 15.3 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , down leg , glanced to short fine Short cover and short mid-wicket catching for Rossouw 15.2 Vettori to du Plessis , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , tucked to deep backward square leg , for a single No-one catching behind the wicket for Vettori 15.1 Vettori to du Plessis , no run , shortish , but extra bounce outside off , du Plessis goes for the cut and is beaten Daniel Vettori , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 14.6 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , pitched up outside off , Rossouw 's bat face closes early and that results in no timing , straight to the fielder at mid-off this time 14.5 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , Rossouw goes for a big drive down the ground and the bat turns in the hand , mid-on dives to his left and saves a few runs 14.4 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 1 run , pitched up outside off , du Plessis goes for a big drive and the inside edge runs away to deep backward square leg , for a single. Missed the stumps Now a very silly straight mid-on in place for du Plessis. B Mac doing all sorts of things 14.3 Matt Henry to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Rossouw unfurls a solid punch square of the wicket , for a single 14.2 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , tight delivery on the stumps , defended to mid-off Three slips and a gully in place. Mid-off is the only man in the ring on the off-side 14.1 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 1 run , full and on the pads , clipped to deep square leg , for a single 13.6 Boult to du Plessis , 1 run , back of a length outside off , punched square of the wicket , the fielder chases from cover and du Plessis is happy with just a single 13.5 Boult to du Plessis , no run , angling in , du Plessis shuffles across and clips , but finds square leg This has been an expensive over from Boult so far. He is going round the wicket to du Plessis 13.4 Boult to Rossouw , 1 run , dug in short , Rossouw pulls to deep backward square leg 13.3 Boult to Rossouw , FOUR , too full from Boult and that 's a perfect on-drive from Rossouw. Shows the full face of the bat and leaves mid-on on his knees. Driven to the long-on fence. Timing , class and all that jazz 13.2 Boult to du Plessis , 3 runs , and again Dan is the man running after it. Short-arm pulled wide of him at mid-on and Eden Park egg him on as he chases. Dan has an easier job on that occasion and pulls it back well inside the rope. Still another three 13.1 Boult to Rossouw , 3 runs , shortish on the stumps , Rossouw short-arm pulls through mid-wicket. 'Go Dan ' says Graeme Smith on air as Daniel Vettori sprints and pulls it back with a slide , saves a run for his side. Terrific committment shown by Dan 12.6 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , that kept low and du Plessis did well to bring his bat down on it , defends it to mid-on. That 's a maiden from Matt Henry , second consecutive one from him 12.5 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , full and on the stumps , du Plessis gets forward and gets a soft leading edge on the flick , Matt Henry half-stops and the ball deflects to mid-off. du Plessis decides against the single 12.4 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , short of length outside off , punched back to mid-off who fields 12.3 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , lovely shape on that outswinger , but du Plessis had it covered and shoulders arms 12.2 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , pitched up outside off , du Plessis gets forward and defends solidly 12.1 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , outswinger , outside off , left alone Jamie chirps in to say that the sun is out. The South African batsmen will surely welcome the warmer conditions . 11.6 Boult to du Plessis , 1 run , short of length on the hips , tucked to deep backward square leg , for a single 11.5 Boult to Rossouw , 3 runs , this is manic cricket. Inswinging yorker from Boult , dug out hard onto the pitch by Rossouw , it bounces over Boult and B Mac sprints and dives head-first to pull it back. Vettori backs up and nearly catches Rossouw short , with a throw that had the batsman diving to make it back. The throw misses and they take three. What action 11.4 Boult to Rossouw , no run , wide of the crease and Rossouw finds Elliott at short cover-point. Boult applauds the effort by clapping. It was driven to the right of the fielder who stops it with one hand. KW , Guptill came up to Elliott to pat him too 11.3 Boult to Rossouw , no run , on a good length and outside off , Rossouw 's bat comes down in a straight line as he punches it back to Boult 11.2 Boult to Rossouw , no run , full and on the stumps , again Rossouw finds mid-on Four slips and a gully. Exceptional attacking captaincy from B Mac 11.1 Boult to Rossouw , no run , good length on the stumps , pushed off the front foot to mid-on 10.6 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , beaten now. du Plessis has been good in leaving the outswingers , he is sucked in that time and the late swing beats him. du Plessis went for the drive and missed 10.5 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , Elliott is all smiles. Ian Gould is all theatrics as he is a bit slow to move away from the line of that throw. Elliott dived full length to his left at mid-on and stopped a fierce drive , got up and unleashed a back-hander that missed the stumps. Saw Rossouw out of his crease and threw , but Rossouw was back by the time the throw came 10.4 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , now swing for Matt Henry , outswinger , nice carry to Ronchi after du Plessis lets it go 10.3 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , Matt Henry has his hands on his head. But it was well played by du Plessis , on a good length and outside off , does n't nip back , du Plessis has the bat tucked in , close to his pad and lets it go 10.2 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , back of a length outside off , pushed to cover 10.1 Matt Henry to du Plessis , no run , that bounced a bit. du Plessis was pushing forward to defend , was surprised by that and adjusted well. Takes his bottom hand off and jerks his head back Boult 's effort paid rich dividends as Amla edged one onto the stumps. Boult looks for wickets by pitching the ball up with the new ball and Brendon McCullum backs him up with aggressive fields. On the other hand , when in good form , Amla with those magical wrists is able to bisect the minutest of gaps in the field. However , when up against a left-armer bowling from over the wicket , it is risky to drive on the up as the ball may carry on with the angle. Boult continued to bowl with good control and was rewarded with the wicket of de Kock. de Kock has a habit of using his feet to the pacers , but this time around , lost his wicket . With a heightened anticipation , fans made a beeline for entry into the Eden Park stadium for the mouth-watering semi-final clash between South Africa and New Zealand. The New Zealand swing duo of Trent Boult and Tim Southee started on a good note. Boult swung the ball prodigiously and produced the edge off Quinton de Kock 's bat , but Luke Ronchi dropped the catch behind the stumps. Southee , who has a fine surprise bouncer up his sleeve , then induced a top-edge from Hashim Amla as he looked to hook him. Fortunately for Amla he survived . 9.6 Boult to du Plessis , 1 run , looked like the slower delivery , outside off , du Plessis softly pushes it into the vacant point region Back over the wicket for the last delivery. Two short covers catching 9.5 Boult to du Plessis , no run , very full and wide outside off , du Plessis gets forward to drive and mistimes it to mid-off 9.4 Boult to du Plessis , FOUR , edged and wide of the two slips in place. Room was there , short of length outside off , du Plessis opens the face of the bat to play that. Beats Southee 's dive at third man 9.3 Boult to du Plessis , no run , back of a length outside off , du Plessis defends to the left of short cover , has the hand up and shouts 'no ' to Rossouw Round the wicket now 9.2 Boult to du Plessis , no run , full and on middle , du Plessis presents the full face of the bat and defends back to Boult 9.1 Boult to du Plessis , no run , short of length outside off , extra bounce for Boult , du Plessis drops it near point , the bottom hand came off the bat handle , but the fielders charged in from everywhere to stop the quick single being taken 8.6 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , pitched up outside off , was there for the big booming drive , but Rossouw finds mid-off. Sprawling stop made and once again Eden Park roar 8.5 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , late swing for Matt Henry , Rossouw did well not to play across the line and defends it to mid-on 8.4 Matt Henry to Rossouw , no run , full and on the stumps , driven back to Matt Henry 8.3 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis for sure is nervy. He pushes this to mid-on and sets off. Does n't realise that this is Eden Park and he has played that too well , has to dive and gets there as Elliott shoots sideways and misses. Would 've been interesting had there been a direct hit The reaction of the Eden Park crowd said it all after de Kock was out. They were up on their feet , roaring and fist-pumping. One man was seen pumping his fist so vigorously. Raw passion on display 8.2 Matt Henry to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Rossouw hops and punches it to the left of point. Quick single taken 8.1 Matt Henry to du Plessis , 1 run , short of length and easy for du Plessis who whips it to square leg for a single Matt Henry , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Boult to Rossouw , no run , how do you play that ? First up ! Play that if you can Rossouw. All the slip fielders who are 5 in the cordon come up to the bowler and pat him on the back. Boult sticks his tongue out. This was on a good length and it holds its line , Rossouw actually did well to play inside the line and the ball missed the outside edge. Since Rossouw played inside the line , he survived Rilee Rossouw , left handed bat , comes to the crease 7.5 Boult to de Kock , out Caught by Southee ! ! Boult is now the highest wicket-taker for New Zealand in World Cups. He has 21 to his name. de Kock is dragging himself off Eden Park. He does n't want to leave. That was a poor stroke. Charged Boult , wanted to go over cover , but the late swing took the outside edge and landed safely in third man 's hands. Southee did n't have to move an inch. Boult is all smiles as he is surrounded by his mates. de Kock c Southee b Boult 14 ( 17 ) [ 4s-2 ] Boult to de Kock , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.4 Boult to de Kock , no run , short of length outside off , de Kock gets forward and pushes it softly to cover 7.3 Boult to du Plessis , 1 run , back of a length outside off , du Plessis opens the face of the bat and dabs it wide of the second slip , Anderson ca n't prevent the single being taken 7.2 Boult to du Plessis , no run , short of length on the hips , whipped to the left of square leg where Elliott gets across quickly 7.1 Boult to du Plessis , no run , good length and inswinging , du Plessis inside-edges the forward defensive onto the pads , the ball rolls to cover 6.6 Southee to du Plessis , 1 run , angling in , on a back of a length on off and middle , du Plessis tucks it to the right of the vacant mid-wicket fielder , single taken 6.5 Southee to du Plessis , no run , pitched up outside off , du Plessis gets forward and drives it back to Southee who mocks a throw at the batsman du Plessis goes up to de Kock and has a chat. Shane Warne on air thinks du Plessis is very nervous 6.4 Southee to du Plessis , no run , short of length outside off , du Plessis pushes out away from his body , finds cover 6.3 Southee to de Kock , 1 run , de Kock played that well , short outside off , de Kock rolled his wrists and kept it down to deep square leg. Was aware of the fielder there and wanted not to find the fielder 6.2 Southee to de Kock , no run , full and inswing for Southee , late too , de Kock 's bat turns and his clip can only find mid-wicket 6.2 Southee to de Kock , wide , double-bluff that. But Southee in attempting the yorker gets it wrong , the inswinger goes wrong , down leg McCullum is so pro-active as captain. He is changing the field constantly. Three slips and a man now on the hook at deep square 6.1 Southee to de Kock , no run , short of length on off , de Kock wants to force that hard off the back foot but finds mid-wicket , as the inside half of the bat is found 5.6 Boult to du Plessis , no run , angles it in , but this one is still not enough to make du Plessis play. Another testing over from Boult comes to an end Boult has decided to come round the wicket for the last delivery 5.5 Boult to du Plessis , no run , pitched up outside off , du Plessis thought about the drive , crouched low to play and then decided against it as it was too far wide of off 5.4 Boult to du Plessis , no run , on the middle and leg line , du Plessis tucks it straight to the fielder at square leg 5.3 Boult to du Plessis , no run , very full and wide of off , du Plessis leaves once more 5.2 Boult to de Kock , 1 run , short of length outside off , no swing that time , de Kock tucks it through mid-wicket for a single 5.1 Boult to de Kock , no run , short of length and nips back in , de Kock wants to whip that to leg , but inside-edges it onot the thigh pad , the ball rolls to the slip cordon Jamie says that there ' some nip in the air for both bowlers. More for Boult than Southee. It 's a sell-out at Auckland but the stadium is n't a full-house at the moment 4.6 Southee to du Plessis , no run , another outswinger , but this one is on a short of length outside off , easy for du Plessis as he lets it go 4.5 Southee to du Plessis , no run , further wide of off , swing away for Southee , du Plessis wo n't play at that and shoulders arms 4.4 Southee to du Plessis , no run , short of length outside off , du Plessis gets right back and defends it to the bowler 4.3 Southee to du Plessis , no run , pitched up outside off , outswinger , du Plessis lifts his bat high over his head and lets it go 4.2 Southee to de Kock , 1 run , too straight from Southee , allowing de Kock to glance it down to fine leg , for a single 4.1 Southee to de Kock , no run , short of length on middle , de Kock tucks it to mid-wicket , calmly played 3.6 Boult to du Plessis , FOUR , superbly played by du Plessis. It was the attempted yorker from Boult and he almost got it right out , but du Plessis flicked that past backward square leg , just the uncorking of the wrists at the right moment and the ball raced away 3.5 Boult to du Plessis , no run , pushed across du Plessis on the left-armer 's angle from over the wicket , du Plessis gets forward and shoulders arms Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.4 Boult to Amla , out Bowled ! ! Look at the Eden Park faithful roar. Boult is all smiles. He has knocked Amla over , albeit off an inside edge. It was full and wide outside off , was there for the drive , but Amla had been nervy all innings , the feet did n't move on the drive and the inside edge clattered back onto the stumps. Did the ball swing back in a bit ? No. It went across with the angle. Amla b Boult 10 ( 14 ) [ 4s-2 ] Boult to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Phew just 21 balls into the innings and so much action. My fingers will go if this continues for the entire match 3.3 Boult to Amla , no run , dug in short , Amla ducks under that 3.2 Boult to de Kock , 1 run , too straight from Boult , de Kock flicks that to deep square leg , gets away to the other end Three slips and a gully in. Deep square in place 3.1 Boult to de Kock , no run , Boult beats de Kock outside off , with a short of length delivery outside off , it pitched outside off and went away , de Kock was pushing out and did well not to go hard at that 2.6 Southee to Amla , FOUR , and now on the pads , Amla wo n't miss out. Flicked wide of mid-wicket. Cleanly struck and that spoils the over 2.5 Southee to Amla , FOUR , poor bowling. Southee loses his patience , drifts a half-volley outside leg , all it needed was bat and Amla flicked it away to the fine leg fence. Too easy 2.4 Southee to Amla , no run , edged and does n't carry to 2nd slip. All action in this over and in this game as well. Amla late in withdrawing the bat from that back of a length delivery outside off , the edge is found , but short of the slip cordon 2.3 Southee to Amla , no run , outswinger , left alone 2.2 Southee to Amla , 2 runs , in the air and just wide of the running and diving long leg fielder. The luck is with South Africa at the moment. Top-edged hook from Amla , he was not in control of the shot at all. Southee followed the path of the ball as long leg ( Boult ) ran to his left , but the fielder , despite diving full length did n't get even a finger on it 2.1 Southee to Amla , no run , short of length outside off , defended comfortably off the back foot towards mid-off 1.6 Boult to de Kock , no run , full on the stumps , de Kock gets his front foot across and plays around it. Flicked to mid-wicket. Dangerous that from de Kock. Excellent over from Boult 1.5 Boult to de Kock , FOUR , dropped by Ronchi ! Big moment. Brilliant delivery from Boult , full and late swing , on off , de Kock made the mistake of playing to leg , closed the bat face and the outside edge went to the left of the diving Ronchi , it was right in between Ronchi and first slip. Credit to Ronchi for going for it , went full length but could only palm it away to the third man fence. The left mitt got there , but only the edge of the mitt. Not the middle. de Kock gets away 1.4 Boult to de Kock , 2 runs , half-volley outside off , Boult searching for swing and de Kock opens the face of the bat to drive wide of point , only a couple 1.3 Boult to de Kock , no run , outswinger , but on a fuller length and outside off , de Kock sees it well and leaves 1.2 Boult to de Kock , FOUR , edged and just wide of the third slip diving to his left. Boult brought de Kock forward and the defensive stroke found the edge , but it eluded the diving fielder 's outstretched left-hand 1.1 Boult to de Kock , no run , what a delivery first up ! Short of a length and outside off , late movement away , de Kock spars at it and is lucky not to edge it. Very minimal footwork from de Kock as he did n't go across to play it False start for Boult. He runs in and just as he was about to deliver the ball , the ball popped out after hitting the thigh. Boult manages a smile on the way back. He has to start all over again Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Southee to Amla , no run , a huge roar from the Eden Park faithful after Southee finishes with a maiden over. Amla gets back and across , before punching to point. That was a very good opening over from Southee 0.5 Southee to Amla , no run , Amla shuffles across to defend and presents the full face to play it to mid-on. Southee has a wry smile on his face as Amla had lost his balance while playing that , stumbled forward awkwardly and did well to get the bat in front of the pad , although the bat came at an angle around the front pad 0.4 Southee to Amla , no run , KW at point dives to his right and saves some runs. He gets a pat on his back from another fielder after that was stopped. It was on a fuller length outside off and Amla drove well , looked like a boundary until KW went across 0.3 Southee to Amla , no run , and another delivery that swung , but only after the ball passed the batsman , close to a wide as it was well outside off , but the umpire reckons that it was fine 0.2 Southee to Amla , no run , there is the first indication of swing for Southee , bowls it on a good length and it 's an outswinger , Amla shoulders arms watchfully It will be interesting to see how much swing Southee and Boult get on this. They will swing , but how much ? 0.1 Southee to Amla , no run , short of length outside off , Amla gets back and across , is on the hop , but drops it to cover. Played that awkwardly , signs of nerves ? Amla and de Kock are at the crease. Amla is on strike. Southee will open the attack A huge roar accompanies Southee as he runs in. The Eden Park crowd are already into it Cloudy and grey at the moment. Southee has the new ball. Three slips in place. The countdown begins. Game on ! And you bet ya ! It is. Here we come then.. . National anthems time and cue for some raw passion from both the sides while singing it. AB amidst all that manages a smile. Fair play to him. What a man. Time for emotions , passion and all that to now be displayed on the pitch. That 's where it all matters. The camera focusses on Matt Henry who wipes his sunglasses. Amla and de Kock walk out. Ross Taylor is seen egging on his mates . Pitch Report : " The sun is out. The ground looks an absolute picture. The teams should have a good understanding of the short boundaries. India chased down 280 against Zimbabwe here. There is a bit of grass covering , but there is no green tinge to it whatsoever. It 's very hard. There should be some decent carry , " reckons Shaun Pollock . Rain was expected in Auckland today but it has turned out to be a pleasant day. How 's the mood at the ground and what are the conditions expected today ? Jamie has more here : Playing field cleared. Both teams inside their dressing rooms. Drums playing to help set the mood. Many empty seats but the lines outside the ground indicate they will fill up fast. Clear skies , temperature at a pleasant 22 degrees. Superb day for a superb semi-final . Teams : New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Tim Southee , Matt Henry , Trent Boult South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c ) , Rilee Rossouw , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir South Africa have won the toss and have opted to bat McCullum : " It 's a quick turnaround. A really good game for us in the quarter-final and we witnessed some special things. Our boys are really excited to be a part of the semi-final. Obviously we are up against a very good South African team and I am sure it will be a great contest. We would have batted first as well. But with the cloud coming over hopefully it will swing for us. The boys have been really good. We have drafted in Matt Henry into the squad and he 's going to play in place of Adam Milne today. It 's a huge opportunity for him. He 's a wicket-taking option. We just felt that he was just the best guy to be there in that first-change position. We 'll go in with an attacking mindset and hopefully good things will happen today. It 's really tough on them ( Mills and McClenaghan ) . They 've both taken it in their stride as all the guys who have n't played a great deal in this tournament have. We just felt that with the extra pace that Matt ( Henry ) offers and he 's a bit of a wicket-taker as well. We thought if in doubt go for the aggressive option and that 's what we 've gone for today. It 's not going to be handed to us. We need to go and get it and the boys are certainly ready for it. We 've had a great campaign so far. All the boys have loved the support that we have had all around the country and now it all comes down to one day and we are confident that we 'll play well. Hey , if South Africa is good enough , then fair play , we think we 'll play well as well. " de Villiers : " It 's been very good , we are hell of a lot excited to be here today. Eden Park , with all the tradition and history and all the great games in the past , it fires up a little bit more to play a good game of cricket today. We are going to have a bat first today. Looks a good wicket. We rate ourselves against their bowling attack and hopefully we will get a good foundation set and then cash in. We are not really focussed on the weather to be honest. We are just every excited to be out here and start really well. We 've got one change , Vernon Philander comes in for Kyle Abbott. Everyone has been playing good cricket. Verny ( Vernon Philander ) is in great form , faced him in the nets a little bit and I am excited to see what he can achieve today. He ( Abbott ) was superb. He 's a great team player for us and I am sure he understands and maybe he 'll get a chance in the final if we come through today. " Toss time folks ! Our man Jamie is at the ground , he says " The ground is slowly starting to fill up with people milling their way through the turnstiles. Plenty of Black Cap jerseys on show. And Matt Henry has bowled a fair bit and might turn out to be the X factor. " BBC 's TMS have tweeted that Matt Henry is marking his run-up in the warm-ups. That would suggest he will come in , in place of Adam Milne. What a story that would be. Henry can bowl quick and is a like-for-like replacement for Milne. Can understand the logic . AB de Villiers : " There 's a lot of confidence behind us. I feel the team is in a really good space at a really good time. We 've got a lot of reason to be confident for tomorrow 's game. " Quotes : Brendon McCullum : " I 'd expect that the team that is able to handle the crunch situations the best will come out on top , but I would expect that the margin wo n't be too far between both teams. " Weather update : A maximum of 22C is predicted for the game. More from the Metservice.com website : " An improving story , still the risk of a few showers to start the innings but sunny spells returning for this afternoon. Light northeasterly winds. " South Africa : South Africa in all likelihood will play the same side that crushed Sri Lanka in the quarter-final. Philander may come into contention for his extra batting skills , but still Abbott is likely to retain his spot . Pre-match team news , New Zealand : Adam Milne 's injury means the Kiwis have to make a change. It will be interesting to see whether Matt Henry is rushed straight in or Mitchell McClenaghan is given another go , despite a poor game against Bangladesh. If both Henry and McClenaghan are n't considered then Kyle Mills - with all his experience - will get the nod. That should be the only change to an otherwise settled line-up . Head-to-head record between the two teams : In World Cups - both sides have played each other six times with New Zealand winning four , with the last encounter being the famous quarter-final win at Mirpur four years ago. In the last five meetings though , South Africa have won three in a row that included a 2-0 series win in New Zealand last October . " On Tuesday at Eden Park , McCullum 's New Zealand team - unbeaten in the World Cup - will face South Africa in the first semi-final in what looks a tantalising match. Will this great ground prove lucky for New Zealand , 23 years on from 1992 ? A packed house will be waiting for the answer. " " It was here that England were beaten in 2002 , South Africa in 2004 and India in 2014. It was here a few weeks ago that Brendon McCullum 's team beat Australia by one wicket when chasing 152 in front of a packed house chanting " You 're worse than England " to the opposition. However , Eden Park will always be tagged with the 1992 World Cup for four matches from New Zealand 's memorable campaign - three for wins and one for heartbreak. " How can we not mention the iconic Eden Park at all. We have focussed on so many things but Eden Park. Time to rectify that mistake. Our man in New Zealand , Jamie Alter has penned this special piece on Eden Park. He writes - " Eden Park holds a special place in New Zealand cricket history. It was here in 1956 that the team achieved its first Test victory in 26 years , bowling West Indies out for 77 on the final day. It was here in 1982 that they beat Australia for just the second time in Test cricket. It was here in 1986 that Jeremy Coney 's team beat Allan Border 's side to take the series. It was here in 1993 that Martin Crowe 's team beat Australia to draw a three-Test series. " Mike Hesson also mentioned that Matt Henry will be considered for selection along with the others for the semi-final. " We brought Matt up as cover yesterday so he was going to come and train with us. He was obviously excited to come up here , " he said. " When he heard this morning that he was brought into the squad , he 's obviously pretty excited. I did his washing from last night , as well , so I think he 's pretty keen to get that back. He 's going pretty good. If Matt ends up in the squad , he 'll be considered along with the others. " Brendon McCullum backed Hesson 's words. " Adam has been outstanding for us in that third seamer role throughout the tournament. Injuries happen , though , and in the end we 've got some good cover amongst the squad , as well , " he said. " It 's really disappointing for Adam but he 'll remain part of the squad , which is good , because he 's a good team man , as well , good fellow to have around , and it 's disappointing his tournament as such has ended , but I 'm sure we 'll come up with a suitable replacement. " " It 's not that it was n't worth it , it 's to a point now where he 's unable to bowl. If he 's unable to bowl , he 's in a lot of pain when he bowls , he 's fine walking in a straight line , but unfortunately when he bowls it 's become increasingly uncomfortable , to a point where he 's unable to carry on , " he said. " It 's one of those injuries probably for two weeks he 's had issues with it , but he was pain-free come the quarter-final and got through that okay , but post-quarterfinal it 's flared up to a point where , as I said , it 's unsustainable. " Milne 's injury has left New Zealand " gutted " , according to the head coach Mike Hesson. " It 's [ the injury ] serious enough to rule him out of the tournament from a playing perspective , so we 've still got more tests to do in terms of the extent of it , but we 're thinking more weeks rather than longer than that , " Hesson told reporters at Eden Park. " Adam got told this morning. We looked at different options , but it just was n't going to work. Obviously a lot of disappointment. It 's a once in a lifetime - well , hopefully it 's not a once in a lifetime opportunity for Adam , but look , he 's gutted and all the players are gutted for him. He 's a popular member of the group , and hopefully he 'll be around. " In a major blow to New Zealand , their fastest bowler , Adam Milne was ruled out of the tournament with a left heel injury. Milne , 22 , felt discomfort in his left heel when on the field during the win over West Indies in the quarter-final. Later he underwent an MRI scan that showed significant swelling. Milne has been replaced by Matt Henry and the ICC has approved of Henry as Milne 's replacement . " Three years later , Williamson is now the best batsman in the New Zealand team and his consistency has been remarkable. He will be aware of the threat Morkel and Steyn possess and he will be ready for yet another showdown. South Africa 's deadly duo will not shy away from roughing him up. This contest between New Zealand 's best batsman and South Africa 's best bowlers will be pivotal in this match. " Morne Morkel and Dale Steyn vs Kane Williamson - " Date : 27 March 2012. Venue : Basin Reserve. Morne Morkel was ripping through the New Zealand top order while Dale Steyn was ferociously working up the batsmen. However , both could not dislodge Kane Williamson and he brought up a magnificent century to save the Test match. During the course of his knock , Williamson was hit on the body by Steyn and the bowler refused to apologize. The unbeaten century in Wellington signalled the coming of age of Williamson. " " Amla , though , must be aware of the threat posed by Trent Boult. New Zealand 's ace left-arm fast bowler is the leading wicket-taker in this tournament , with 19 wickets at an average of 14.63 and an economy rate of 4.21. His variations in length and his ability to generate late swing make him a potent threat. Boult featured in the two ODIs against South Africa in October 2014 and failed to get rid of Amla. However , on the big stage , Boult will be determined to take out South Africa 's most consistent batsman early. " Trent Boult vs Hashim Amla - " There is a calmness around Hashim Amla when he comes to bat. He is the quickest batsman to get to 5,000 runs in ODIs and his huge appetite for runs gives South Africa the advantage at the top. Amla 's ability to bat right through the innings will help South Africa on the big day. " Always in a big game , there will be some key battles that could decide and shape the way the game unfolds. Here are three of them that we have picked for you. Brendon McCullum vs AB de Villiers - " It is a battle between two freaks. One has brute power while the other is exceptionally innovative. Both are proactive and can change the course of the match quickly. As far as contests go , this is definitely one of the mouth-watering battles of the World Cup. " " South Africa 's de Villiers is another who has led by example , getting his team to respond with intensity and purpose. Morne Morkel , for instance , bowls from a reduced run up to ensure that de Villiers does not cop another fine and risk sitting out of a game. The Proteas ' skipper has never hesitated in appreciating or being critical of his team-mates. " Our man G Rajaraman focusses on the two captains - McCullum and AB de Villiers. He writes : " McCullum brings a bit of a gambler 's touch to leading New Zealand , embracing an all-out attack policy. He has backed his instinct not only when at the crease but also in goading other batsmen to ensure that the team has large totals to defend or chases down targets ruthlessly. Their bowlers have been as aggressive and brilliant echoing their skipper 's approach. " " Interestingly , it will be a semi-final between two teams that have never reached a World Cup final. This time , one of New Zealand and South Africa will be a finalist. New Zealand look a better side on paper , they are in form , and they are playing at home with confidence. I 'm not putting anyone ahead , it 's still 50-50. But , I just get the feeling , as I said at the start of the World Cup , that this could be South Africa 's tournament. " " New Zealand have been in the semi-finals before , but have never won. In the 2011 edition , they lost to Sri Lanka in the semi-finals in Colombo , but now they are playing in their own backyard. It is a semi-final at home , so no one can say that there 's no pressure on themselves. The expectations will always be high. " Sourav Ganguly writing exclusively on our site says the semi-final is too close to call. He reckons New Zealand are the form team , but this could be South Africa 's World Cup. " It 's very difficult to keep any one of these two teams ahead. There was a feeling that at the start of the World Cup , South Africa would do something special. They have had a pretty up and down group stage , but they emphatically went past Sri Lanka in the quarter-finals at the SCG. And now they face New Zealand , who have been in great form in the tournament along with India. It 's hard to differentiate between India and New Zealand , but for me New Zealand , right through the tournament , have not put a foot wrong. " " There has been a lot of emphasis on our past and South Africa not doing well at World Cups. We do n't mind that too much. I 've gone through the whole package of feeling emotional about it , fighting against it , then accepting it , then fighting again , " he said. " Honestly I 'm not putting emphasis on that at this World Cup at all. I 'm the guy who 's got to answer those questions , and I do n't mind doing that , but I know the squad is in a really good space , and once again I 'm going to say that sentence of knowing that if we play a good game of cricket we 'll come out on top. We 're that confident in our abilities as a cricket team , " he said . " I trust my gut feel with that. I get a feeling of what the energy is like , " he said at Eden Park on Monday. " It 's pretty easy to pick up when you 've spent a lot of time with the guys , spent a few years with them , so I know each player individually pretty well. I know what makes them tick , and I know what irritates them , as well. Sometimes it 's important to irritate them , to get the best out of them , as well. It 's a matter of reading the situation , trusting my gut , and I do n't think I 'll have to trust my gut too much tomorrow because I know the guys will be up for it. " AB de Villiers may have seen and been part of many South African sides that failed to win a knockout game in ICC events , but also has the distinction of being the first man to lead his side to a knockout win in a World Cup game for South Africa. He knows they can do it again. He believes it , truly he does . " It will be no different to every other game , I think. We talk a lot about this being the greatest time of our lives and the trip that we 've been on so far has been one that we 'll all remember. The game is meant to be fun , go out there , express yourself , enjoy the occasion , put our best foot forward , and we 'll see where the cards fall after that , " said McCullum . What is all the pre-match talk ahead of the big clash ? Let 's find out. Brendon McCullum may be the most marked man in New Zealand at the moment , but he is relaxed and cool going into the biggest match of his career. " I think I should be okay , " he said with a smile. " I sort of find that being too stressed out does n't help that much , so might as well just relax and look forward to the opportunity to go out there and represent your country again tomorrow in obviously a really big game. It 's a great stage to be a part of. It 's what you play the game for , all the trainings that you do all the time away from home , all the hard work and sacrifice that you make. This is what you do it for , so we 've got that opportunity tomorrow , and yeah , I 'm looking forward to it. " A fairly straightforward chase was complete with Quinton de Kock leading the way. He came back to form with 78 and saw his side home with still 32 overs of the game remaining. It was one of the most one-sided knockout games in World Cup history and South Africa had written a new chapter. They now meant business and sounded out a warning note to the rest of the pack still left in the competition . Quarter-final : They faced Sri Lanka at the SCG - with a dry surface predicted. Many experts reckoned the toss would be a huge factor. Mathews won the toss and had a significant advantage already. He chose to bat first and many felt that South Africa would once again bow out of the World Cup without winning a knockout game. But with the ball , South Africa came out like a pack of hungry wolves and simply blew the Islanders away. 133 was all that Sri Lanka could manage against the all-out intensity that the Proteas displayed. Steyn 's reaction after getting Dilshan summed up how much the game meant to his side. He celebrated the wicket with his veins throbbing and eyes nearly popping out as he let out an almighty roar . South Africa , Group stages : South Africa had a mixed group stage. While they were brilliant against West Indies and Ireland , they faltered against India and Pakistan. Those two losses came when they were chasing and once again raised doubts about their ability to handle pressure in crunch situations. But convincing wins against UAE and Zimbabwe earlier in the tournament ensured that they finished second in the group behind India . Quarter-final : Martin Guptill made the highest ever score by a batsman in a World Cup knockout game as his unbeaten 237 powered New Zealand to 393. West Indies went hell for leather and lost by 143 runs. Guptill who was dropped on 4 made the West Indies pay heavily for their mistake as the Wellington crowd were treated to his wide range of strokeplay. With the ball , Boult snared the first four wickets and set his side on their way . Group stages : New Zealand were the only side apart from India to have a clean slate in the group stages. Played 6. Won 6. Beat Sri Lanka comfortably. Edged past Scotland. Annihilated England. Won a thriller against Australia in the game of the tournament. Eased past Afghanistan and then held their nerve to beat Bangladesh . How have New Zealand and South Africa got to the semi-final ? A look back at the road to the semis starting with New Zealand . No less inspirational has been McCullum 's opposite number - AB de Villiers. South Africa had n't won a knockout game coming into this tournament , but right from the opening day he has backed his boys and exuded a calm confidence that this is their time. AB has batted , bowled , fielded and led the side superbly to show that he is not an ordinary individual. Some are even comparing him to Superman. That is how tall he stands at the moment. He knows there is history to be rewritten , with past failures serving valuable lessons and acting as a spur to right the wrongs . This after a dismal 2009 IPL campaign where he captained the Kolkata franchise to 10 defeats out of the 14 games. Luck did n't seem to be with him as one of the close games he lost proves. Against the then Deccan franchise , his side had the game in the bag with 21 needed off the final over. But somehow Mashrafe Mortaza and his side contrived to lose the game. There were a few other close defeats as well in that campaign , but none more heart-breaking or gut-wrenching as this. Back then McCullum was a novice captain still finding his feet. How his captaincy has come of age from then ! One man who can set that record straight and take his side to glory is Brendon McCullum - the Black Caps captain. Let us focus on him in larger detail. McCullum describes himself as 'brash ' and he has been inspirational ever since he took over the mantle of leading the side. Ever since losing the series against South Africa in October 2014. New Zealand have beaten Pakistan 3-2 in Abu Dhabi. Won 4-2 against Sri Lanka at home. Then defeated Pakistan 2-0 and won all their seven matches in this World Cup. That 's 9 ODI wins in a row and counting. A large part of the credit should go to McCullum. He has revitalised and rejuvenated New Zealand cricket with his brand of attacking captaincy . Six-time semi-finalists. Zero final appearances. That 's New Zealand 's record in World Cups. Is there a jinx that surrounds the Black Caps ? One will never know. In 1992 on their own soil , at Eden Park in Auckland , New Zealand were heavy favorites to go through. But then misfortune struck at the most inopportune time. Their charismatic and influential captain , Martin Crowe did n't take the field due to a hamstring injury in the second innings of that semi-final and saw his side lose to an inspired Pakistan. That defeat still rankles Crowe to this day . A couple of memorable quotes from that game before we move forward and focus on other things. The then , South African coach , Mickey Arthur after the defeat - " The monkey 's almost become a gorilla now. " While Jacob Oram was at his humorous best here : " Thankfully , I am 6ft 6in , and I replaced Kane Williamson who , I think , is 4ft 6in , " he said about the Kallis catch . " They targeted me as a youngster , so that is the advice I would give guys going to this World Cup. Some teams target guys who are younger and less experienced. New Zealand are brilliant at that , the Aussies as well. " " That moment taught me a lot about myself. I learnt a lot about international cricket. I had always thought I enjoyed a challenge , but after that day I knew that I enjoyed a challenge. When there 's pressure or when it 's tough I like to try and stand up for the team. I learnt a lot about myself when I did n't stand back to those guys. " Four years later he wants to rectify that mistake. He has got what he has wanted. A semi-final date with New Zealand. " In my perfect world I would like to play New Zealand in the semi-final and have that same situation arise again. But this time it will be the other way around. We 'll be the team that 's on top , and we can do the same to them , " du Plessis said at South Africa 's World Cup squad announcement on January 7 . One man who was n't smiling that day was Faf du Plessis. Four years back he was just a youngster and the dismissal of Kallis brought him to the crease. The Kiwis knew here was a man for the taking. In a high-pressure situation. And it worked. After Faf had ran AB out , Kyle Mills - on as a substitute to serve some drinks - chirped away. Even the sober , Dan Vettori joined in. Scott Styris , Tim Southee and Jacob Oram chimed away as the verbals were directed at Faf. It worked. Faf had been mentally thrown off. Soon he got out and then the innings nose-dived. The turning point of the game was not Kallis ' dismissal , but AB 's run-out , caused by Faf . What made it even more painful for the South Africans that day was one of their own , being in the other camp. Allan Donald smiled and celebrated after every South African wicket. Why ? Because he was New Zealand 's bowling coach in the World Cup. After New Zealand won he hugged John Wright , the coach. Seeing those scenes must have hurt South Africa even more. But then Donald was just being a professional. Now he is back in the South African camp. Will we see him smile once again ? Jacob Oram who took the catch to dismiss Kallis felt that was the turning point of the game. " My catch [ was a turning point ] , and I 'm not just pointing that out because it 's me , but because it broke a partnership that looked like it was starting to build. And the second moment which galvanised us to another level , and put the skids on them , was Martin Guptill running out AB de Villiers. That just seemed to make us all grow a foot taller , and you could see them getting a little worried. " Graeme Smith , the Proteas captain was a broken man after the defeat and he had no words to describe how his side had lost. He sat a stunned man and could barely speak. " It 's hard to describe [ how we feel ] at such short notice. It 's kind of disbelief ; I felt that we certainly had what it took to win , " Smith said. " We 've trained hard , we worked on our skills and I can not fault the way this team has played. When we go home there 's going to be swords and daggers. We are not the only World Cup team that has not gone on to win. " The infamous Choke : 25th March 2011. A World Cup quarter-final between these two same sides. New Zealand had made just 221. South Africa were well placed at 108/2. Kallis was taking his side home. But then Big Jacob Oram plucked a catch on the deep mid-wicket boundary and the match turned. AB de Villiers was run out. The Kiwis smelt blood. Sledging began. Faf was psyched out with verbals. The inevitable happened. South Africa crashed out of the World Cup with a 49-run defeat. The pressure got to them. On the big night , they failed. Once again. Graeme Smith , the captain was a broken man. Pain was seen in every South African 's eye that day. South Africa had 'choked ' previously in World Cups , but this was a 'choke ' that surpassed all the others. It was the perfect meltdown under pressure against a decent Kiwi attack on a slow pitch. The demons once again had reared their head and South Africa had nowhere to hide . Have a look at this stat - the winner of today 's clash between New Zealand and South Africa will reach the World Cup final for the first time ! Astounding ! Can you believe that ? I ca n't ! But that is a stat as well as a fact. New Zealand or South Africa have n't made it to the summit clash in the biggest tournament of all. That sets us up nicely for what should be a humdinger of a game. So hello then , to one and all as we welcome you to the first semi-final of the 2015 World Cup between New Zealand and South Africa being played at the iconic Eden Park in Auckland . Sir Richard Hadlee. Glenn Turner. Martin Crowe. Ken Rutherford. Ian Smith. Chris Cairns. Stephen Fleming. Nathan Astle. Craig McMillan. Shane Bond. Daniel Vettori. Brendon McCullum. Ross Taylor. Allan Donald. Shaun Pollock. Hansie Cronje. Gary Kirsten. Lance Klusener. Herschelle Gibbs. Graeme Smith. AB de Villiers. Dale Steyn. Morne Morkel. Hashim Amla. And the list can include another dozen players. What is common amongst all these players ? There is a link and we wo n't keep you waiting for long. It 's obvious and here is the answer. In the above paragraph . Destiny is the perfect word available in the English language to describe both New Zealand and South Africa at the moment . 12 : 00 Local Time , 23 : 00 GMT , 04 : 30 IST : Destiny - 'A predetermined course of events considered as something beyond human power or control.' Preview by Jamie Alter This is it. New Zealand versus South Africa at the semi-final stage of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup. Brendon McCullum against AB de Villiers. Potential versus performance. Hope against hope. Nerves against the nervous. Neither country has ever won a World Cup semi-final. One of them will go to the summit for the first time. Who will blink first ? Behind McCullum 's New Zealand is a nation that has backed this team from well before the tournament began , and whose anticipation and belief has increased with every win. Behind de Villiers ' South Africa are passionate supporters who somewhere inside feel that this is their year. Not all of them will admit it , but they do feel something different about this team . New Zealand are , of course , unbeaten in the World Cup. In their last game , Saturday 's quarter-final in Wellington , they had Martin Guptill score the second-highest individual score in ODI history. They are pumped , confident , brimming with positivity. Their captain 's leadership is infectious ; contagious even , as Stephen Fleming put it. Tim Southee and Trent Boult ( the leading wicket-taker in the tournament ) have been hailed as on course to be New Zealand 's greatest new-ball pairing. Daniel Vettori , apart from the last match , has been economical , accurate and successful. And when he had an off day with the ball , he plucked the catch of the tournament . The team has been dented by the ruling out of tearaway quick Adam Milne , as McCullum and the coach Mike Hesson admitted on Monday , but the confidence remains high. The hunger has not diminished. McCullum believes his team can still keep rolling . " I sort of find that being too stressed out does n't help that much , so might as well just relax and look forward to the opportunity to go out there and represent your country again tomorrow in obviously a really big game , " he said. " It 's a great stage to be a part of. It 's what you play the game for , all the trainings that you do all the time away from home , all the hard work and sacrifice that you make. This is what you do it for , so we 've got that opportunity tomorrow , and I 'm looking forward to it. The boys are pretty excited. " South Africa are here after beating Sri Lanka - finalists in the last two World Cups - in a one-sided Sydney quarter-final. They lost to India and Pakistan in the league phase but hammered other sides to make the knockouts. Twice they have made 400. De Villiers has a ballistic century to his name. Hashim Amla has been consistent. The weak link , wicketkeeper-batsman Quinton de Kock , scored a breezy fifty in the last match. Dale Steyn has increased in potency , the legspinner Imran Tahir has a five-wicket haul to his credit and four in the quarter-final to fetch him the Man-of-the-Match award. Morne Morkel has quietly supplied energy to back Steyn 's pace and Kyle Abbott 's consistency . Ahead of what he termed " one of the most important games " of his career , de Villiers spoke of what it felt like to lead South Africa in a World Cup semi-final. " Every time I wear that shirt , I feel like it 's the most important game of my life. I 'm not going to put too much emphasis and importance on this game , even though we know what it 's all about. I think the guys know enough. No need to motivate them too much and tell them the importance of tomorrow. We know how important it is. It 's a huge occasion for us , " he said . " I 've mentioned in a few pressers before , that I believe that if we play to our full potential that nobody is going to stop us in this tournament. It 's more important for me to get the guys in a good space to make sure they 're confident mentally , they 're fresh physically , because I know at the end of the day , if we rock up and play a good game of cricket that we 'll come out on top. " De Villiers confirmed that there were no injury concerns and stated that Vernon Philander had trained well for a few days and looked in good shape. Should Philander return , Abbott will have to miss out , which would be unfortunate for him because he has bowled well as Philander 's replacement . " The whole squad is ready to go , and there are a few boys that have put up their hands in the World Cup , so it 's difficult. It 's really difficult , especially after a win like the last one , " said de Villiers. " It 's tough to change the squad and the team that played. But , we might have to have a look at a couple of combinations , a couple of possibilities that might strengthen our team. Ideally , I would have liked to have turned out our team before the game , but yeah , we 're pretty confident with our thinking process at the moment. " Milne 's injury has opened up a fast bowler 's slot for one of left-armer Mitchell McClenaghan , who played just one match in the tournament and failed to take a wicket , or late add-on , Matt Henry , who has impressed with his raw pace in the eight ODIs he has played. Neither McCullum nor Hesson commented affirmatively on who would play on Tuesday. If you had to pick on one , it would be McClenaghan because he has been with the squad all tournament. Henry , 23 , is coming off five first-class games for Canterbury from which he has taken 20 wickets , and to suddenly have to switch onto one-day international mode , and in a World Cup semi-final , may be too much . The weather forecast for Auckland on Tuesday is not all that good , with showers predicted on a day that could have temperatures going as high as 23 degrees. Fans of both teams will hope that good weather persists , and that the bat and ball take care of the thunder and lightning . Teams : South Africa ( From ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c ) , Rilee Rossouw , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir , Vernon Philander , Farhaan Behardien , Aaron Phangiso , Wayne Parnell New Zealand ( From ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Tim Southee , Matt Henry , Trent Boult , Kyle Mills , Nathan McCullum , Tom Latham , Mitchell McClenaghan Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
