Graphs It 's Australia v New Zealand at the MCG on Sunday. Wow ! What a cracking game that will be. Two best teams on display in the final and you would n't want to miss a single ball. McCullum v Starc/Johnson , Warner v Boult/Southee. Ah ! I ca n't wait for the action to begin. We will start proceedings nice and early. Looking forward to your company then. Goodbye ! Although India lost the game , their fans can still be proud of the way they played in this tournament. After the tri-series , there were serious doubts about India 's performance in the World Cup but MS Dhoni and the entire team have done extremely well to stick together as a unit and stunned everyone by playing some excellent cricket. Barring this game , in the batting department , each player has taken responsibility when needed , while the bowlers were simply outstanding. In fact , India 's pace attack was rated as one of the best in the competition and they bowled out their opponents in seven successive games. The fielding has been generally very good as well. Overall , they played some good cricket , but it is just that they were n't good enough on the day. Congratulations to Australia , who were the better team on the day. The batsmen hung in there when the ball was doing its bit and the bowlers came back strongly despite India getting off to a good start . Let 's take a look at some of the best tweets that pertain to this game : @ sachin_rt : Well played in the ICC World Cup Team India. A tough game today and a loss is always difficult to handle. But you have played some terrific cricket throughout and all the fans have enjoyed watching you. Congratulations to Australia for a convincing win. Steve Smith 's hundred , Finch 's support to him and a strong finish by Johnson made the difference . @ YUVSTRONG12 : india had a rely gd tournament Sad for my boys but Australia has played some outstanding cricket in this w cup deserves to be in the final @ cricketaakash : Big games are for Big players...unfortunately India 's biggest player in chases had an off day. # Kohli # Happens @ bhogleharsha : If you are realistic , you will say India had as good a World Cup as they could have had . @ cricket_U : First time in 28 years that a team from Asia will not play World Cup Final. Last time it happened was in WC 1987. # IndvAus @ fwildecricket : # Ind have been impressive at this World Cup but were outclassed by a better team today. # CWC15 # AusvInd # Aus @ dmartyn30 : You little beauty.. Fantastic @ CricketAus another World Cup Final. So proud of the boys @ MClarke23 .. Bring on @ BLACKCAPS at @ MCG # CWC15 @ TomMoodyCricket : As you always hope with these tournaments , 2 best teams have reached the # Final. Congratulations @ CricketAus a dominant performance. # CWC15 @ KumarSanga2 : Aus too strong overall. Steve smith keeps on going. It was always tough for India unless Virat stayed in. Will be a cracker of a final @ ZaltzCricket : Faulkner 's bowling sums up this innings. First two overs : 0-29. Then a wicket. Then steady. Then 9th over : double wicket maiden . " We are really proud to be able to make it to the final. We know it 's going to be tough against New Zealand. I think for us , it 's only a couple of days. It will be about recovery. I think we 'll fly to Melbourne tomorrow morning. We 'll recover in the afternoon and obviously speak to the coach and see what we have to do for training on Saturday. But I think the priority is to make sure that we recover. It 's been a long summer for a lot of the guys. They 've got plenty of cricket under their belt. Mentally , I think they are ready to go , ready to walk into the final , but physically we have got a couple of days to make sure that we are right. Brendon ( McCullum ) has done a fantastic job there as well. I think they are playing some great cricket. We have to be at our best. We said that before tonight 's game. India are always a tough opposition. We have to play our best to beat these great teams and the final will be no different. I look forward to it ( the final ) . It 's always great to play against New Zealand. I hope so many Aussies can come out and support us. We always love the support and it goes a long way. It has helped us get this far in the tournament. I am sure the final will be no different. " Clarke : " Obviously really excited. Obviously the guys have played some outstanding cricket. Smithy ( Steven Smith ) was exceptional once again. Jeez ! He 's hitting the ball so sweetly and I was really proud of the execution under pressure from our bowlers. Credit needs to go to all the players. I think everybody has chipped in today. Once again a lot of guys sacrificed themselves for the team. A huge congratulations and thanks to MS Dhoni and the Indian team for like you said , it 's been a long summer. I think they have competed really well and shown their talent throughout this tournament. I heard you ask him ( Dhoni ) if it was his last World Cup. I am pretty sure it 's not going to be. He 's got a lot of cricket left in him. We have been playing some really good cricket at the moment. Losing to New Zealand gave us that kick up our back side. We worked on the areas we needed to. The most pleasing thing for me is the way we have trained. Our preparation has been outstanding. The boys have turned up for training every single day to try and become better and I think our results have shown that. I still do n't think we 've played the perfect game yet , we 've improved every game and now we are excited to be in the final. It 's a wonderful achievement. " Clarke shakes hands with Dhoni before coming on to talk . " But overall , I think it 's a good exposure for them. Maybe next time when you are playing in other conditions , they 'll know how to bat in these conditions and they 'll do much better. So our lower-order really needs to work slightly hard on their batting , because most of the good teams , they bat quite deep and we have seen , especially in the knockout stages , you need to bat deep. I am not sure about it ( when asked if this was his last World Cup ) . I am 33 , I 'm still running , I 'm still fit. I will have a year 's time. Maybe close to next year during the T20 WC will be the time when I will decide whether I can continue till the 2019 World Cup or not. I think Ajinkya Rahane is one ( when asked what positives he takes from the 5 month Australian tour ) . Right through the Test series and ODI series , he 's someone who 's improved his game a lot. Also if you see the batting line-up , it seems like these are the players that will continue taking Indian cricket forward. I would like to thank the fans over here , the Australian and the Indian cricket team fans. At the end of the day , when you play cricket , you want people to come to the stadium and watch the game. We have been here for over four months. Thanks to the Aussie fans and the Indian fans , who were travelling all over from India , England and all the different places. It 's a bit disappointing for them , but at the same time when you play a sport only one team can win. " Dhoni : " I think they ( Australia ) played very good cricket. Over 300 is a difficult score to chase , but I felt it was just above par. They were looking as if they will score 340 or maybe 350 but we came back quite well. But I felt we could have still bowled well. The reason being , in the afternoon , we got a bit of reverse swing going. I was a bit personally worried about the spinners without any foot marks on a fresh wicket , but their performance was good. I felt the fast bowlers could have done slightly better. But overall , we were quite happy with where we were. At the start of the tournament a lot of people did n't really think we would come so far in the tournament. But at the same time , when you come to the knockout stages , you have to lift your game. We got off to a very good start. Shikhar 's dismissal to some extent was really on the softer side because that was the time when he could have milked the Australian bowling line-up. He was scoring quite freely and with an open field , he should have just batted for a few more overs. He was scoring freely so he did n't really need to play a big shot. Overall , there is pressure when you are chasing 320 runs. We have seen in cricket , pressure makes you do certain things that you do n't really want to do. Naah ! There was too many ( when told that he left it too late in the chase ) . The reason being , if you lose quite a few wickets and if you are supposed to chase over 6 runs an over and also the fact that our lower-order , I do n't think they can contribute as much in these conditions. So it makes it further difficult. " Smith : " Yeah , it certainly does. We thought 330 was around par. We knew we had to bowl and field well and you know the boys did a terrific job tonight. Bring on Melbourne. It 's nice to contribute to a few wins. It was a pretty big stage tonight , semi-final of a World Cup and just happy that we got over the line in the end. Yeah , absolutely. I always thank those people that have helped me along the way. It 's very important to do that. I am just really happy with the way things are at the moment. I am just looking forward to Melbourne. It 's going to be one hell of a day. Yeah , me and Maxi just thought sure he hit that , Pup ( Clarke ) went upstairs and it was a nick and another wicket for us ( talking about Rahane 's referral ) . It 's possible ( when asked if Haddin is going deaf with old age ) . No , it 's fine , it was a thin edge and boys behind the stumps could n't hear it. It was a nice one to get. I hope so. Hopefully , another big hundred would be nice ( when asked if he has some runs in the bank for the final ) . It 's going to be an amazing moment to play a World Cup final against New Zealand at the MCG. It 's going to be absolutely amazing. Ca n't wait to get down there. That 's right. New Zealand have played some very good cricket throughout this tournament. It 's going to be nice to get them on our conditions at the MCG. Hopefully , we can put on a show for everyone that comes out down there. " Steven Smith is Man of the Match for his magnificent 93-ball 105 and he receives it from former Sri Lankan great , Aravinda de Silva . Australia certainly were the deserving winners. Now the attention will shift to the final of the World Cup , where Australia will take on their Trans-Tasman rivals , New Zealand , at the MCG. Players from both sides will strive to bring out their 'A ' game as they look to lift the coveted trophy . India took a slew of wickets in the slog overs. However , James Faulkner , Johnson and Shane Watson struck meaty blows to take them to an imposing total. Umesh Yadav was one of the few bowlers , who made his mark for India. Umesh bowled aggressively and his effort bore fruit as he took four wickets. Ravichandran Ashwin too proved his mettle by bowling a fine spell during the middle overs and took the prized scalp of Glenn Maxwell . Earlier , runs flowed smoothly from Smith 's bat as he washed away the challenge of facing up to a fine bowling line-up with aplomb. It was his magical wrist-work that flummoxed the bowlers. Smith rolled his wrists nonchalantly to find gaps on both sides of the wicket. He reached his century in style with a boundary off Mohammed Shami. Aaron Finch did n't exactly touch glorious heights with the bat , but showed resolve and a singular aim to succeed to stitch a 182-run partnership with Smith . MS Dhoni played with spirit and spunk , but he had too much to do. For a brief period , Ajinkya Rahane gave Dhoni the much needed support. However , once Mitchell Starc came back into the attack to produce the wicket of Rahane , the match was all but over. If Johnson was their go-to-man to take wickets in this crucial game , then Starc and Josh Hazlewood , bowled with superb control to keep the opposition on their toes. Even when Shikhar Dhawan came out all guns blazing , Hazlewood kept it simple by maintaining line and length and hitting the splice of the bat. Australia 's fielding too was usually on the money . After Steven Smith 's century underlined his stamp of authority on the proceedings , the bowlers put up a thoroughly professional performance to take Australia to their seventh final in World Cups. It was Mitchell Johnson , who bowled with venomous pace and a fiery spark to snare the key wickets of Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma. He dismissed Kohli with a fine bouncer that was bowled across him , with Brad Haddin taking the catch. Johnson then castled Rohit to give Australia the upper hand . India started their tour in early December with a loss to Australia and finish their tour with a loss against the same opposition. In between , they beat all opponents , barring Australia and England. With this loss , India 's 11-match winning streak in World Cups has been ended. The fireworks go up at the SCG as the Australian fans wave the national flag in the stands. Clarke claps his hands and thanks the crowd. Maxwell talks to Umesh by putting his arm around his shoulders as the players walk off the field. Clarke is emotional and is seen crying , probably he remembered the late Phil Hughes , who was hit by that fatal bouncer at this very ground . 46.5 Starc to U Yadav , out Bowled ! ! That 's it ! It 's 7 out of 7 in semi-finals for Australia in World Cups. They will play New Zealand in the final at the MCG on Sunday. Starc signs off in style. Excellent reverse swinging yorker , Umesh tries to dig it out , but misses as the ball moves away and it hits the base of middle and off. U Yadav b Starc 0 ( 5 ) Starc to U Yadav , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 46.4 Starc to U Yadav , no run , full and just outside off stump , Umesh backs away and swings hard but misses. That was n't too far away from the off stump 46.3 Starc to U Yadav , no run , short and outside off stump , left alone 46.2 Starc to U Yadav , no run , oh my word ! Starc has hit Umesh on the helmet. In fact , it missed the grille and hit him on the chin. Umesh tried to keep it out but the ball brushed the handle and hit him on the chin. Immediately , Starc , Haddin and Finch walk up to Umesh and check his health. Umesh nodded he was fine 46.1 Starc to Shami , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Shami toe-ends it past Clarke to third man 45.6 Faulkner to U Yadav , no run , low full toss outside off stump , Umesh defends it towards cover Four slips and a gully in place . Umesh Yadav , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.5 Faulkner to Mohit Sharma , out Bowled ! ! Gone first ball ! Excellent slower ball again from Faulkner. Mohit does n't get behind the line as he looks to defend , he misses it completely and the ball crashes into off stump. Faulkner went for 29 runs in his first two overs , but he 's come back well. Faulkner is on a hat-trick. Mohit Sharma b Faulkner 0 ( 1 ) Faulkner to Mohit Sharma , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Mohit Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.4 Faulkner to Ashwin , out Bowled ! ! Bingo ! Second wicket for Faulkner. Off-cutting slower ball from Faulkner , Ashwin backs away and tries to send it behind square on the off-side , but misses and the ball rattles into middle and off. Ashwin b Faulkner 5 ( 13 ) Faulkner to Ashwin , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 45.3 Faulkner to Ashwin , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Ashwin guides it to short third man 45.2 Faulkner to Ashwin , no run , slower ball , Ashwin tries to dab but misses 45.1 Faulkner to Ashwin , no run , full and outside off stump , Ashwin drives and misses James Faulkner [ 8.0-0-59-1 ] is back into the attack Dhoni is one of the fastest runners between the wickets in the world. He rarely gets run-out. How ironic that he had to be run-out in perhaps his last ODI innings ! That 's the beauty of cricket . 44.6 Starc to Ashwin , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , Ashwin defends it towards point and sets off 44.5 Starc to Ashwin , no run , the away movement is troubling Ashwin and he is not able to put bat on ball. He was beaten all ends up 44.4 Starc to Ashwin , no run , good length delivery swinging away outside off stump , Ashwin looks to guide it down to third man but misses Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.3 Starc to Dhoni , out Dhoni Run Out ! ! Another direct-hit and Dhoni makes the long walk back. Surely , Australia are in the final. Excellent throw from Maxwell. Again , he had only one stump to aim at and he was bang on target. Full and on the leg stump , Dhoni flicks it to mid-wicket , he gave up as Maxwell picked up the ball very quickly and in the end he was well short of his crease. He did n't even try to dive. Will this be the last time that we see MS Dhoni play the ODI format ? Hope not ! Dhoni run out ( Maxwell ) 65 ( 65 ) [ 4s-3 6s-2 ] Starc to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 44.3 Starc to Ashwin , no ball , 1 run , full toss above waist height and the umpire signals no ball straightaway. Ashwin guides this to third man Round the wicket 44.2 Starc to Dhoni , 1 run , bouncer on the stumps , Dhoni pulls it to deep square leg , where Davey Warner tidies up 44.1 Starc to Dhoni , no run , shortish ball from Starc , Dhoni goes for the pull but misses and gets hit on the thigh pad Mitchell Starc [ 7.0-0-23-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Dhoni drives it to sweeper cover 43.5 Johnson to Ashwin , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Ashwin drives it to sweeper cover 43.4 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , tapped to cover for a single 43.3 Johnson to Ashwin , 1 run , full and outside off stump , driven to sweeper cover 43.2 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Dhoni tucks it to square leg 43.1 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , loud cry of no from Dhoni , after cutting this slower ball straight to backward point 42.6 Watson to Dhoni , 1 run , full and outside off stump , pushed to cover. Dhoni was actually trying to sweep , but since it was outside off , he played that into the off-side 42.5 Watson to Ashwin , 1 run , short and outside off stump , Ashwin guides this uppishly to third man Dhoni walks up to Ashwin and gestures him to play towards cover , cover-point 42.4 Watson to Ashwin , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Ashwin tries to run it down to third man but misses 42.3 Watson to Dhoni , 1 run , full toss and Dhoni has missed out. Dhoni swings hard but mistimes it to mid-wicket Clarke and Watson have a chat and Watson is going to bowl from round the wicket . 42.2 Watson to Dhoni , SIX , is this game still alive ? Full and outside off stump , Dhoni steps out again and absolutely muscles this hard over long-off. Has Dhoni left the assault a little too late ? 42.1 Watson to Dhoni , SIX , finally , Dhoni plays a big shot ! Full ball outside off stump , Dhoni backs away and also advances down the track , swings hard and carves it away over sweeper cover. That 's fifty for Dhoni as well Shane Watson [ 3.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , outswinging good length delivery outside off stump , Ashwin pokes and misses Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 41.5 Johnson to Dhoni , out Ravindra Jadeja Run Out ! ! That was a bullet throw from Steve Smith. He had one stump to aim from backward point , but he did n't miss. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Dhoni dabs it towards backward point , takes a step forward and then hesitates for a while , but Jadeja was always going for the run and he was caught short by a brilliant direct-hit. Ravindra Jadeja run out ( S Smith ) 16 ( 17 ) [ 4s-2 ] Johnson to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! It 's a direct-hit and I reckon Jadeja is OUT. Yep , he 's short of his crease . 41.4 Johnson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , full and down the leg-side , Jadeja flicks it to fine leg 41.3 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , gently driven to the left of mid-off 41.2 Johnson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , cuts late and times it well , but picks out third man Pat Cummins is on the field . 41.1 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Dhoni drives it square of the wicket on the off-side Mitchell Johnson [ 8.0-0-41-2 ] is back into the attack A good day at the office for Hazlewood. He ends , 10-1-41-1. Remember , he got the key wicket of Dhawan , when India were threatening to take the game away from Australia . 40.6 Hazlewood to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , outswing on this good length delivery , Jadeja defends 40.5 Hazlewood to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , width on offer from Hazlewood , Jadeja cuts off the back foot , beats backward point , who was diving to his right as well 40.4 Hazlewood to Dhoni , 1 run , short and down the leg side , Dhoni helps it down to fine leg 40.3 Hazlewood to Dhoni , 2 runs , in the air and dropped ! Short ball from Hazlewood , Dhoni advances and goes for the pull , gets a thick top edge , Michael Clarke runs to his right from mid-wicket , makes good ground and gets both hands to it , but the ball pops out. Clarke would have backed himself to take that 9 out of 10 times 40.2 Hazlewood to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , on the leg stump , Jadeja flicks it wide of mid-on 40.1 Hazlewood to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Jadeja walks forward and guides it towards cover-point , looks for a single but Dhoni sends him back as Smith gets to the ball very quickly Josh Hazlewood [ 9.0-1-33-1 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay produced 26 runs and the wicket of Rahane. And it is the first time in the tournament that India has lost a wicket in the batting powerplay . 39.6 Faulkner to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , good length ball on off , Jadeja eases it to the right of mid-wicket , for a single 39.5 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , full delivery just outside off , Dhoni pushes it to mid-off and picks up a single 39.4 Faulkner to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Jadeja gets inside the line and whips it to deep backward square leg 39.3 Faulkner to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , back of a length on off , Jadeja hangs back and defends it to mid-wicket No one in the deep on the off-side 39.2 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , Dhoni shuffles across and chops it to backward point , Smith has a shy but Jadeja had made it in 39.1 Faulkner to Dhoni , no run , shortish and just outside off , Dhoni under edges it to Haddin 38.6 Starc to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , Starc gets the radar wrong , fires the yorker on leg-stump , Jadeja gets inside the line and tickles it fine , the pace of Starc takes it to the fence with ease 38.5 Starc to Dhoni , 1 run , low full toss around off , Dhoni jams it to mid-off , sprints across for a sharp run 38.4 Starc to Dhoni , no run , back of a length just outside off , Dhoni mistimes the cut to cover 38.3 Starc to Ravindra Jadeja , leg byes , 1 run , nips back in from short of length , Jadeja is not fully forward , he looks to defend , misses and is struck on the inner thigh , the ball lobs wide of the slip fielder More replays coming in of the Rahane dismissal shows that the keeper and Clarke were not interested at all. It was all Smith , who convinced his skipper to go for the review. It turned out to be a top decision . 38.2 Starc to Dhoni , 1 run , back of a length around off , Dhoni jumps up and knocks it wide of cover , for a single 38.1 Starc to Dhoni , leg byes , 2 runs , Dhoni saw that Watto was the fielder at fine leg and called for two straightaway. Short of a length , Dhoni misses the flick , the ball goes off the thigh pad to fine leg 37.6 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length on off , Dhoni hops across and nurdles it to square leg 37.5 Faulkner to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , banged in short , Jadeja mistimes the pull to backward square leg 37.4 Faulkner to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , short of length around off , Jadeja goes on his toes and guides it to backward point 37.3 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , slanted across the right-hander , Dhoni taps the ball on the head , cuts it towards backward point , the fielder dives to his left and stops the ball going any further 37.2 Faulkner to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , back of a length on off , Jadeja works it to mid-wicket , for a single 37.1 Faulkner to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , Faulkner goes up for an lbw appeal , but height was an issue there. Jags back in from short of length , Jadeja comes half-forward and is struck high on the pad. Australia do n't even bother to discuss about the review 36.6 Starc to Dhoni , no run , strays onto the pads , Dhoni glances and picks out short fine leg to perfection 36.5 Starc to Dhoni , no run , fuller and on off , Dhoni pushes it back to the bowler Actually it was Smith who was standing at backward point that prompted Clarke to go for the review. After the decision was made , he seemed to be the most delighted of the lot . 36.4 Starc to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Jadeja chops it to third man 36.3 Starc to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , full and tailing in , Jadeja misses the clip and the ball thuds off the pads to FSL , Finch flicks the ball back onto the stumps , but Jadeja was in Ravindra Jadeja , left handed bat , comes to the crease There is a man at FSL 36.2 Starc to Rahane , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Still do n't understand why Rahane is going for the steer down to third man with a slip in place. He missed and the ball goes past the outside edge. In fact , Hadds heard something and has asked for a review. So , it has been sent upstairs. Fair delivery. We need front on please. Looks close but we need the RTS. Excellent. Kumar , I have got a spike on RTS. I will ask you to change your decision. He does and Rahane makes the walk back to the pavilion. That might just be the game for Australia. Rahane c Haddin b Starc 44 ( 68 ) [ 4s-2 ] Starc to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.1 Starc to Dhoni , 1 run , fullish and on off , Dhoni knocks it with soft hands in front of mid-off , scampers across for a brisk run Mitchell Starc [ 5.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length on off , Dhoni shuffles across and nurdles it to behind square leg , retains strike 35.5 Faulkner to Dhoni , FOUR , lovely shot ! It was not all that short , but it was a fabulous shot from MS Dhoni. Goes back and cuts it gently past the diving backward point fielder , the timing on that beat the chase from the sweeper cover 35.4 Faulkner to Rahane , 1 run , full and on the pads , Rahane flicks it to short fine , Hazlewood fumbles and allows the batsmen to pinch the single 35.3 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , slower delivery outside off , Rahane walks down and across , misses the cut. Looks at the umpire for a wide , but he had moved across 35.2 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , full and outside off , Dhoni pushes it to sweeper cover 35.1 Faulkner to Dhoni , no run , pushed across the batsman , Dhoni reaches out and ca n't make the desired connection , the ball goes under the bat James Faulkner [ 5.0-0-44-1 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay has been enforced . 34.6 Johnson to Rahane , 2 runs , fullish and just outside off , Rahane stays leg-side of the ball , slices it over point , Starc runs to his left from sweeper cover , slides and hauls the ball in. The umpire checks it and deems it fine 34.5 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length on off , Dhoni jumps up and drops it in front of point , looks at Rahane who hares across for the single 34.4 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni cleared his front foot , was shaping to go leg-side , the length was not there though , he makes the adjustment and knocks it to cover 34.3 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , again , short and on the stumps , Rahane pulls it along the floor to deep backward square leg 34.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , that is a loose shot from Jinks , Dhoni immediately walks up and has a chat with him. Angled across the batsman , Rahane went for the steer even though there was a fielder at slip , the ball goes pas the outside edge 34.1 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , short of length around off , Dhoni knocks it to cover , who is touch deep in the 30-yard circle 33.6 Watson to Dhoni , 1 run , back of a length around off , Dhoni stays back and punches it wide of cover 33.5 Watson to Rahane , 1 run , well directed short delivery from Watto , Rahane was on the move as he went for the pull , the top-edge fell just short of the fielder at long leg , Hazlewood was the fielder. A slightly agile fielder would have gone for the catch 33.4 Watson to Rahane , 2 runs , back of a length just outside off , Rahane steers it fine down to third man , called for two and gets it comfortably 33.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , Rahane again races down the wicket , Watson pulls the length , seings and misses. He has a wry smile on his face as Dhoni walks up to him and says a few words 33.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length ball around off , Rahane defends it back to the bowler 33.1 Watson to Rahane , FOUR , seems like Rahane has got the orders from the management. He shimmies down the wicket , converts it into a fuller length delivery , drills it in the air straight down the wicket , couple of bounces and into the fence Time for a drinks break. Australia have one foot in the final. The only hope for India remains with this pair. Can MS Dhoni pull off another miraculous victory for the Men in Blue ? We 'll find out soon enough as we head into the final phase of the game . 32.6 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , short of length on off , Dhoni hops up and defends down the wicket 32.5 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , full and on the pads , Rahane flicks it to deep backward square leg , he should have done better with that 32.4 Johnson to Rahane , no run , tucks the batsman for room , Rahane gets inside the line and knocks it to the right of Johnson 32.3 Johnson to Rahane , FOUR , edged and four ! It is Rahane 's first boundary and it comes in streaky way. Full and outside off , Rahane throws his bat at that , the outside edge just eludes the outstretched right hand of Clarke at slip 32.3 Johnson to Rahane , wide , fires it well wide of off , Rahane leaves it alone , easy call for umpire Dharmasena 32.2 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , too straight , Dhoni shuffles across and works it to the right of mid-on , for a single 32.1 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , wide yorker well outside off , Dhoni reaches out and squeezes it to point. That would have been a wide had he let it go Mitchell Johnson [ 6.0-0-29-2 ] is back into the attack Johnson returns and a change of bat for Dhoni 31.6 Watson to Dhoni , 1 run , pitched up around off , Dhoni stays in the crease and drills it to sweeper cover 31.5 Watson to Rahane , 1 run , shortish from Watson , Rahane fetches it from outside off , hits it in the air to deep mid-wicket , goes on the bounce to Starc 31.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , Rahane is not getting it off the middle , pitched up outside off , he went hard on the drive , mistimed it to mid-on 31.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , fullish and just outside off , Rahane walks down the wicket and pushes it to cover 31.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , on a length just outside off , Rahane drives on-the-up to mid-off , he hit it crisply but straight to the fielder 31.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , Watson gets away with a wide , umpire Kettleborough signals that Rahane was moving across , he missed the glance and Watson thought it was very close to the leg-stump 30.6 Hazlewood to Dhoni , FOUR , a very good over for India , but they need to keep going. It was short and outside off , Dhoni backs away and goes for the cut , the outside edge flies over Clarke at slip , third man had no chance as it went fine 30.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane shuffles across , nurdles it with soft hands to deep backward square leg , wanted to two but settles with one 30.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , back of a length around off , Rahane stays in the crease and dabs it to backward point Some grim faces in the Indian dressing room. Ravi Shastri is nowhere to be seen . 30.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , back of a length on off , Rahane hops across and drops it to the on-side , Hazlewood moves forward and fields the ball 30.2 Hazlewood to Dhoni , 1 run , Hazlewood shortens the length outside off , Dhoni cuts it to sweeper cover 30.1 Hazlewood to Dhoni , FOUR , umpire Dharmasena is flat on the ground. He was taking evasive action. Dhoni shimmies down the wicket , converts it into a fuller length delivery , hammers in the air back past Rahane , mid-on and mid-off were inside the ring and the ball raced away to the fence MS Dhoni is well-known for his ability to play with a calm head on his shoulders to chase down massive targets , but Australia should fancy their chances of winning the semi-final from here . India continued to lose wickets at regular intervals with Suresh Raina getting out to James Faulkner. Faulkner , in his second spell has also looked to bowl cross-seam to get a bit of natural variation off the pitch. Mitchell Starc , at the other end , generated reverse swing. With India losing their way , Michael Clarke gave the ball to Glenn Maxwell as he looked to complete the fifth bowler 's quota . 29.6 Watson to Rahane , 2 runs , dug in midway down the pitch , Rahane forehands the pull behind square , placed between the two men in the deep which allowed him to come back for the second 29.5 Watson to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni takes a step out , opens the bat face and eases it square of the wicket on the off-side , for a single 29.4 Watson to Dhoni , no run , pitched up close to off , Dhoni push-drives it to mid-off , no real timing behind that 29.3 Watson to Dhoni , no run , on a length close to off , Dhoni prefers to hang back and knock it to cover 29.2 Watson to Rahane , 1 run , full and on off , Rahane walks across and clips it to deep square leg 29.1 Watson to Dhoni , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Dhoni fails to connect with the flick , wears it on the thigh pad , the ball drops to the off-side and Rahane calls for a quick run Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 28.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , another tidy over from Josh Hazlewood. Keeps it tight and around off , Rahane camps back and taps it to point 28.5 Hazlewood to Dhoni , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , gets slightly big on Dhoni , who rolls his wrists and pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg 28.4 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , again , the length is short , Dhoni rides the bounce and knocks it towards point 28.3 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , back of a length around off , Dhoni goes back and across , defends it back to Hazlewood 28.2 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , shortens the length around off , Dhoni stands up and punches it to backward point , did n't get it anywhere close to the middle 28.1 Hazlewood to Dhoni , 2 runs , on a length just outside off , Dhoni goes for the on-the-up loft , the ball skies off the outer half wide of third man , Watto runs to his right and tidies up Josh Hazlewood [ 7.0-1-20-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , pushed through , keeps a bit low as well , Rahane bunts it to the right of the bowler , Haddin shouts " Maxi get down " , Maxwell does just that as he dives and fields the ball 27.5 Maxwell to Dhoni , 1 run , comes well forward and works it to the left of square leg 27.4 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , Maxwell errs in line , Rahane glances it fine to long leg , Hazlewood keeps the batsmen down to one 27.3 Maxwell to Dhoni , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Dhoni punches to sweeper cover 27.2 Maxwell to Dhoni , 2 runs , trifle short and outside off , Dhoni waits for the ball to arrive and cuts it late behind point , for a brace 27.1 Maxwell to Dhoni , no run , short in length , Dhoni stays back and knocks it down the wicket 26.6 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , back of a length on off , Rahane punches it back to the bowler , Faulkner does well to bend down and stop it in his followthrough 26.5 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , slanted across off , Dhoni looks to force it off the back foot , the outside edge flies through the vacant gully region and down to third man 26.4 Faulkner to Rahane , 1 run , fuller and around off , Rahane rolls his wrists it and works it to mid-on , quick single taken 26.3 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , dug in midway down the wicket , Dhoni pulls it in the air and on the bounce to deep square leg. Warner was the fielder and he was well inside the rope , he did well to get his body behind the line and stop it 26.2 Faulkner to Rahane , 1 run , short and outside off , Rahane cuts it straight to the fielder at sweeper cover 26.1 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , Rahane takes a step forward , converts it into a fuller length delivery , drives and picks out mid-off 25.6 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , sixth single of the over , Rahane comes forward and wrists it to long-on. Maxwell is not happy with himself as he kicks the turf in disappointment 25.5 Maxwell to Dhoni , 1 run , tossed up well wide of off , Dhoni stretches forward and drives it to sweeper cover 25.4 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , fraction short and just outside off , Rahane cuts it to sweeper cover 25.3 Maxwell to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni uses his feet , gets to the pitch and eases it to long-on 25.2 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , tossed up on off , Rahane leans forward and nudges it wide of mid-wicket 25.1 Maxwell to Dhoni , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Dhoni punches it to long-on 24.6 Faulkner to Rahane , 2 runs , once more Rahane calls for two and Dhoni responds. Too straight from Faulkner , on middle and leg , Rahane walks across and nurdles it behind square leg , sprints back for the second 24.5 Faulkner to Rahane , 2 runs , good length ball on off , Rahane shuffles across and flicks it in front of square , wanted two straightaway and gets it easily 24.4 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , on a length close to off , Rahane is half-forward and bunts it to cover Coming to the Raina wicket , the ball bounced a bit extra than the batsman expected. Hence , the outside edge was found 24.3 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , pitched up just outside off , Rahane drives and finds mid-off , that came right off the meat 24.2 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , fuller and around off , Dhoni walks forward and drives , the ball squirts off the inside edge to fine leg A slip in place for Dhoni 24.1 Faulkner to Dhoni , no run , angled across the right-hander , left alone 23.6 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , lunges forward and works it behind square on the leg-side , straight to the fielder 23.5 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , pushed through , Rahane uses the depth of the crease , dabs it to backward point 23.4 Maxwell to Dhoni , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Dhoni punches it to sweeper cover 23.3 Maxwell to Dhoni , no run , flighted around off , Dhoni plays around the pads and turns it to backward square 23.2 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , floated up on off , Rahane wrists it down to long-on 23.1 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane pushes it back to the bowler MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.6 Faulkner to Raina , out Caught by Haddin ! ! India slip further. A very , very loose shot from Raina. And a superb catch from Hadds. Faulkner is delighted as he has taken a bit of pasting tonight. It was short of a length just outside off , Raina went for the glide down to third man , the edge flies to the left of Haddin , who dives and pouches it with both hands. Australia are running away with the game. Raina c Haddin b Faulkner 7 ( 11 ) [ 4s-1 ] Faulkner to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.5 Faulkner to Raina , FOUR , fantastic shot ! The Indians still attacking Faulkner. It was on a length around off , Raina comes forward and whips it over mid-wicket , no one in the deep to stop the ball from reaching the fence 22.4 Faulkner to Rahane , 1 run , too straight from Faulkner , nurdled away behind square leg , Rahane wanted two and was racing back , but Raina put his hand up and shouted " no " 22.3 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , fullish and around off , Rahane presses it to cover after coming forward 22.2 Faulkner to Raina , 1 run , drags the length back , Raina stays back and steers it to third man 22.1 Faulkner to Raina , no run , fuller and just outside off , Raina goes for the drive , gets it off the inner part to mid-on James Faulkner [ 2.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack After the end of Starc 's previous over , umpire Dharmasena had a few words with the bowler. It looked like he told him to calm down a bit for which Starc had an explanation 21.6 Maxwell to Raina , 1 run , once more the length is not short enough , Raina somehow manages to get the pull away to deep mid-wicket 21.5 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , fraction short , Rahane pulls it in the air and down to deep backward square leg 21.4 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , slower through the air , Rahane turns it gently to short mid-wicket , wants the single but Raina sends him back rightly 21.3 Maxwell to Raina , 1 run , Raina comes down the track and Maxwell shortens the length , Raina does well to knock it to cover-point , a slight fumble but the batsmen do n't risk the second Maxwell goes round the wicket 21.2 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , flighted on off , Rahane leans forward and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 21.1 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , not all that short , Rahane goes deep in the crease and cuts it on the bounce to backward point. The extra bounce kept the ball in the air 20.6 Starc to Raina , no run , good length ball on off , Raina stays in the crease and defends to the left of the bowler 20.6 Starc to Raina , wide , splays it down leg , Raina ca n't reach it and wide given 20.6 Starc to Raina , wide , banged in short and down leg , Raina gets inside the line and lets it go , called a wide. Starc stares at Raina and had a few words for the southpaw 20.5 Starc to Raina , no run , Starc appeals for obstruction , but umpire Dharmasena shakes his head. Full delivery on off , Raina pushes it back to the bowler , Starc throws it back , Raina moves back and is struck on the pad. That was not deliberate and an easy call for the umpire A man under the helmet for Raina as well 20.4 Starc to Raina , no run , fuller and tails back in , Raina is half-forward and defending back down the wicket. It was bowled at 151kph 20.3 Starc to Rahane , 1 run , shortish and just outside off , Rahane stands tall and punches it to sweeper cover 20.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , half an appeal for caught behind , but it was aborted midway. Short delivery , Rahane takes it on , goes for hook , does not make contact. The Snicko also does not pick up anything Clarke still persisting with the FSL fielder 20.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , back of a length on off , Rahane hops across and taps it to backward point It was the impressive , Josh Hazlewood , who eventually took the wicket of Dhawan to lift the fielding side. It was a well-timed shot , but Dhawan smashed it straight to Glenn Maxwell at sweeper cover and took a long walk back to the pavilion with a dejected look on his face. Hazlewood troubled Virat Kohli as well by bowling in the corridor of uncertainty and extracting bounce. Mitchell Johnson followed up Hazlewood 's effort by snaffling the wicket of Kohli , with Brad Haddin taking the catch. Johnson banged it short , and bowled it across the right-hander and Kohli could n't control the pull shot. It is risky to take on the slingy left-armer 's angle of Johnson and that was a quick delivery too. To make it even better for Australia , Johnson shattered Rohit 's stumps. It was a cross-seam delivery from the left-arm pacer that moved off the track. Johnson unquestionably is a cricketer made for the big occasion . With it being a belter of a track , Shikhar Dhawan used his feet to James Faulkner and played a volley of thunderous strokes. Michael Clarke perhaps missed a trick by not asking the wicket-keeper , Brad Haddin , to come up to the stumps for the medium pacer . 19.6 Maxwell to Raina , no run , slower and wider from Maxwell , Raina was early into the drive , the ball went straight on , inside edge towards short fine leg 19.5 Maxwell to Raina , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , driven towards mid-on 19.4 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , Maxwell drops one short and well down leg-stump , pulled away behind square on the on-side for a single 19.3 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , Maxwell drops one short and gets it to spin back into Rahane , he was making room for the cut , ends up pushing it back at the bowler 19.2 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , flatter and on off , pushed back at the bowler 19.1 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , tossed up and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover Glenn Maxwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 18.6 Starc to Rahane , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , worked to the left of mid-off for a single 18.5 Starc to Rahane , 2 runs , that 's nicely played by Rahane , tad fuller and on off , Rahane presses forward , presents the full face of the bat and pushes it past mid-off for a couple of runs 18.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Rahane rides with the bounce and defends it towards point 18.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , another short ball from Starc , Rahane rides with the bounce and defends it back at the bowler 18.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , on a good length and on Rahane 's pads , he gets behind the line and defends it 18.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Rahane pushes forward and defends it back at the bowler Mitchell Starc [ 3.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 17.6 Johnson to Rohit , out Bowled ! ! That 's a terrific comeback from Johnson ! No foot movement at all from Rohit , he was camping on the back foot , this was pitched up around middle and nipped back in slightly , the cross seam delivery from Johnson. Rohit was pushing at that , gets an inside edge and the ball goes back to rattle the top of leg-stump. Johnson is pumped up , so is Clarke and Australia sense something special now. Rohit b Johnson 34 ( 48 ) [ 4s-1 6s-2 ] Johnson to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 17.5 Johnson to Rohit , SIX , Rohit releases the pressure ! This was short and just outside off , does n't rise as much as Johnson wanted , Rohit is quick to rock back and pulls it high and over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 17.4 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , Rahane pushes from the crease and gets a single to deep cover 17.3 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , Rohit leans forward and eases it to deep cover for a single 17.2 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane decides to take on the short ball , does n't middle this pull and ends up with a single as the ball rolls to the right of mid-on 17.1 Johnson to Rahane , no run , another short ball from Johnson , Rahane rides with the bounce and keeps it down A slip and a FSL in place 16.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit presses forward and defends it towards cover 16.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , another excellent bumper from Hazlewood , hit the deck hard and reared from a length , Rahane was caught on the move , the ball hits the gloves and rolls away towards third man 16.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed with an angled bat and towards point 16.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane gets well forward and blocks it towards cover Two slips in place 16.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , extra bounce for Hazlewood , dabbed away towards third man 16.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Rohit gets well forward and blocks it towards mid-off Rohit moves away at the last moment. Hazlewood has to rebowl 15.6 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and on Rohit 's hips , tucked away past mid-wicket for a single Johnson was walking away thinking the over was done with. Clarke yells at him and says one more ball is there 15.5 Johnson to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at point 15.4 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , that 's a steepling bouncer first up , short and very well directed , Rahane took his eyes off the ball as he fended at that , the ball hits the gloves and rolls away towards square leg Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease This is the first time that Johnson has dimissed Kohli in ODIs , what a time to do it. As they say , champions raise their game at the right moment. The umpires have also called for drinks 15.3 Johnson to Kohli , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Huge wicket for Johnson , that 's a massive one indeed ! The Indian supporters have been stunned into silence ! This was banged in short and going across the right-hander , Kohli was looking for the pull , had to fetch it from well outside off , gets a top-edge. Haddin called for it , he did n't have to move across one bit , watches it come through from the night sky and gobbles it up. Australia edge ahead in the contest. Kohli c Haddin b Johnson 1 ( 13 ) Johnson to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.2 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , the slower ball bouncer from Johnson , Rohit was way too early on the pull , ends up dragging it behind square on the on-side for a single 15.1 Johnson to Rohit , no run , on a good length and around off , defended back towards the bowler 14.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , that 's a fine maiden over , Hazlewood shortens his length and angles back into Kohli , defended with a straight bat 14.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Kohli leans forward and drives it towards cover-point 14.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Kohli gets behind the line and defends it towards cover-point 14.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Kohli presses across and drives it towards mid-on 14.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , that 's a loose shot from Kohli , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Kohli was feeling for that , nearly nicked it through to the keeper 14.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fuller length and just outside off , Kohli prods forward and drives it towards mid-off 13.6 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , short of a length and going away with the angle , Kohli plays with an angled bat and steers it down towards third man 13.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Kohli gets a big stride forward and plays a check defensive push , the ball rolls away towards mid-off 13.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Johnson shortens his length on off , Kohli gets behind the line and defends it 13.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Kohli gets well forward and drives it to the left of cover-point 13.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at point 13.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , short of a length and rearing from the deck , Kohli rides with the bounce and defends it in front of point Mitchell Johnson [ 3.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Rohit covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , out Caught by Maxwell ! ! Dhawan has holed out ! That was needless from the Indian opener. He had the Australians at his mercy. This was full and well outside off , Dhawan came down the track and was looking to go over extra cover , he ends up slicing it towards sweeper cover. Maxwell 's the man in the deep , he does n't drop those. A much needed wicket for Australia. Dhawan was batting like a dream , but that has been cut short. Dhawan c Maxwell b Hazlewood 45 ( 41 ) [ 4s-6 6s-1 ] Hazlewood to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.4 Hazlewood to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Rohit rides with the bounce and dabs it down towards third man 12.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , 2 runs , the high bumper from Hazlewood , Rohit does n't get hold of the pull but manages to get it well over the fielder at mid-wicket 12.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , tad fuller and on the off-stump line , driven towards mid-on 12.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , full and on Rohit 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball brushed the pads on the way to the keeper. Haddin was excited but there was no one supporting him Josh Hazlewood [ 4.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 11.6 Faulkner to Dhawan , 2 runs , that 's excellent running from Dhawan , this was short and just outside off , Dhawan waits on that , opens the face of the bat and runs it down towards third man , wants a second run and hares back in , another expensive over from Faulkner 11.5 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , eased past cover for a single 11.4 Faulkner to Dhawan , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Dhawan swivels across and pulls it down towards fine leg , just a single 11.3 Faulkner to Dhawan , no run , Faulkner keeps it short and on the stumps , Dhawan was giving the charge , drops his gloves and sways away from the line 11.2 Faulkner to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan is on the charge here , says Nasser on commentary , comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball but still hacks it back past the umpire and into the fence 11.2 Faulkner to Dhawan , wide , short and angling down leg-side , Dhawan was looking to pull and missed , called as a wide 11.1 Faulkner to Dhawan , FOUR , no need to run for those and Rohit was diving back into the crease , this was full and just outside off , Dhawan presents the full face of the bat and punches it back past the bowler , the fielder at mid-off is very square and the ball beats him to the fence 10.6 Johnson to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit presses across and defends it towards cover-point 10.5 Johnson to Dhawan , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and on Dhawan 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads and to the right of the keeper 10.5 Johnson to Dhawan , wide , Johnson sprays one well outside leg , Dhawan looks to flick and misses , called as a wide 10.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , the vicious bumper from Johnson , Dhawan drops his wrists and sways away from the line , one called for the over 10.3 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven straight to short cover Just one slip and a short cover in place 10.2 Johnson to Dhawan , 2 runs , Dhawan is moving around in the crease , this was full and on his pads , whipped away past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 10.1 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Rohit presses forward and drives it past cover for a single Josh Hazlewood was impressive. Hazlewood hits the splice of the bat and it is never easy to smash him through the line. It was Shikhar Dhawan , who took on Hazlewood by essaying an imperious pull. Hazlewood made a strong comeback to get the ball to zip off the wicket to produce the edge , but Haddin dropped the catch and Dhawan got a reprieve. Dhawan then clouted James Faulkner for 14 runs. The Indian camp will be pleased with the fact that they have come through testing spells without losing a wicket . Mitchell Starc swung the new ball a bit and with the left-armer 's angle coming into play as well , he troubled Rohit Sharma. Rohit 's tendency to open the face of the bat did n't help his cause. Starc also produced the edge off Rohit 's bat and Shane Watson took the ball in the slip cordon. The benefit of doubt though , went in the batsman 's favour. However , when Mitchell Johnson came on to bowl , Rohit crunched a thunderous pull shot for a six . 9.6 Faulkner to Dhawan , no run , 16 runs from the over , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed away straight to the fielder at point 9.5 Faulkner to Dhawan , SIX , lovely shot ! Length ball and on the off-stump line , Dhawan came down the track , moves across and whips it high and over square leg , there 's a man in the deep , but this one sailed away into the stands 9.4 Faulkner to Dhawan , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for Dhawan , a touch of class on this one , very full and on off , Dhawan leans forward and drills it to the right of mid-off , Hazlewood dives in vain , the ball races away to the fence 9.3 Faulkner to Dhawan , FOUR , lovely shot , Dhawan takes a step or two down the track , Faulkner keeps it full and well outside off , laced away through extra cover for a boundary 9.2 Faulkner to Dhawan , no run , Faulkner shortens the length as Dhawan gave the charge , he ends up swishing at that and missed 9.1 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , Rohit does n't make the most of the free-hit , this was full and just outside off , Rohit cleared his left-leg on the heave , loses his shape and gets an inside edge behind square on the on-side Free-Hit 9.1 Faulkner to Rohit , no ball , Oh Dear ! Faulkner starts with a massive no-ball , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the on-side James Faulkner , comes into the attack 8.6 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , punched back towards the bowler 8.5 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , Johnson goes for the yorker , turns out to be a low full-toss , jammed back towards the bowler 8.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery and angling into Dhawan 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards the off-side Back over the wicket 8.3 Johnson to Dhawan , FOUR , that 's exquisite timing from Dhawan , back of a length and just outside off , Dhawan stays leg-side , leans forward and caresses it past cover-point , the ball races away to the fence 8.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , dabbed with an open face and straight to cover-point 8.1 Johnson to Dhawan , 2 runs , short of a length and angling across the left-hander , punched off the back foot and past cover for a brace Johnson changes to round the wicket 7.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Rohit gets a good stride forward and blocks it towards mid-off 7.5 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit waits on it and dabs it straight to point 7.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , once again some trigger movement in his crease , Dhawan shuffles across and nudges a length ball to the right of cover for a single 7.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , 1 run , fraction too straight from Hazlewood , worked to the right of mid-wicket for a single 7.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , the short ball from Hazlewood , Dhawan swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a single 7.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover 6.6 Johnson to Rohit , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Rohit gets behind the line and defends it towards mid-off 6.5 Johnson to Rohit , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Rohit was hurried onto the defensive push , the bottom hand came off as the ball rolled away towards mid-off 6.4 Johnson to Rohit , no run , Johnson shortens his length and gets this one to shape away from outside off , another easy leave for the batsman 6.3 Johnson to Rohit , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 6.2 Johnson to Rohit , SIX , cracking shot , Rohit does n't mind taking on the short ball , this was bowled at 147.7kmph , banged it halfway down the pitch , Rohit was quick to rock back and hooks it high and over long leg for a maximum 6.1 Johnson to Rohit , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , left alone Mitchell Johnson , comes into the attack 5.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 2 runs , Dhawan moved across his stumps even before the ball was bowled , exposed his leg-stump in the process , Hazlewood keeps it full and just outside off , driven past mid-off without much timing , just a couple of runs to Dhawan 5.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Dhawan presses across and nudges it towards the off-side 5.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , Hazlewood shortens his length outside off , Dhawan gets on top of the bounce and defends it towards cover 5.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Dhawan slashes at that and misses 5.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , leg byes , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Rohit 's pads , he looked to flick and missed , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side. Hazlewood and Dhawan go shoulder to shoulder. Dharmasena ran across to diffuse the tension , but there was nothing there , Dhawan smiles at the bowler 5.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Dhawan plays with an open face and runs it down towards third man 4.6 Starc to Rohit , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone 4.5 Starc to Dhawan , leg byes , 1 run , that was the toe-crusher from Starc , the inswinging yorker , turns out to be a low full-toss , Dhawan fell across as he looked to flick and missed , the impact was just around the leg-stump line and would have gone down leg , with ease. The fielder has a shy at the striker 's end and ends up conceding an overthrow Loud shout for LBW. Will Australia review ? Clarke and Haddin have a word , Starc joins in , no review 4.4 Starc to Dhawan , no run , the bumper from Starc , Dhawan drops his wrists and lets it go , called as one bouncer for the over 4.3 Starc to Rohit , 3 runs , length ball and on Rohit 's pads , he gets inside the line and chips it in the air , finds the gap between mid-wicket and mid-on. Johnson gives chase and keeps them down to three runs 4.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , Rohit covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 4.1 Starc to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan shimmies down the track once again , shortens Starc 's length and punches it to the right of mid-off for a single 3.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , Hazlewood shortens his length on off , Rohit goes back , closes the face of the bat and defends it back at the bowler 3.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , width on offer from Hazlewood , Dhawan cracks it square behind point for a single 3.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , edged and dropped , this was pitched up and nipped away a fraction , Dhawan was coming down the track on the drive , gets a thick edge and to the left of Haddin. He went across on the dive , gets his gloves and the ball pops out. Could have been left to Watson at 1st slip ? That would have been a dolly to him 3.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , FOUR , that 's a lovely shot , too short from Hazlewood , ca n't bowl this length at his pace , Dhawan rocks back , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of square on the on-side , beats mid-wicket and races away to the boundary 3.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and angling back into Rohit , he goes back and punches it to the right of Faulkner at mid-on , easy single on offer 3.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Rohit stands tall and pushes it towards point 2.6 Starc to Dhawan , no run , too full and on Dhawan 's pads , flicked away towards Maxwell at square leg , he shies at the bowler 's end and misses , Johnson gets across and stops some overthrows 2.5 Starc to Dhawan , no run , tad fuller and nipping back into Dhawan , he prods across , presents a straight bat and blocks it back at the bowler. That was bowled at 151kmph 2.4 Starc to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhawan was half-forward on the drive , mistimes it towards cover-point 2.3 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , huge full-toss from Starc , Rohit looked surprised and only manages to guide it down behind point , just a single 2.2 Starc to Dhawan , leg byes , 1 run , Starc drifts one onto Dhawan 's pads as he shimmied down the track , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side for a leg-bye 2.1 Starc to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , a hint of nip back into Dhawan , he was late on the drive , stays rooted to his crease and gets an inside edge onto the pads A false start from Starc , he aborts his run-up midway. In fact , it was Dhawan who stopped him as there was some disturbance behind the bowler 1.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and on Rohit 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads and towards square leg 1.5 Hazlewood to Rohit , 2 runs , just over Haddin , Rohit is living dangerously here , this was short and on the stumps , hurried Rohit on the pull , he was late on the shot and it lobbed off the gloves , just has enough to clear Haddin , who was running back 1.4 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Rohit presses half-forward and defends it off the inside part onto the boot , the ball rolls towards point 1.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , Hazlewood shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , Rohit covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 1.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 1.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , Dhawan stays back and punches it to the right of backward point , the fielder tumbles and gets a hand onto it , saves three runs for his team Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Starc to Rohit , no run , edged ! On a good length and shaping away from outside off , Rohit prods forward in defence , the edge is found and it drops in front of Clarke at second slip 0.5 Starc to Rohit , FOUR , lovely shot , overpitched and well outside off , Rohit leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and caresses it past cover-point for a boundary 0.4 Starc to Rohit , no run , stroke of luck for Rohit ! This was full and just outside off , Rohit was looking to squeeze it away , jams his bat at that , the ball took the outside edge and went to the right of Watson at 1st slip. He went low to his right and took the ball , was n't clear if the ball hit the ground , the replays were n't clear and the benefit of doubt goes to Rohit Australia are claiming for a catch at first slip. Is it a bump ball though ? The Aussies are n't completely certain , Dharmasena goes up to the third umpire. Erasmus checks for the foot , 'it 's fine he says , now catch at the slips please , he says. OK , need to rock-and-roll that , please , get me a zoomer. I need something from point , potentially a split screen please , he says. This is a good angle , zoom in please , that 's excellent. OK , I am going back to the umpires , Kumar , it bounced , stay with your decision , NOT OUT' 0.3 Starc to Rohit , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Rohit gets half forward and defends it with an open face , the ball rolls away towards cover-point 0.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , Starc shortens his length and gets it to shape away from outside off , Rohit drops his wrists , plays inside the line and lets it go Two slips in place 0.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , loose from Rohit first ball , this was pitched up and nipped back in ever so slightly , Rohit went for the ambitious drive , the ball zips past the inside edge on its way to the keeper Rohit and Dhawan are at the crease. Rohit is on strike. Starc will open the attack Any positives. Well , there 's one. India have n't lost at the SCG on the tour so far. Can they stop Australia 's dominance ? Welcome back.. India arrived in Australia in the last week of November , played 4 Tests and a couple of matches in the tri-series against Australia. They did n't win a single match , lost 3 , drew 2 and one ended in a no-result. Now , in the biggest match of their tour so far , they need to chase 329 to enter the 2015 World Cup final. History is against them , no team barring Australia have chased 300 + at the SCG. Can India rewrite history ? We will get to know over the next 50 overs . Smith : " It was a handy little cameo there in the end ( from Mitchell Johnson ) . To get 27 off 9 balls and to get us to 328 , I think it 's a good total , but we have got to bowl and field well though. I think if you get off to 328 at the start of the day you take that 9 out of 10 times. For us it 's going to be about squeezing and building the pressure. Hopefully our bowlers and fielders can really do the job for us. It ( the pitch ) was a little tacky early on at the start. A couple sort of popped but it got better after the first 8 or 10 overs. It 's a pretty good wicket. It 's always nice getting hundreds at the SCG , it 's my favourite place to play. It 's a World Cup semi-final , it 's a pretty big stage. Hopefully the boys can back it up in the field now and we can join New Zealand in the final. " Michael Clarke struggled to find gaps in the field and soon he lost his wicket to a short ball. With Finch and Clarke getting out in quick succession , India pulled the batting side back to some extent. It was James Faulkner , Shane Watson and Mitchell Johnson , who with some lethal strikes lifted Australia 's sagging morale. For India , Umesh picked up four wickets. In fact , Umesh used the short ball smartly. With the odd ball stopping on the batsman , sometimes it can be difficult to play the pull shot. Ashwin bowled with unremitting control. The deck is still good for batting and the outfield is lightning quick. It comes down to whether India can handle the pressure of playing in a semi-final. On the other hand , Australia will look to mix it up by using cross-seam and slower deliveries to get it to grip off the surface . When MS Dhoni introduced the spin duo of Ravindra Jadeja and Ravichandran Ashwin into the attack , Smith refused to buckle down. He used the crease to milk them for singles and twos. With Smith nearing his century , he hoicked Shami across the line for a six. He then reached his hundred in style by clouting Shami for another boundary. Once Smith was dismissed , Glenn Maxwell for a brief period , bedazzled the crowd with a cameo. With Maxwell in a belligerent mood , Dhoni took a brave call of bringing Ashwin back into the attack and he repaid the faith by producing the wicket of Maxwell. It has to be remembered that in the past , Maxwell has usually smacked Ashwin all over the park . Earlier , India started on a good note with both Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav bowling with a decent burst of pace and generating swing to keep the batsmen on their toes. Umesh was rewarded with the important wicket of David Warner. It was Smith , who took them out of troubled waters by unfurling a series of boundaries. He cracked Umesh for four fours in the 10th over . In the backdrop of a sizzling atmosphere , Steven Smith 's marvellous exhibition of stroke-play helped Australia to notch up a massive score. Smith reigned supreme as he showcased majestic wrist-work to put the bowlers under pressure. There were occasions when the bowlers were left to scratch their heads in disbelief as Smith bisected gaps in the field on both sides of the wicket with customary ease. Aaron Finch , who struggled for timing and placement early on in his innings also played a major role by compiling a gutsy knock . It was strange to see Dhoni not give the ball to Umesh , who has picked four wickets. He had one over up his sleeve , but Dhoni opted for Mohit. Yes , both bowlers were expensive , but Umesh was more successful . 49.6 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , 1 run , cramps Johnson for room with a short of length delivery , Johnson taps it towards short cover and carries his bat unbeaten. This is the first time India have n't bowled an opposition out in 8 games 49.5 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , SIX , take a bow Mitchell Johnson ! He comes and scores 26 runs off just 8 balls and we have one more ball to go. The back of the hand slower ball sits up nicely to be hit , Johnson waits on the back foot and pulls it powerfully for a flat six over mid-wicket 49.4 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , FOUR , full toss and Johnson has smashed that. Johnson sends this over mid-off. This is a great little cameo from Johnson 49.3 Mohit Sharma to Haddin , 1 run , dropped. Slower delivery on the leg stump , Haddin slogs it straight to deep mid-wicket , it was a sitter , Kohli had it covered , he had it covered on the second attempt as well , but the ball somehow popped out Warner and Smith are seen smiling in the dressing room . 49.2 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , 1 run , change of pace again , Johnson mistimes the pull to mid-wicket. Ca n't get back for the second this time as the fielder got there quickly 49.1 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , 2 runs , slower ball outside off stump , Johnson drags it to mid-wicket , no timing on that and hence he is able to return back for the second Shami ends , 10-0-68-0 - the first time he has gone wicketless in the tournament . 48.6 Shami to Johnson , 1 run , ends the over with a fine yorker , Johnson digs it out to cover 48.5 Shami to Johnson , FOUR , hat-trick of fours for Johnson. Short ball from Shami , Johnson goes for the pull , gets a top edge and it flies over Dhawan at short third man 48.4 Shami to Johnson , FOUR , four more ! These are handy runs for Australia. Short of a length delivery on the stumps , Johnson backs away , with no one in the deep on the off-side , Johnson slices the cut over extra-cover as the bat turns in his hands , Umesh gives chase , puts in the dive , tries to flick the ball back but it escapes to the boundary Mid-on has been pushed back 48.3 Shami to Johnson , FOUR , first ball and he 's swung that away nicely. Full and in the slot , Johnson slogs it wide of mid-on and it runs away for four 48.2 Shami to Haddin , 1 run , Kohli moves back and opts to stop the ball than going for the catch with a dive. Full and outside off stump , again Haddin does n't get hold of the drive , it goes to mid-off , Kohli has a shy at the striker 's end as Johnson was late to take off and a direct-hit would have been curtains for Johnson. 300 up for Australia 48.1 Shami to Haddin , no run , full and outside off stump , Haddin mistimes the drive and the ball goes off the bottom of the bat to mid-off Mohammed Shami [ 9.0-0-54-0 ] is back into the attack Both mid-off and mid-on are inside the ring . 47.6 Mohit Sharma to Haddin , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , Haddin guides it fine , but lack of pace on the ball meant short third man could easily get to the ball Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 47.5 Mohit Sharma to Watson , out Caught by Rahane ! ! The back of the hand slower ball from Mohit Sharma , Watson picks it , backs away , waits and slogs , but hits it straight to deep backward square leg. Watson is disappointed as he walks back. Australia would have wanted him to bat through. Watson c Rahane b Mohit Sharma 28 ( 30 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Mohit Sharma to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.4 Mohit Sharma to Watson , no run , yorker outside off stump , Watson squeezes it out , but does n't split backward point and short third man as he picks out the former 47.3 Mohit Sharma to Watson , FOUR , short ball , Watson pulls and times it well , gets it in the gap between deep mid-wicket and long-on as well. That really sat up to be hit and Watson did n't miss out 47.2 Mohit Sharma to Watson , 2 runs , foxes Watson with a slower ball , Watson was going for the slog , he checked his shot , the ball went in the air off the outside half of the bat and evaded square leg 47.1 Mohit Sharma to Watson , FOUR , driven nicely and there is no one at deep extra-cover. Full and outside off stump , Watson goes leg-side , concentrates more on timing the ball than swinging hard at it , beats extra-cover and gets four Mohit Sharma [ 8.0-0-49-1 ] is back into the attack Both third man and fine leg are inside the ring . 46.6 U Yadav to Haddin , FOUR , Umesh misses the length and Haddin drives it down the ground. Again Haddin exposes the sticks , Umesh goes for the yorker , but misses it by a yard or so , Haddin drives it through mid-on , who was a little square 46.5 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , Haddin makes room again , Umesh follows him with a pacy inswinging delivery , Haddin could only tap it back towards the bowler 46.4 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , Haddin makes room , but Umesh keeps him calm with an inswinging yorker. Haddin just manages to dig it out Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 46.3 U Yadav to Faulkner , out Bowled ! ! Knocked him over. Oh he 's bowled him with a length ball. Faulkner would have normally sent that out of the park , but maybe the ball swung back in very late and foxed the batsman. Faulkner was aiming mid-wicket , but missed and the ball rattled into middle and leg. Fourth wicket for Umesh Yadav. Faulkner b U Yadav 21 ( 12 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] U Yadav to Faulkner , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 46.2 U Yadav to Faulkner , FOUR , no Umesh , poor ball. Ca n't bowl full and in the slot to this man at this stage. Faulkner cleared his front leg out of the way and slogged it over wide mid-on. In fact , Umesh is lucky that it did n't go all the way 46.1 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , cracking sound as Watson hits that , but straight to deep mid-wicket. Short ball from Umesh , Watson pulls it very hard , but picks out the fielder Umesh Yadav [ 8.0-0-63-3 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Watson , 1 run , width on offer outside off stump , slapped over cover , but there is a man sweeping on the off-side and it 's only a run. Good comeback from Jadeja , after being hit for a six very early in his over 45.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Watson , no run , Watson lets it go thinking that this quicker ball outside off stump would be called a wide , but it was inside the line 45.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Watson , no run , short and wide outside off stump , slingy action from Jadeja , Watson mistimes the cut to cover-point 45.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Watson , no run , Watson goes for the slog across the line , but gets an inside edge onto pad 45.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Faulkner , 1 run , short from Jadeja , Faulkner rocks back and cuts , Raina runs to his left from extra-cover and saves three with a dive 45.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Faulkner , SIX , oh that 's a powerful blow from Faulkner. Round-armish flatter ball , Faulkner gets down on one knee and slog-sweeps it very hard , it goes flat and just clears the deep mid-wicket boundary Ravindra Jadeja [ 9.0-0-48-0 ] is back into the attack Jadeja comes round the wicket Australia have scored 19 runs in the last 7 balls . 44.6 Shami to Watson , no run , Watson goes leg-side this time , Shami bowls an excellent inswinging yorker , Watson manages to dig it out , thinks about a run but Faulkner says no 44.5 Shami to Faulkner , byes , 1 run , Faulkner makes room , Shami follows him with a yorker , Faulkner swings and misses. Dhoni makes a good save diving low to his left , does n't stop it cleanly and Watson gets through for a run 44.4 Shami to Faulkner , FOUR , short ball and Faulkner has smashed that. He pulls off the back foot , in fact the ball hit him high on the bat , but he swung so hard that it had enough legs to beat deep square leg and fine leg Mid-on goes back 44.3 Shami to Faulkner , FOUR , edged and over the keeper. Short and outside off stump , Faulkner goes for the pull , gets a top edge that goes straight back over Dhoni 's head 44.2 Shami to Watson , 3 runs , makes room , Shami bangs this slower ball short , Watson is looking confident now and slaps this over extra-cover , he did n't time it all that well , but it 's good enough for the batsmen to run three 44.1 Shami to Faulkner , 1 run , short of length delivery on the stumps , turned to mid-wicket Mohammed Shami [ 8.0-0-42-0 ] is back into the attack Ashwin ends , 10-0-42-1. His figures would have been much better , but for that last ball six . 43.6 Ashwin to Watson , SIX , he 's connected this very well , much needed strike for Australia ! Again Watson takes a step forward , Ashwin bowls a flighted delivery on the stumps , Watson slogs it across the line , times it well and clears deep mid-wicket 43.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , dances down the track but again is not to the pitch of the ball , Ashwin tosses this up and Watson did not have the confidence to go over the top 43.4 Ashwin to Watson , 2 runs , steps out and looks to drive , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat and goes wide of long-on for a couple 43.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , looks to advance , but Ashwin fires this flat , Watson defends it towards cover , Faulkner wants a run but Watson sends him back 43.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , steps out , does n't get to the pitch , Ashwin slows it up and forces Watson to flick to short mid-wicket again 43.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , pushed through on the off stump , Watson flicks it towards short mid-wicket Ravichandran Ashwin [ 9.0-0-34-1 ] is back into the attack This is a great phase of play for India. Australia are finding it hard to score and the Indian bowlers are bowling a tight line . 42.6 Mohit Sharma to Faulkner , no run , shape back into the right-hander on this short of length delivery , turned towards short mid-wicket 42.5 Mohit Sharma to Watson , 1 run , goes for the inswinging yorker , but it goes as a low full toss , Watson flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 42.4 Mohit Sharma to Faulkner , 1 run , Faulkner opens his account. Good length delivery on the off stump , Faulkner defends it to mid-on and takes a sharp run 42.3 Mohit Sharma to Faulkner , no run , back of a length and steeply rising , looked like Faulkner was surprised by the extra bounce as he defended that awkwardly 42.2 Mohit Sharma to Faulkner , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , punched towards cover-point James Faulkner , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.1 Mohit Sharma to Clarke , out Caught by Rohit ! ! Pulls and straight down the throat of the fielder at mid-wicket. Careful , Australia ! Short ball from Mohit , was there to be hit , Clarke goes on the back foot to pull , but does n't get the timing right. Rohit hardly had to move an inch and he throws the ball up in the air in joy after completing the catch. In fact , he just jumped a bit before taking the catch. Clarke c Rohit b Mohit Sharma 10 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] Mohit Sharma to Clarke , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Mohit Sharma [ 7.0-0-47-0 ] is back into the attack This match was heading in a similar fashion to the 2003 World Cup final - Ponting scored a hundred coming in at No. 3 , Smith scored a hundred at the same position - but MS Dhoni and his boys have managed to change the script a bit with those two quick wickets . 41.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Clarke , 1 run , quicker delivery on the off stump , Clarke gets an inside edge as he looks to push at this after his forward press , the ball rolls towards square leg 41.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Watson , 1 run , on the stumps , punched down to long-off 41.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Watson , no run , round-armish flatter ball , defended to cover-point 41.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Clarke , 1 run , full and fast , flicked to deep mid-wicket 41.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Clarke , no run , steps out , but Jadeja pulls the length back , pushed towards cover , where Kohli makes a fine save 41.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Clarke , FOUR , flighted delivery on the off stump , Clarke walks across a bit and flicks it uppishly through mid-wicket Australia have scored just 10 runs in the last 4 overs and lost two big wickets . 40.6 Shami to Watson , no run , full and outside off stump , Watson drives it to mid-off Remember , after the quarter-final against Australia , Wahab Riaz said that Watson has not been playing the hook-pull well these days . 40.5 Shami to Watson , no run , bouncer outside off stump , Watson tries to pull but takes his eyes off the ball and gets beaten. Second bouncer for the over says umpire Kettleborough 40.4 Shami to Watson , no run , Watson cuts but straight to Jadeja at backward point 40.3 Shami to Clarke , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , steered down to third man 40.2 Shami to Clarke , no run , short ball , Clarke was surprised a bit and he let that go at the last moment by dropping his wrists 40.1 Shami to Watson , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Watson drives with an angled bat , Jadeja makes an excellent diving save to his right at backward point Mohammed Shami [ 7.0-0-40-0 ] is back into the attack Smith then hoicked Shami across the line for a crunching six. He also reached a well-deserved century in just 89 balls. It was a memorable hundred from him. Smith continued to deal in boundaries by picking a slower delivery from Mohit Sharma to land a meaty blow down the ground. With Smith checking in a series of boundaries , Finch too made his presence felt by playing a cheeky paddle sweep. It was Umesh Yadav , who eventually dismissed the well-set Smith. The power-hitter Glenn Maxwell , who replaced Smith at the crease yet again looked to take his game to an elevated plane. Ashwin though , provided the vital breakthrough by sending Maxwell back to the pavilion. Umesh followed it up by dismissing Finch to give India a glimmer of hope of restricting the opposition. Curiously , in the past , Ashwin has struggled while bowling up to Maxwell , but today was his day . India to some extent did a reasonable job by bowling a few tight overs during the middle part of the innings. It was Aaron Finch , who on occasions , struggled to find gaps in the field and the bowlers were able to join the dots. However , Steven Smith kept the scorecard ticking with marvellous wrist-work. Smith showcased his ability to play with supple wrists , by walking across the stumps to collect a boundary off Mohammed Shami . 39.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Clarke , no run , spinning away outside off stump , Clarke takes a step forward and defends it towards cover 39.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Clarke , no run , tossed up just outside off stump , Clarke shuffles across , also steps out a bit and defends 39.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Watson , 1 run , flatter in trajectory , Watson punches it to long-off 39.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Clarke , 1 run , oh that fielder could have come into play. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Clarke drives uppishly to long-off No one at mid-off for Clarke . 39.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Watson , 1 run , driven down to long-on There is a man at mid-off , but there is also a fielder at long-off. Strange ! 39.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Clarke , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps from round the wicket , Clarke tucks it to square leg Ravindra Jadeja [ 7.0-0-37-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 U Yadav to Watson , no run , bit of shape back into the right-hander on this short of length delivery , defended 38.5 U Yadav to Watson , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Watson defends off the front foot to cover 38.5 U Yadav to Watson , wide , there was a noise as the ball passed the bat , but the umpire heard nothing. Full and swinging back in , Watson fails to tickle it away and misses 38.4 U Yadav to Watson , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , punched towards cover , Clarke wants a run but Watson sends him back 38.3 U Yadav to Clarke , 1 run , shortish from Umesh , Clarke pulls it to deep backward square leg , where Rohit makes a tumbling save to his right Michael Clarke , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.2 U Yadav to Finch , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! This is a good phase of play for India. Umesh bowls a short ball , it gets big on Finch , who was on the back foot to pull. The ball hits him high on the bat and balloons up in the air , short mid-wicket moves to his left and jumps and grabs it with both hands. Dhawan timed his jump to perfection. Australia wanted a set batsman to carry on , but Finch has thrown it away. Anyway , a fine knock from him. He struggled at the start , but did well to fight it out. By the way , that is wicket number three for Umesh. Finch c Dhawan b U Yadav 81 ( 116 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] U Yadav to Finch , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.1 U Yadav to Finch , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Finch gently pulls it straight to short mid-wicket. Finch is not happy with himself for not placing it in the gap 37.6 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , tucks this with the spin to backward square leg 37.5 Ashwin to Finch , no run , short ball , should have been put away , but Finch has cut that straight to cover-point 37.4 Ashwin to Finch , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Finch flicks it to short fine leg Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.3 Ashwin to Maxwell , out Caught by Rahane ! ! Oh he 's hit that straight to the fielder. Minus some 20-30 runs from the final total Australia. Actually , not a wicket taking ball , but Ashwin and India will take it. Flatter ball on the leg stump , Maxwell slog-sweeps , does n't bother to keep it down and picks out Jinks to perfection at deep backward square leg. No celebrations from Ashwin , just walks to Rohit Sharma and joins the huddle. Maxwell c Rahane b Ashwin 23 ( 14 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Ashwin to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.2 Ashwin to Maxwell , no run , that 's a fine ball from Ashwin. Maxwell was looking for the big hit , but Ashwin kept him calm by tossing it up nicely , Maxwell defends and smiles Ah ! Maxwell v Ashwin , just what Shane Warne wanted . 37.1 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , spinning back in , tucked to backward square leg Ravichandran Ashwin [ 8.0-0-32-0 ] is back into the attack Australia have scored 64 runs for the loss of Steven Smith in the 5-over batting powerplay . 36.6 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , he 's sliced that with one hand but Jinks makes an excellent diving save to his left at cover-point. That was heading to the boundary 36.5 U Yadav to Maxwell , FOUR , backs away , Umesh offers a length ball , looked like the slower ball , Maxwell waits and smashes it back over the bowler 's head. The ball came off the base of the bat , but it had enough power to run away 36.4 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , very full and outside off stump , Maxwell mistimes the drive into the off-side 36.3 U Yadav to Maxwell , SIX , he 's muscled that ! That was right in the slot for Maxwell and he did n't miss out. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Maxwell slogs it high over deep mid-wicket 36.2 U Yadav to Maxwell , FOUR , good length delivery down the leg-side , Maxwell helps it away nicely and it races to the backward square leg boundary 36.1 U Yadav to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , inswinger from Umesh , rapped on the pads , huge shout but the umpire walks away. The appeal was confident but it was very high. Hit Finch above the knee roll as he missed the flick , good call from the umpire. As the ball rolls towards short cover , they take the run , Raina has a shy at the bowler 's end but misses. A direct-hit would have been curtains for Finch 35.6 Shami to Finch , 1 run , gets across the sticks , anticipates the short ball , waits and sends it to fine leg 35.5 Shami to Maxwell , 1 run , short from Shami , Maxwell swivels and pulls it on the bounce to fine leg 35.4 Shami to Finch , 1 run , low full toss on the off stump , Finch drives it back towards Shami , who deflects the ball towards mid-wicket , they take the run , the fielder fires a direct-hit at the striker 's end , but Maxwell was very quick to make his ground Third umpire has been called for a run-out check , but Maxwell was well home 35.3 Shami to Finch , FOUR , friendly short of length delivery down the leg-side , ca n't bowl there , Finch tickles it fine to fine leg. The ball wins the race despite Umesh putting in a full length dive Round the wicket now 35.2 Shami to Maxwell , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Maxwell dabs it down to third man 35.1 Shami to Maxwell , 2 runs , edged but it goes very fine and well wide of third man. Short and outside off stump , Maxwell advances and pulls , gets a thick edge , Ashwin runs to his left but ca n't prevent the second run Mohammed Shami [ 6.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack Shami thought about starting from round the wicket but he changes his mind 34.6 U Yadav to Maxwell , 1 run , Maxwell taps this length ball to cover-point with soft hands and sets off , the fielder has a shy at the striker 's end but Finch was in 34.5 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , short of length outside off stump , Maxwell mistimes the cut this time 34.4 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Maxwell defends it towards cover and looks for a run , but Finch sends him back 34.4 U Yadav to Maxwell , wide , oh no Umesh Yadav ! He bowls down the leg-side again. Dhoni is n't happy 34.3 U Yadav to Maxwell , FOUR , that 's a gift first ball. Fourth time that Umesh has strayed onto the pads in this over. Nothing ball ! Length and down the leg-side , Maxwell flicks it behind square on the on-side and Ashwin is not going to stop those running to his left from fine leg 34.2 U Yadav to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , full and angling into the right-hander , Finch misses the flick , gets hit on the pad , but the ball was sliding down. Maxwell calls for a quick single and makes his ground 34.2 U Yadav to Finch , wide , again down the leg side and again a wide , Umesh has to get his line right 34.2 U Yadav to Finch , wide , poor ball , bowls one short and down the leg-side , Finch tries to help it on its way but does n't make contact Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks have been taken as well after that wicket. Some respite for the Indians as they get a breather to regroup. But what respite when you have the Big Show walking in. Bring on Ashwin from the other end I say , he would say as well. Get ready for the most exciting phase of play one way or the other . 34.1 U Yadav to S Smith , out Caught by Rohit ! ! Umesh strikes and a much needed wicket for India. Dug in short on the stumps , Smith made room for the big pull , but spliced it , Rohit at deep mid-wicket settled under the skier and took it easily. Smith walks off waving his bat to all corners of the ground. This has been a special innings , will be even more special at the end of the match if his side emerge victorious. S Smith c Rohit b U Yadav 105 ( 93 ) [ 4s-11 6s-2 ] U Yadav to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Umesh Yadav [ 5.0-0-39-1 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Mohit Sharma to Finch , FOUR , cheeky but highly effective. Mohit Sharma bowls a full toss and Finch has gotten across and paddled it over the short fine fielder , nearly all the way , one bounce over the ropes Mohit Sharma is now coming round the wicket 33.5 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , short of length and angling in , following Smith who wrists it to deep square leg for a single 33.4 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , FOUR , picks the slower delivery and goes over the bowler 's head. Sort of flat-batted but got enough elevation to get a boundary. India and Mohit Sharma under pressure. What will they come up with now 33.3 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , low full toss , Smith makes room and drives , finds cover at the edge of the circle. Missed out there 33.2 Mohit Sharma to Finch , 1 run , low full toss , flicked to mid-wicket , for a single 33.1 Mohit Sharma to Finch , SIX , that is an amazing shot. It was short and bouncing , Finch had made room and was on the hop , but he reached out and slapped a cut over sweeper cover. That is tremendous bat-speed generated and brilliant timing. The ball has all the legs to go all the way Mohit Sharma [ 6.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , 100 for Smith ! The Indians will be waking up with cold sweat in the middle of the night at the sight of Smith walking out to bat. He has done it all summer to them. Mountain of runs in the Tests. And now in a World Cup semi , he has churned out a 100. What.A.Playaaaa ! Magnificent. Gets a shortish ball outside off and pulls behind square , no-one there and it races away. At No. 3 he has got a hundred. Controlled the innings and made it count on the big day. Celebrates by removing the helmet and soaks in all the applause 32.5 Shami to S Smith , SIX , first ugly shot that Smith has attempted today - if I may call it that - on a good length and outside off , Smith cleared his front leg and smoked it over wide long-on. The third umpire has a look and the ball has crossed the ad-cushions on the full. Agricultural but effective 32.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , full and outside off , Smith went for a big cover drive. The feet did n't move and the ball beats Smith on the outside edge 32.3 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , low full toss on the stumps , Smith gets inside the line and clips it past the fielder inside the ring at short fine , needed to hit the gap and did so with ease 32.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , defended back to Shami 32.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , Smith opens the face of the bat and punches hard , but finds Jadeja at point who makes a smart stop. Smith is n't happy that he did n't hit the gap. The Indians go up and pat Jadeja for his effort Mohammed Shami [ 5.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack Hoho ! Batting powerplay taken 31.6 Ashwin to Finch , no run , makes room , rocks back and cuts hard , but finds Jadeja at cover. Once again Finch is a disappointed man. He wants to smash those short ones through the off-side cordon , but is failing to find the gap 31.5 Ashwin to Finch , no run , pushed through quicker , Finch pre-meditates the reverse sweep and misses. Is struck outside the line of off , so India 's appeal for lbw is turned down 31.4 Ashwin to Finch , 2 runs , that 's sloppy from Rohit at cover-point. Finch was a disappointed man as he went hard on the cut , did n't get it in the gap , it went straight to the fielder and Rohit fumbled , gives away two. That wo n't please MS and Ashwin 31.3 Ashwin to Finch , 2 runs , tossed up outside off , Finch went for the reverse sweep and mistimed it , got it wide of backward point though , gets a couple 31.2 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Smith uses his feet and drives to long-on 31.1 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Finch kneels down and sweeps hard , but straight to the fielder at deep backward square leg 30.6 Mohit Sharma to Finch , 1 run , shortish outside off , Finch bottom-edges the cut to third man Third man back , fine leg in 30.5 Mohit Sharma to Finch , no run , low full toss outside off , Finch gets forward and clips to short mid-wicket 30.4 Mohit Sharma to Finch , no run , loud shout for lbw , Kettleborough has a look at it and then says no. The Indians do n't have a review. The ball nips back in and strikes Finch above the knee roll. Finch was on the shuffle and missed the clip. Impact - umpire 's call and just about clipping. So the original decision would 've stood even if India had a review. Mohit was absolutely convinced and wore a puzzled look on his face when the decision went against him Now Mahendra Singh Dhoni goes back to Finch 30.3 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , the slower delivery outside off , comes on ever so slowly , punched to sweeper cover 30.2 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , short of length on the stumps , pushed to short cover 30.1 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , FOUR , magnificent shot. It was a back of a length on off , Smith unfurled a solid back foot punch that beat mid-on diving to his left. Mohit Sharma closes his eyes as the ball beats the fielder and wears a resigned look on his face Dhoni is standing up to Mohit now In fact , as Smith picks the spinner from the hand , he is able to play from deep in the crease. Smith 's partner at the other end , Finch used the sweep shot to keep the spin duo guessing. Smith and Finch also took quick singles to frustrate the opposition. India desperately need a couple of wickets as it is never easy to chase down a mammoth target in a pressure game . Aaron Finch punished Ravichandran Ashwin for bowling short by rocking back to cut him for a boundary in the 22nd over. With confident strides , Steven Smith and Finch have looked to play right back or come well forward while facing up to the spinners. In particular , Smith comes across as a natural player of spin as he picks a spinner generally from the hand . 29.6 Ashwin to Finch , no run , well tossed up outside off , Finch is on the move as he defends to short mid-wicket 29.5 Ashwin to Finch , no run , shorter and that allows Finch to go back and glance to short fine 29.4 Ashwin to Finch , no run , Finch once again finds short mid-wicket 29.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith uses his feet and whips to deep mid-wicket 29.2 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Finch slog sweeps and finds deep backward square leg 29.1 Ashwin to Finch , no run , Finch gets forward and flicks to the left of short mid-wicket , good stop and a back-handed flick back to Ashwin This is a nice platform being set by these two. Australia are well placed for the final assault in the last 15 overs or so. With the likes of Maxwell and Faulkner to come , they will aim for 330 plus. In a semi-final if Australia get that kind of a total , the pressure of chasing will multiply on the Indians. Smith is already looking to take risks and is opening out 28.6 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 2 runs , short and outside off , Smith pulls to deep backward square leg , Umesh runs around and puts in an awkward dive , but manages to get hold of the ball. Only two 28.5 Mohit Sharma to Finch , 1 run , defended to the right of short mid-wicket , quick single taken as Smith has to hare across and does so. Direct hit would 've made things interesting 28.4 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , full and on the pads , flicked in the air , but nowhere near catching distance , to deep mid-wicket , for a single 28.3 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 2 runs , Smith uses his feet and cracks the ball on-the-up to deep extra cover , good enough for a couple 28.2 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , short of length outside off , punched sweetly , but straight to the fielder at cover Cover and mid-off in 28.1 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , Mohit Sharma comes back and beats Smith with a back of a length delivery outside off , Smith went for the back foot punch and missed. Bit of bounce taking it over the bat Mohit Sharma [ 4.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Ashwin to Finch , no run , a loud shout of 'nooooooooo ' as Finch rocks back and cuts hard to cover-point. It was short and Finch felt he missed out. Is n't happy with himself. That grunt was more out of frustration than anything else 27.5 Ashwin to Finch , no run , turning in , Finch closes the face of the bat and glances it to short fine 27.4 Ashwin to Finch , no run , tossed up outside off , Finch gets forward and blocks 27.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , flatter and Smith punches off the back foot to long-on 27.2 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , Finch kneels down to slog sweep and does n't get the elevation he wants , played to deep mid-wicket 27.1 Ashwin to Finch , 2 runs , both batsmen are running hard and get a couple to deep square leg , Finch gets forward and flicks and manages to place it well for the two 26.6 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , FOUR , Smith is too good with those wrists. Down the track and in a jiffy he plays an aerial , yet controlled flick over mid-wicket. Knew what he was doing and gives long-on no chance 26.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , full toss on the stumps , Finch clips to deep backward square leg 26.4 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Smith drives to long-off 26.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , fifty for Finch. He raises his bat and gets on with it. Gets there with a push to sweeper cover 26.2 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to long-off 26.1 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , no run , fraction short outside off , Smith punches with an open face to cover-point 25.6 Ashwin to Finch , 2 runs , on middle , swept to deep backward square leg , Mohit runs around and slides , takes significant chunks out of the hallowed SCG turf , keeps it to a couple though. The knee went in hard into the turf and parts of it came off 25.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , well tossed up , Smith gets forward and drives to long-on 25.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up and turning back in , Smith rocks back and punches it to cover 25.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on the stumps , Smith gets forward to drive and hits it straight back , Ashwin dives to his right and gets a finger on it , but Finch got back. Referred to the third umpire who has the easy job Has Ashwin got a lucky wicket for India ? No. Finch is back. The bat is grounded. So Finch will stay 25.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed to short mid-wicket off the front foot 25.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up outside off , Smith taps it near his feet and Dhoni fields Nasser Hussain on air after Smith hit that six - 'I know many batsmen would 've played a defensive shot to that delivery.' 24.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , fired in flat and down leg , straight off the pad as Finch fails to connect on the flick 24.5 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , now gets forward and drives to long-off 24.4 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , SIX , that is an exceptional stroke. It was n't short. It was on a back of a length , but Smith went back in a flash and pulled it over deep mid-wicket. Flat hit and went all the way. Terrific batting from Smith 24.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , very full on the stumps , Finch gets forward and drives to long-on 24.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , was there an inside edge onto the pads ? No. Straight off the pad and caught by Mahendra Singh Dhoni. Appeal from India , but simple decision from Kettleborough Finch removes his helmet and wipes away his face as he stops Ravindra Jadeja 24.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , full and on the stumps , Finch gets forward and drives to short mid-wicket 23.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith gets forward to drive and the ball goes off the outer half to short cover 23.5 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Finch gets back and nudges it to deep backward square leg 23.4 Ashwin to Finch , no run , tossed up outside off , Finch gets forward and defends solidly 23.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith comes on the front foot and eases it to long-on 23.2 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , Finch gets forward and drives to long-on 23.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 3 runs , that 's a beautiful shot. Against the spin. VVS-esque from Smith as he eases it wide of cover. The fielder chases and pulls it back , saves a run 22.6 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , Smith gets forward and drives to long-on 22.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , this one skids on and Finch prodding forward gets an inside edge to square leg , oohs and aahs from the Indians 22.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , Finch got outside off and went for the big sweep , it was too full and he missed , but he got outside the line. Impact was umpire 's call and Finch will stay. Just got outside the line , but that will do. It was Ravindra Jadeja who forced Mahendra Singh Dhoni who also felt that it had struck the batsman outside the line of off. Ravindra Jadeja though was very convinced and eventually MS had no option but to go for the review Ravindra Jadeja is adamant that he has got Finch out lbw. He has forced Mahendra Singh Dhoni to review. That looked like outside the line of off to me. Replays will tell. 'That 's a fair delivery , spin vision , front-on please ' says Marais Erasmus. 'Just rock and roll that , can you get me RTS please ? Rock and roll that. Nothing on the bat , when ball-tracking is ready , please. Impact - umpire 's call ! So Richard you can stay with your decision , I will tell you when you are on screen , thank you ! ' So Finch gets away. India lose their only review 22.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , fired in on the stumps , defended to short mid-wicket , Finch looks for the quick single , is n't there 22.2 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , punched past Ravindra Jadeja , who was trying to get across Finch and get to the ball , fails to do so 22.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , the 100-run stand comes up with a soft nudge wide of short mid-wicket Jamie is at the ground and he say 's it 's an Indian dominated one. Much much to cheer for now - with Australia batting well. Waiting for some wickets to fall , perhaps 21.6 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , waits on the back foot and whips that to deep backward square leg , retains the strike with that run 21.5 Ashwin to Finch , 2 runs , great running from Finch. He tucks this to deep backward square leg , and races back for the second 21.4 Ashwin to Finch , no run , this one spins back in and cramps Finch on the cut , the batsman went hard and found cover-point 21.3 Ashwin to Finch , FOUR , he missed out last over against Ashwin , but wo n't this time. Short and outside off , Finch rocks back and cuts hard , beats backward point and cover-point. No-one sweeping on the off-side and it 's an easy boundary 21.2 Ashwin to Finch , no run , tossed up and turning in , Finch gets forward to flick and gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball dies down very quickly though 21.1 Ashwin to Finch , no run , fraction short outside off , Finch opens the face of the bat and punches , but picks out backward point 20.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , 'yours ' says Dhoni to Jadeja , but Finch has driven that to the right of the bowler 20.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , round-armish flatter ball from Jadeja , Finch defends it towards mid-wicket 20.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , no flight whatsoever from Jadeja , Finch cuts and picks out Shami at backward point 20.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , no feet movement from Finch this time as he defends this quicker ball into the off-side 20.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , goes on the back foot and dangerously punches this flatter ball towards cover 20.1 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , advances and drives the flighted delivery to long-on For Australia , Smith used the depth of the crease to handle Ravindra Jadeja with aplomb. On the other hand , Aaron Finch played a power-packed shot through the cover region to clobber Jadeja for a boundary in the 16th over. Finch and Smith have set a solid platform for Australia to amass a massive total. India certainly need Ravichandran Ashwin to weave his magic . Interestingly , Virat Kohli was introduced into the attack in the 12th over. Steven Smith took full advantage of a part-timer coming into the attack by thumping him for a four. Mohit Sharma occasionally tried the short ball , but he did n't get it head high or outside the off-stump to trouble the batsmen. On this track , on expected lines , Mohit also mixed it up by bowling off-cutters and slower deliveries to get it to grip off the surface . 19.6 Ashwin to Finch , no run , tossed up on the off stump , defended 19.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , bad ball , but Rohit Sharma makes an excellent diving save to his left at cover-point. Short and wide outside off stump , Smith cuts very well but not in the gap 19.4 Ashwin to Finch , leg byes , 3 runs , bit of spin for Ashwin. Finch is surprised a bit on the flick , the ball goes off the thigh pad and beats the man at leg slip 19.3 Ashwin to Finch , no run , Finch goes for the sweep , but this flighted delivery bounces extra , beats the bat and hits him on the body 19.2 Ashwin to Finch , no run , waits for the ball to spin back and defends watchfully off the front foot 19.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , steps out and drives the flighted delivery along the ground to long-on 18.6 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , on the leg stump , Smith flicks it to deep square leg and brings up his 7th ODI fifty. This is his fourth consecutive fifty as well. What a time he 's having ! He gets a good round of the applause from the SCG crowd and he raises his bat to acknowledge the cheer 18.5 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , no run , driven towards extra-cover , short extra-cover makes a fine save to his right 18.4 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , defended straight back to the bowler 18.3 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , no run , spinning away outside off stump , Smith pushes it to the left of the bowler 18.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , driven past the diving fielder at short mid-wicket , where Rohit Sharma misfields the ball to long-on 18.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , gently nudged into the on-side Ravindra Jadeja [ 2.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , well bowled. Teasing offbreak outside off , with lots of flight , drew Smith into the drive and the inside edge was found , luckily for Smith the ball did n't go back on 17.5 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , turns back in , Finch rocks back and punches it wide of short cover. Smith moved only after the ball went past rhe fielder 17.4 Ashwin to Finch , no run , shortish outside off , Finch rocked back to cut and found cover-point. Hit it hard , but not in the gap 17.3 Ashwin to Finch , no run , slower and on middle , defended softly 17.2 Ashwin to Finch , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Finch opens the face of the bat and square drives , but Dhawan at backward point dives to his right and saves a couple at least A leg slip in for Ashwin 17.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Smith gets forward and eases it to long-on Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 16.6 Mohit Sharma to Finch , no run , goes back to a back of a length outside off , Finch defends to cover 16.5 Mohit Sharma to Finch , FOUR , short and wide outside off , sat up to be hit , Finch rocked back and cut the slower delivery hard square of the wicket , once he hit it in the gap , it was always four. Poor bowling from Mohit Sharma , too many cutters 16.4 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , good length on the middle and leg , tucked past the diving backward square fielder 16.3 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , off-break , Smith went for a big cover drive and inside-edged it to short mid-wicket , a fumble there , but they do n't take the single 16.2 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , Mohit Sharma is relying on slower deliveries , looking to take the pace off the ball , Smith defends and the bowler dives across to stop the ball 16.1 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 2 runs , short of length outside off , punched with an open face to third man , good running as Smith takes on Shami and makes it back So far no verbal jousts or words being spoken in the middle. The Indians did n't say that they will sledge. It is the Aussies who said that they will. So will be interesting to see how things shape up in the chase. Will keep a close eye on proceedings and bring whatever I can , on things happening on the field Time for a drinks break 15.6 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , shortish outside off , cut to sweeper cover 15.5 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , no run , Smith takes a step forward and then defends with a full face back to the bowler 15.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , very full on the stumps , driven with a full face to long-on 15.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , fired in , Finch looks to drive and the inside edge goes to short mid-wicket. Looks at the toe end of the bat after playing that 15.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , FOUR , Finch nods at what Smith has to say after smoking it through cover. Width was there and he smashed it past the diving short cover. Sweeper did n't even move 15.1 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , fraction short outside off , Smith rocks back and cuts to deep point 14.6 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , short of length outside off , punched to sweeper cover , for a single 14.5 Mohit Sharma to Finch , 1 run , the cutter from Mohit Sharma , back of the hand , sits up to be cut and Finch smashes it to sweeper cover 14.4 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Smith gets forward and pushes it to sweeper cover 14.3 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , on a good length and outside off , Smith shuffles across and defends to short cover 14.2 Mohit Sharma to Finch , 1 run , fraction short outside off , a controlled cut to sweeper cover 14.1 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , short of length and angling in , punched wide of mid-on for a single India sense a chance to get the Aussies out on the short ball. The problem is that the bowlers are n't left-arm quick like Riaz and so do n't have the left-armer 's angle to work with. If you do n't get it right on this pitch , the short ball just sits up to be whacked. Finch and Smith are very good pullers/hookers and they are just smashing those short balls. Sometimes wonder what goes on in MS ' mind , Kohli has n't bowled in 17 ODIs and he brings him on in a World Cup semi. But that experiment lasted just one over. MS , oh MS ! 13.6 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 3 runs , well played. Against the turn. Smith using his feet and whipping that past mid-wicket. Dhawan gives chase , but ca n't prevent the three 13.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Finch gets forward and drives to Kohli 's left at cover , half-stopped and they will take the single A slip in place for Finch as Ravindra Jadeja continues round the wicket 13.4 Ravindra Jadeja to S Smith , 1 run , Smith uses his feet and wrists that to long-on A very short silly mid-on in place for Smith 13.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , 1 run , Finch makes room , well before Ravindra Jadeja bowled , and then cuts the ball , in the air , but in the gap too on the off-side 13.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , fired down leg , Finch ca n't lay bat on the flick , an appeal for lbw , but that was going down 13.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Finch , no run , on middle and leg , turned to short fine 's left Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 12.6 Mohit Sharma to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , down leg , off the pad as Finch misses the clip , a leg bye taken 12.5 Mohit Sharma to Finch , no run , on a length and on off , turned to short mid-wicket 12.4 Mohit Sharma to Finch , no run , off-cutter , Finch looks for a drop-and-run single to cover , Smith is n't interested 12.3 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , too straight and on the hips , nudged to fine leg 12.2 Mohit Sharma to Finch , 1 run , good length down leg , glanced to deep backward square leg 12.1 Mohit Sharma to Finch , FOUR , India are n't learning. Another attempted short delivery , Finch swivels and pulls hard , down too , there was a dive from the deep mid-wicket fielder , but the ball had too much gas and beat him easily 11.6 Kohli to Finch , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Finch opens the face of the bat and runs it to the right of short third man , single 11.5 Kohli to S Smith , 1 run , high full toss and Smith has hit that straight to the fielder at long-off. Punched that. Missed out there 11.4 Kohli to S Smith , FOUR , Smith is being gifted with easy short balls and he is encashing them. Waist high short delivery , Smith needed to hit the gap and does that with a pull wide of deep mid-wicket 11.3 Kohli to Finch , 1 run , very full outside off , Finch gets forward and drives to long-off 11.2 Kohli to Finch , no run , full outside off , Finch opens the face of the bat and drives to Jadeja at point 11.1 Kohli to Finch , no run , Kohli comes on and a half-volley outside off , Finch drives straight to the fielder at cover , where Raina fields and throws it up like he has caught it , tricks the crowd for a couple of seconds. Jadeja smiles Virat Kohli , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , another off-cutter , Smith strides forward and defends to cover 10.5 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , off-cutting slower delivery , comes on ever so slowly , Smith wrists it straight to the fielder at backward square leg 10.4 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , short of length outside off , Smith turns it to backward square leg 10.3 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , slower delivery and on the stumps , Smith defends it back to Mohit Sharma 10.2 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , this one bounces a bit extra from a back of a length , Smith drops it down with soft hands to short mid-wicket No slips in for Mohit Sharma 10.1 Mohit Sharma to Finch , 1 run , good length on middle , tucked to deep mid-wicket Mohit Sharma , right-arm medium , comes into the attack It was David Warner , who started on a good note by presenting a full face of the bat and collect four runs off Umesh Yadav. He also thumped Umesh for a six over deep square-leg. However , Umesh came back strongly to induce a leading edge from Warner to snare his wicket. With it being a dry track , Umesh used the off-cutter to dismiss Warner. Steven Smith , who replaced Warner at the crease , then essayed a flurry of boundaries. The outfield is lightning quick and the spinners may get a bit of purchase later on in the match . Thousands of frenzied fans flocked to watch a high voltage contest at the SCG. The historic stadium , mainly made up of flag-waving Indians , certainly created an electric atmosphere. It was Mohammed Shami , who opened the bowling for India. Shami bowled with unrelenting control and generated swing to trouble Aaron Finch. Finch hangs back in the crease and is vulnerable against the new ball . 9.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , short of length and nipping back in , defended to short mid-wicket 9.5 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , a carbon copy of the previous shot. Similar delivery , around the same height , similar shot and similar result. Yadav needs to dig it in much shorter and get it rise near the chest/face area of Smith. Or else Smith will cash in all day. That 's 16 off the over - all in boundaries 9.4 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , the new one works well alright. Cracking pull from Smith. It was short and on the stumps , Smith swivel-pulled to the right of square leg. The ball did n't rise and that made Smith 's job easier. Third boundary of the over Looks like Smith needs a change of bat. Slight delay. The substitute runs out with a few bats and Smith chooses one. How will the new one go ? 9.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith shows the full face of the bat and drives well , but Yadav sticks his left-hand out and stops it 9.2 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , that is well played. Short outside off , Smith controlled the pull and got it wide of mid-on , no chance for the chasing fielder as the ball races away. Smith swivelled on the shot and got into position very quickly to play that 9.1 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , was in the air , but wide of the man at point. Jadeja running from point could 've done some serious damage to himself as he dived head-first into the ad-boards. Ashwin from third man did n't get there and wore a shocked expression on seeing Jadeja go in so hard at full pelt. Luckily no damage done to Jadeja as he gets up quickly. Smith cutting hard in the air and getting lucky 8.6 Shami to Finch , no run , back of a length and Shami forces Finch to defend , the batsman doing just that to mid-on 8.5 Shami to Finch , no run , that was the double-bluff. On a good length and outside off , Finch gets forward and shoulders arms A leg gully in place for Finch now 8.4 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , short of length and angling in , punched wide of mid-on for a single 8.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , Smith punches to mid-on. No room to work with for Smith there 8.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , defended back to Shami who throws the ball back at the stumps. Shami showing a bit of anger there 8.1 Shami to Finch , 1 run , Finch wanted to pull out of the shot , but the ball rose high and he controlled the shot to deep backward square leg , played it down and gets a single 7.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , on a good length and outside off , Smith strides forward and defends confidently to point 7.5 U Yadav to Finch , 1 run , that hurried on to Finch , the batsman swivelled on the pull and had to adjust , plays it awkwardly with a grunt from him as he played the shot , a single to fine leg 7.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , too straight from Yadav , Smith gets inside the line and clips it to fine leg 7.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith opens the face of the bat and square drives , but finds point 7.2 U Yadav to Finch , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Finch punches it wide of cover and turns the strike over 7.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , on a good length and on middle and leg , Smith shuffles across and tucks it wide of mid-wicket for a single 6.6 Shami to Finch , no run , Shami readjusts after that error last ball , on the stumps , pushed to mid-on with a full face of the bat 6.6 Shami to Finch , wide , Shami loses his radar , slips it down leg 6.5 Shami to Finch , no run , pitched further up and on the stumps , Finch shows the full face of the bat and defends to mid-on 6.4 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , short and on the stumps , hurries onto Smith who completely mistimes it to deep backward square leg , gets it wide of the leg slip though 6.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , on a good length and a hint of nip back in , pushed off the front foot to mid-on 6.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , does n't nip back in to hit off , so Smith shoulders arms 6.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith drives and the bat face closes , Shami stops it with his left-hand 5.6 U Yadav to Finch , no run , Finch has hit that on the bounce to mid-on. Went for a pull , a forehand to mid-on. Took it from outside off and wanted to go wide of the fielder , instead failed to hit the gap 5.5 U Yadav to Finch , no run , brilliant delivery. Outswinging yorker from Yadav , but the line was n't on the stumps. It was just outside off and Finch could n't squeeze it out. Late shape away on the ball 5.4 U Yadav to Finch , no run , short of length on off , Finch hops a little and defends back down the wicket 5.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , on a good length and on off , Smith looks to defend and plays with soft hands down to third man 5.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , on a good length and outside off , swinging away , left alone 5.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , India ponder a review. Against Smith. For lbw. Dhoni has a word with Yadav and they go back to their positions. It nipped back in and Smith on the shuffle missed the flick , it clipped the thigh pad and replays show that it just was clipping - umpire 's call it was and the original decision would 've stood. Smith in trouble there , but got away No leg slip now for Umesh against Smith 4.6 Shami to S Smith , 3 runs , Shami went for the yorker , but it turned out to be a low full toss , on middle , clipped through mid-wicket. Rohit gives chase and pulls it back. Saved a run there Leg slip for Smith again 4.5 Shami to Finch , 1 run , full and outside off , Finch gets forward and opens the face of the bat to drive , gets it wide of point for a single 4.4 Shami to Finch , no run , pitched up outside off , Finch gets forward and drives , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 4.3 Shami to Finch , no run , on a good length and outside off , left alone 4.2 Shami to Finch , 2 runs , swing for Shami , Finch fell over a touch , but got his bat on the flick , played it around his front pad and managed a couple to fine leg , Umesh did well to run around and keep it to two 4.1 Shami to Finch , FOUR , very full from Shami and Finch just relied on timing that time. Got forward and showed the full face of the bat , gets it past the stumps at the other end and the ball races away 3.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , short of length and outside off , seaming away , left alone. Nice carry through to Mahendra Singh Dhoni A leg gully in place now as Dhoni goes for the leg-side trap 3.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , Yadav pulls the length back and bowls it on a back of a length on the hips , tucked to short mid-wicket 3.4 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , that 's a magnificent shot. The feet did n't move that well , but look at the timing on that. The full face of the bat shown and he has timed the drive past a very short mid-off , beating the fielder to his right. Fantastic off-drive from Smith Would be a good idea to bowl full and try to york Smith early for he shuffles a lot and exposes his middle and leg stump. Would n't be a bad idea to fire in the yorker 3.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length on the hips , turned to square leg Two slips and a gully for Smith 3.2 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , swing away for Yadav , Smith opens the face of the bat and pushes it wide of point , knows Ashwin is there at third man , takes him on and makes it back easily Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.1 U Yadav to Warner , out Caught by Kohli ! ! Big , big moment. Warner is gone. Warner too early into the flick and the leading edge goes straight up in the air. A dolly to mid-off and Yadav roars away in delight. Not as ferociously as Steyn against Sri Lanka , but a good attempt nevertheless. India 's army at the SCG go wild too. Warner c Kohli b U Yadav 12 ( 7 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] U Yadav to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Shami certainly tested Finch in that over but did n't have the desired result that he was seeking to go for him 2.6 Shami to Finch , no run , back of a length outside off , Finch shoulders arms 2.5 Shami to Finch , no run , Finch is all at sea against Shami so far. Full and outside off , Finch went for a big cover drive and the inside edge went to square leg. Gave it all , but completely lost all shape on the shot 2.4 Shami to Finch , no run , another one that nips back in , but the line is middle and leg , going down , Finch ca n't lay bat on the flick , looks for a leg bye but it is n't there 2.3 Shami to Finch , no run , short of length and outside off , Finch defends to square leg 2.2 Shami to Finch , no run , Shami belts out a loud lbw appeal against Finch , but that was a bit too high. Finch caught on the shuffle , this one nips back in and catches him on the pad , above the kneeroll. Kettleborough is the best umpire in the world and has a look , before saying no. India do n't review and rightly so , that would 've gone over 2.1 Shami to Finch , no run , very ambitious and extravagant from Finch. Went for a big lofted drive over mid-off , but the ball was pitched on a good length and had an upright seam , it nipped off the seam and went past the inside edge , not close to hitting off though 2.1 Shami to Finch , wide , swing for Shami , but down leg , it swings further and Dhoni collects. Called wide 1.6 U Yadav to Warner , SIX , Warner wants to make a statement early on and he does so here. It was slightly short and outside off , Warner lifted one leg up in the air and pulled it hard over deep square leg , just about carried over the ad-cushions. The extra pace of Yadav proving to be productive for Warner 1.5 U Yadav to Finch , 1 run , 147.6 kph and would 've been a dolly to gully which is vacant. Yadav squaring up Finch with a delivery that straightened a tad and caught the outside edge , it flew through the vacant space and down to third man. Just the two slips and no-one at gully 1.4 U Yadav to Finch , no run , back of a length outside off , Finch hops and defends Two slips for Yadav too 1.3 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Warner gets forward and pushes it wide of cover , easy single 1.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , short of length on off , Warner shuffles across a tad and defends to the right of the bowler 1.1 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , lovely shot. Just a forward punch from Warner and it beat mid-off to his left. Got forward and offered the full face of the bat , the rich timing did the rest. Yadav a tad guilty of overpitching and being made to pay for it Umesh Yadav , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Shami to Finch , no run , short of length and a hint of nip back in , Finch blocks from the crease to short mid-wicket 0.5 Shami to Warner , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Warner gets forward and pushes it wide of mid-off , quick single to get off the mark 0.4 Shami to Warner , no run , Shami beats Warner. Lovely outswinger , but angled across on a fuller length , Warner went for an ambitious on-the-up drive and was beaten. Just about carried to Dhoni. Nice start from Shami 0.3 Shami to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , loud appeal for lbw , but that was sliding down leg , full and on the pads , Finch shuffled across to flick and missed. But the ball would 've gone down. They take a leg bye and the umpire does n't signal runs 0.2 Shami to Finch , no run , short of length outside off , punched softly to cover Two slips in place 0.1 Shami to Finch , no run , straightaway Shami beats Finch. A gentle outswinger from Shami , Finch is tentative first up and his nervous push meets thin air. Expectedly , the feet do n't move and he gets away. Shami has a wry smile on his face Finch and Warner are at the crease. Finch is on strike. Shami will open the attack The players are striding out to the middle. Warner is walking with a spring in his step. He is up for it. Shami has the new ball. The countdown starts. 'We are ready to play ' says Mark Nicholas on air. Here we go then.. . Time for the national anthems. A lovely moment there as soon as the Indian national anthem starts. The young kids remove their caps without any prompting from the Indians. One kid does n't and is asked to do so by the one next to him. Superb. Lots of Indian flags in the crowd. Rousing rendition of the anthems are done. Raw passion on display . Pitch Report by Shane Warne : This was the one used between Australia and Sri Lanka. It is a belter of a pitch. It does n't spin as much as you think. It is rock hard. It should be a ripping match. I am looking forward to Maxwell vs Ashwin Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma Australia ( Playing XI ) : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Steven Smith , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Shane Watson , Glenn Maxwell , Brad Haddin ( w ) , James Faulkner , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood Australia have won the toss and have opted to bat Dhoni : " I think the way we have transformed from the tri-series , getting into the World Cup was very important for us. All of us are looking good. That 's something that is very important. Everybody has got a chance to bat , bowl , fielding has been good , overall preparation looks good. Not really. I feel it would n't really change much. The toss is something beyond the control , you have to accept it. But , yes we would have also batted first as well. Everyone is fit. So , that give us a liberty of playing with the same squad. I think each and every one in a game like this you have to be at your best irrespective of whether you are opening the innings or batting in the middle order. So , get off to a good start , if you get a good start make sure you score big , that is something we always emphasize on. The partnership is more important than individual performance. So , that has been the key for us throughout this World Cup. " Clarke : " Not too much ( on what has he said to his mates before the game ) . It 's about enjoying. It 's a big occasion , it 's a special day. We know we are up against a fantastic team , but we love playing here at the Sydney Cricket Ground. The boys are ready to go , they have trained really well. That 's all I can ask for. We are going to have a bat Flem ( Damien Fleming ) , thank you. I think we are about to find out. The wicket looks great. I think it will be pretty good for both innings , runs on the board is the reason why we have gone for batting first. Same XI for us today. I thought he ( Hazlewood ) was exceptional. I think he grabbed his opportunity with both hands , the selectors believe this is the right XI for these conditions. I am confident if we play our best cricket , we can have success today. " Our man G Rajaraman is at the ground and reckons that Australia might not play Xavier Doherty. He 's not amongst the group of bowlers warming-up for Australia. Hazlewood will keep his place as well , ahead of Pat Cummins . " He ( Dhoni ) is unbelievable. There 's no comparison. He just sits alone when it comes to ODI cricket. Character , a steely character , there is a desire to win , the desire to play as a unit ( asked what impressed him the most in this team ) . The desire to play for each other , which has been absolutely brilliant to see. That 's what you need in any team ( the mix of youth and age ) . You need that because , if you see the way they have fielded , it 's because of that. There 's youth there , there are some young legs there and of course you need experience on an occasion like this. Fabulous ( to be here today ) . I feel like putting on my blues and getting out there. 30 years to the day , which the boys know , India beat NZ in the world championship of cricket in the semi-final and I was the Man of the Match , so I said if you get me one Man of the Match today , history might just repeat itself. Pleasure , go India ! " " You can ( overplay a big occasion ) . If you think too much or too far ahead , you could make mistakes. Our mantra has been do n't think too far ahead. Forget the past and live in the present and be calm in the present. Massive ( when asked if Dhoni 's presence is an advantage ) . If there is a bigger word than massive , use that word. Your vocabulary is better than mine , so go right ahead and use that word , because that 's how big a player he is. It 's not about individuals , it 's about a collective team effort and that 's what team India has brought to the table in this World Cup. It 's not about individual performances , but every time when someone is needed , he 's put up his hand , each one of those 11 players. " " I 've not seen the pitch but I think MS ( Dhoni ) has his plans. If you win the toss , obviously you would want to bat first. Why should you change it ( the team ) when nothing has happened ? They 've done brilliantly , each one of them in the 11 and they 'll go out and enjoy the occasion today. I think the calmness will be the key today. you got to be calm there , soak in the pressure and then enjoy. Just think that you 've got a stage there , you 've been watched by 60000 people , so go out there and give it your best shot , enjoy it. They ( the players ) are very calm , very composed and looking forward to this game and it 's a great occasion , a world cup semifinal and on the back of being the holders , the way they have played , I think everyone in India should be proud and all the Indian fans watching around the world , you should be proud of this cricket team the way they have played. " Shastri : " Absolutely fine ( when asked how are the soldiers ) . They are ready and up for it like never before , let me assure you that. They want to go out there and play fearless , aggressive cricket and enjoy the occasion. They do n't need any motivation , they 've played fabulous cricket in this World Cup. They know each one of them can hold their heads high with the way they have played and as a unit they have looked fabulous. Today is game 8 and they have to approach it just in that fashion that they 've approached the other ones. Does n't matter ( when told that game 8 is against Australia ) . Not at all ( when reminded that there have to be scars from what 's gone before ) . That 's all baggage. This is the big one , those mickey mouse tournaments are over. This is where you want to win. Absolutely not ( when asked if Australia have the wood over India ) . We are the defending champions , we are the favourites , pressure on Australia. " A while ago , Mark Nicholas spoke to Ravi Shastri and here is the interview transcribed word-to-word. Expectedly , Shastri was gung-ho about India 's chances. Lots of bravado and some stirring statements. The interview though is a gem. Imagine Ravi inside the dressing room , talking to the players. Some motivator he is ! Rohit Sharma on how batting up the order has helped him - " Over the years I 've learnt a lot of things. Certainly batting up the order has changed my game , my approach towards the game and the responsibility. " Quotes : Michael Clarke is precise with his assessment - " We have to execute our skills as well as we possibly can and if we do that , I have confidence that we can beat any team. " Weather update : The forecast for this game is fine. The weather conditions were a bit overcast and rainy over the last couple of days but on match day there is no rain predicted . India : Absolutely no changes unless someone gets injured or wakes up ill . Pre-match team news , Australia : Australia are most likely to go in unchanged from their quarter-final game . Head-to-head record : India and Australia have clashed 10 times in World Cups with Australia winning 7 of them. But India won their last encounter - a World Cup quarter-final at Motera in Ahmedabad. That was a gripping game which India won thanks to Yuvraj and Raina 's calmness under pressure in a chase. If you look at the overall record , in the last five meetings between the sides , India has won two , Australia one with two games washed out. Australia though have a 12-1 record against India at the SCG and also are yet to lose a World Cup semi-final , winning 6 of them . " Maxwell is the leading run-scorer for Australia in this edition with 301 runs at an average of 75. His audacious batting will be a major concern for India but Ashwin , with 12 wickets , is also in good form. India will be aware of the damage Maxwell can cause in Sydney , where he smashed a 51-ball hundred against Sri Lanka. Ashwin 's aim will be simple. Get rid of the Big Show and become the showstopper. " " The stats concur with Maxwell 's assessment. In seven ODIs that Ashwin has played against Maxwell , he has dismissed him in only one match and that was two years ago in Nagpur but it was after the batsman had smashed two consecutive fours off him of the previous two balls. " " The rivalry between Glenn Maxwell and R Ashwin has been simmering for quite some time. The Australian dasher has always held the advantage over India 's premier spinner. In the T20Is and in the IPL , Maxwell has torn Ashwin apart on several occasions and after his 38-ball 90 for Kings XI Punjab against Chennai Super Kings in IPL 7 , Maxwell said that he enjoyed facing Ashwin as he was easy to pick. " Glenn Maxwell v R Ashwin " Rohit , though , will know the damage Mitchell Johnson can cause on day. During the second Test in Brisbane , Rohit engaged in a sledging duel with Johnson and it proved to be costly for India. Johnson smashed an aggressive 88 and picked up 4 wickets , including Rohit in the second innings to give Australia victory. Johnson has underperformed in this World Cup so far but he will be desperate to put in a hostile show on the big stage. Johnson must realise that he needs to be the leader of the attack , not the leader of a sledging unit. " " Rohit Sharma likes batting against Australia. He has an average of 58.71 in ODIs against them and in the tri-series , Rohit started off with a bang by scoring 138 in Melbourne. In the World Cup , he has performed well against the lesser teams but against the big teams , he has struggled a bit. However , heading into the semi-final , Rohit will be high on confidence following his century against Bangladesh in the quarter-finals. " Some key battles to look forward to in the semi-final. Here is our editors ' pick of the lot. Mitchell Johnson v Rohit Sharma " We went to work immediately , wrote things down on what we need to improve on are. The way the bowlers have reacted and performed with composure , confidence and aggression has been wonderful to watch. You expect bowlers to step up if you want to beat quality sides in the world and the way they have done this in the World Cup is commendable , " Kohli said . Virat Kohli has revealed that the team went to work after the Test series and the tri-series , writing down things that needed improvement. Talking to Cricket Australia , Kohli said , " We felt as a group that we need to step up and make corrections now. We do n't really have too much time because you ca n't afford to go into the World Cup thinking 'Okay , fine , we have things to work on but we can do it over a period of time ' , " he said , about the team 's '180 degree turnaround' . " Yes , it all depends on the wicket and how it is , " Rohit spoke of the SCG pitch. " Of course , if you look at the history of the city , it gives a lot of time towards spin bowlers , and they actually come out and bowl really well. [ If ] you see the Test matches we played in Australia , the spinners played a huge part. So I think if it does [ on Thursday ] , we 've got the spinners to do it . Rohit , speaking to the media , reckoned that spin will definitely play a role come match day . Meanwhile former Aussie pacer Brett Lee reckoned Australia will win. " It is going to be a lot of fun. Full crowds and packed stadium. I honestly think Australia will win on Thursday night. But you also got to think about the chance of India. They have played extremely well , won seven from seven. Australia have won five from seven , that 's including one wash out. We have to wait and see , " Lee said . " I really do think it 's a 50-50 call. In all semifinals , the team that plays well in the first 15 overs of the match , be it with the ball or bat is the team that gets ahead and wins that game. They have all got power , all got finesse , they have got different kind angles to create in the field , " he said . Michael Vaughan said it was a 50-50 call when asked to pick his favourite in the second semi-final at the SCG. " MS Dhoni knows how to win World Cups and that goes quite a long way. There is something about him and World Cups and what he did after the tri-series is remarkable. Change of team and change of mentality. The change in the way they played in the World Cup after the tri-series , " he said . Ganguly also feels that Kohli will be the man for the occasion and expects a big knock from him. " For India , I think , the man would be Virat Kohli. He had a fabulous Test series against Australia ; his record against Australia is outstanding. He is one of the biggest match-winners in one-day cricket for the team and at the moment and he will be pumped up. Kohli will play a big knock tomorrow. Do n't sledge him. That 's my advice to Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Starc. Because they did that in the Test matches and he came out with four hundreds. " Sourav Ganguly writing exclusively on our site , reckons that the semi-final will be a battle between Dhoni and Clarke. " It 's gon na be a battle between the two captains. We saw how AB de Villiers gave the game away to New Zealand and I mean it when I say it. But tomorrow it will be a battle between two captains who are very good leaders. MS Dhoni is slightly ahead because he has already led the team to three world championship wins - one World Cup , one T20 WC and one Champions Trophy. Clarke has played in a World Cup-winning team but has not captained a World Cup-winning team. For me the pressure will be on Australia. It 's a home game at the SCG. They say it 's going be more Blue than Gold tomorrow but still the pressure will be on Australia. " Finch expects the biggest game he has ever have played to be a huge occasion. " You ca n't put it any other way. It 's going to be exciting. It 's a huge opportunity to show our skills off as a team. We 've played some great cricket over the last two years and there 's no reason we 're not going to go into this game confident. I think we 've got every right to be , " he said. " Whatever happens I suppose if we stick to our game plans and play well it goes a long way towards winning the game. It 's about being aggressive without being over the top. " " When you 're looking to be aggressive with the new ball , having been here for four months has probably adapted their lengths a little bit. ( Mohammed ) Shami is bowling well. He 's swinging the ball which is a huge factor for them at the start of the innings. They 've probably played a lot more cricket here and got used to the conditions , the length you bowl and stuff like that. " Australian opener Aaron Finch has admitted that India would be a tough team to beat. " There 's no rocket science they 're bowling well , they 're batting well. They 're going to be tough to beat , " he said , praising the bowling at Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's disposal . Here is an interesting bit of news. Aussie bowling legend Shane Warne spent a considerable amount of time with the Australian team during the team 's net session on the eve of the match. Warne not only had a lengthy talk with skipper Michael Clarke , but also rolled his arms over and had the likes of Aaron Finch , Shane Watson and James Faulkner in a spot of bother in the nets. Since the SCG is known to favor spinners , the Aussies wanted to take the inputs of Warne in order to counter the Indian spinners - Ravi Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja . " The Indian fans in general , I think , are wonderful supporters of the game. I think they want to see great cricket and they want to see their team win. But they also respect good , entertaining cricket , and I really hope we can provide that tomorrow for them , " he said . Clarke also is bracing up to the fact that there will be more Indian fans than Aussie ones at the SCG on Thursday. He is prepared to accept that too. " I think it 's a no-brainer. I think we know they will , " he said in response to a question if he expected India fans to outnumber Australian supporters but pointed out that his team had got used to that idea by playing in India. " I think it 's fine. We 've played in India a number of times and they out-support us there as well. " " I think MS Dhoni deserves a lot of credit for the way he 's captained his team especially being defeated in the Test series and the tri-series to be able to turn things around. Obviously they 're at the top of their game at the moment. So we 're prepared for that. We know we 're playing against a very good team that obviously won the last World Cup , " Clarke said . Michael Clarke has conceded that the big-match experience of more Indian players could make a difference on Thursday. " I said at the start of this tournament that I thought India were going to be one of the toughest teams to beat. My main reason for that is because they 've been in the conditions for so long. They 've played so much cricket in Australia. They 've worked out how to take wickets. They 've worked out how to score runs , and they 've shown that through this tournament , " he said . " It 's been a long time. Seven years. I can recall that very well. It 's really fresh in my memory because it was the first final of the CB series , and the great Sachin Tendulkar was batting alongside me , so there is no way I can forget that. " Rohit also has great memories of the SCG having played a significant part in India winning the first final of the 2008 CB series. Rohit made 66 and was involved in a crucial stand with Sachin Tendulkar. " It was a very important game. We had to win that game and we were chasing 240-odd. So , yeah , we pretty much did whatever we wanted to , " he said . There is a lot of pre-match talk before the game and let 's get straight into it. Rohit Sharma insists that wearing the team jersey is enough to motivate him and he does not need someone else to pump him up for the semi-final. " It is important for me when I wear that India cap , I need to work hard. I do n't need anyone else to come and talk or whatever it is. I bat the way I want to and I think I would make sure that nothing gets into the head. I just want to play my game. It does n't matter what people are talking and things like that. " Quarter-final : India faced Bangladesh at the MCG and after a few jitters while batting , posted a 300 plus total thanks to a hundred from Rohit Sharma. With the total on the board , the bowlers as they have done all tournament did their job and finished off their Asian neighbors well inside 50 overs to move into the semis. It was another commanding performance from the Indian team in the tournament and kept their unbeaten run going . India : India maintained a clean slate in the group stages. It began with a win against Pakistan at Adelaide. South Africa were humbled at the MCG. UAE were easy meat. West Indies posed a challenge , but India came through that. Ireland were taught a lesson. Zimbabwe fought till the end , but their lack of winning games went against them as India hung on and won thanks to Raina and Dhoni to remain unbeaten in the tournament . Quarter-final : Pakistan were expected to be tricky opposition in the quarters but except for the tremendous spell from Wahab Riaz which had them on the ropes for a while , Australia were always in command. Once they survived Riaz 's spell , Australia cantered home to victory to set up a semi-final date with India at the Sydney Cricket Ground . The road to the semis. Australia : Australia began with a bang thumping England. Then there was a washout against Bangladesh before losing a thriller against New Zealand. The no-result and the loss to New Zealand meant they could n't finish top of the group. Australia smashed Afghanistan then won a high-scoring game against Sri Lanka before having it easy against Scotland . There have been so many altercations on the pitch when India and Australia play each other. Two instances immediately come to mind. McGrath sledging Tendulkar in Nairobi and the little man returning the favor and Michael Slater 's angry argument with Rahul Dravid in 2001 at Kolkata. Not to forget Monkey Gate in 2008. It will be interesting to see what kind of sledging and how far it goes in the semi-final . What is an India-Australia clash without verbals and sledging. James Faulkner certainly has raised the heat saying there will be verbals when the two sides meet in the semi-final. " I think there always is in the game , if there is n't you 've got problems , " Faulkner said. " It 's the nature of the game , it 's a semi-final , it 's cut-throat. There 's going to be words said and it 's going to be a really tough contest. Neither team will be backing down. " Sledging : " Make offensive remarks to ( an opposing batsman ) in order to break their concentration. " Former Aussie great , Ian Chappell too picked out Ponting 's innings as the difference between the two sides. " Ponting played magnificently. He is only a little guy but has a reputation of hitting the golf ball a long way. Anybody who saw him bat at the Wanderers that day will understand why. Once he started going , he let loose and hit some huge sixes. Virtually , by the end of the first 50 overs , the World Cup final was over. " Javagal Srinath who was a part of the Indian side that lost the game was effusive in his praise of Ricky Ponting , saying , " The speciality of Ricky Ponting is his ability to win matches. It is not just about scoring runs. He had the capacity to maneuver the team and take them along. " The 2003 World Cup final between India and Australia was expected to be a cracker. Australia were unbeaten in the tournament till then , while India had won 8 in a row before the final. But the Aussies simply blew the Indians away. The tone was set in the opening over when an over enthusiastic Zaheer Khan was hit for 15 runs and Australia never looked back. Ricky Ponting was at his brilliant best as he conjured up 140 runs - one of the all-time best knocks in World Cup history. Australia made 359 and the rest was a formality , especially after Tendulkar was dismissed for 4 in the opening over . Two days later Tendulkar hit 134 as India beat Australia to lift the trophy. These two innings by Tendulkar are considered by many to be his finest ODI innings and also the best innings played by an Indian against Australia in ODIs. Such was the impact of Tendulkar 's innings that Shane Warne admitted to having nightmares of Sachin . " But that will to win and desire to go through to the finals was there in our dressing room and some good cricket by all of us helped us reach the finals and we lifted the trophy as well. " " That match itself was a memorable one because we went back to the dressing room [ after a delay ] and there was a fresh target. Not many runs were added but about four or five overs were deducted so the target became stiffer , " Tendulkar recalled . Sachin himself felt the desert storm was a new experience for him. He told Sport360.com , " We were playing Australia and suddenly [ there was ] this new experience of a desert storm for me. I was worried because I thought , looking at my size and weight - I weighed a lot less then - I thought I was going to get blown away by the storm. I was moving closer to Adam Gilchrist , hoping that if I was getting blown away I was going to grab hold of him. Some extra weight always helps ! " " We knew that Sachin likes to be left alone and be himself before he goes out to bat. The coach or the captain did n't feel the need to instruct what the Little Master had to do out there in the middle once play resumed knowing that Sachin himself was aware of what had to be accomplished. He was his usual self - quiet and focused , " added Mongia . " Nobody in the dressing room went close to him and uttered a word. " Sachin 's innings was seen from close quarters by Nayan Mongia who was a part of the game. He was full of praise for Sachin and recollected that knock recently to Deccan Chronicle. Here is what he had to say : " On that day Sachin could have done anything. Such was his form and frame of mind. The picture of Sachin sitting in the dressing room with his gear on while the sandstorm blew across the ground is embedded in most of our minds. " 'Operation Desert Storm ' as it has come to be known is actually the name given to Sachin Tendulkar 's masterful innings of 143 which ensured India qualify ahead of New Zealand , into the final of the tri-series in Sharjah. Australia had set India a target of 285 and a sand storm had stopped play for about 25 minutes. After the break India needed 237 in 46 overs to beat New Zealand 's NRR and sneak into the final. That day , Tendulkar was batting on a different planet as he took India single-handedly to the final. The match was made even more memorable by the commentary of the late Tony Greig who went into paroxysms of excitement whenever Tendulkar hit a six . We have set the bar quite high in our opening few paras , so it will be a dampener if we do n't keep up with that. Two instances have to be mentioned when it comes to India-Australia clashes. In ODIs , especially. One is Desert Storm and the other the 2003 World Cup final. Let us go back in time and refresh our memories of those two matches , starting with Desert Storm . So here it is then. We present you India vs Australia once again , in a World Cup semi-final. India vs Australia. World Cup semi-final. Few things get bigger than this in the world of sport. Howdio folks , join in then as we begin our coverage of the big match. You are welcome wherever you may be. Just grab something and follow all the action as it happens right here. You wo n't miss a thing , trust us. So let 's get rolling then.. . When you talk of India-Australia , the moments just flood your memories. Moments and more moments. Magic moments. Insane moments. Special moments. Great moments. Breathtaking moments. So many. It is hard to pen everything down. Over the last decade and half - India vs Australia has come to be known as the rivalry. Even more than India-Pakistan and Australia-England. India vs Australia has seen some of the greatest action that one could hope to witness on a cricket field . The Chappells. Allan Border. David Boon. Mark Taylor. The Waughs. Shane Warne. Glenn McGrath. Matty Hayden. Ricky Ponting. Adam Gilchrist. Brett Lee. Michael Clarke. David Warner. Sunny Gavaskar. Kapil Dev. Mohammad Azharuddin. Ravi Shastri. Sachin Tendulkar. VVS Laxman. Rahul Dravid. Sourav Ganguly. MS Dhoni. Virat Kohli. Outstanding players. Hard-working players. Skilful players. Talented players. Legendary players. You 've them all. Some of the greats of the game have come from India or Australia. The finest. The brilliant. And some more. A combined India-Australia all-time XI would be some team. But that exercise is for a another day. But just that thought gives goosebumps ! 12 : 15 Local Time , 01 : 15 GMT , 06 : 45 IST : Kapil Dev 's spell at the MCG in 1981. A young Tendulkar 's hundred on a pacy WACA track in 1991-92. Australia beating India at the Wankhede in 1996. Desert Storm ! The miracle of Eden in 2001. The greatest series ever in 2001. Steve Waugh being made to wait for the toss by Sourav Ganguly. Ponting 's dream day in 2003. Steve Waugh 's final hurrah in 2004. The final frontier conquered in 2004. Monkey Gate in 2008. An ill-tempered series in 2008. Ganguly 's bow in 2008. Australia knocked out of the World Cup in 2011. Whitewash in 2011-12. Favor returned in 2013. Sledging. Aggression. Passion. Intensity. Desire. Flair. Talent. Battles. Epic clashes. Rivalry . Preview by G Rajaraman : There are two reasons why Australia do not start overwhelming favourites in the ICC Cricket World Cup semifinal against India on Thursday the weary , end-of-the-season , fairly grassless pitch at the Sydney Cricket Ground as well as India 's competitive instinct , fuelled by hunger and intensity , lending a greater sense of balance to the high-voltage clash . A large section of SCG is expected to back Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's team but the Indian captain will be well aware that his team and he will have to dig deep in their reserves to be able to stop Australia from setting up Sunday 's title clash with their trans-Tasman rivals , New Zealand. If the teams turn up at the park with their A games , fans could get a game to cherish . India have had a fine run in the World Cup , winning all seven starts , but they will have to be well on top of their A game to be able to beat the strong and determined home side and get to within one match of having the chance to defending the crown , a feat achieved only by the great sides of the West Indies and Australia . To be sure , it is not beyond Dhoni and his men. The top three batsmen , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma and Virat Kohli all relish the challenge of squaring up against the best bowling line-up. If they can extend that to Thursday 's massive showdown , India can keep their tryst with the grand final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday . India 's bowlers have caught the eye by lifting their game and executing the plans admirably. Mohit Sharma 's back-of-the-hand slower delivery could be one the handiest weapons on the SCG track that is not expected to be aid bowlers overtly. The slowness of the pitch could make off-spinner R Ashwin 's variations of pace and Ravindra Jadeja 's accuracy key , too . After spending an evening , sweating under covers as it rained over Sydney , the pitch was back under the charge of its caretakers , curator Tom Parker and his colleagues. Between sessions of rolling spread over the day , the pitch had a number of curious visitors , including Australia coach Darren Lehmenn , Chairman of Selectors Rod Marsh and his colleague Mark Waugh . Clearly , the curator 's attempt has been to ensure that the pitch would be even-paced unlike in the quarterfinal where it started off being dual-paced and challenged the Sri Lanka batsmen. It would be important for the team batting first to ensure that not too many wickets are lost in the mandatory powerplay . Shane Watson 's show of character must count as a positive spin-off of Australia 's engaging quarterfinal skirmish with Pakistan or a fired-up left-arm paceman Wahab Riaz , to be more specific. His presence in the middle-order does lend experienced muscle to go with the youthful exuberance of Glenn Maxwell . New Zealand 's entry into the title round more so as squad that has won all its eight matches in the World Cup can work as an extra spark for Australia , known to have a long history of intense antipodean rivalry. But as Australian captain Michael Clarke pointed out repeatedly , his team did not need such external factors to find the drive to win the game . Of course , Australia have not lost an ODI in Sydney in the last three years but that must be tempered by the knowledge that only one of those games the recent victory over Sri Lanka has been played in the month of March. And it is of some significance that India beat Australia in March 2008 , with Rohit Sharma sharing a century stand with Sachin Tendulkar . The South Africans felt the crowd pressure a couple of times in the tournament , notably against India in Melbourne on February 22 and New Zealand in Auckland on Tuesday. Will it be the Australians ' turn to be playing an 'away ' game at home , given the hordes of Indian supporters who will turn up at the SCG on Thursday ? For this one time , we can believe the truism that is often spouted in limited-over cricket. For once , let us accept that the team that keeps its nerves in check and expresses itself under pressure on Thursday would earn the right to take that flight to Melbourne for the ICC Cricket World Cup final against New Zealand . Teams : India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( c/w ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma , Axar Patel , Stuart Binny , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ambati Rayudu Australia ( From ) : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Steven Smith , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Shane Watson , Glenn Maxwell , Brad Haddin ( w ) , James Faulkner , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood , Mitchell Marsh , Xavier Doherty , George Bailey , Pat Cummins Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
