Graphs The team gets across to pose for the cameras with the series trophy as well as the mace. The hosts have been rampant throughout the series and might consider themselves unlucky for not completing a whitewash. As Amla stated , they have a break of six months from Test cricket. The focus from now on will be firmly on the World Cup , due to start from February 14th. South Africa will prepare for the tournament with a 5-match series against West Indies. But before that , there 's a small matter of a 3-match T20 gig between the two teams. The first match of the series will be played here in Cape Town on January 9th at 18 : 00 local time. Do join us for all the action. For now , cheers and bye. . Hashim Amla is presented with the 'Sir Viv Richards Trophy ' for winning the series by a 2-0 margin. He is also handed over a cheque of US $ 500,000 as well as the ICC mace for finishing the calendar year as the number one Test team in the world. The cheque was handed over by ICC Chief Executive , David Richardson Amla : 'A proud moment , very happy to start off on a winning note at home. Credit to West Indies , they played a great brand of cricket and gave us a good fight. The bowlers put their hands up for me , to bowl 50 overs on a trot ( yesterday ) was a difficult task. All the bowlers were excellent , Morne 's first spell was superb , Steyn came back and took the wickets , when needed. We knew we would go into a transition period after the retirement of Kallis and Smith. The new guys have put their hands up , Stiaan ( van Zyl ) in the first Test and Simon ( Harmer ) in this Test. Our bowlers have always stuck to their task , most of the Tests , they have delivered , this was a difficult surface to bat , but the boys did the job. Newlands is one of the best venues to play cricket , and it 's wonderful to play in front of this great crowd. The focus will now be on the shorter format of the game. We are looking forward to the ODIs and the World Cup.' Hashim Amla is the Man of the Series for his 342 runs at an average of 114 AB : 'It 's always a pleasure batting with Hash ( Amla ) . They bowled well in patches , we stuck it out during tough times and cashed in later on. That 's how Test cricket goes , we have to wait for the opportunity to come. Once we get a sniff , it 's easy to go on and dominate the bowlers. I have changed a lot technique wise , the last 10 years , I follow the game plan that comes naturally to me , the mind-set has n't changed though. Harmer was fantastic , happy for him. He was under pressure , especially in the second innings , he was expected to get the wickets for us , it 's tough to do so in Cape Town. Steyn did a great job and was well supported by the rest of the boys. Looking forward to the T20s and ODIs.' AB de Villiers is the MoM for his sublime 148 in RSA 's first innings Ramdin : 'It was always tough to beat South Africa in South Africa , but there 's some positives. Kraigg Brathwaite and Marlon Samuels did well with the bat. We did n't take our chances when they arrived , they did that , they showed why they are the number one team in the world. They are world class athletes and took all the chances that came their way. They deserve to be at the top of the ladder , they showed how good they were. The T20 boys ( Gayle , Pollard , Bravo and Sammy ) are here , we will look to do better in that format of the game. Congrats to South Africa for winning the series and retaining their number one ranking.' Presentations : Some positives for the visitors. Kraigg Brathwaite has grown beyond his age and has stabilized his position as the opener. His partner , Devon Smith , squandered another opportunity though. For , Leon Johnson and Jermaine Blackwood , this tour was an education in itself. Marlon Samuels came back to run-scoring ways , but some of his dismissals bordered on the recklessness. A quiet series for Shiv Chanderpaul , but there were gains in the bowling department , despite the loss of Kemar Roach. With home Tests against England and Australia on the anvil this summer , they can only grow better as a group . Coming to the overall series , South Africa showed why they have been undisputed number one team in the world. The batting was solid , with Hashim Amla , AB de Villiers and Faf du Plessis , all amongst the runs. There are certain doubts over the future of Alviro Petersen , after his none too impressive outings , and the emergence of Stiaan van Zyl , who is widely tipped to be SA 's future opener , has put more pressure on him. JP Duminy and Quinton de Kock missed the series with injuries , but the hosts did n't seem to miss them one bit. Coming to the bowling , It was once again a show led by Steyn & Co. They continue to amaze and have deservedly ended the calendar year as the number one ranked Test team . A comfortable win in the end for the hosts. They lost all the tosses , but played the better cricket over the course of the series. Batting was the weaker link of this West Indies team and their inexperience at times showed up. They made a good fist of it in the first innings , finishing on 329. But the hosts , guided by AB de Villiers , overhauled the total with ease and eventually finished on 421 , an overall lead of 92 runs. Batting for a second time , the visitors looked comfortable at 202/4 , before a combination of supreme bowling from Steyn and their own ineneptness with the bat saw them crashing to 215 all-out. The target of 124 was never going to test the hosts , and although , West Indies brought out their A-game today , they were always fighting a losing battle . Jubiliation in the dressing room. Amla and Elgar take a stump out as souvenier. The rest of the team join in , AB is out with his pads on. He played the innings of the match , a fine 148 in the first innings. Coach , Russell Domingo , is out as well. The two teams shake hands , the better team has won but West Indies have n't exactly disgraced themselves . 37.4 Samuels to Amla , FOUR , SA win , they win the series by a 2-0 margin and retain their number one ranking. This is the second straight series win for Hashim Amla as captain , and it 's only appropriate that he hit the winning runs. Coming to the winning shot , this was short and wide from Samuels , Amla makes room and crashes it through point for the winning boundary 37.3 Samuels to Elgar , 1 run , Samuels gives this one plenty of air , worked in front of mid-on for a quick single , good running by Elgar 37.2 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , flatter and on Amla 's pads , nudged past square leg for a single 37.1 Samuels to Amla , 2 runs , flighted and on Amla 's pads , clipped away in front of square on the on-side , comes back for the second run 36.6 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Elgar gets forward and defends it 36.5 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , FOUR , SA are racing away towards victory , short and just outside off , Elgar is quick to latch onto the pull and gets it over square leg , no need to run for those 36.4 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , defended towards cover point round the wicket to Elgar 36.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , short and just outside off , Amla swivels across and pulls it behind square on the on-side. The crowd claps as Gabriel stops this one cleanly 36.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , poor fielding from Gabriel at the backward square leg boundary , length ball on Amla 's pads , whipped away behind square on the onh-side. Gabriel lumbers across from the deep , bends lazily and allows the ball to slip underneath his fingers South Africa have arrived at the home-stretch. Will they finish this one off before lunch ? 36.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , short of a length and on Amla 's pads , turned towards square leg Jerome Taylor [ 6.0-3-11-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , full and on Amla 's pads , whipped away backward of square on the on-side for a single 35.5 Samuels to Elgar , 1 run , flatter and wider from Samuels , Elgar cuts it square on the off-side for a single 35.4 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , another sweep , the line is well outside leg once again , just a single behind square on the on-side 35.3 Samuels to Amla , FOUR , that 's too easy for Amla , Samuels floats one well outside leg , Amla goes halfway down on his knees and sweeps it very fine , the ball races away to the fence for a boundary 35.2 Samuels to Amla , no run , flatter and wider from Samuels , Amla makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at cover point 35.1 Samuels to Amla , no run , tossed up and on off , Amla shuffles across and defends it 34.6 Benn to Amla , 1 run , Benn drops this one short and wide outside off , Amla backs away and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 34.5 Benn to Amla , no run , Benn gives this one more air , Amla gets well forward as he smothers the spin 34.4 Benn to Amla , no run , full and on the stumps , driven down towards mid-on 34.3 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted and on off , Amla prods forward as he blocks 34.2 Benn to Amla , no run , tossed up and wider outside off , Amla gets a big stride forward in defence 34.1 Benn to Elgar , 1 run , slower and on Elgar 's pads , worked away past mid-wicket for a single 33.6 Samuels to Amla , no run , pushed through by Samuels , Amla goes back and defends it with soft hands 33.5 Samuels to Amla , FOUR , lovely shot , Samuels drops one short and on the stumps , Amla backs away , plays with an open face and cuts it square on the off-side for a boundary 33.4 Samuels to Amla , no run , Amla comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and drives it towards mid-on 33.3 Samuels to Amla , no run , tossed up and on the leg-stump line , Amla drops it towards the on-side 33.2 Samuels to Elgar , 1 run , slower and on off , worked away past square leg for a single 33.1 Samuels to Elgar , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Elgar gets a big stride forward in defence Marlon Samuels [ 1.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Benn to Amla , no run , pushed through flatter and wider , Amla makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at backward point 32.5 Benn to Elgar , 1 run , Elgar comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it down towards long-on for a single 32.4 Benn to Elgar , no run , Benn drifts one wider outside off , defended towards the off-side 32.3 Benn to Elgar , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Elgar shuffles across and nudges it towards the on-side 32.2 Benn to Elgar , byes , FOUR , whoa ! What was that , Benn saw Elgar attempting a cheeky reverse sweep , fires ths one shorter and down leg , the ball bounces sharply , beats Ramdin and races away to the fence 32.1 Benn to Elgar , no run , flighted and wider outside off , driven towards cover 31.6 S Gabriel to Elgar , leg byes , 1 run , Elgar takes one on his shoulder , ducked into a short ball that hardly rose , gets hit on the shoulder , the batsmen pinch a leg-bye 31.5 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 31.5 S Gabriel to Elgar , no ball , short of a length and well outside off , defended off the backfoot towards cover 31.4 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , back of a length and just outside off , defended towards cover-point 31.3 S Gabriel to Elgar , FOUR , top-edge and four , Elgar was beaten for pace here , this was banged in short and on the stumps , Elgar was late on the pull , gets a top-edge that loops over the keeper 's head , brings up his 3rd Test fifty 31.2 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , back of a length and just outside off , defended with an open face towards backward point 31.1 S Gabriel to Elgar , 2 runs , almost a blinder from Brathwaite , this was banged in short and just outside off , Elgar went for the pull , gets a top-edge over mid-wicket. Brathwaite ran across from deep square leg , almost got to the ball , went one-handed and the ball popped out , would have been one of the catches of the year , had it stuck 30.6 Benn to Amla , no run , flatter and just outside off , Amla presses across and drives it towards mid-off 30.5 Benn to Elgar , 1 run , pushed through quicker by Benn , worked towards long on for a single 30.4 Benn to Amla , 3 runs , Benn drops this one way too short , allows Amla to back and punch it with a straight bat , finds the gap between mid-wicket and mid-on , runs hard and comes back for the third run 30.3 Benn to Amla , no run , full and on Amla 's pads , whipped straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 30.2 Benn to Amla , no run , pushed through by Benn , Amla prods forward and defends it towards the off-side 30.1 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted and on the off-stump line , defended with a straight bat 29.6 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards cover 29.5 S Gabriel to Amla , 1 run , back of a length and on Amla 's hips , tucked in front of square on the on-side for a single 29.4 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , West Indies lose a review , this was short and angled back into Amla , stayed a bit low , Amla went for the pull and missed , gets struck high on the back-pad. Hawk Eye shows that the ball was comfortably sailing over Appeal for LBW. West Indies want a review , looked like it was a bit high , more of a desperate review from West Indies. Amla has been struck high on the back thigh pad , no inside edge on that , but it 's sailing over the top of the stumps 29.3 S Gabriel to Elgar , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , nudged to the right of square leg for a single 29.3 S Gabriel to Amla , no ball , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Amla , nudged in front of square on the on-side for a single , Gabriel has overstepped as well 29.2 S Gabriel to Elgar , 1 run , short and just outside off , Elgar swivels across on the pull , does n't get hold of the shot , the ball was in the air for a while , but drops well out of reach of the man at deep mid-wicket 29.1 S Gabriel to Elgar , FOUR , lovely shot , half-volley fronm Gabriel , Elgar leans into the drive , presents the full face of the bat and punches it past mid-off for a boundary 28.6 Benn to Amla , no run , flatter and on Amla 's pads , he looks to paddle it fine and misses , that was too quick onto him 28.5 Benn to Amla , no run , pushed through by Benn , Amla goes back and blocks Benn switches to over the wicket 28.4 Benn to Amla , no run , slower and spinning away from outside off , left alone 28.3 Benn to Elgar , 1 run , Elgar shimmies down the track to a well flighted delivery and chips it over the infield for a single 28.2 Benn to Elgar , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Elgar gets a big stride forward and smothers the spin 28.1 Benn to Elgar , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Elgar looks to nudge it towards the on-side , gets hit on the pads , mile shout for LBW , but the impact was well outside off 27.6 S Gabriel to Amla , 2 runs , Amla is looking in good touch , this was full and shaping away form off , Amla gets to the pitch , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and slices it square past point for a boundary 27.5 S Gabriel to Amla , FOUR , cracking shot , width on offer from Gabriel , a long half-volley , Amla gets to the pitch of the ball and drills it towards cover , bad bounce for the fielder there and the ball bursts through him for a boundary 27.4 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , on a length and just outside off , Amla stays back and defends it towards cover 27.3 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven towards mid-off 27.2 S Gabriel to Elgar , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , angled away behind square on the off-side for a single 27.1 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , left alone 26.6 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted delivery and spinning away from off , left alone 26.5 Benn to Amla , FOUR , Benn drops one short and wide , Amla was waiting on it , goes back and cuts it in the gap between cover point and point , no need to run for those , off the mark in style 26.4 Benn to Amla , no run , Benn fires one wider as Amla advanced down the track , squirted away to the left of point 26.3 Benn to Amla , no run , Benn drifts one on off , Amla gets a big stride forward as he blocks 26.2 Benn to Amla , no run , slower and wider from Benn , Amla makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at extra cover 26.1 Benn to Amla , no run , pushed through and just outside off , left alone 25.6 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , on a good length and angling back into Elgar , he closes the face of the bat and defends it towards mid-on 25.5 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , Gabriel keeps it full and just outside off , defended solidly towards the off-side 25.4 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Elgar covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 25.3 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , left alone 25.2 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Elgar hops across and defends it back towards the bowler 25.1 S Gabriel to Elgar , FOUR , too full from Gabriel , Elgar gets half forward , closes the face of the bat and punches it back past the bowler , the timing is sweet and the ball races away to the straight boundary 24.6 Benn to Amla , no run , this one is given more air , defended with the full face of the bat 24.5 Benn to Amla , no run , tossed up and on off , Amla waits on it and defends with an angled bat 24.4 Benn to Amla , no run , Benn drifts one outside off , Amla lunges forward and blocks it with a straight bat 24.3 Benn to Amla , no run , slower and on off , defended back towards the bowler 24.2 Benn to Amla , no run , poor ball but excellent diving stop from Blackwood at backward point ! Benn drgged this one way too short and wide outside off , Amla backs away and cuts it to the right of backward point , Blackwood flies to his right and saves a certain boundary 24.1 Benn to Amla , no run , tossed up and spinning away from outside off , left alone 23.6 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Elgar shuffles across and defends it back towards the bowler 23.5 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , on a length and just outside off , Elgar shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side 23.4 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Elgar presses forward and drives it towards cover 23.3 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , the bumper from Gabriel , Elgar drops his hands and sways away from the line 23.2 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Elgar gets behind the line and defends it towards mid-off 23.1 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , short of a length and shaping away from off , left alone Shannon Gabriel , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 22.6 Benn to Amla , no run , pushed through by Benn , Amla goes back and defends it Hashim Amla , right handed bat , comes to the crease Two slips and a FSL in place Drinks are on the field now 22.5 Benn to du Plessis , out Caught by Blackwood ! ! Benn has his man ! He has certainly deserved this one , he troubled Faf all morning , this one spat up from a length outside off , du Plessis was lunging forward on the defensive push , the ball lobs off the shoulder of the bat , Blackwood runs back from 2nd slip , Brathwaite comes across from backward point. They collide , but Blackwood had the ball in his hands by then. A painful stay comes to an end , is there any hope for a Windies revival ? du Plessis c Blackwood b Benn 14 ( 69 ) [ 4s-2 ] Benn to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and wider from Benn , Faf lunges forward as he smothers the spin 22.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , pushed through on off , du Plessis presses forward and blocks 22.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted and just outside off , du Plessis gets a big stride forward in defence 22.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up and on off , du Plessis gets his bat in front of the pads in defence 21.6 J Holder to Elgar , no run , Holder continues to bounce Elgar , this was way too short and well outside off , Elgar drops his wrists and sways away from the line 21.5 J Holder to Elgar , FOUR , too short from Holder , no real pace or bounce on it , Elgar swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a boundary , a shot of authority from Elgar 21.4 J Holder to Elgar , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Elgar prods across and defends it towards the on-side 21.3 J Holder to Elgar , no run , another good short ball from Holder , honing around Elgar 's head , he sways away from the line as he looked to pull and missed , the ball whizzes past his nose 21.2 J Holder to Elgar , no run , strangled appeal for LBW , but the angle was taking it down leg , Elgar was looking to pull this short ball , it did n't bounce as much as he expected , the ball bounces off his chest and hits him on the gloves 21.1 J Holder to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 20.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , nicely bowled by Benn , slows down the pace and gets this one to spin past the off-stump channel , du Plessis was prodding forward in defence and missed 20.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , Benn drifts one slower and just outside off , du Plessis was early on the on-drive , nearly scoops it back towards the bowler 20.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and on off , du Plessis gets a big stride forward in defence 20.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up outside off and holding its line , left alone 20.2 Benn to Elgar , 1 run , strange shot from Elgar , was looking to play the slog sweep , the ball was drifted slower , he checks his shot and hacks it squarer on the on-side for a single 20.1 Benn to Elgar , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Elgar was looking to work it towards the on-side , misses and the ball lobs to FSL off the pads 19.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , back of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone 19.5 J Holder to Elgar , 1 run , short of a length and coming back with the angle , Elgar nudges it towards mid-on. Gabriel misfields and allows a single 19.4 J Holder to Elgar , no run , this one stayed a tad low , angled back in from a length , Elgar was hopping across and defends it off the bottom edge Holder switches back to round the wicket 19.3 J Holder to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , defended back towards the bowler 19.2 J Holder to Elgar , no run , Holder shortens his length and angles one across Elgar , defended with an angled bat towards cover Back over the wicket 19.1 J Holder to Elgar , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Elgar shuffles across and defends it with a straight bat 18.6 Benn to Elgar , 1 run , pushed through flatter by Benn , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 18.5 Benn to Elgar , SIX , Elgar has broken the shackles ! Shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it high and over mid-on , the ball sails over the ropes for a maximum 18.4 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , good running from du Plessis , pushes a well flighted delivery to the left of mid-off and sets off , beats Holder 's return at the bowler 's end with ease 18.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and just outside off , du Plessis gets well forward and blocks 18.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , pushed through by Benn , du Plessis prods forward and gets an inside edge past FSL 18.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery and wider outside off , driven crisply but straight to the fielder at cover Two slip and a FSL in place 17.6 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , short and angling into du Plessis , he swivels across and helps it on its way towards long leg 17.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis prods forward and blocks 17.4 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , Faf gets lucky once again ! Holder ca n't believe his luck , once again the ball nips back from a good length , du Plessis is cut in half as he went back , gets a thick inside edge that goes over the stumps , beats the keeper and races away to the fence 17.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , left alone 17.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 17.1 J Holder to Elgar , 3 runs , short of a length and just outside off , Elgar swivels across and pulls it to the left of mid-wicket. Benn labours behind the ball , allows the batsmen to get back for the third run 16.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , pushed through flatter and just outside off , du Plessis makes room and defends it towards cover point 16.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , signs of frustration from du Plessis , goes hard on the drive to a well tossed up ball , gets a bottom edge as the ball rolls back towards the bowler 16.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and on off , Faf gets half forward and blocks towards the on-side 16.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , Benn gives this one more air , drven back towards the bowler , he makes a half stop and deflects the ball away towards mid-on 16.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , Benn drifts one onto du Plessis ' pads , he looks to work it towards the on-side , the ball lobs off the pads and goes behind square 16.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted and on middle , du Plessis prods half forward and defends it 15.6 J Holder to Elgar , no run , tad fuller and wider from Holder , Elgar shuffles across and defends it 15.5 J Holder to Elgar , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Elgar stays behind the line and defends it 15.4 J Holder to Elgar , no run , short of a length and angling back intro Elgar , defended with a straight bat towards mid-on 15.3 J Holder to Elgar , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Elgar stays behind the line and defends it 15.2 J Holder to Elgar , 2 runs , short and well outside off , Elgar swivels across and pulls it past mid-wicket , the timing is n't great , just a couple of runs 15.1 J Holder to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and wide outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 14.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , this one came back with the angle , du Plessis shuffles across and blocks 14.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , Benn drifts one shorter and outside off , du Plessis hops across his stumps as he lets it go 14.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , pushed through outside off , du Plessis presses half forward and defends it 14.3 Benn to du Plessis , 2 runs , Benn drifts one onto du Plessis ' pads , nudged past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 14.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and on off , du Plessis lunges forward in defence 14.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted and on off , du Plessis prods forward and blocks 13.6 J Holder to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone 13.5 J Holder to du Plessis , leg byes , 1 run , full and angling onto du Plessis ' pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards square leg. The batsmen sneak in a leg bye 13.4 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , that nipped back in sharply , du Plessis was cut in half as he looked to defend , gets an inside edge that races away past the keeper and into the fence for a boundary 13.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis gets half forward and defends it 13.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 13.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Holder comes into the attack. He has two slips and a short mid-wicket in place 12.6 Benn to Elgar , no run , slower and wider from Benn , gets a bit of bounce as well , Elgar drops his gloves and defends it towards the on-side A slip , leg slip and a FSL in place as Elgar faces Benn for the first time today 12.5 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , Benn concedes his first run today , tossed up and on off , driven in front of mid-on for a quick single 12.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , Benn slips in the quicker ball , du Plessis went for an ambitious drive and missed , would have been a tough catch at slip had he edged it 12.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , this one went through with the arm , du Plessis lunged forward and gets an inside edge towards the on-side 12.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up outside off and holding its line , left alone 12.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and just outside off , du Plessis shuffles across and defends it 11.6 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , mistimed drive towards mid-off 11.5 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis is off the mark , but it was a single fraught with risk , he pushed a length ball in front of mid-on and called for a quick single , just about beats the throw at the bowler 's end The batsmen have changed ends for the first time today , du Plessis will face Taylor , will he get his first run ? 11.4 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , 3 runs , too short and just outside off , Elgar rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket , the timing was n't spot on , the ball is pulled back in front of the ropes , the batsmen get back for the third run 11.3 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , 2 runs , edged , but once again the ball drops well in front of 2nd slip , bursts through his fingers for a couple of runs 11.2 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Elgar presses across and defends it 11.1 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 10.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , Faf is n't able to get past Benn , tossed up and on off , defended back towards the bowler 10.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up and just outside off , du Plessis gets a big stride forward and blocks 10.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , that 's another cracker , no luck for Benn , tossed up on off , draws du Plessis forward before spinning past the outside edge 10.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , turn and bounce for Benn , du Plessis was prodding forward , goes back and is beaten on the outside edge 10.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and just outside off , du Plessis gets a big stride forward and blocks 10.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted and just outside off , du Plessis prods back and defends it 9.6 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , FOUR,Runs today ! Mighty relief for Elgar , latches onto a short ball and pulls it emphatically over mid-wicket for the first runs of the morning 9.5 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , on a good length and in that corridor outside off , Elgar gets solidly behind the line in defence 9.4 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , short and just outside off , Elgar swivels across on the pull , does n't get hold of the shot. Benn moves across to his left , tumbles and saves a run for his team 9.3 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Elgar gets on top of the bounce and defends it towards cover point 9.2 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , that 's a superb line from Taylor , Elgar was half forward as he looked to defend and missed 9.1 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , short and wide from Taylor , Elgar almost went chasing after that , withdrew his bat at the last moment 8.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and on off , du Plessis lunges forward with soft hands , gets an inside edge towards FSL 8.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted and on off , pushed back towards the bowler 8.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and just outside off , du Plessis gets a good stride forward in defence 8.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted and just outside off , du Plessis prods forward and blocks 8.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , beautifully bowled ! He gave this one plenty of air , drew du Plessis forward before spinning and bouncing past the outside edge 8.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , that one spat and bounced from a length , it was well outside off though , allows du Plessis to let it go 7.6 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , left alone. Yet another maiden over , the sixth in a row 7.5 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , short of a length and just outside off , no room for Elgar to free his arms , he ends up mistiming his pull towards mid-on 7.4 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , edged and does n't carry ! This is excellent bowling from Taylor , in that channel outside off and straightening , Elgar was pushing forward in defence , gets a thick edge that does n't carry through to the keeper 7.3 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Elgar stays behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 7.2 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Elgar gets half forward as he defends it with an angled bat 7.1 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , Taylor bangs one short and well outside off , Elgar ducks underneath and lets it go 6.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , pushed through flatter and drifting away from outside off , left alone. Another maiden over from Benn 6.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up and just outside off , du Plessis defends it back towards the bowler 6.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and on off , du Plessis prods back towards the bowler 6.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , beautifully bowled by Big Benn , this was pushed through with the arm , straightened after pitching , du Plessis was playing for the turn , ends up playing inside the line and misses 6.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted and just outside off , du Plessis gets his bat in front of the pads as he blocks 6.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up and on off , du Plessis gets well forward as he defends 5.6 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , short of a length and angling away from off , cracked straight to the fielder at backward point Bcak to over the wicket 5.5 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , loose from Elgar , his patience looks to be running out , this was short and wide from the bowler , stayed a tad low , Elgar swished at that and missed 5.4 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Elgar gets well forward and defends it towards cover 5.3 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , left alone Taylor switches to round the wicket 5.2 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , looking to tempt Elgar into the drive , he resists and lets it go Taylor is back over the wicket now 5.1 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , short of a length and angling away from off , defended with soft hands towards gully 4.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , pushed back at the bowler 4.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , that one skidded through after pitching , du Plessis was prodding forward and gets an inside edge towards the on-side 4.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slower and just outside off , du Plessis gets a big stride forward as he defensively pushes at it 4.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , this one is given more air , du Plessis gets well forward on the block 4.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , du Plessis goes back and punches it towards cover 4.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted and just outside off , du Plessis presses forward in defence 3.6 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Elgar was neither forward nor back , leans into the defensive push and blocks it 3.5 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , edged ! But Elgar played it with soft hands , the ball rolled away towards 1st slip , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , draws Elgar into the defensive push Taylor changes to round the wicket 3.4 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , Elgar watches it all along as he lets it go 3.3 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , back of a length and in that chanel outside off , Elgar stays back and defends it with an angled bat 3.2 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape away from off , Elgar shuffles across , lifts his bat and lets it go Two slips and a gully in place 3.1 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , left alone Jerome Taylor [ 1.0-0-1-0 ] is back into the attack 2.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , Benn drifts one outside off , du Plessis lunges forward and blocks 2.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up and on off , du Plessis gets a big stride forward as he blocks 2.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , little bit of bounce for Benn , Plessis gets a good stride forward in defence A slip and a FSL in place The players are out in the middle.. Faf du Plessis is the new man , he will face the last three balls from the unfinished Benn over . On the weather front , it looks like a much better day. We should be starting on time , 30 minutes earlier to make up for some of the lost time yesterday. . 09 : 40 Local Time , 07 : 40 GMT , 13 : 10 IST : Hello , and a warm welcome to the final day of the Test series between South Africa and West Indies. It promises to be a short day , the hosts have edged ahead after a combination of skillful bowling and brain-fade batting from West Indies in the final session of Day 4. The tourists were eventually shot out for 215 in their second innings , an overall lead of just 123 runs. The sagging spirits of the visitors were somewhat lifted after Suliemann Benn struck with the day 's last ball , castling Alviro Petersen for 0. The hosts need another 115 runs to complete a 2-0 series win and also finish the calendar year as the number one ranked Test team , thereby retaining the mace. Can West Indies surprise us ? Play will start in 25 minutes time. . The target seems to be easy for the Proteas , but the pitch still has something in it for the bowlers. Can the West Indian bowlers exploit it and show some more fight ? Or will it be a walk in the park for the hosts ? Join us tomorrow for the final day which begins 30 minutes early , i.e. 10 : 00 local time. Until then , take care and Cya ! Earlier in the day , rain played spoilsport washing out almost two sessions of play , but thanks to the groundstaff for getting things ready quickly and helping the players to get around 50 overs in. Johnson went early , but the pair of Samuels and Chanderpaul defied the hosts with a 87-run stand before the self destruction took place. Harmer , once again was impressive as he scalped 4 wickets - ending the match with 7. He was well supported by the rest , especially Steyn who got the ball to reverse and took 3 of his own . Some not so happy faces in the West Indian dressing room as the players make their way back. The South African openers had around 10 minutes to survive the day unscathed , but they have lost the wicket of Peterson , leaving them with only 9 wickets to chase down the remaining 115 . 2.3 Benn to A Petersen , out Bowled ! ! Knocked over ! A poor judgement by Petersen. He decides to negate this arm-ball by staying back in the crease , he is done in for the pace , the ball takes the inside edge and crashes onto the stumps. An excellent bowling change by Ramdin. A Petersen b Benn 0 ( 7 ) Benn to A Petersen , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 2.2 Benn to A Petersen , no run , pushed through on off , Petersen stays back and blocks it to the off-side 2.1 Benn to A Petersen , no run , skids on after pitching , Petersen goes back and misses the clip , wears it high on the pad Sulieman Benn , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Last over of the day coming up. . 1.6 Samuels to Elgar , no run , straight roller outside off , Elgar covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 1.5 Samuels to Elgar , no run , flighted just outside off , Elgar pushes it to extra cover 1.4 Samuels to Elgar , no run , slider on off , Elgar trusts the bounce on the wicket and lets it go , the ball goes over off-pole 1.3 Samuels to Elgar , no run , quicker and on off , Elgar hangs back and drops it with soft hands to the off-side 1.2 Samuels to Elgar , FOUR , " catch it " shouted Ramdin , but it was hit in the gap. Half tracker outside off , Elgar goes right back and punches it uppishly wide of short cover , he beat mid-off as well A slip and short leg in place. . 1.1 Samuels to Elgar , no run , fraction short and just outside off , Elgar cuts and picks out backward point Marlon Samuels , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Surprise ! Samuels to share the new ball.. . 0.6 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , nice shape for Taylor , the length is short though , Peterson has no problems shouldering arms to that 0.5 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , good length ball on middle , Peterson plays it around his pads , works it to mid-wicket 0.4 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , slightly fuller and outside off , Peterson is happy to let that go through to Ramdin 0.3 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , shortens the length on off , Peterson goes back and defends solidly 0.2 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Elgar stands tall and punches it to cover , Brathwaite misfields and allows the batsmen to take a single 0.1 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , byes , FOUR , poor cricket all-round , short and shaping away well wide of off , Elgar pokes at it needlessly , the ball misses the outside edge , Ramdin is late to get down to collect the ball and the result it four bonus runs Elgar and A Petersen are at the crease. Elgar is on strike. Jerome Taylor will open the attack Chanderpaul held fort at one end with a steady fifty , his first of the series , but he was running out of partners. The veteran tried his best to keep the South African bowlers at bay , but fell to a needless single. It is now upto the hosts ' batsmen to chase down 124 and win the series 2-0. Can the West Indian bowlers show more fight with the ball ? We 'll find out soon.. . What just happened in the last 45 minutes ? One minute West Indies are crusing at 182/3 and a few overs later , they are bowled out for 215. They lost their last 7 wickets for 33 runs. It all started when a well set Samuels threw his wicket away. The Jamaican had seen off the fast bowlers with ease , he was looking solid before he tried to play one shot too many against Harmer. Once South Africa got his wicket , the floodgates opened. Blackwood was set-up nicely by Steyn and the rest of the batsmen self imploded . 79.5 Steyn to S Gabriel , out Chanderpaul Run Out ! ! Well , ca n't say much about this brain fade. Last delivery in the over left and Chanders goes for a needless single. Banged in halfway down the wicket , Gabriel stays in the crease and guides it towards point , he goes for the single , Chanderpaul is late to respond , but still goes through with it , Bavuma swoops in , aims at the striker 's end and hits the bulls-eye. Chanderpaul had given up and was hoping that Bavuma would miss. Chanderpaul run out ( Bavuma ) 50 ( 113 ) [ 4s-5 ] Steyn to S Gabriel , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 79.4 Steyn to S Gabriel , no run , Steyn thought he had his man , but umpire Dar was not interested. Short delivery climbs on the batsman , Gabriel does well to drop his glove at the last instant , the ball takes the right bicep and pops to second gully. Top decision from the ump 79.3 Steyn to S Gabriel , no run , good length ball straightens a bit , Gabriel does not commit forward , presents the full face and blocks it to point 79.2 Steyn to S Gabriel , no run , back of a length on off , Gabriel brins his bat down at an angle and blocks it awkwardly down the wicket 79.1 Steyn to S Gabriel , no run , bouncer on leg-stump , Gabriel half-ducks under it and allows it to go through. That was well played by the No.11 78.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , hits the rough and gets it to turn away , Chanderpaul covers the line and leaves it alone 78.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , pulls the length back on off , Chanderpaul stays back and defends it back to the bowler 78.4 Harmer to S Gabriel , 1 run , tossed up on off , Gabriel lofts it on the bounce to deepish mid-on , a conventional mid-on would have gobbled that up 78.3 Harmer to S Gabriel , no run , off-break that spins back in sharply , Gabriel misses the forward defensive , is struck high on the pad and the ball lobs to the off-side 78.2 Harmer to S Gabriel , no run , flighted close to off , Gabriel blocks it down the wicket 78.1 Harmer to S Gabriel , no run , straight roller just outside off , Gabriel plays for the turn and is beaten 77.6 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fullish and outside off from round the wicket , Chanderpaul is not interested in playing that 77.5 Steyn to S Gabriel , 1 run , why did Chanders take the single ? Only one delivery and Gabriel would be exposed to the turn and bounce of Harmer. Tails back in from a length , Gabriel works it off the inside part wide of square leg Shannon Gabriel , right handed bat , comes to the crease 77.4 Steyn to Benn , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! This was always on the cards ! Steyn gets lucky the third time. He had beaten the bat twice and this time Benn manages to feather it to the keeper. It was fuller and just outside off , Benn feels for it with no feet movement , the ball kisses the outside edge and settles into ABD 's gloves. Aleem Dar raised his finger immediately. Benn c de Villiers b Steyn 0 ( 4 ) Steyn to Benn , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 77.3 Steyn to Benn , no run , this one kicks up from a fuller length outside off , Benn sensibly lets it go through to ABD 77.2 Steyn to Benn , no run , this is just too good for Benn , another one that whizzes past the outside edge , back of a length and straightens a touch , Benn prods at it away from the body and is beaten 77.1 Steyn to Benn , no run , Steyn continues from round the wicket , gets the short of length ball to hold its line , Benn pokes and is beaten comprehensively 76.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , little bit of extra bounce , Chanderpaul rides it and pats it in front of point. South Africa got what they wanted , i.e. Benn on strike against Steyn Sulieman Benn , left handed bat , comes to the crease 76.5 Harmer to Jerome Taylor , out Caught by Elgar ! ! What a Test it is turning out to be for Harmer ? He gets his 4th wicket of the innings and 7th of the match. West Indies are in self destruction mode here. A real brain fade from Taylor. Tosses it up just outside off , the ball bounces a bit more , Taylor goes for the heave , picks out the deep mid-wicket fielder to perfection. Jerome Taylor c Elgar b Harmer 0 ( 2 ) Harmer to Jerome Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 76.4 Harmer to Jerome Taylor , no run , drags the length back close to off , Taylor goes deep in the crease and taps it to the off-side Jerome Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 76.3 Harmer to J Holder , out Caught by Amla ! ! Loose shot by Holder ! Harmer is playing the perfect foil for a steaming Steyn. However , it was more Holder giving his wicket away than the other way round. Floated up and breaks back in , Holder leans forward and whips it in the air , straight to Amla at short mid-wicket , good take by the skipper. Another West Indian collapse in progress here. J Holder c Amla b Harmer 2 ( 16 ) Harmer to J Holder , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 76.2 Harmer to J Holder , no run , tosses it up around off , defends it to cover 76.1 Harmer to J Holder , no run , flighted just outside off , Holder drives it uppishly to mid-off , ball goes on the bounce to the fielder 75.6 Steyn to Chanderpaul , 2 runs , " catch it " was the shout from Steyn , but the ball just evades Faf at cover. Meanwhile , Chanderpaul gets to his 66th Test fifty. It was full and holds up on the pitch , Chanderpaul checks his drive , chips it to the right of cover , Faf gets a fingertip to it but ca n't quite hold on. It would have been a spectacular catch 75.5 Steyn to J Holder , 1 run , full and on the pads , Holder stays in the crease and flicks it to deep square leg 75.4 Steyn to J Holder , no run , nips back in sharply from a length , Holder brings his bat down in time and knocks it down the wicket , he looks calm and composed 75.3 Steyn to J Holder , no run , bouncer well wide of off , Holder does n't bother with it , ABD had to leap up to collect that 75.2 Steyn to J Holder , no run , back of a length around off , Holder gets right behind the line and defends it to cover 75.1 Steyn to Chanderpaul , 1 run , fuller and angling in on off , Chanderpaul presents the straightest of bats and pushes it to deepish mid-off Steyn comes round the wicket to Chanders. This is going to be an epic battle between the veteran West Indian batsman and South Africa 's premier fast bowler. Fasten your seat belts folks.. . 74.6 Harmer to J Holder , no run , spinning down leg , Holder ca n't meet with the tickle , good take by ABD 74.5 Harmer to J Holder , no run , tossed up around off , Holder leans forward and smothers the spin with a solid defence 74.4 Harmer to J Holder , no run , prefers to hang back in the crease and block it back to the bowler 74.3 Harmer to J Holder , no run , presses forward and defends it to the on-side 74.2 Harmer to J Holder , no run , Harmer wo n't mind that , Holder whips it with laden feet to mid-wicket , the ball was in the air but well short of the fielder 74.1 Harmer to J Holder , no run , flighted and turning in , Holder hangs back and taps it to FSL 73.6 Steyn to Chanderpaul , FOUR , snorter ! Steyn is steaming in here. This is top-class fast bowling from the No.1 Test bowler. Back of a length and rises steeply , Chanderpaul was trying to defend , the ball takes the shoulder of the bat and balloons over the slip cordon for a boundary 73.5 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , full and attacking the off-stump , Chanderpaul defends it calmly down the wicket 73.4 Steyn to J Holder , 1 run , full and curling into the batsman , Holder gets his front pad out of the way and flicks it wide of mid-on 73.3 Steyn to J Holder , no run , jags back in from a length , Holder ca n't lay bat on the clip and is rapped on the pads , Steyn went up straightaway , but umpire Dar was not interested. Amla took a gamble by opting for the review , he got it wrong as it was sailing down leg South Africa have sent an lbw appeal upstairs. Steyn was not interested in going for the review , but Amla and ABD went for it. It is a legal delivery. The ball was doing too much. Going down leg as per Hawk-Eye 73.2 Steyn to J Holder , no run , good length ball straightens on off , Holder gets right behind the line and manages to keep it out Jason Holder , right handed bat , comes to the crease Hat-trick ball coming up.. The crowd get behind their premier bowler. . 73.1 Steyn to Ramdin , out Caught by Harmer ! ! Golden duck for the West Indian skipper. Steyn is on a hat-trick and boy is he pumped up ! Full and swinging into the batsman , Ramdin falls over while playing the flick , ca n't keep it down as the ball lobs towards square leg , Harmer dives forward and snaffles a good take. Ramdin c Harmer b Steyn 0 ( 1 ) Steyn to Ramdin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 72.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , bit too full and outside off , Chanderpaul meets the pitch and drives it towards mid-off , thinks about the single but decides against it 72.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , flighted outside off , Chanderpaul covers the line and allows the ball to turn away 72.4 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 2 runs , slider down leg , Chanderpaul nurdles it behind square and comes back for the second 72.3 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , Peterson throws the ball , the crowd get excited. Floated up and turning away , Chanderpaul leans forward and hides the bat behind the pad , the ball brushes the pad and goes to slip , no bat involved. Harmer knew that as he did n't even appeal 72.2 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , slower and close to off , Chanderpaul dabs it wide of slip with an angled bat 72.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , tosses it up around off , Chanderpaul push-drives it to short cover Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 71.6 Steyn to Blackwood , out Bowled ! ! Blackwood has been cleaned up ! This was a peach of a delivery , pitched up around middle and shapes away late , Blackwood was playing for the one that came back in , ends up playing inside the line and misses. The ball crashes into the off-stump , Blackwood 's stay is over. 1st wicket for Steyn in the innings. Blackwood b Steyn 13 ( 26 ) [ 4s-2 ] Steyn to Blackwood , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 71.5 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Blackwood rides with the bounce and defends it towards backward point 71.4 Steyn to Chanderpaul , 1 run , Steyn keeps it full and wide outside off , driven to the left of point , the fielder fumbles and allows a run 71.3 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from off , left alone 71.2 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , Chanders plays with soft hands and defends it towards the off-side 71.1 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery and reversing back into Chanders , he opens up his stance and drives it towards mid-on 70.6 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , slower and just outside off , Blackwood lunges forward as he smothers the spin 70.5 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , flighted delivery and spinning back into Blackwood , he looks to drive against the turn , does n't get to the pitch of the ball , manages an inside edge towards mid-wicket 70.4 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , tossed up and just outside off , looking to force Blackwood into driving against the spin , he does well to get on top of the bounce as he blocks 70.3 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , this one is drifted from off-stump , Blackwood gets a good stride forwarde as he pushes it towards cover 70.2 Harmer to Blackwood , FOUR , that 's hammered by Blackwood , Harmer dragged his length short and just outside off , Blackwood rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket for a boundary 70.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , flatter and on Chanderpaul 's pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 69.6 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , too straight from Steyn , defended towards the on-side 69.5 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , fuller length delivery and angling back into Blackwood , driven towards van Zyl at mid-on 69.4 Steyn to Blackwood , 2 runs , Steyn nearly had the last laugh ! This was pitched up and nipped back in late , Blackwood was looking to drive , checks his shot at the last moment and spoons it past cover for a couple of runs 69.3 Steyn to Blackwood , 2 runs , nicely played by Blackwood , back of a length and just outside off , he stays back and punches it to the left of cover. Faf gives chase and keeps them down to a couple of runs 69.2 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , left alone 69.1 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , fuller length delivery and tailing back into Blackwood , he clears his left leg , presents the full face of the bat and punches it past the bowler. van Zyl dives across at mid-on and saves a certain boundary 68.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Chanderpaul makes room and dabs it towards cover-point 68.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , flighted delivery and well wide outside off , Chanderpaul opens the face of the bat and drives it to the left of cover , the fielder dives anmd saves a certain boundary 68.4 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , slower and wider from Harmer , Chanderpaul opens the face of the bat and defends it towards point 68.3 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , pushed through on Chanderpaul 's pads , defended towards the on-side 68.2 Harmer to Blackwood , 1 run , Harmer drifts one wider outside off , driven to the left of mid-off for a single , brings up the 100-run lead for WI 68.1 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , tossed up and spinning back into Blackwood , he makes room and defends it with an angled bat towards backward point 67.6 Steyn to Chanderpaul , FOUR , lovely shot , long half volley from Steyn , Chanders leans into the drive and caresses it through extra cover , no need to run for those 67.5 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Chanderpaul plays inside the line and lets it go 67.4 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 67.3 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , on a good length and tailing back a fraction , Chanderpaul was on the shuffle , watches it all along and defends it towards the on-side 67.2 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , short and angling away from outside off , Chanderpaul looks to cut and misses , that stayed a tad low 67.1 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 66.6 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , Harmer gives this one more air , Blackwood gets a big stride forward as he blocks 66.5 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , extra bounce for Harmer , that spat from a length , Blackwood was quick to drop his bottom hand , plays it with soft hands and the ball drops in front of the diving fielder at FSL 66.4 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , slower and on off , Blackwood goes back and defends it with a straight bat 66.3 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Blackwood goes back and turns it towards the on-side 66.2 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Blackwood lunges forward defensively A slip , a leg-slip , FSL and a short mid-wicket in place 66.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , flighted and just outside off , driven towards deep cover for a single Drinks are on the field now 65.6 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , Steyn is troubling Blackwood here with his reverse swing , this one shaped back in , Blackwood was checking his on-drive , spoons it in the air but the ball drops well in front of short square leg 65.5 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 65.4 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , more signs of reverse swing for Steyn , this one slipped back in , Blackwood was pressing forward and defends it with a straight bat Two slips and a man at mid-on 65.3 Steyn to Blackwood , FOUR , Blackwood 's timing was sublime there ! This was full and nipped back in , Blackwood leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and punched it past mid-on for a boundary 65.2 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , too full and going down leg-side once again , Blackwood looks to flick and misses 65.1 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , full and sliding down leg-side , defeinite signs of reverse swing , Blackwood looks to flick and misses Dale Steyn [ 16.0-3-52-0 ] is back into the attack 64.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , Chanderpaul was caught on the shuffles , this one drifted back in from the angle and rapped him on the pads , the impact was around middle and leg , would have been sliding down Loud shout for LBW , SA will not review Jermaine Blackwood , right handed bat , comes to the crease 64.5 Harmer to Samuels , out Caught by Elgar ! ! Harmer has his man ! Samuels falls while attempting to hit Harmer out of the attack , he comes down the track to a well flighted delivery , but this one breaks back in , there 's no room for Samuels to play the lofted drive , goes through with the shot and hits it in the air towards long-on. Elgar moves across to his left and completes the catch. The threatening stand has been broken. Samuels c Elgar b Harmer 74 ( 150 ) [ 4s-9 6s-2 ] Harmer to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 64.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , tossed up and on off , Samuels comes down the track and blocks it 64.3 Harmer to Samuels , 2 runs , in the air but also in the gap , Samuels came down the track , was n't there to the pitch of the ball and slices it past mid-off for a brace 64.2 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flighted and just outside off , Samuels comes down the track and defends it off his pads A slip , short mid-wicket and a FSL in place 64.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , Harmer drifts one onto Chanders ' pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 63.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , on a good length and on middle , Samuels gets behind the line and defends it solidly 63.5 Philander to Samuels , no run , Philander shortens his length and angles one into Samuels , defended towards the on-side 63.4 Philander to Samuels , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , a bit of bounce as well for Philander. Samuels jabs at that and takes off his bottom hand on the defensive push 63.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Samuels gets behind the line and defends it 63.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , too straight from Philander , ends up drifting onto Samuels ' pads , turned towards square leg 63.1 Philander to Samuels , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Samuels gets on top of the bounce and cuts it to the left of backward point , Elgar tumbles and saves some runs 62.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Chanderpaul plays inside the line and lets it go 62.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , tossed up and on off , Chanderpaul presses forward and smothers the spin 62.4 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , that 's a dropped chance , AB is the culprit , Chanders was pushing forward to a well tossed up ball , gets a thick outside edge , AB was n't in any position as he grabbed at the ball and shells it. There was a bit of extra bounce there , but AB should have held on , a routine chance for the wicket-keeper 62.3 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , this one is given plenty of air , driven towards mid-off 62.2 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , tossed up and on off , Chanderpaul prods across and blocks 62.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Chanderpaul presses across and defends it 61.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , loud appeal for LBW , but the ball was jagging down leg-side. Once again , Samuels was caught in his crease to this inswinger , misses and is struck on the pads. The impact was on leg-stump and the ball would have sailed down , might have been an inside edge as well 61.5 Philander to Samuels , no run , that 's a cracker from Philander , on a good length and holding its line outside off , moved away off the seam at the last moment. Samuels was lured forward , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 61.4 Philander to Samuels , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 61.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , that one nipped back in slightly , Samuels was caught in his crease as he looked to defend , manages to work it way towards the off-side 61.2 Philander to Chanderpaul , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 61.1 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Chanderpaul covers the line and lets it go 60.6 Harmer to Samuels , no run , pushed through by Harmer , Samuels presses across and defends it 60.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Samuels comes down the track and blocks 60.4 Harmer to Samuels , byes , FOUR , that beat everyone ! This was nicely floated outside off , drew Samuels forward before spinning through the gate , bounces over the stumps , beats AB and races away to the fence 60.3 Harmer to Samuels , no run , Samuels shimmies down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball and defends it off his pads 60.2 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , pushed through by Harmer , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 60.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , FOUR , poor ball from Harmer , he drops this one way too short and well outside off , Chanderpaul rocks back and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a boundary 59.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , Samuels gets back in the crease and defends this short of length delivery back to the bowler 59.5 Philander to Samuels , 2 runs , back of a length delivery nipping back in , Samuels does well to lean forward and guides it off the outside half of the bat towards third man 59.4 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length and on leg again , Samuels gently tucks it into the leg-side 59.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , fullish on middle , Samuels presents the full face of the bat and drives it to mid-on , straight to the fielder 59.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length on leg , Samuels tucks it off his pads in front of square on the on-side 59.1 Philander to Samuels , no run , short of length on middle , Samuels camps on the back foot and knocks it towards gully Vernon Philander [ 13.0-3-24-0 ] is back into the attack 58.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , FOUR , short and punished ! Harmer offers good width as well , Chanderpaul takes full advantage , makes room and slaps it to deep point 58.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller around off , Chanderpaul gets forward and softly defends it into the off-side 58.4 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , stays inside the crease and dabs it behind point 58.3 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 2 runs , touch shortish and wide , Chanderpaul backs away and cuts it square of the wicket , a slight misfield at point allows the batsmen to take the second run 58.2 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , turning back into the batsman , Chanderpaul goes on the back foot and defends it with an angled bat 58.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , fullish around off , Chanderpaul gently dabs it towards point Simon Harmer [ 13.0-4-58-1 ] is back into the attack Change of ends for Harmer. He has a slip and FSL in place 57.6 van Zyl to Samuels , no run , fuller length ball on middle , Samuels leans forward and pushes it down the track 57.5 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , 1 run , fullish on off , Chanderpaul comes on the front foot and drives , Faf at cover gets his hand to the ball and slows down the pace , the ball rolls towards mid-off 57.4 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , on a length and outside off , Chanderpaul covers the line and lets that go through 57.3 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , backs away and chops it towards slips 57.2 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , length ball outside off , left alone by Chanderpaul 57.1 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , back of a length and moving away , Chanderpaul reaches out and misses the cut , the ball goes off the keeper 's pad towards the slip fielder 56.6 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , bumper directed at the batsman 's boday , Samuels is forced to arch back and lets that travel to the keeper 56.5 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , 1 run , length delivery shaping back in on middle and leg , Chanderpaul shuffles across and clips it to fine leg 56.4 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , full and outside off again , Chanderpaul lifts his bat and lets it go 56.3 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , very full and very wide , Chanderpaul watches it closely and does not bother with it 56.2 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , good length ball coming back into the batsman , Chanderpaul stays inside the line and defends towards the leg-side 56.1 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , on a length and well outside off , Chanderpaul easily lets that go through 55.6 van Zyl to Samuels , no run , touch back of a length and angling in , Samuels defends it off the back foot 55.5 van Zyl to Samuels , no run , stays inside the line and punches it towards point , Chanderpaul wants the single but is sent back by Samuels 55.4 van Zyl to Samuels , FOUR , another boundary for Samuels , van Zyl bowled this one short , offered some width as well , Samuels makes room and steers it to the deep backward point fence , no chance for Morkel at point to stop it 55.3 van Zyl to Samuels , no run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Samuels jams his bat in front , gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball almost went back onto the stumps 55.2 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , 1 run , good length on middle and off , Chanderpaul taps it to sweeper cover for a comfortable single 55.1 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , fullish on middle , Chanderpaul turns it towards short mid-wicket Stiaan van Zyl , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Some beautiful hitting from Samuels , who has already got his fifty. West Indies now lead by 62 runs . 54.6 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , gets forward and drives this length delivery to mid-off 54.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , nasty bouncer by Morne ! Samuels sways away from the line just in time as the ball goes through to the keeper , the batsman lost his balance as he backed away and fell down , that was well-directed by Morkel and a good leave by Samuels as well 54.4 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , almost a yorker on middle and off , Samuels jams it to the right of the bowler 54.3 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , full on off , Samuels stands tall and drives , straight to the fielder at mid-off 54.2 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , short of length and shaping back in , Samuels hops inside the crease and defends 54.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , Samuels stays inside the line and pokes his bat at this back of a length ball shaping away a touch , is beaten on that one 53.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , flighted outside off , left alone by Chanderpaul 53.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , pushed through around off , Chanderpaul leans on the front foot and defends it with an angled bat 53.4 Harmer to Samuels , 1 run , comes down the track and drives it to long-off 53.3 Harmer to Samuels , FOUR , nicely done by Samuels , gets to the pitch of the ball and drills it to the long-off fence 53.2 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , comes forward and gets an inside edge towards square leg 53.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , gets forward and pushes it back to the bowler 52.6 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , loud appeal for a caught behind. The South Africans have their hands up in unison. The umpire is not interested. Morkel follows Samuels and bowls this one around leg , the batsman backs away and looks to heave , the ball takes the pad and goes through to the keeper. But there was no bat involved there 52.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , sweet delivery from Morkel , shapes away just a touch , beats the outside edge of Samuels ' bat as he looks to defend off the back foot 52.4 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , 1 run , shortish on middle , Chanderpaul rocks back and mistimes the pull to deep square leg , that came off the splice of the bat Two slips and a gully in place.. . 52.3 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , good length and just outside off , Chanderpaul knocks it towards point , the fielder moves across to his left and fields it 52.2 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , fullish and in the channel outside off , Chanderpaul covers the line and shoulders arms to it 52.1 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , back of a length and angled in on middle and leg , Chanderpaul stays back and turns it towards the leg-side Morne Morkel [ 11.0-6-16-2 ] is back into the attack 51.6 Harmer to Samuels , FOUR , brilliantly done again ! 'catch it ' is the call but the fielder was nowhere near the ball , Samuels comes down the track and launches it towards deep mid-wicket for a couple of bounce four 51.5 Harmer to Samuels , SIX , beautiful shot ! Samuels slams his second maximum , dances down the track and lofts this flighted ball majestically towards long-on , clears the fence by quite a distance 51.4 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , drifting on middle and leg , Chanderpaul stays inside the line and works it to mid-wicket 51.3 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , leans forward and defends this loopy delivery with an angled bat 51.2 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , full around off , Chanderpaul presses in front and taps it with an angled bat towards extra cover 51.1 Harmer to Samuels , 1 run , flighted on off , Samuels gets forward and drives it to long-off , finds the fielder there 50.6 Steyn to Samuels , 1 run , fullish on the pads , Samuels leans forward and clips it to deep backward square leg and gets to his 21st Test fifty. He gets some good applause from the West Indies dressing room as he raises his bat towards them 50.5 Steyn to Chanderpaul , 1 run , well-directed bouncer by Steyn on leg , Chanderpaul swivels back and does well to pull it to fine leg 50.4 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , 145kph length ball , straighter as well , Chanderpaul taps it back to Steyn 50.3 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fullish and outside off , it was too wide and Chanderpaul does not bother with it 50.2 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , banged in short on the stumps , Chanderpaul ducks underneath it 50.1 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Chanderpaul stays back and defends it back to the bowler 49.6 Harmer to Samuels , no run , shortish and turning back in , Samuels backs away looking to cut but is beaten 49.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , shuffles across and turns it to FSL 49.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , gets forward and pushes it down the track 49.3 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , turning in on leg , Chanderpaul clips it off the inside half of the bat through backward square leg 49.2 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , gets forward to this fullish ball and pushes it to the right of the bowler 49.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , drifting down leg , Chanderpaul kneels down and looks to sweep , the ball takes the thigh pad and rolls behind square 48.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , shortish and forcing Samuels inside the crease again , the batsman defends it back 48.5 Steyn to Samuels , no run , he is ready for the bounce this time , hops inside the crease a bit and defends it off the back foot 48.4 Steyn to Samuels , no run , shortish and coming back into the batsman , Samuels is surpised by the bounce as he looks to defend , gets hit on the glove and the ball drops down on the pitch 48.3 Steyn to Chanderpaul , 3 runs , shortish and outside off , Chanderpaul opens the face of the bat and steers it to deep backward point , Harmer slides near the rope and drags the ball back in , passes it to another fielder and together they save a run. Nice bit of teamwork there 48.2 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , that was a short of length delivery from Steyn angled in , Chanderpaul is forced on the back foot as he pokes at it , but does not make contact. The ball brushes his pocket on the back thigh and goes through to the keeper. The South Africans were decieved by the noise but there was no wood there Chanderpaul has been caught behind. The on-field umpire gave that out but the batsman has gone for a review straightaway. Looks like he did n't think he hit that one. No problem with Steyn 's front foot. Replays show that the ball took the thigh and went into the keeper 's gloves. The decision has been overturned ! 48.1 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , back of a length and angling across the left hander , Chanderpaul chases after it and is beaten as the ball goes through to the keeper 47.6 Harmer to Samuels , no run , stays on the back foot and defends it towards cover point 47.5 Harmer to Samuels , SIX , Samuels has finally been able to put that away , shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the flighted ball and launches it over the long-on fence for his first maximum 47.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , stays on the back foot and defends it easily 47.3 Harmer to Samuels , 2 runs , same shot again , Samuels has mistimed the loft towards long-off again , gets a couple 47.2 Harmer to Samuels , 2 runs , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it towards long-off , he has not middled that but Morkel was nowhere near the ball 47.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , low full toss on leg , Chanderpaul leans on the front foot and clips it to deep backward square leg Simon Harmer [ 9.0-4-28-1 ] is back into the attack Spin into the attack. Harmer has a slip in place 46.6 Steyn to Chanderpaul , 1 run , tucked away off the back foot to deep backward square leg 46.5 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , beaten now is Chanderpaul ! 140kph full ball in the channel of uncertainty , Chanderpaul goes for an uncertain push and the ball moves past the outside edge 46.4 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , back of a length and dragged wide outside off , ignored 46.3 Steyn to Chanderpaul , FOUR , full and outside off , Chanders gets across and drives it away to the sweeper cover fence 46.2 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , pitched up , tight on middle and off , push-driven to mid-off 46.1 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , full and outside off , Chanderpaul lifts his bat and lets it go 45.6 Philander to Chanderpaul , leg byes , 1 run , leg stumpish , Chanders misses the flick , the ball brushes the thigh pad and runs away fine. West Indies get a leg bye 45.5 Philander to Samuels , 1 run , fuller and tails in on off , Samuels stands tall and forces a drive down to long-off 45.4 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length and outside off , Samuels misses the punch and gets beaten as the ball seams away 45.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , too full and pushed outside off , Samuels jabs his bat down and scoops it over to backward point , who was diving forward. Replays show that the ball touched the ground before going to the fielder. Ump Dar has a chuckle Philander goes up for an appeal. Looks like a bump ball. The two umpires converge and have a chat. The TV ump is pressed into service. The hosts do n't look very confident. Philander 's footing is fine. The ball hit the turf before dropping into the hands of backward point. Samuels will move on and so will we 45.2 Philander to Chanderpaul , 1 run , full and outside off , Chanderpaul opens the face of the bat and drives it behind point , Bavuma there makes a good diving half-save 45.1 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller and tails in on middle , Chanders drives to mid-off from the crease Drinks are on the field now. And the sun has peeked into Newlands. Meanwhile , West Indies are ahead by 18 runs . 44.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , good length ball around off , dabbed behind point 44.5 Steyn to Samuels , no run , bangs a bouncer over the stumps , Samuels half-ducks and lets it pass over him 44.4 Steyn to Samuels , no run , short of length on off , Samuels stays back and fends it to the off-side 44.3 Steyn to Samuels , no run , pitched up further and on off , driven back at Steyn 44.2 Steyn to Samuels , no run , teasing good length ball outside off , Samuels fiddles with it and is beaten. The ball was not far away from the outside edge 44.1 Steyn to Samuels , no run , on a good length and attacking off , defended in front of point Dale Steyn [ 12.0-2-42-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , worked from an outside off line to short mid-wicket. The length was on the shorter side 43.5 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length and outside off , Chanderpaul tucks his bat inside the line and shelves the drive 43.4 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , angled outside off on a fuller length , left alone 43.3 Philander to Samuels , 1 run , too full and straight , nurdled to square leg A catching cover in place to go with a catching mid-wicket 43.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , fuller length ball on off , Samuels drives it down the pitch , Philander gets a hand on the ball in his follow-through and deflects it to disturb the stumps at the non-striker 's end but Chanderpaul is in 43.1 Philander to Chanderpaul , 1 run , pitched up and outside off , Chanders stays in the crease and angles it wide of gully Petersen goes off the field . 42.6 M Morkel to Samuels , FOUR , full and outside off , Samuels plays with soft hands again , poking it in the gap between gully and the slip cordon for a four 42.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , shortish and hurries on top-of-off , Samuels hops up and fends it to cover 42.4 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , on a good length and on off , Samuels gets right behind the line in defence 42.3 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , short of length and nips in from outside off , ignored 42.2 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , full and outside off , Samuels plays at it from the crease , pokes it out in front of second slip , the soft hands ensured that the ball died in front of Petersen 42.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , bouncer on the leg stump , Samuels ducks under , loses his balance and falls on the floor before recovering his shape 41.6 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , hardly carries through to AB. Looks like the pitch has cracked up. Full and wide outside off , Philander does not draw a stroke from Chanderpaul 41.5 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , back of a length on off , Chanderpaul stays back and pushes it to cover 41.4 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , straightens outside off on a fullish length , left alone 41.3 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , Philander probes away outside off , Chanderpaul is not interested in playing at these 41.2 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , teaser outside off , Chanderpaul plays inside the line and lets it pass 41.1 Philander to Chanderpaul , 2 runs , fullish and outside off , Chanders comes forward a bit and drives it wide of point to get off the mark with a couple 40.6 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , back of a length , top-of-off line , Samuels goes on the back foot and blocks it in front of square on the off-side 40.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , good length ball around off , comes in a touch , Samuels does not move his feet much as he blocks it towards cover-point 40.4 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , back of a length and outside off , left alone 40.3 M Morkel to Samuels , 2 runs , much fuller from M Morkel , Samuels jams out a drive to sweeper cover 40.2 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , bumper from Morne ! Rears up , Samuels manages to get his head out of the way , the ball sails to AB 40.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , good length ball around off , dabbed in front of point. Samuels half-waves his bat to Chanderpaul after meeting the ball 39.6 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , similar ball outside off , similar response from Chanders 39.5 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , full and pushed outside off , ignored 39.4 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , hooping across the left-hander again. Chanders plays inside the line and leaves it 39.3 Philander to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller and leaves Chanderpaul just outside off , the batsman feels for it and is beaten on the outside edge. Chanders is looking out of sorts 39.2 Philander to Samuels , 1 run , Samuels pushes this good length ball just outside off towards cover-point and ticks over the strike 39.1 Philander to Samuels , no run , pitched up and reverses in on off and middle , drilled to the man at mid-off , straight to the fielder Vernon Philander [ 9.0-3-17-0 ] is back into the attack First change of the day - Vern Philander . 38.6 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , back of a length and outside off , Chanderpaul tightens his technique as he lifts his bat and lets it go 38.5 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , shapes in fuller , Chanderpaul hangs back and gets an inside-edge onto the pad , thus negating the lbw appeal from Morne 38.4 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , outside off again , Chanderpaul loosely chases at that and gets beaten. Another moral victory for Morne 38.3 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , edged and dies in front of Faf. Chanders pushes at this one outside off , the ball just falls short of gully 38.2 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , on a good length and on the fourth stump , blocked to cover 38.1 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , back of a length and angled on the leg stump , Chanders shuffles across and misses the clip. Going down and height was a factor as well 37.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , full and pushed down leg , the batsman misses the glance 37.5 Steyn to Samuels , no run , short of length and Samuels stands tall , punching it straight to the fielder at cover 37.4 Steyn to Samuels , FOUR , short and on the stumps , Samuels rocks back and pulls it away to the deep backward square leg fence 37.3 Steyn to Samuels , no run , the pitch misbehaves ! Dug in short on the leg stump , Samuels takes his eyes off the ball as he ducks , he takes it on his back. The ball did not rise as much as Samuels expected it to 37.2 Steyn to Samuels , no run , fuller and on off , Samuels sits back in the crease and punches it through to mid-off 37.1 Steyn to Samuels , no run , pitched up and on off , Samuels prods forward and blocks it to cover 36.6 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , angling away outside off again , Chanders offers no shot Shivnarine Chanderpaul , left handed bat , comes to the crease There is still some cloud cover over Newlands. West Indies are effectively 3 for 3 now . 36.5 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , out Caught by Amla ! ! Edged and taken , Amla grabs this with ease. Back of a length and angling away outside off with steep bounce. Instead of letting it go , Leon Johnson spars at it and edges it through to first slip. No fifty for the left-hander and another batsman has given away a bright start in this Test. Leon Johnson c Amla b M Morkel 44 ( 76 ) [ 4s-6 ] M Morkel to Leon Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.4 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , wide outside off again , Leon Johnson lets it be 36.3 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length and slanting away outside off , ignored 36.2 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller and on middle and leg , Leon Johnson presses across and works it to mid-wicket 36.1 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , full but too wide outside off , so much so that AB gloves the ball in front of Amla at first slip. Left alone by Leon Johnson 35.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Samuels hangs back and defends it to mid-on 35.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , 3 runs , pitched up and outside off , sliced over cover. That 's a teaser for van Zyl , he hauls the ball in and tags it to Bavuma before sliding over the rope 35.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , reverses across the left-hander , left alone 35.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , FOUR , edged and flies over the top of a leaping first slip. Leon Johnson flashes his bat at this widish one outside off , the ball takes a thick outside edge and balloons over a leaping Amla. He got a hand to it , but it did not stick. Steyn is getting some reverse here 35.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , on a length and on middle , Leon Johnson gets a good stride forward and taps it to cover 35.1 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , on a good length and slanted across off , Johnson lifts his bat and lets it go Steyn to share early duties with big Morne. Three slips and a gully for him . 34.6 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , straightens in the channel of outside off , Samuels shadows his bat inside the line again 34.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , pitched up and jags away outside off off a crack , Samuels swishes his bat inside the line and lets it pass 34.4 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , on a length and on off , Samuels hangs back and defends it in front of gully. He did not move his feet much , but met the ball with soft hands 34.3 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , nice TV-friendly carry through to AB. Short and outside off with excess bounce. Samuels wafts and misses 34.2 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , shoots up from a back of a length and outside off , Samuels shoulders arms Samuels is not happy with his helmet. Cottrell runs out and gives the former another helmet . 34.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , encouraging start for the hosts ! On a length with some extra bounce outside off , zips past the outside edge. Samuels hung his bat out from the crease and was beaten neck and crop 15 : 00 Local Time , 13 : 00 GMT , 18 : 30 IST : We are all set for a lengthy post-tea session. Two slips in position for Morne to go with a gully. Right-arm Over the wicket . 14 : 58 Local Time , 12 : 58 GMT , 18 : 28 IST : Phew , finally some play ! The men who matter are out in the middle. South Africa disperse from a huddle , whilst Samuels and Johnson punch gloves . 14 : 40 Local Time , 12 : 40 GMT , 18 : 10 IST : Alright , Tea has been taken now. So , we wo n't have any long interruptions after the marathon session begins . 14 : 15 Local Time , 12 : 15 GMT , 17 : 45 IST : Play to start at 15 : 00 Local Time. 53 overs to be bowled today. The game will continue until 18 : 30 + 30 minutes ( if needed ) . 13 : 37 Local Time , 11 : 37 GMT , 17 : 07 IST : An inspection has been scheduled at 14 : 00 Local Time. Play will start as soon as possible if conditions are deemed fit . 13 : 08 Local Time , 11 : 08 GMT , 16 : 38 IST : Good news , folks ! Sun is out and the rain has stopped. Covers are being removed now. However , the outfield is very wet and it will probably take a couple of hours to dry out . 12 : 40 Local Time , 10 : 40 GMT , 16 : 10 IST : Ian Bishop just tweeted - Sun is playing hide & seek at Newlands. Ground staff are working hard , but it 's still overcast & drizzling . 12 : 02 Local Time , 10 : 02 GMT , 15 : 32 IST : Some sun is around but it is still raining as well. Early lunch has been taken. We are in for a long delay . 11 : 03 Local Time , 09 : 03 GMT , 14 : 33 IST : Rain continues to pelt in Cape Town. We do not have any positive news yet . 10 : 04 Local Time , 08 : 04 GMT , 13 : 34 IST : However , the first piece of news coming up is not a good one. It is raining heavily at Newlands and covers are firmly in place. The forecast does not look all that promising and even if the rain relents , it will still take the groundsmen two hours to get everything ready . Day 4 : After being dominated in the first two Tests , West Indies seem to be in a much better position in this one. They did well in the first innings and have stuck with the plan in the second innings to keep South Africa at bay. Although the openers have perished , Samuels and Johnson have added 61 runs for the third wicket. They only trail by 4 runs now and would be ready to add more. Meanwhile , Steyn and co. will be looking to hit back with quick strikes . Brathwaite and Smith survived the opening burst from Steyn and Vern before the latter fell to Morkel , getting strangled down leg. Brathwaite was out to a ripper from Harmer , who continues to impress. Then , Steyn and Morkel generated good reverse swing. However , Johnson and Samuels hung on to keep West Indies in the game. Early on in the day , AB batted exceptionally well , adding another century to his CV. Who will snatch the initiative tomorrow ? Do join us back for what is expected to be a moving day 4. Until then , goodbye and good night ! Stumps , Day 3 : Samuels and Johnson punch gloves as they troop off. West Indies have fought back after losing the openers. Samuels and Johnson had a few nervy moments but have stayed put to stitch together a 61-run partnership to steady the visitors and with it trim South Africa 's lead to 4 . 33.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , FOUR , short of a length and down leg , Leon Johnson helps it away fine to close out day 3 Last ball of the day coming up . 33.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , Leon Johnson shuffles across and turns it to mid-on 33.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length and outside off , Leon Johnson hangs back and pushes it to cover 33.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , FOUR , similar line and length , Leon Johnson is lured into another iffy waft , the ball runs away between slips and gully to third man off the outside edge 33.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length and goes across the left-hander , who wafts and misses. He would have been better off had he left that alone 33.1 Steyn to Samuels , 1 run , too straight in line , flicked behind square on the leg-side 32.6 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , FOUR , on a length and outside off , Leon Johnson takes the aerial route and lifts it up and over cover for his third four. That raises the fifty of the stand between these two 32.5 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller and reverses in on middle and leg , Leon Johnson falls over the flick and may have got an inside-edge onto the pad. Big inside-edge in fact 32.4 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , short of length on off , Leon Johnson fends it in front of cover 32.3 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , pitched up and on off , knocked to short cover 32.2 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , lifter down leg , Leon Johnson half-ducks and allows it pass over him en route to AB 32.1 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , too full and reverses in on the pads from round the stumps , tucked in front of square leg Morne Morkel [ 5.0-3-6-1 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , 3 runs , full and outside off , Leon Johnson plays a punchy drive wide of mid-off and through the covers , Morne gives the chase and keeps it to three 31.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , good length ball just a shade outside off , Leon Johnson is halfway forward to block it back to Steyn 31.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller and slanted across off , Leon Johnson lifts his bat and lets it go 31.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , this is far too wide outside off to induce a stroke from Leon Johnson 31.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , full and outside off , Leon Johnson was in a dilemma whether to play or leave. He is late in pulling his bat away , the ball runs to gully off the toe-end 31.1 Steyn to Samuels , 1 run , on a good length and on off , tapped in front of point 30.6 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , spins across off with some extra bounce , Leon Johnson lets it go 30.5 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , darted outside off , beating Leon Johnson on the cut 30.4 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , flighted delivery on middle , forward and blocked to the right of Harmer 30.3 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , flatter and wider outside off , left alone 30.2 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , keeps it short and around off , blocked to cover off the back foot 30.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , short delivery on off , defended off the back foot 29.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length and moves away , Samuels opens the face of the bat and steers it late to gully 29.5 Steyn to Samuels , FOUR , stand and deliver from Samuels. Short and wide outside off , Samuels pounces onto it , flaying it in front of square on the off-side 29.4 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length and reverses in , Samuels gets an inside-edge onto the pad , the ball rolls to the off-side 29.3 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length and top-of-off line , Samuels hangs back and pushes it to cover 29.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , 1 run , Leon Johnson pushes at this back of a length ball on off and squirts it to square leg off the inside part of the bat 29.1 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , full and pushed outside off , left alone. The ball hardly carries to AB 28.6 Harmer to Samuels , no run , pushed through much quicker , dabbed in front of point 28.5 Harmer to Samuels , 2 runs , hurries on top of off , placed behind point for a couple of runs. Samuels has to scamper back for the second and does so 28.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , Harmer gives this more air , defended carefully Amla walks up to Harmer and has a chat with him. Backward point motors to the deep 28.3 Harmer to Samuels , no run , darted down leg , Samuels misses the pull 28.2 Harmer to Samuels , FOUR , fraction short and on middle , Samuels rocks back and cuts it forcefully past cover , the ball just raced away to the boundary 28.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , 1 run , poked out past slip for a single 27.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , 1 run , wide line outside off , Leon Johnson reaches out for a drive , the man at backward point dives and makes a half-stop 27.5 Steyn to Samuels , 1 run , back of a length and punched to cover 27.4 Steyn to Samuels , no run , pitched up and tails in , Samuels looks for a flick , but only chips it in the air. Morne at mid-on dives to his right as the ball dies down on him. The ball pops out as he lands on the turf. It would go down as a dropped chance 27.3 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length and top-of-off line , Samuels is solidly behind that one in defence 27.2 Steyn to Samuels , no run , shortish and just outside off , defended in front of square on the off-side 27.1 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length and outside off , Samuels dabs it towards gully with an angled bat 26.6 Harmer to Samuels , 1 run , nicely tossed up , Samuels aims to force a drive , chips it wide of short mid-wicket , the ball moves to long-on and Samuels will keep strike 26.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , fuller on off , Samuels dead-bats it 26.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , Samuels sets up for a big drive , gets an inside-edge to short leg 26.3 Harmer to Samuels , no run , slides on with the arm on middle , worked to short mid-wicket 26.2 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flatter on off , Samuels is right behind the line in defence 26.1 Harmer to Samuels , no run , slid through outside off , fraction short as well , beaten on the cut is Samuels Simon Harmer [ 6.0-3-20-1 ] is back into the attack Change of ends for Harmer . 25.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , full and slanted across off , left alone. The ball scuttles through to AB 25.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length on middle , pushed to mid-wicket again 25.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length and on middle , chipped in the air and in front of mid-wicket 25.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , FOUR , full and wide outside off , Leon Johnson reaches out and flashes it in the air , wide of a diving Bavuma at backward point 25.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , blocked to the man at cover again after hopping up a bit 25.1 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , on a good length and on the fourth stump , Johnson does not move his feet much as he pushes it to cover Dale Steyn [ 5.0-2-7-0 ] is back into the attack Steyn returns for a final burst . 24.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , shapes back in from short of length , Samuels hangs back and dabs it in front of point 24.5 Philander to Samuels , no run , fuller and just outside off , Samuels pushes at it and the ball goes off the inside part back down the wicket 24.4 Philander to Leon Johnson , 1 run , another one that jags back in , Johnson looks to clip it through the on-side , gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball rolls behind square leg 24.3 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller and nips back in sharply , Johnson just about manages to bring his bat down and squirts it off the inside edge to square leg 24.2 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , again , attacking the stumps , Johnson turns it gently towards mid-wicket 24.1 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , too straight from Vern , Johnson clips and picks out square leg to perfection 23.6 Harmer to Samuels , FOUR , rank long hop to finish the over and Samuels latches onto it , he rocks back and pulls it powerfully in front of square , no one in the deep guarding the mid-wicket fence 23.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flatter and turning in , Samuels misses the nudge and is hit high on the pad 23.4 Harmer to Leon Johnson , 1 run , drifting onto the leg-stump , Johnson nurdles it to square leg 23.3 Harmer to Leon Johnson , FOUR , super shot ! After blocking a couple of balls , Johnson decides to take Harmer on. Flighted on off and middle , Johnson plants his leg forward and tonks it over mid-on , just had enough to clear Morne 23.2 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , this time blocks off the inside edge to the right of short leg 23.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , defends it off the outer half of the bat to point 22.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , that was a tight leave , jags back in from short of length , Samuels does not cover his stumps as he lets it go , the ball was centimeters away from kissing the off-pole. Plenty of oohs and aahs from the Proteas 22.5 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length close to off , Samuels gets behind the line and drops it in front of cover 22.4 Philander to Samuels , no run , shortish and outside off , Samuels plays a flashy cut , but only connects with thin air. Loose shot ! 22.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , " terrible review " , says Pommie Mbangwa on air. Full and tailing into the batsman , Samuels stays in the crease and misses the flick , the impact was outside leg and it was going further down. Waste of a review from Philander and South Africa South Africa have reviewed an lbw decision against Samuels. It looked to be going down leg. No problems with the front foot. Hawk-Eye confirms that it is missing leg-stump. Easy call for third ump Bowden 22.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length in and around off , Samuels thought about playing it , but decided against it at the last instant 22.1 Philander to Samuels , no run , short of length on the fourth stump , Samuels looks to force it off the back foot , mistimes it to mid-off 21.6 Harmer to Leon Johnson , 2 runs , flighted on leg-stump , Johnson goes on his knee and under-edges the sweep to long leg for a couple 21.5 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , presses forward , opens the bat face and guides it to backward point 21.4 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , flatter and on off , Johnson stands tall and defends it to cover 21.3 Harmer to Samuels , 1 run , straight roller just outside off , Samuels prods at it away from the body , the ball takes the outside edge and runs past the slip fielder 21.2 Harmer to Samuels , no run , fired down the leg-side , the length was short and Samuels decides to take it on , the ball keeps low and goes under the bat 21.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , 1 run , wrong line from Harmer , down leg , Johnson kneels and helps it on the way to deep backward square with a sweep 20.6 Philander to Leon Johnson , 1 run , drags the length back , Johnson stands up and punches between cover and point for a single 20.5 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , angled across the left-hander , Johnson covers the line and shoulders arms 20.4 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller and close to off , Johnson dead-bats it in front of cover 20.3 Philander to Samuels , leg byes , 1 run , sliding onto the legs , Samuels misses the clip and the ball dribbles off the pad to fine leg , Philander seemed interested in the lbw appeal , he thought Samuels had shuffled across and that the ball was hitting the stumps , but that was not the case as it was clearly snaking down leg 20.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length on off , Samuels stays in the crease and knocks it to cover 20.1 Philander to Samuels , no run , right on the money is Philander with his new spell , back of a length and seams away ever so slightly , Samuels hangs back and pokes at it , the ball zips past the outside edge Vernon Philander [ 6.0-2-15-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , tossed up on off , Johnson leans forward and defends it with an open face to point 19.5 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , flatter and on off , Johnson goes right back and taps it in front of FSL 19.4 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , bit of extra bounce , Johnson does not commit to the forward defensive , he allows the ball to come and hit the splice of the bat 19.3 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , Johnson gets a good stride forward and blocks it with the bat in front of his pad 19.2 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , slower and attacking the stumps , Johnson lunges forward and defends to the on-side 19.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , flighted on off , Johnson presses forward and blocks solidly 18.6 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , slightly fuller and just outside off , Samuels drives it with laden feet to point 18.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Samuels brings his gloves inside the line and lets it pass 18.4 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , back of a length on off , Samuels stays in the crease and dabs it to gully 18.3 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , bouncer on off , Samuels gets his head out of the way and allows the ball to go through to ABD 18.2 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , short of length on leg-stump , Samuels ca n't meet with the glance , wears it on the thigh pad 18.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Samuels jumps up in the crease and knocks it to the off-side 17.6 Harmer to Samuels , 1 run , " catch somebody " shouts ABD , but the ball drops in no man 's land. Slower and close to off , Samuels comes down the track and chips it off the inside half down to long-on , a conventional mid-on would have gobbled that up 17.5 Harmer to Leon Johnson , 1 run , sliding on middle and leg , Johnson sweeps and picks out backward square , the fielder makes a half stop 17.4 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , goes round the wicket , tosses it up on off , Johnson presses forward and blocks 17.3 Harmer to Samuels , 1 run , flighted around off , Samuels goes for the ambitious drive against the turn , the ball rolls off the inside part to long-on 17.2 Harmer to Samuels , FOUR , drags the quicker delivery halfway down the wicket , Samuels goes back and pulls it past a diving mid-wicket , though he did n't middle it , the ball had enough to reach the fence 17.1 Harmer to Samuels , no run , nicely tossed up outside off , Samuels drives it crisply towards mid-off , the fielder dives and stops the ball , the duo should have taken a single 16.6 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , slanting in on middle , Johnson turns it behind square on the leg-side , where a fielder has been placed 16.5 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , shortens the length and gets it to hold its line , Johnson lifts his bat and lets it go 16.4 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , bumper down leg , Johnson half-ducks and evades it comfortably 16.3 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , on a length too far across off , Johnson lets it pass 16.2 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length on off , Johnson hops up and drops it in front of cover 16.1 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , edged and just short ! Lovely angle being created by Morne , round the wicket , full and straightening around off , Johnson had to play at that , he pushes at it and gets a thickish outside edge that falls inches short of Elgar at gully 15.6 Harmer to Samuels , no run , this one is slower and drifts back into Samuels , he gets a good stride forward and blocks 15.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , pushed through by Harmer , Samuels gets a big stride forward and defends it with an open face 15.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flighted and wider outside off , Samuels lunges forward and defends it towards the off-side 15.3 Harmer to Samuels , no run , sharp spin and bounce for Harmer , Samuels was pressing forward and is struck high on the pads 15.2 Harmer to Samuels , no run , Harmer gives this one more air , Samuels gets well forward and blocks 15.1 Harmer to Samuels , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , Samuels waits on it and defends it with soft hands towards FSL 14.6 M Morkel to Samuels , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Samuels stays in his crease and dabs it in front of point for a quick single 14.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , Samuels covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 14.4 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , the bumper from Morkel , Samuels watches it all along , drops his gloves and ducks underneath it 14.3 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , 1 run , Samuels nearly ran himself out here ! This was pitched up and held its line outside off , Johnson was pushing forward with soft hands , gets a thick edge that rolls away behind point. Samuels wanted a second run , he was charging back before being sent back , makes it back in with a sliding dive. He is n't too pleased with his partner 14.2 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , another short ball from Morkel , Johnson shuffles across and nudges it towards the on-side 14.1 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , short of a length and rearing onto Johnson , he does well to ride with the bounce , plays with soft hands and drops it in front of point 13.6 Harmer to Samuels , no run , much more assured footwork from Samuels , gets well forward to a flighted delivery , plays with the spin and defends it towards the on-side Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 13.5 Harmer to Kraigg Brathwaite , out Bowled ! ! Brathwaite has been castled ! That 's an exceptional piece of bowling from Harmer , a classic off-spinner 's dismissal. This was tossed up in the corridor outside off and breaks back in , Brathwaite was shuffling across on the defensive push , is once again opened up by the delivery. He goes nowhere in the end , the ball drifts past the outside edge and clatters into the off-stump. Excellent bowling from Harmer , but Brathwaite 's defensive technique was awful. Kraigg Brathwaite b Harmer 16 ( 45 ) [ 4s-1 ] Harmer to Kraigg Brathwaite , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 13.4 Harmer to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , Harmer tosses one on off , Brathwaite lunges forward and blocks 13.3 Harmer to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Brathwaite presses across in defence 13.2 Harmer to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , edged ! Extra bounce for Harmer , some turn as well , Brathwaite was completely opened up as he looked to defend , gets an outside edge which hits AB on his grill , ca n't call it as a chance 13.1 Harmer to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , turn and bounce for Harmer , had Brathwaite in all sorts of trouble , just about manages to pat the ball down in time Simon Harmer , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Time for some spin , Harmer is into the attack.. A slip , FSL and a short mid-wicket in place 12.6 M Morkel to Kraigg Brathwaite , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Brathwaite leans into the drive in an unconvincing fashion , manages to keep it all along the carpet as it goes past the man at point 12.5 M Morkel to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , on a length and angling into Brathwaite , he presses across and defends it towards the on-side 12.4 M Morkel to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Brathwaite gets behind the line and blocks 12.3 M Morkel to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Brathwaite shuffles across on the defensive push 12.2 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , 1 run , short of a length and angling away from off , steered away behind square on the off-side for a single 12.1 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , 2 runs , Johnson was squared up there , short of a length and angling across the left-hander , Johnson was looking to defend , gets a thick edge past gully. Bavuma chases and fumbles , allows the batsmen to get back for the second run 11.6 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , Philander shortens his length outside off , Brathwaite presses across and defends it towards the off-side 11.5 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , pitched up and in that channel outside off , Brathwaite gets half a stride forward as he blocks 11.4 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Brathwaite presses across and defends it towards the off-side 11.3 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , on a good length and around off , Brathwaite presses across and offers a dead bat in defence 11.2 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Brathwaite shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side 11.1 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , on a good length and just outside off , stayed a tad low as well , Brathwaite prods forward in defence Leon Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 10.6 M Morkel to Devon Smith , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Smith has been strangled down leg-side. This was angled into the left-hander by Morkel , Smith shuffled across on the clip , the ball runs off the face of the bat and is neatly taken by de Villiers , diving across to his right. Smith was happy to walk off , for some reason , he stops and decides to have a chat with his partner. But there was no way he was challenging umpire Reiffel 's call , off he goes for a second time. Devon Smith c de Villiers b M Morkel 7 ( 36 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Morkel to Devon Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Smith has been given out caught behind. He is walking 10.5 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Smith plays with a loose bottom hand as he blocks 10.4 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , that 's a loose shot from Smith , there was n't much width on this short ball , Smith went chasing after that and missed 10.3 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , full and wider outside off , Smith does n't need to play those , left alone 10.2 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , Morkel shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , left alone 10.1 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , left alone Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Morne Morkel is into the attack.. Two slips in place as Giraffe opts to come from round the wicket 9.6 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , short of a length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 9.5 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , Brathwaite covers for the movement , lifts his bat and lets it go 9.4 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Brathwaite stands tall and punches it towards extra cover 9.3 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , Philander angles one onto Brathwaite 's pads , he shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side 9.2 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Brathwaite closes the face of the bat and defends it towards mid-on 9.1 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , looking to tempt Brathwaite into the drive , he resists and lets it go 8.6 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , once again on Smith 's pads , he shuffles across on the clip and misses , the ball rolls away off the thigh pad 8.5 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of nip back into Smith , he gets a good stride forward and defends it towards point 8.4 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , 1 run , too straight and too short from Steyn , nudged away towards fine leg for a single 8.3 Steyn to Devon Smith , leg byes , 1 run , plenty of movement for Steyn , but this one jags onto Smith 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards long leg 8.2 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Smith prods forward and defends it 8.1 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , Steyn comes from round the wicket and slants this one way down leg-side , de Villiers gets across and saves some runs 7.6 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , short of length on the hips , Brathwaite tucks it towards square leg 7.5 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length and wide of off , Brathwaite stays inside the line and knocks it towards point 7.4 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , 2 runs , shuffles across and tucks this short of length ball to deep backward square leg for a brace 7.3 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , beautiful delivery from Philander ! Brathwaite is stuck in his crease as he looks to push at this back of a length delivery , the ball swings away sharply just beating the outside edge of his bat 7.2 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , short of length and shaping back in sharply , some bounce on that as well , Brathwaite is surprised by it , looks to tuck it into the leg-side , the ball takes the glove instead and rolls towards FSL 7.1 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , length delivery on middle , Brathwaite leans forward and defends it back to the bowler 6.6 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , fuller and shaping back in a touch , Smith defends it off the front foot with a straight bat 6.5 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , touch fullish and around off , Smith is half-forward and drives it towards short cover off the outside half of the bat 6.4 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , comes round thw wicket , outside the off-stump again , Smith knocks it towards the man at point 6.3 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches this back of a length delivery outside off to mid-off , the fielder moves across and stops it 6.2 Steyn to Devon Smith , 1 run , fullish and just outside off , Smith gets forward and drives it to mid-off , good bit of fielding there , keeps the batsmen down to just a single 6.1 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , stays inside the line and defends it off the back foot into the off-side 5.6 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length on middle , Brathwaite defends it back to the bowler 5.5 Philander to Devon Smith , 1 run , short of length and angled in on leg , Smith flicks it off the pads to fine leg Morne Morkel looks to be warming up. Maybe he is coming on soon . 5.4 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Smith punches it towards cover 5.3 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length on middle , Smith defends it off the back foot to mid-off 5.2 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , length ball around off , Smith pushes it towards cover 5.1 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , in the channel outside off , left alone by Smith 4.6 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , shaping away from the batsman a touch , Brathwaite pushes it towards cover 4.5 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length again , Brathwaite stays on the back foot and pushes it towards cover 4.4 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , another loud lbw appeal. That looked close on first glance but looks like Brathwaite has got a thick inside edge. It was another one of short of length deliveries from Steyn , the ball jags back in sharply as Brathwaite looks to work it across the line , gets an inside edge onto the pads. Steyn thought he had his man but well spotted by the on-field umpire 4.3 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Brathwaite turns it into the leg-side 4.2 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , FOUR , shortish from Steyn again , good width on that as well , Brathwaite is on top of that in an instant , rolls his wrists and slaps it to deep backward point 4.1 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , shortish and well outside off , left alone 3.6 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it towards cover 3.5 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , loud shout for lbw by the bowler The umpire is not interested. Philander and Amla contemplate about taking a review but decide against it. Height might have been an issue here. Smith misses the flick as he looks to work this short of length across the line , the ball had nipped back in sharply. Smith is rapped on the back thigh. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was going well over the stumps. Good that South Africa did not go for a review 3.4 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , good length ball angled in on middle , Smith gets forward and defends 3.3 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , gets forward to this length ball outside off and pushes it towards mid-off 3.2 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , 7 runs , short of length and well wide of off , Brathwaite makes room and punches it solidly towards deep backward point , excellent running between the wickets as the batsmen run three , the throw comes in from the deep to the keeper ABD , he fires a wayward throw to Philander at the non-striker 's end , who is not able to collect it and the ball runs to the fence 3.1 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length and angled in , Brathwaite defends it down the track to the right of the bowler 2.6 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , touch back of a length again , around off , Smith defends it off the back foot towards short cover 2.5 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , length ball this time , Smith slightly leans on the front foot and defends it into the off-side 2.4 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , continues to offer a solid back foot defence on back of a length delivieries 2.3 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , stays behind the line and defends it towards the point fielder again 2.2 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , Smith is squared up this short of length delivery on middle , goes on the back foot to defend , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat towards point 2.1 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Smith harmlessly defends it towards mid-off 1.6 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , gets half-forward and simply tucks this fullish ball angled in on middle into the on-side 1.5 Philander to Devon Smith , 1 run , shortish and offering some width as well , Smith backs away and cuts it to deep backward point , where Bavuma manges to slow the ball down and fields it as the batsmen take a single 1.4 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , camps on the back foot and defends this short of length delivery towards mid-off 1.3 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , short of length on middle and off , Smith continues to employ the safety of the crease , punches the ball to short cover 1.2 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length on middle , Smith stays back and defends with a straightish bat 1.1 Philander to Devon Smith , FOUR , shortish from Philander to begin with , Smith rocks on the back foot in a flash and drags the pull from outside off to the deep mid-wicket fence Vernon Philander , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Vernon Philander from the other end. Two slips and a gully for him as well . 0.6 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length and in the channel outside off , Brathwaite shuffles across and allows that one to go through 0.5 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , good length ball angled in on middle , Brathwaite gets forward and pushes it towards cover point 0.4 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , shortish and outside off , Brathwaite reaches out to it and chops it towards point 0.3 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , length delivery angled in , Brathwaite defends it to the left of the bowler 0.2 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of length delivery outside off , Brathwaite elects to stay in the crease and knocks it towards point 0.1 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , starts off with a short ball first up , Brathwaite sways away from the line and lets that go through Kraigg Brathwaite and Devon Smith are at the crease. Kraigg Brathwaite is on strike. Steyn will open the attack Welcome back...West Indies openers are making their way out to the middle. Dale Steyn will start proceedings for South Africa. Two slips to assist him . The lead is not big , but it is substantial on this wicket. It is now upto the South African bowlers to make use of the conditions. How will Steyn and Co. go about with proceedings ? Can the West Indian batsmen battle it out for a second time ? We 'll find out in the final session of play. Do stay tuned.. . So , West Indies have managed to bowl out the hosts , but not before giving them a lead of 92 runs. On a wicket that had something in it for the bowlers , ABD stood out with the bat. Batsmen from both teams got starts but none could convert it into a big one. However , de Villiers was an exception , the No.1 Test batsman played his natural game - mixing caution with aggression. He was involved in some good partnerships , first with Amla ( 63 ) and then van Zyl ( 33 ) . Once South Africa took the lead , he changed gears and took on the bowlers , he perished trying to get some quick runs in the company of Morne . 122.4 Samuels to de Villiers , out Caught by S Gabriel ! ! End of a magnificent innings. As soon as he hit that , he knew that he had not connected. Shimmies down the pitch , does not get to the pitch , but still goes through with the loft , mistimes it to long-on , Gabriel juggles it before latching onto it. He walks off to standing ovation from the Cape Town faithful. de Villiers c S Gabriel b Samuels 148 ( 194 ) [ 4s-15 6s-1 ] Samuels to de Villiers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 122.3 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , slower and close to off , de Villiers defends it to cover 122.2 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , pushed through just outside off , de Villiers tries to slap it through the off-side , does not make contact 122.1 Samuels to de Villiers , 2 runs , quicker and around off , de Villiers bends down and scoops it to long leg , he used the pace of Samuels there , the fielder from backward square runs across and stops it with his boot , saves two for the team 121.6 Jerome Taylor to M Morkel , no run , good length ball around off , Morkel manages to keep it out with a defensive shot to cover 121.5 Jerome Taylor to M Morkel , no run , short of length on off , Morkel rises up and defends it back to the bowler 121.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , change of pace , de Villiers whips it to deep mid-wicket 121.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , back of a length just outside off , de Villiers walks across his stumps and fails to connect with the pull , he was looking for the large acres of gaps on the leg-side 121.2 Jerome Taylor to M Morkel , 3 runs , on a length and straightens just outside off , Morkel pushes at it away from the body , gets a thickish outside edge behind point , Blackwood gives chase and pulls it back just before the rope Now round the wicket 121.1 Jerome Taylor to M Morkel , no run , bouncer angled across off , Morkel goes for the hook and is nowhere close to the ball 120.6 Samuels to de Villiers , SIX , the field was in and ABD decides to take the aerial route , not that it would have mattered. Flighted just outside off , de Villiers shuffles across and heaves it over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 120.5 Samuels to M Morkel , 1 run , goes round the wicket , bowls it straight around off , Morkel ekes out an inside edge behind square leg Morne Morkel , left handed bat , comes to the crease 120.4 Samuels to de Villiers , out Steyn Run Out ! ! Umpire Reiffel did n't even bother to go upstairs , he raised his finger immediately. West Indies have been good in the field , it is their second direct-hit in the innings. de Villiers comes down the track and drives it to extra cover , he called for a quick single , Steyn was late to take off , he was not even taking a start and he was short by a yard or two. Excellent bit of work by Johnson , who did n't have much time to hit the bulls-eye. Steyn run out ( Leon Johnson ) 0 ( 1 ) Samuels to de Villiers , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Steyn has been run-out. Another moment of indecision between these two . 120.3 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , stays back and blocks it to the off-side 120.2 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , keeps a bit low , de Villiers brings his bat down and jams it to the right of the bowler 120.1 Samuels to de Villiers , FOUR , top shot ! Flighted and a bit too full , de Villiers kneels down and sweeps it behind square , there were two fielders in the deep and he split them to perfection 119.6 Jerome Taylor to Steyn , no run , almost a run-out ! The field was set for the short ball , Taylor bangs it in and on the ribs , Steyn drops it in front of mid-wicket and takes off for a single which is not there , ABD sends him back and he had to put in the dive. The fielder though failed to hit the stumps Dale Steyn , right handed bat , comes to the crease 119.5 Jerome Taylor to Harmer , out Lbw ! ! That looked plumb as soon as the ball made contact with the pad. The two batsmen ponder over a review , but ABD says it looked out and Harmer makes the long walk back to the hut. However , the Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was going over. A misjudgement by everyone , including ABD. This one nips back in from short of length , Harmer stays rooted to the crease and is struck on the knee roll , he was jumping up when he tried to play that. Umpire Reiffel had no hesitation in raising the finger. Bad luck for the debutant. Harmer lbw b Jerome Taylor 10 ( 48 ) [ 4s-2 ] Jerome Taylor to Harmer , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 119.4 Jerome Taylor to Harmer , no run , full and tailing into the batsman , Harmer ca n't connect with the flick and is rapped on the pads , the ball was snaking down leg , hence no appeal for lbw 119.3 Jerome Taylor to Harmer , no run , tad short and close to off , Harmer stays in the crease and bunts it to the off-side 119.2 Jerome Taylor to Harmer , no run , back of a length around off , Harmer stands up and knocks it to cover 119.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , de Villiers charges down the pitch , converts it into a length ball and clips it to deep mid-wicket Jerome Taylor [ 18.0-2-75-0 ] is back into the attack 118.6 Samuels to Harmer , FOUR , Harmer needed that shot , he was being put under pressure by both Samuels and Benn. He kneels down and slog sweeps it behind square , there was a fielder in the deep but he evaded him quite comfortably 118.5 Samuels to Harmer , no run , goes right back in the crease and blocks it with softh hands 118.4 Samuels to Harmer , no run , comes down the track , yorks himself and ends up jamming it to short mid-wicket 118.3 Samuels to Harmer , no run , slider on leg-stump , Harmer fails to meet with the glance , the ball rolls off the pad to short leg 118.2 Samuels to Harmer , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Harmer hangs back and knocks it down the pitch Goes round the wicket 118.1 Samuels to de Villiers , 1 run , another easy single for ABD , meets the pitch of the ball and wrists it to long-on 117.6 Benn to Harmer , no run , slower and around off , Harmer presses it to short cover by coming forward 117.5 Benn to Harmer , no run , now goes deep in the crease and blocks it dead on the wicket 117.4 Benn to Harmer , no run , flighted on the stumps , Harmer comes forward and blocks 117.3 Benn to Harmer , no run , quicker and close to off , Harmer pads it away , stifled appeal for lbw , but the ball was slanting away outside off 117.2 Benn to Harmer , no run , Benn ca n't believe it , he stands there staring at the umpire. He is slowly going back to his run-up. Harmer goes for the reverse sweep , the ball brushed the wristband on the glove , deflects off the chest to Ramdin , umpire Reiffel thought there was no glove involved. However , West Indies took the review and umpire Bowden did n't have conclusive evidence to overturn the on-field decision West Indies are reviewing a caught behind appeal against Harmer. No isses with Benn 's footing. The ball looks to have gone off the glove. Umpire Reiffel did n't think so , but he will have to change his decision. The ball might have come off the wristband on the glove , if that is the case it will be out. Bowden is the third umpire and he has given it Not-OUT . 117.1 Benn to Harmer , no run , starts from round the wicket and straightaway beats the outside edge , lands on leg-stump and turns away , Harmer prods at it and is beaten all ends up , that was not far from the off-stump as well 116.6 Samuels to Harmer , 1 run , tad too full and on off , Harmer whips it wide of mid-on and keeps strike 116.5 Samuels to Harmer , no run , tossed up on off and middle , turned gently to FSL 116.4 Samuels to Harmer , no run , half tracker outside off , Harmer chops it to cover-point , he missed out there 116.3 Samuels to Harmer , no run , gives this bit more air , Harmer stays in the crease and taps it to FSL 116.2 Samuels to Harmer , no run , slower and around off , Harmer leans forward and keeps it out to the off-side 116.1 Samuels to de Villiers , 1 run , floated up on off , de Villiers eases the drive to long-on 115.6 Benn to Harmer , no run , lunges forward and dead-bats it back to the bowler 115.5 Benn to Harmer , no run , comes on the front foot and knocks it to short cover with a straight bat 115.4 Benn to Harmer , no run , quicker and on the fourth stump , Harmer push-drives it to short cover Short leg moves to silly point 115.3 Benn to Harmer , no run , tossed up close to off , Harmer presses forward and blocks well 115.2 Benn to Harmer , no run , bit too straight , Harmer defends with the bat in front of his pad 115.1 Benn to Harmer , no run , flighted just outside off , Harmer drives and picks out cover 114.6 Samuels to Harmer , 1 run , tad overpitched up and outside off , Harmer drives it crisply towards mid-off , Taylor dives to his left and makes a fine stop 114.5 Samuels to Harmer , no run , another solid back foot defence from the debutant 114.4 Samuels to Harmer , no run , gets right behind this and defends it to short cover 114.3 Samuels to Harmer , no run , Samuels goes past the outside edge again , it is the straighter one that is causing him problems , Harmer plays for the spin and is lucky not to have got an edge 114.2 Samuels to Harmer , no run , quicker and outside off , Harmer leaves it alone 114.1 Samuels to de Villiers , 1 run , de Villiers puts his front leg across and works it to the right of mid-wicket 113.6 Benn to Harmer , no run , turn and bounce , but the line is outside off , Harmer has nothing to do with it 113.5 Benn to Harmer , no run , quicker and close to off , Harmer stays leg-side of the ball and chops it towards point 113.4 Benn to Harmer , no run , flatter on leg-stump , Harmer nurdles it backward square , ABD wanted the single but Harmer sends him back 113.3 Benn to Harmer , no run , tossed up on off , Harmer presses it to short cover after coming forward 113.2 Benn to Harmer , no run , floated up on off , Harmer shuffles back and across , defends down the wicket 113.1 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , slightly short and outside off , cut away to sweeper cover , ABD had plenty of time to play that 112.6 Samuels to Harmer , no run , smothers any turn on offer with a solid forward defence back to the bowler 112.5 Samuels to Harmer , no run , nice loopy delivery around off , Harmer goes deep in the crease and blocks 112.4 Samuels to de Villiers , 1 run , gets to the pitch and eases it along the ground to long-on 112.3 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , flighted on off , de Villiers lunges forward in defence to Samuels 112.2 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , tossed up outside off , de Villiers moves across and fails to nail the reverse sweep , wears it on the pad but the impact was outside off 112.1 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , straight one with a bit of extra bounce , de Villiers misses the forward defensive and is beaten 111.6 Benn to Harmer , no run , throws this up on middle , Harmer dead-bats it to the off-side 111.5 Benn to Harmer , no run , arm-ball just outside off , Harmer covers his stumps and shoulders arms 111.4 Benn to Harmer , no run , fired in full and on off , Harmer squeezes it to cover 111.3 Benn to Harmer , FOUR , quicker and on leg-stump , Harmer leans forward and tickles it fine , the pace on the delivery takes it to the fence , Harmer gets off the mark in Tests with a boundary 111.2 Benn to Harmer , no run , tossed up on off , Harmer presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 111.1 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , needless from Samuels , floated up outside off , de Villiers skips out of the crease and drives it to extra cover , Samuels hits the target at the bowlers end , even though the batsman was in , the ball deflects to give the duo an extra run 110.6 Samuels to Harmer , no run , slower and around off , Harmer taps it off the front foot to silly point 110.5 Samuels to Harmer , no run , pushed through outside off , left alone 110.4 Samuels to Harmer , no run , flighted on off , Harmer push-drives it to mid-off A slip , silly point and FSL in place for Harmer. Benn is the man at silly point 110.3 Samuels to Harmer , no run , straight roller just outside off , Harmer plays for the turn and is beaten comprehensively 110.2 Samuels to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up outside off , de Villiers comes down the track and eases it to long-on 110.1 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , fraction short and just outside off , de Villiers cuts and picks out backward point 109.6 Benn to Harmer , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Harmer stays in the crease and blocks it to the on-side 109.5 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , floated up close to off , de Villiers drives it to long-off Simon Harmer , right handed bat , comes to the crease 109.4 Benn to Philander , out Philander Run Out ! ! Lovely bit of work from Holder. West Indies have two wickets in two overs. Can they roll over the lower-order quickly now ? It was fired in on off and middle , Philander works it to the right of mid-wicket , ABD calls him for a risky single , Holder runs across , picks up the ball in one hand and throws it to Benn who takes the bails off. Everyone seemed to confident that Philander made his ground , but that was not the case. Philander run out ( J Holder/Benn ) 0 ( 7 ) Benn to Philander , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Third umpire called in for a run-out chance. Philander the man in question. He seems to be short of the ground. None of the West Indians thought it was OUT , but Philander is just short of the crease. He will be have to walk back to the pavilion . 109.3 Benn to Philander , no run , pushed through on off , Philander goes back and knocks it to the right of the bowler 109.2 Benn to Philander , no run , gives this more air on middle , Philander stays in the crease and defends to the on-side 109.1 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up around off , de Villiers drives it inside out to long-off 108.6 Samuels to Philander , no run , slower and spins back in , Philander taps it to the left of short leg 108.5 Samuels to Philander , no run , flatter and on off , Philander punches it to mid-on , straight to the fielder 108.4 Samuels to Philander , no run , flighted on off , blocked back to the bowler 108.3 Samuels to Philander , no run , turns it off the back foot to the on-side Vernon Philander , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now . 108.2 Samuels to van Zyl , out Lbw ! ! Another review from van Zyl , he has to go this time. He is rapped on the pad on the back leg after he misses the defensive push. No signs of an inside-edge as well. The umpire raises his finger and his call will stay as the tracker shows that the ball would have just about clipped the top of middle. The 96-run partnership has been broken and West Indies have prised out a wicket against the run of play. van Zyl lbw b Samuels 33 ( 63 ) [ 4s-3 ] Samuels to van Zyl , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! van Zyl given out lbw again. He consults with AB and takes another review. Samuel 's footing is fine. He beats the inside-edge and strikes the batsman above the knee-roll on the back leg. The ball would have just about kissed the top of middle and the umpire 's call prevails. van Zyl is gone 108.1 Samuels to de Villiers , 1 run , darted short on off , punched to long-on Marlon Samuels [ 9.0-0-43-0 ] is back into the attack 107.6 Benn to van Zyl , no run , slides on with the arm on middle and off , van Zyl jams it past the bowler , through mid-off 107.5 Benn to van Zyl , no run , flat and quick on off , blocked to cover 107.4 Benn to van Zyl , no run , slower through the air on the stumps , van Zyl comes on the front foot and defends it back to Benn 107.3 Benn to van Zyl , no run , arm ball , defended to cover off the back foot 107.2 Benn to van Zyl , no run , shortish and hurries on middle , punched to the leg-side now 107.1 Benn to van Zyl , no run , punched off the back foot to cover , diving save and its a dot 106.6 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , back of a length and outside off from over the stumps , de Villiers dabs it behind point and half-waves his bat to van Zyl 106.5 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , back of a length and angled across , de Villiers does not bother with it 106.4 J Holder to de Villiers , FOUR , overpitched on off , de Villiers takes toll of it and drills it past the bowler and through mid-on. The lead is now worth 50 runs 106.3 J Holder to van Zyl , 3 runs , van Zyl allows this good length ball to come to him and then opens the face of the bat , guiding it past gully for three 106.2 J Holder to van Zyl , no run , full and outside off , mistimed drive down the track 106.1 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length on off from round the stumps , AB controls a pull towards deep mid-wicket 105.6 Benn to van Zyl , no run , much fuller on off , driven to the man at mid-off , straight to the fielder 105.5 Benn to van Zyl , no run , fuller on middle and leg , van Zyl defends it back to Benn 105.4 Benn to van Zyl , no run , slider outside off , van Zyl lets it pass 105.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , top-of-off line , punched towards the off-side sweeper via an open face 105.2 Benn to de Villiers , no run , pushed to the off-side 105.1 Benn to de Villiers , 2 runs , shortish and widish outside off , AB slices it behind point , beating the fielder to his left 104.6 J Holder to van Zyl , no run , back of a length and on off , defended to cover off the back foot 104.5 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length on off now , AB stays back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket after rolling his wrists on it 104.5 J Holder to de Villiers , wide , bumper outside off , loads of height on it , AB gets his head out of the way 104.4 J Holder to de Villiers , 2 runs , back of a length and skids on middle , de Villiers works it behind square on the leg-side 104.3 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , fuller on off and middle , pushed to the right of Holder , towards mid-on 104.2 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , back of a length on off , de Villiers aims for a forcing stroke to the off-side but does not move his feet much. The ball hits his back pad off the inside-edge and sneaks away past the leg stump 104.1 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , short of length and nips in from outside off , left alone 103.6 Benn to van Zyl , no run , flighted delivery on off , forward and smothered back to Benn 103.5 Benn to van Zyl , no run , back of a length on off , punched back to Benn off the back foot 103.4 Benn to van Zyl , 2 runs , drifting down leg , van Zyl helps it fine for a couple. Good running between the wickets again 103.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , arm ball , keeps low , jabbed down to long-on 103.2 Benn to de Villiers , no run , short and hurries on off , de Villiers is cramped for room and mistimes a pull to mid-wicket 103.1 Benn to van Zyl , 1 run , floated up outside off , poked wide of slip off an outside edge 102.6 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , pitched up and on off , de Villiers drives well but finds mid-on 102.5 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , short of length and outside off , de Villiers lifts his bat and lets it go 102.4 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , Holder drags his length back , de Villiers stands tall and punches it to point 102.3 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , fuller length ball on off , which is defended to the off-side 102.2 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , on a length and on off , de Villiers comes down the track , does not get to the pitch of the ball and drags it to mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 102.1 J Holder to van Zyl , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , van Zyl was in two minds whether to play or leave. He was late to pull his bat away , the ball dribbles towards short third man 101.6 Benn to de Villiers , no run , flighted delivery outside off , de Villiers reaches forward and square drives it to point 101.5 Benn to van Zyl , 1 run , looped up very full on off , jammed in front of point 101.4 Benn to van Zyl , no run , forward and defended to cover 101.3 Benn to van Zyl , no run , fuller on off , tapped back to Benn 101.2 Benn to van Zyl , leg byes , FOUR , pushed through quicker , van Zyl shuffles across , gets well forward and misses the reverse sweep. The ball takes the pad and sneaks past the leg stump after van Zyl did not connect with his shot. Given as leg byes initially and Benn wants to review it. Is van Zyl out lbw ? Snicko does not pick up any wood on it. No bat involved. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball would have slid down leg , vindicating the on-field umpire 's call . 101.1 Benn to van Zyl , FOUR , darted full and outside off , van Zyl attacks it , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away to the third man fence. Runs are coming thick and fast for the hosts. The fielder , who was running back slides , but only comes second in the race 100.6 J Holder to de Villiers , FOUR , short and wide outside off , AB says thank you very much as he swishes his bat and belts it past the covers , the ball raced away to the boundary 100.5 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers comes on the front foot , dabs it to short cover and shouts 'no ' to van Zyl 100.4 J Holder to van Zyl , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , van Zyl stretches forward and caresses it to the off-side sweeper. A little flourish to go with it as well 100.3 J Holder to van Zyl , no run , fuller and comes in on middle and leg , worked to mid-wicket off the back foot 100.2 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , good length ball just outside off , de Villiers opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 100.1 J Holder to de Villiers , FOUR , classy from AB ! A bit overpitched on the stumps , de Villiers drives it between van Zyl and mid-on , the rich timing takes it to the fence Jason Holder [ 20.0-4-64-2 ] is back into the attack 99.6 Benn to van Zyl , no run , fraction back of a length and spins in sharply , van Zyl offers no shot and wears it on his pad. The ball would have lobbed over the stumps and van Zyl is given the green-lit signal to carry on. Benn looked stunned there. Benn thought he had his man van Zyl pads up , offers no shot and has been given out lbw. The left-hander wants to challenge the decision. Benn 's footing is fine. He got good spin there but has it turned enough to hit the stumps ? Nope , Hawk-eye shows that the ball would have spun and climbed over middle and leg. That will go down as a good review from Van Zyl and he survives 99.5 Benn to van Zyl , 2 runs , fuller and on the leg stump , whipped away through backward square leg for a couple 99.4 Benn to van Zyl , no run , worked towards mid-on 99.3 Benn to van Zyl , no run , fuller and flatter on the stumps , van Zyl stays back in defence 99.2 Benn to van Zyl , no run , arm ball from Benn , jammed out to the leg side 99.1 Benn to van Zyl , no run , blocked back to the bowler off the back foot 98.6 Samuels to de Villiers , FOUR , AB is pumped. He leaps and lets out a roar. AB lifts the helmet off his head and salutes the cheers. Amla is up on his feet , applauding from the change room. This was a low full toss on middle , Villiers reverse sweeps it to the third man fence. 21st Test ton for AB 98.5 Samuels to de Villiers , 2 runs , leg stumpish , tucked to deep square leg. AB wants two and scampers back 98.4 Samuels to de Villiers , 2 runs , de Villiers takes it from an off stump line and plays another reverse sweep to third man , he gets a couple 98.3 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , on middle and leg , worked to the leg-side 98.2 Samuels to de Villiers , FOUR , shortish and outside off , Villiers rocks back and flays it away to the deep backward point fence. South Africa move into the lead and AB to 95 98.1 Samuels to de Villiers , FOUR , de Villiers takes it from the stumps and reverse paddles wide of slip and gets it away to the third man fence Leg slip is back. Backward point goes to extra cover . 97.6 Benn to van Zyl , no run , Benn gives this more air on the stumps , van Zyl is well forward to knock it to cover 97.5 Benn to van Zyl , no run , skids low on middle , van Zyl jams his bat down and keeps it out Back to over the wicket . 97.4 Benn to van Zyl , FOUR , shortish and outside off from round the stumps , van Zyl stands tall and punches it behind point , the timing was good and the ball runs away to the fence 97.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , de Villiers eases a drive to long-off 97.2 Benn to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers gets forward again , this time he defends it back to Benn 97.1 Benn to de Villiers , no run , looped up on off , forward and dabbed towards cover point 96.6 Samuels to van Zyl , 2 runs , dropped short and outside off , van Zyl moves back and cuts it behind point , the fielder dives and makes a half stop before sweeper gets across and hunts it down , keeping it to two 96.5 Samuels to van Zyl , no run , darted on the fifth stump line , van Zyl lets it be 96.4 Samuels to van Zyl , no run , pushed through wide outside off again , ignored 96.3 Samuels to van Zyl , no run , turning across , well wide of off , left alone 96.2 Samuels to van Zyl , 2 runs , full and outside off , van Zyl comes on the frontfoot and drives it past cover. AB is quick and the duo get a couple 96.1 Samuels to van Zyl , no run , shoots up from a length outside off as Samuels looks to exploit the rough , left alone So , spin from both ends after lunch. AB and van Zyl wo n't mind this . 95.6 Benn to van Zyl , 1 run , flicked away backward of square leg for a single from a leg stump line 95.5 Benn to van Zyl , no run , Benn gets some quick spin on off , van Zyl gets behind the line and keeps it out 95.4 Benn to van Zyl , no run , flatter and fuller on the stumps , dead-batted Leg slip moves to short mid-on area . 95.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , dragged shortish and outside off , AB gets on top of the bounce and punches it wide of cover 95.2 Benn to van Zyl , 1 run , fullish on middle and leg , driven down to long-on for an easy single , ODI style Three men around the bat. A slip , leg slip and a short leg in . 95.1 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , forward and driven in front of point for a quick single Hello again. South Africa are just 16 runs away from wiping out the deficit. AB is the key for the hosts if they are to gain a substantial lead. Meanwhile , the West Indian bowlers , led by Holder , bowled with purpose in the first session. They will look to up it by a notch or two to keep themselves in the contest . 12 : 30 PM local time : Lunch on Day 3. An even session , South Africa added 86 runs and West Indies took 2 wickets. AB de Villiers is the key for the hosts. He looks relatively untroubled on a pitch that is beginning to show signs of deterioration. Jason Holder struck early , removing Amla for 63. Temba Bavuma started off positively , but once again failed to convert his start into a reasonable score. He was knocked over by Shannon Gabriel with the second new ball. South Africa still trail West Indies by 16 runs , but there 's some more batting to come. They will look to take a reasonably good first innings lead , especially with batting becoming increasingly difficult. Join us at 1 : 10 PM for the resumption . 94.6 Samuels to de Villiers , 1 run , good use of the feet from AB , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and bunts it down towards long-on 94.5 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , slower and just outside off , AB presses across and defends it with an angled bat , did n't look too convincing at all 94.4 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , Samuels finds the edge , but the ball drops in front of 1st slip. AB was looking to defend a well tossed up ball and edged 94.3 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , defended with a straight bat 94.2 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , slower and well outside off , AB shuffles across and dead bats it 94.1 Samuels to de Villiers , no run , tossed up and wider outside off , AB prods across and blocks Marlon Samuels [ 6.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 93.6 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , Benn tosses one on off , driven towards point where Blackwood misfields and allows a single 93.5 Benn to de Villiers , no run , flighted and on the leg-stump line , AB allows it to hit him , the ball races away to the fence , no shot offered and hence it 's a dead ball 93.4 Benn to de Villiers , no run , Benn drifts one wider outside off , driven towards cover point 93.3 Benn to de Villiers , no run , slower and on off , AB gets a big stride forward in defence 93.2 Benn to de Villiers , 2 runs , the lap sweep from AB , looked like it was pre-meditated , Benn fired it flatter and quicker , AB does well to get it past the keeper for a couple of runs 93.1 Benn to de Villiers , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 92.6 S Gabriel to van Zyl , FOUR , cracking shot , width on offer from Gabriel , van Zyl leans into the drive and caresses it through extra cover , no one moved as the ball raced away to the fence 92.6 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no ball , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 92.5 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and angling away , left alone 92.4 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , on a good length and shaping away further , left alone 92.3 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , back of a length and shaping away from off , van Zyl plays with an open face and dabs it towards cover 92.2 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , short of a length and shaping across the left-hander , left alone 92.1 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed away to the left of cover point for a single 91.6 Benn to van Zyl , no run , flighted and on the middle stump line , van Zyl prods forward in defence. Benn came from round the wicket for this ball 91.5 Benn to van Zyl , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , van Zyl makes room and looks to cut , misses , that was close to the off-stump 91.4 Benn to van Zyl , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , van Zyl goes back and defends it towards the off-side A slip , leg slip and a FSL in place for van Zyl 91.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , Benn drops one short and wide outside off , AB makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 91.2 Benn to de Villiers , no run , AB takes out his partner , comes down the track , takes the ball on the full and drills it towards the non-striker. van Zyl had little time to react and wears a blow 91.1 Benn to de Villiers , no run , AB misses out on a full toss , goes hard on the drive and mishits it towards cover Sulieman Benn [ 31.0-6-80-1 ] is back into the attack Change in bowling. Big Benn is back. A slip and a leg slip in place 90.6 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , Gabriel shortens his length and gets this one to shape across van Zyl , left alone 90.5 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , van Zyl gets behind the line and blocks 90.4 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 1 run , on a good length and angling into de Villiers , nudged in front of square on the on-side for a single 90.3 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , half-volley from Gabriel , AB gets forward and drags the drive towards mid-on 90.2 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 2 runs , nicely played by AB , and even better running. This was short and wide from Gabriel , chopped away behind square on the off-side for a brace , brings up SA 's 300 90.1 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 2 runs , Gabriel bangs one short and just outside off , gets high on AB , he does well to roll his wrists even as he awkwardly pulls it past Taylor at mid-on 89.6 Jerome Taylor to van Zyl , no run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone Taylor switches to round the wicket 89.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , short of a length and on AB 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 89.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , on a good length and a hint of late away swing , AB was opened up in his stance , but manages to defend with soft hands 89.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , AB presents the full face of the bat and drives it towards mid-off 89.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , FOUR , edged and four , this was full and wide from Taylor , AB throws his bat at that , gets a thick edge that flies over the cordon , not convincing but AB gets a boundary 89.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , on a good length and holding its line around off , AB gets half forward and defends it towards the on-side 88.6 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , short of a length and just outside off , van Zyl presses across and defends it towards the on-side 88.5 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , left alone 88.4 S Gabriel to van Zyl , 2 runs , on a length and just outside off , van Zyl prods forward hesitantly , gets a thick inside edge behind square on the on-side for a brace 88.3 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , yorker length delivery and just outside off , van Zyl digs it back towards the bowler 88.2 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , on a good length outside off and angling away , van Zyl covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 88.1 S Gabriel to van Zyl , 2 runs , uppish and safe ! That could have so easily gone straight to the fielder , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , van Zyl pressed forward on the drive , plays with an open face and slices it past cover point for a brace 87.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , Taylor comes from wide off the crease and slips in a yorker , AB watches it all along and blocks 87.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler 87.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , short of a length and just outside off , AB shuffles across and defends it 87.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , on a good length and just outside off , kept a tad low as well , AB gets behind the line and defends it 87.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from off , slapped straight to the man at cover 87.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , short of a length and just outside off , AB presses across and defends it with an angled bat towards cover 86.6 S Gabriel to van Zyl , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , van Zyl covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Stiaan van Zyl , left handed bat , comes to the crease 86.5 S Gabriel to Bavuma , out Bowled ! ! Chopped on ! Gabriel has struck with the second new ball. This was a good delivery , in that channel outside off and holding its line , Bavuma was caught in two minds , makes a late call to let it go. Too late , the ball goes off the angled bat and crashes into the off-stump. Good reward for some probing bowling. Bavuma fails to get going once again , SA lose their fifth wicket. Bavuma b S Gabriel 15 ( 41 ) [ 4s-2 ] S Gabriel to Bavuma , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! The FSL moves across towards cover 86.4 S Gabriel to Bavuma , no run , that 's excellent bowling from Gabriel , pitches this one up further , draws Bavuma forward into the drive before getting it to jag past the outside edge 86.3 S Gabriel to Bavuma , no run , on a length and just outside off , Bavuma presses across and defends it 86.3 S Gabriel to Bavuma , no ball , edged ! But the ball does n't carry through to Johnson at 2nd slip , would n't have counted though , Gabriel had overstepped. Bavuma was looking to punch a length ball past point , plays away from his body and gets a thick edge 86.2 S Gabriel to Bavuma , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Bavuma stands tall and punches it towards short extra cover 86.1 S Gabriel to Bavuma , FOUR , nicely played by Bavuma , this was banged in short and on off , did n't rise as much as Gabriel wanted. Bavuma watches it all along and plays a half-arm jab past mid-wicket , beats the man in the deep 85.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , back of a length and just outside off , AB dabs it in front of point and set-off for a quick single , sent back by his partner 85.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and angling back into the batsman , driven with a straight bat towards mid-on 85.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , AB plays with soft hands and defends it towards point 85.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and on the off-stump line , AB was looking to drive , gets a thick inside edge that races away past mid-wicket , the batsmen get back for the second run 85.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , that one kept very low , the line was well outside off though , AB was poking at that , the ball slips underneath his bat 85.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of shape away from off , AB was slightly opened up , plays with an angled bat as the ball rolls away towards cover 84.6 S Gabriel to Bavuma , no run , on a good length outside off and shaping away , Bavuma does n't need to play at those , left alone A FSL is in place for Bavuma 84.5 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 1 run , another short ball from Gabriel , AB watches it all along , rolls his wrists and swats it away past square leg 84.4 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone 84.3 S Gabriel to Bavuma , 1 run , short and on Bavuma 's body , he swivels across on the pull , does n't bother to keep it down , almost down to the throat of fine leg , bounces well in front of the fielder 84.2 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length and wider outside off , steered away square on the off-side for a single 84.1 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , short of a length and some movement back into AB , he shuffles across and defends it towards the off-side Shannon Gabriel [ 12.0-2-41-0 ] is back into the attack Gabriel will share the new ball.. He has 2 slips and a gully in place 83.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , AB stands tall and punches it square on the off-side , there 's a man in the deep , just a single 83.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , tad fuller and on the stumps , AB presses across , presents the full face of the bat and defends it towards mid-on 83.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , hint of swing for Taylor as this one nipped away , he closes the face of the bat and mistimes it back towards the bowler 83.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , Taylor keeps it full and gets it to shape away from off , AB covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 83.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , de Villiers covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Two slips in place for Taylor 83.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , AB prods forward and defends it West Indies have taken the second new ball Drinks are on the field now. How much are West Indies going to regret not taking the new ball as soon as it became available ? Holder was bowling well and managed to remove Amla but since then ABD and Bavuma have settled in nicely . 82.6 Benn to Bavuma , no run , tossed up around off , Bavuma defends it towards point again and that 's drinks 82.5 Benn to Bavuma , no run , gets forward and knocks it towards point 82.4 Benn to Bavuma , no run , full on middle , Bavuma leans on the front foot and blocks it into the leg-side 82.3 Benn to Bavuma , no run , flighted on off , Bavuma continues to defend it comfortable 82.2 Benn to Bavuma , no run , presses forward and blocks it solidly down the pitch 82.1 Benn to Bavuma , no run , full on middle and leg , Bavuma defends it off the front foot towards FSL 81.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , short of length on middle and off , de Villiers camps on the back foot and blocks solidly 81.5 Jerome Taylor to Bavuma , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to cover 81.4 Jerome Taylor to Bavuma , 2 runs , full on off , Bavuma presents the full face of the bat and punch-drives it , that was excellently done but Holder at mid-off gets his hands on the ball and slows it down , the batsmen manage to take a couple before the ball is fielded at long-off 81.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , shortish and outside off , de Villiers stays back , dabs it with the open face of the bat towards third man 81.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 2 runs , back of a length on leg , de Villiers clips it off the pads to deep square leg 81.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 2 runs , short of length and angled on the hips , de Villiers tucks it to deep backward square leg Jerome Taylor [ 13.0-1-59-0 ] is back into the attack 80.6 Benn to Bavuma , no run , full around off , Bavuma presses forward and defends it with an angled bat into the off-side 80.5 Benn to Bavuma , no run , continues to stay on the front foot and pushes it back to the bowler 80.4 Benn to Bavuma , no run , on middle , Bavuma clears his front leg and jams it back to the bowler 80.3 Benn to Bavuma , no run , full on middle and off , Bavuma blocks it nicely 80.2 Benn to Bavuma , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it back 80.1 Benn to Bavuma , FOUR , good shot by Bavuma ! It was shorter and wider by Benn , Bavuma goes on the back foot and guides it with a open face of the bat to the deep backward point fence The second new ball is available now but they are not taking it yet . 79.6 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , gets forward and pushes it towards point 79.5 J Holder to de Villiers , FOUR , length ball in the channel outside off , de Villiers looks to steer it into the off-side , gets a thick outside edge and the ball runs past the diving slip fielder to the third man fence 79.4 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , gets forward and defends this length ball to the right of the bowler 79.3 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , terrific delivery by Holder ! He is bowling excellent line and lengths here. It was short of length with a hint of shape away , comprehensively beats ABD as he looks to defend it 79.2 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , back of a length and angled into the batsman , de Villiers jumps inside the crease and defends it back 79.1 J Holder to de Villiers , 2 runs , length delivery angled in , de Villiers runs it down to third man for a couple 78.6 Benn to Bavuma , no run , looks to defend again , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat behind square 78.5 Benn to Bavuma , no run , goes on the back foot again and defends it with a straightish bat 78.4 Benn to Bavuma , no run , comes on the front foot time and blocks it down the track 78.3 Benn to Bavuma , no run , Bavuma gets inside the crease and rides the bounce , defends it towards short cover 78.2 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , short and touch wide as well , de Villiers backs away and slaps it to sweeper cover 78.1 Benn to de Villiers , no run , full around off , de Villiers gets forward and pushes it in front of point 77.6 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , shapes it away from the batsman yet again , Bavuma watches it closely and leaves it alone 77.5 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , drags the length short this time but it still wide enough , does not interest Bavuma as he shoulders arms to it 77.4 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , full and in the channel outside off , Bavuma comfortably lets that go through 77.3 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , back of a length and shaping away , beats the outside edge of Bavuma 's bat as he looks to defend , lovely ball that ! 77.2 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , full ball this time , Bavuma defends it with a straight bat to the left of the bowler 77.1 J Holder to Bavuma , 2 runs , short of length and angled in on the hips , Bavuma flicks it towards deep mid-wicket , it was in a air for a while but dies well before it reaches the fielder , good running between the wickets 76.6 Benn to de Villiers , no run , turning into the batsman , de Villiers gets forward to defend , ends up getting an inside edge and almost drags it back , luckily for him , the ball dropped near the stumps 76.5 Benn to Bavuma , 1 run , full on leg , Bavuma leans forward and clips it to mid-on 76.4 Benn to Bavuma , no run , camps on the back foot and punches it solidly towards the off-side 76.3 Benn to Bavuma , no run , full on middle and off , Bavuma presses forward and gently pushes it down the track 76.2 Benn to Bavuma , no run , pushed through around off , Bavuma stays back and punches it towards point 76.1 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , touch shorter and just outside off , de Villiers chops it to cover point for a quick single 75.6 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , fullish and sliding down leg , Bavuma gets forward and misses the flick , the keeper moves across to his left and collects the ball 75.5 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , full on middle and leg , Bavuma leans forward and works it towards mid-on 75.4 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , angled in on the leg , Bavuma clips it towards the right of the bowler 75.3 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , short of length and around off , Bavuma goes on the back foot and helps it towards slips 75.2 J Holder to Bavuma , no run , shaping away from the batsman , Bavuma stays back and lets that go through Temba Bavuma , right handed bat , comes to the crease Two slips in place 75.1 J Holder to Amla , out Caught by Ramdin ! ! Wow ! Change of ball brings change of luck for West Indies ! Excellent delivery by Holder , back of a length and straightens a touch , Amla is forced into the crease and looks to defend with his bat hanging away from the body , the ball just about brushes the outside edge of his bat and settles comfortably into the keeper 's gloves. Amla c Ramdin b J Holder 63 ( 150 ) [ 4s-7 ] J Holder to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! The umpires are having a look at the ball. Holder has asked them to check it. We still have 5 more overs left for the new ball. But this one has already gone out of shape. The umpires have decided to call for a replacement . 74.6 Benn to de Villiers , no run , stays inside the crease and defends it into the leg-side , the bowler moves across and gets to it 74.5 Benn to Amla , 3 runs , beautifully played by Amla , leans on the front foot on this full ball outside off and drives it hard to deep extra cover , the fielder picks up the ball near the fence but excellent running between the wickets by the batsmen as they complete three before the throw comes in 74.4 Benn to Amla , no run , gets forward and defends it with an angled bat towards point 74.3 Benn to Amla , no run , turning away from the batsman , Amla lets that go through 74.2 Benn to Amla , no run , flatter this time , Amla gets back and turns it towards short mid-wicket 74.1 Benn to Amla , no run , full on off , Amla leans forward and defends 73.6 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , gets forward and pushes this length ball into the off-side 73.5 J Holder to de Villiers , 2 runs , Holder flirts with the line outside off , de Villiers slaps it powerfully to the deep backward point fenc to bring up his 37th Test fifty 73.4 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , fuller and wide of off , de Villiers initially looks to steer it into the off-side but then lets it go through as it was out of his reach 73.3 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , on a length and angled into the batsman , de Villiers defends it with soft hands 73.2 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , full length delivery just outside off , de Villiers punch-drives it straight to the fielder at mid-off 73.1 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , back of a length around off , de Villiers gets forward and pushes it towards point 72.6 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , continues to remain on the back foot and softly glances it to square leg 72.5 Benn to de Villiers , no run , stays inside the crease and runs it down off the face of his bat towards first slip 72.4 Benn to de Villiers , no run , full and spinning away a touch , de Villiers watches it closely and leaves it alone 72.3 Benn to Amla , 1 run , on middle and leg , Amla shuffles across and works it to deep mid-wicket 72.2 Benn to Amla , no run , full and around off again , this time Amla presses forward and defends 72.1 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted around off , Amla moves inside the crease and punches it into the off-side 71.6 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , on a length and outside off , Amla does well to open the face of his bat and gently runs it down to backward point , a good quick single taken 71.5 J Holder to Amla , no run , fullish , with a hint of late inward movement , Amla presses on the front foot and shoulders arms to it 71.4 J Holder to Amla , no run , well outside off , does not bother Amla , he is not interested in playing those 71.3 J Holder to Amla , no run , back of a length and angling away from the batsman , Amla covers the line and lets it go through 71.2 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , full and just outside off , de Villiers gently leans on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover 71.1 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , good length delivery around off , de Villiers gets forward and drives it straight to mid-off 70.6 Benn to Amla , no run , another full one and Amla is ready with a solid front foot defense 70.5 Benn to Amla , no run , full on middle and off , Amla defends it off the front foot 70.4 Benn to de Villiers , 3 runs , comes charging down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and whips it to deep mid-wicket , good use of the feet by ABD , the fielder gives a chase and stops the ball just in front of the rope. Meanwhile , the batsmen run three 70.3 Benn to Amla , 1 run , on middle , Amla gets inside the crease and works it to mid-wicket for a quick single 70.2 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted around off , de Villiers comes on the front foot and drives it softly to sweeper cover 70.1 Benn to Amla , 1 run , full on off , Amla stays back and clips it through backward square leg for an easy single Sulieman Benn [ 24.0-5-62-1 ] is back into the attack A slip in place for Benn . 69.6 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , back of a length on the hips , de Villiers gets back and tucks it just in front of square on the leg-side 69.5 J Holder to de Villiers , FOUR , cracking shot ! That was abosultely marvellous by ABD , it was a touch fuller and straighter from Holder , de Villiers presents the full face of the bat and drills it to the long-on fence 69.4 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , on a good length and angling in on middle and off , de Villiers pushes it back towards the bowler 69.3 J Holder to de Villiers , 2 runs , short of length and touch wide as well , de Villiers opens the face of his bat and guides it to third man for a brace 69.2 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , back of a length and angled into the batsman , de Villiers stays inside the crease and tucks it into the leg-side 69.1 J Holder to Amla , leg byes , 1 run , drifts it on leg , Amla gets it off the pads as he looks to tuck , gets a comfortable single 68.6 Samuels to de Villiers , FOUR , not a good start for West Indies. de Villiers has comfortably put that away , he gets down on one knee on this low full toss and slogs it to the deep mid-wicket fence 68.5 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , another full toss from Samuels , Amla is surprised by it , only manages to tuck it towards deep mid-wicket for a single 68.4 Samuels to Amla , no run , full toss on middle , Amla stays in the crease and works it in front of square on the leg-side The players are making their way out. West Indies bowling consultant Curtly Ambrose has a few encourging words for his team before they walk towards the field. Samuels will be continuing with his over . Weather report : It 's another sun bathed day at Newlands. There was some rain last evening , but it has cleared up and the conditions look ideal for cricket . Hello , and a warm welcome to one and all for Day 3 of the final Test between South Africa and West Indies. Having restricted West Indies to 329 all-out , the hosts slowly but steadily took control of the Test , finishing at 227/3. Faf du Plessis made a spirited 68 while skipper , Hashim Amla looks in good touch , remaining unbeaten on 55. AB de Villiers is giving him solid company , batting on 32. For the visitors , the bowling ranged from sublime to erratic. The pitch is on the slower side , and the cracks were opening up at times. South Africa will have to bat last on this surface , they would ideally like to have another big day with the bat today . That is that. It 's stumps on day 2. Fifties from Amla and Faf du Plessis lead South Africa 's solid reply. The latter was lured out of his crease and beaten in flight by Benn , who wheeled away in a tidy 24-over spell. Amla though is still unbeaten on 55. AB de Villiers is also looking in good touch and is closing in on a fifty of his own. The West Indian pacers though lacked consistency to pressurize the South African batsmen. Will Amla and AB power on and put the hosts well ahead ? Or will West Indies restore parity on day 3 ? Do come back on day 3 and find out. Also , play will begin at 10 : 28 local time tomorrow with 91 overs in the day. Until then , good night and take care ! Oops , it has started raining again ! The rain has stopped and the umpires are out in the middle for an inspection . The drizzle has picked up and it is pouring down now. There wo n't be an early start tomorrow as the rain arrived during the extra 30-minute period . It has started drizzling. The groundstaff bring the covers onto the field. The entire square is covered and the players troop off the field . 68.3 Samuels to Amla , no run , slower through the air on off , defended to the leg-side 68.2 Samuels to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on off , blocked calmly off the front foot 68.1 Samuels to de Villiers , 1 run , shortish on off , punched down to long-on Marlon Samuels [ 5.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 67.6 J Holder to Amla , no run , short ball outside off , which is punched to the fielder at point 67.5 J Holder to Amla , no run , tucked from an off stump line to mid-wicket 67.4 J Holder to Amla , no run , on a length and on off , Amla stays in the crease and defends it back to J Holder 67.3 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , dug in short and on the stumps , de Villiers rolls his wrists on the pull and sends it to deep fine leg 67.2 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , fullish and on off , de Villiers runs it in front of point 67.1 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , back of a length and on off , Amla hangs back and wrists it behind square on the on-side Jason Holder [ 13.0-3-44-1 ] is back into the attack 66.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , FOUR , nicely played by AB ! Dug in shortish and widish outside off , de Villiers steers it wide of gully for the second four of the over. There is no protection at deep third man 66.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , back of a length and skids on off , chopped from the crease and behind point 66.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , good length ball around off , defended in front of cover 66.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , FOUR , full and outside off , AB slices it in front of square , he opens the face of the bat at the last minute and the ball runs away to the fence , beating the chasing fielder 66.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , back of a length and on off , whipped away to deep backward square leg off the back foot 66.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , good length ball coming in on off , Amla shuffles across and works it to the leg-side It has gone very gloomy at Cape Town . 65.6 Benn to Amla , 1 run , drifts it onto the pads , Amla nurdles it to deep square leg 65.5 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted on off , Amla presses forward and defends it in front of cover 65.4 Benn to Amla , no run , shortish and just outside off , Amla plays a flashy cut and fails to make contact , he was undone by the extra bounce , it was not far away from the outside edge 65.3 Benn to Amla , no run , slower and on the stumps , Amla bunts it off the front foot to short mid-wicket 65.2 Benn to Amla , no run , flat and on off , Amla pushes it off the back foot to cover 65.1 Benn to Amla , no run , tosses it up around off , Amla blocks it to the off-side 64.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , slower delivery outside off , de Villiers spots it early and does not bother with it 64.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , pitched up on off , de Villiers drives without much timing to mid-on 64.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , back of a length on off , Amla drops it to the vacant cover region and takes off for a quick single 64.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , again , keeps it fuller on off and middle , Amla works it and picks out squarish mid-wicket 64.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , fuller and targeting the stumps , de Villiers nurdles it off the inside part of the blade to fine leg 64.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , FOUR , fullish and outside off , de Villiers gets low and slices it with an open face , no guarding the third man fence and it was easy pickings for ABD 64.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no ball , splays it down leg , de Villiers ca n't meet with the tickle , umpire catches Taylor overstepping 63.6 Benn to Amla , no run , quicker and close to off , Amla punches it straight to backward point 63.5 Benn to Amla , no run , arm-ball on off , Amla gets inside the line and works it gently to short mid-wicket 63.4 Benn to Amla , no run , straight roller outside off , Amla covers the line and lets it pass 63.3 Benn to Amla , no run , nice loopy delivery on off , Amla comes half-forward and defends it to cover 63.2 Benn to Amla , no run , flatter and on off , Amla goes back and bunts it to backward point 63.1 Benn to Amla , no run , floated up just outside off , Amla keeps it out with a forward defensive ABD broke his bat while jamming out the yorker. He is selecting a new one . 62.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , yorker to end the over , Villiers jams it down the pitch to mid-on 62.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , strays onto the pads , Amla leans forward and flicks it to deep square leg 62.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , fullish and on off , Amla mistimes the drive to mid-on , he got it off the inside half 62.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , this time the on-drive is hit in the gap. What a way to bring up your 28th Test fifty ! Overpitched on middle , Amla presents the full face and drives it past ABD at the non-striker 's end , Holder gives chase in vain 62.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Amla on-drives it straight to mid-on 62.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , good length ball on off , Amla defends solidly off the front foot to mid-off 61.6 Benn to de Villiers , FOUR , both batsmen showing some positive intent now , tossed up just outside off , de Villiers shimmies down the track and lofts it inside out over extra cover , everyone was a mere spectator as the ball scooted to the fence 61.5 Benn to Amla , 1 run , slider on leg-stump , Amla nurdles it to backward square leg 61.4 Benn to Amla , no run , floated up on off , Amla stays low and blocks it back to the bowler 61.3 Benn to Amla , FOUR , slightly short and just outside off , Amla was onto it in a flash. How fast are his hands ? He brings them down quickly and punches it through cover , Chanders at sweeper had no chance of cutting that off 61.2 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , flatter and on off , de Villiers backs away and punches it to sweeper cover 61.1 Benn to de Villiers , no run , flighted delivery on off , de Villiers dead-bats it down the wicket 60.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , back of a length on off , Amla stays in the crease and bunts it in front of point 60.5 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , good length ball just outside off , de Villiers eases the drive to deep extra cover 60.4 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , Taylor gets away with a nice juicy full toss on leg-stump , de Villiers was early into the flick , wears it onto the pads 60.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , short of length on middle , bit of extra bounce as well , Amla plays it with a loose bottom hand to square leg 60.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , nudged away to the unmanned mid-wicket region 60.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , fuller and close to off , de Villiers blocks it to the off-side by coming forward Jerome Taylor [ 9.0-1-35-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now 59.6 Benn to Amla , no run , nice loopy delivery around off , Amla drops it dead to the off-side 59.5 Benn to Amla , no run , flatter and on off , Amla goes right back and pushes it to short mid-wicket 59.4 Benn to Amla , no run , yorker on off , Amla jams it down the wicket 59.3 Benn to Amla , FOUR , super shot ! Half tracker outside off , it was a rare delivery from Benn. Amla pounces on it , rocks back and cuts it fiercely behind point , no chance for the sweeper to stop that 59.2 Benn to Amla , no run , darted in outside off , Amla leaves it alone 59.1 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted on the stumps , Amla blocks it back to the bowler 58.6 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , good length ball just outside off , de Villiers lifts his bat and lets it go 58.6 S Gabriel to de Villiers , wide , bouncer down leg , de Villiers does n't bother with it , wided for the height 58.5 S Gabriel to Amla , 1 run , again , keeps it short of length on off , Amla gets inside the line and wrists it towards mid-on 58.4 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , back of a length just outside off , Amla toe-ends the punch to cover 58.3 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , shortish and outside off , Amla watches it go past him 58.2 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , back of a length on off , defened down the wicket 58.1 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , does n't rise up much , de Villiers hops up and tucks it to square leg 57.6 Benn to Amla , no run , smothers the turn with a lunging forward defence 57.5 Benn to Amla , no run , drags the length back , Amla hangs on the back foot and taps it to point with an angled bat 57.4 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , slower and on off , de Villiers drives it inside out to sweeper cover 57.3 Benn to de Villiers , no run , floated up on off , de Villiers defends it with soft hands to the off-side 57.2 Benn to Amla , 1 run , flatter and on off , Amla goes deep in the crease and whips it wide of mid-wicket 57.1 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted close to off , Amla pushes it to cover 56.6 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , comes back in from short of length , de Villiers stays in the crease and blocks it to the on-side 56.5 S Gabriel to Amla , 1 run , pitches it up just outside off , Amla drives it to sweeper cover 56.4 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 1 run , full and on the pads , de Villiers flicks it to deep backward square leg 56.4 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no ball , once again Gabriel oversteps , on a length and outside off , de Villiers is happy to let it go 56.3 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , shortens the length close to off , de Villiers taps it in front of cover 56.2 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , fuller and around off , de Villiers pushes it off the front foot to cover 56.1 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , back of a length on off , de Villiers gets behind the line and blocks it to Gabriel 55.6 Benn to Amla , no run , slower and on the fourth stump , Amla comes slightly forward and drops it to the off-side 55.5 Benn to Amla , no run , flatter and around off , Amla punches it straight to backward point 55.4 Benn to Amla , no run , touch of extra bounce outside off , Amla shoulders arms to it 55.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up around off , de Villiers eases the drive to sweeper cover 55.2 Benn to de Villiers , no run , opens the bat face and push-drives it to point 55.1 Benn to de Villiers , 2 runs , not the most convincing of shots , flighted outside off , de Villiers dances down the track and slices the inside out loft to deep extra cover , there was a fielder there and it was wide of him 54.6 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , on a length close to off , Amla blocks it in front of cover 54.5 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , fuller just outside off , Amla drives and finds cover 54.4 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length slanted into the pads , de Villiers tucks it down to fine leg 54.4 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no ball , Gabriel is caught overstepping. Back of a length outside off , de Villiers is not interested in playing at that 54.3 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump line , de Villiers presses forward and pushes it towards cover 54.2 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , on a length and attacking the top of off , de Villiers presents the full face and blocks it back to Gabriel 54.1 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , good length ball around off , de Villiers comes half-forward and knocks it to cover 53.6 Benn to Amla , 2 runs , sliding onto the pads , Amla does deep in the crease and whips it square of the wicket on the leg-side for the second brace of the over 53.5 Benn to Amla , no run , too full and on the stumps , Amla squeezes the drive to the left of the bowler 53.4 Benn to Amla , no run , straight roller outside off , left alone 53.3 Benn to Amla , 2 runs , little bit of extra bounce , Amla goes on his toes , plays it with soft hands to the left of backward point 53.2 Benn to Amla , no run , tossed up on off , Amla leans forward and defends to the right of Benn 53.1 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , drops it slightly short outside off , de Villiers rides the bounce and cuts it square of the wicket 52.6 S Gabriel to de Villiers , 1 run , short and down leg , de Villiers helps it on its way to fine leg with a pull shot 52.5 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , back of a length close to off , de Villiers stays leg-side of the ball and chops the cut to cover 52.4 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , on a length and angled in on off , de Villiers presses it to cover off the front foot 52.3 S Gabriel to de Villiers , no run , good length ball well wide of off , de Villiers ignores it 52.2 S Gabriel to Amla , 1 run , after being hit off a full delivery , Gabriel drags the length back , Amla punches it to deep extra cover 52.1 S Gabriel to Amla , FOUR , cracking shot ! That was an Amla special. Pitched up outside off , Amla gets a good stride forward and creams the drive to the left of mid-off , the timing and placement was exquisite 51.6 Benn to de Villiers , no run , bit too straight , de Villiers turns his wrists and pats it to FSL 51.5 Benn to de Villiers , no run , nice loopy delivery on middle , de Villiers presses forward and taps it to the on-side 51.4 Benn to Amla , 1 run , flatter and close to off , Amla punches it to the left of cover for a single 51.3 Benn to Amla , no run , tossed up on off , Amla stays in the crease and dabs it to the off-side 51.2 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted on off , de Villiers shimmies down the track , takes it on the full and drills it straight down the ground , breaks the stumps at the non-striker 's end , umpire Reiffel was stretching his legs to allow the ball to go through 51.1 Benn to de Villiers , no run , slower and on off , de Villiers dead-bats it down the wicket 50.6 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , jags back in from short of length , Amla gets behind the line and knocks it to the right of the bowler 50.5 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , full and angling in , Amla wrists it to mid-on 50.4 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , fuller and close to off , Amla presses forward and defends it to cover 50.3 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , that one keeps a bit low , Amla shuffles across , manages to bring his bat down and bunt it to point 50.2 S Gabriel to Amla , no run , short of length on off , Amla stays in the crease and taps it to point 50.1 S Gabriel to Amla , 2 runs , a typical Amla shot , stands tall for the back of a length delivery and punches it on the up to deep extra cover , Chanders does the mopping up in the deep Shannon Gabriel [ 7.0-2-25-0 ] is back into the attack 49.6 Benn to de Villiers , no run , tad quicker and just outside off , de Villiers opens the bat face and knocks it to point 49.5 Benn to de Villiers , no run , nicely tossed up on the stumps , de Villiers pushes it to mid-on 49.4 Benn to de Villiers , no run , floated up just outside off , de Villiers plants his front foot forward and drives it to extra cover 49.3 Benn to de Villiers , no run , slider on middle and leg , de Villiers turns it to the man at FSL 49.2 Benn to de Villiers , no run , flatter and on off , de Villiers hangs back and blocks it to the off-side AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.1 Benn to du Plessis , out Stumped ! ! Another batsman in the Test who has thrown away a start. It was very well bowled by Benn , he has a wide smile on his face as skipper Ramdin congratulates him. du Plessis was a bit too early in coming down the track , Benn saw that and held it back outside off , du Plessis could not reach and an easy stumping for Ramdin. du Plessis st Ramdin b Benn 68 ( 122 ) [ 4s-8 ] Benn to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 48.6 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , dug in short , but only rises above waist height , du Plessis swivels , rolls his wrists and pulls it to fine leg 48.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , on a length just outside off , du Plessis plays it with soft hands to the off-side 48.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , bumper aimed right at the batsman , du Plessis thinks about going for the hook , sees that the ball getting big him and decides against it 48.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , back of a length close to off , du Plessis taps it off the back foot to cover 48.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , good length ball around off , du Plessis moves forward and knocks it in front of cover 48.1 J Holder to du Plessis , 2 runs , full and tailing in on the pads , du Plessis leans forward and flicks it behind square , he wanted two and gets it comfortably. How fast is this guy between the wickets ? 47.6 Benn to du Plessis , 3 runs , fires it outside off , du Plessis has a go at it , nowhere close to the pitch of the ball , it takes the outswide edge and flies wide of the slip fielder , Blackwood does extremely well to give chase , slide and save a run for the team. That was the arm-ball bowled at 103kph 47.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , floated up on the stumps , du Plessis defends it to the on-side 47.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , what happened there ? Tossed up outside off , du Plessis moves across , kneels down fails to connect with the paddle sweep , the ball hits him on the helmet , right on the South African logo 47.3 Benn to Amla , 1 run , slides on middle and leg , Amla nudges it to the right of mid-wicket for a single 47.2 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted on middle , Amla crouches low and blocks it back to the bowler 47.1 Benn to Amla , no run , Benn sees the batsman giving the charge , he pulls the length back , Amla blocks it dead on the wicket 46.6 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , that did n't seem to have come off the middle , but had plenty to race away to the boundary. Slanted in on off and middle , du Plessis clips it off the inside part through mid-wicket 46.5 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , very well bowled by Holder , goes slightly wide of the crease , angles it in before getting it to straighten , Amla pushes at it with laden feet , the ball squirts off the outer half between point and cover 46.4 J Holder to Amla , no run , back of a length around off , Amla stands and punches it sweetly , but straight to cover 46.3 J Holder to Amla , no run , short of length outside off , left alone 46.2 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , on a length just outside off , du Plessis dabs it wide of backward point for a single 46.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short and down leg , du Plessis gets inside the line and watches the ball settle into Ramdin 's gloves 45.6 Benn to Amla , no run , touch quicker and around off , Amla blocks it dead from the crease to the off-side 45.5 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , driven to cover , where Samuels fumbles and allows the duo to pick an easy single 45.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , floated up on off , du Plessis skips out of the crease and drives inside out to mid-off , the fielder had to make a sliding stop 45.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted on the stumps , du Plessis blocks with the bat in front of his pad 45.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , comes down the track , almost yorks himself , jams it back to the bowler 45.1 Benn to Amla , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Amla inches forward and drives it to deep extra cover 44.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , shortens the length on the fourth stump line , du Plessis shoulders arms 44.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller and close to off , du Plessis drives off the inside part to mid-on 44.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , good length ball on off , du Plessis defends solidly back to the bowler 44.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , on a length just outside off , hint of away movement as well , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go 44.2 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , overpitched and Holder pays the price. du Plessis moves forward , presents the full face and on-drives it past a diving mid-on , Benn got a hand but the ball had enough to reach the rope 44.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , wasted delivery , short and well wide of off , du Plessis does not bother with it 43.6 Benn to Amla , no run , slower and just outside off , the ball does n't come onto the bat as Amla mistimes the punch to cover 43.5 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , skids on after pitching , du Plessis walks across his stumps and nudges it wide of mid-wicket 43.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , fires it full and on the stumps , du Plessis drives it crisply straight to mid-off 43.3 Benn to Amla , 1 run , gives this lot more air outside off , Amla leans into the drive to sweeper cover 43.2 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted on off , Amla presses it to cover after coming forward 43.1 Benn to Amla , no run , fraction short and outside off , Amla cuts and picks out backward point , Blackwood was the fielder 42.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fullish and on off , du Plessis push-drives it to mid-off , calls " no " for the single 42.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , much closer to the off-stump , but not close enough to make du Plessis play 42.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , too far across , du Plessis is not going to play at those , easy leave 42.3 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , full and slanting in on off and middle , Amla wrists it wide of mid-on and takes off for a sharp run 42.2 J Holder to Amla , no run , pulls the length back , Amla gets inside the line and turns it softly to mid-wicket 42.1 J Holder to Amla , no run , starts with a yorker around off , Amla squeezes with an open face to point Welcome back. . Tea , Day 2 : South Africa have made steady progress to get to 135/2. Petersen and Faf du Plessis stitched together a 56-run stand , before the former was run-out , courtesy a sharp direct hit from Blackwood. Amla joined Faf du Plessis and kept the visitors at bay. Benn plugged away at one end , keeping things tight. The quick bowlers were decent in patches but lacked consistency. Meanwhile , du Plessis reached his 7th Test fifty and looks set to convert it into a ton. Do rejoin us in a short while for the final session of the day . 41.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slides on with the arm on off , du Plessis keeps it out , jamming it to the leg-side 41.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , on middle and leg , tucked to the man at mid-wicket 41.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , softly punched to silly mid-on off the back foot 41.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , round-armish back of a length ball on off , defended back to Benn 41.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted nicely and spins past the outside edge of du Plessis 41.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up and outside off , forward and driven to cover 40.6 J Holder to Amla , no run , hurries on off from a back of a length , Amla works it to square leg off the inside half of the bat 40.5 J Holder to du Plessis , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and jags back in , the ball does not rise much to beat Faf 's pull. He takes it on his back thigh and gets a leg bye 40.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , nips back in from outside off , but does not threaten off , shouldered arms by du Plessis 40.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , back of a length and just outside off again , some extra bounce here and du Plessis defends it back to Holder 40.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , dug in short and just outside off , blocked off the back foot to the left of the bowler 40.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , very full and dips in just outside off , du Plessis jams it in front of point 39.6 Benn to Amla , no run , flatter on the leg stump , Amla bends down for the sweep but misses. The ball takes the pad and rolls to the leg side 39.5 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , quicker delivery on middle and leg , du Plessis goes back and turns it to square leg 39.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , skips down the track and smothers it back to the bowler 39.3 Benn to Amla , 1 run , goes back and punches it to cover for a quick single 39.2 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , fullish on middle , du Plessis leans forward and tucks it off his pads to deep backward square leg to get to his 7th Test fifty 39.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , short delivery turning away with some extra bounce , du Plessis goes back and pushes it to FSL 38.6 J Holder to Amla , no run , Amla hangs back and blocks this shortish ball to cover 38.5 J Holder to Amla , no run , similar length and just a shade outside off , Amla plays with soft hands and dabs it down towards gully 38.4 J Holder to Amla , no run , back of a length and outside off , Amla overs the off pole and shoulders arms 38.3 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , back of a length on middle , du Plessis shuffles across and flicks it to fine leg 38.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , angled in on middle , blocked wide of mid-on now 38.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , good length ball close to off , knocked to mid-on 37.6 Benn to Amla , no run , spins in a bit on middle , Amla is happy to dead-bat it 37.5 Benn to Amla , no run , pushed down leg , Amla does not get hold of the sweep 37.4 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , goes on with the arm outside off , du Plessis steers it towards third man 37.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , punched out to cover off the back foot , Faf ca n't thread the gap 37.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , blocked to the leg side off the back foot as Benn drags his length back 37.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , full on off , driven to mid-off 36.6 J Holder to Amla , no run , on a good length and outside off , Amla lifts his bat and lets it go 36.5 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , banged in short on the leg stump , Faf controls the pull down to fine leg 36.4 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , short of length on middle , Amla moves back and works it through square leg Benn moves to the mid-wicket area now 36.3 J Holder to du Plessis , leg byes , 1 run , loose one on the leg stump , du Plessis misses the flick again. The ball kisses the pad and rolls in front of square on the on-side 36.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , full and on the stumps , driven to mid-on 36.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller and on middle and leg , rapping Faf on his pad as he misses the flick. The muffled lbw appeal is shooted down , the ball was snaking down leg. Faf is annoyed with himself for not putting that away Jason Holder [ 6.0-2-27-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Benn to Amla , no run , straighter on off , Amla defends it to the off-side off the back foot 35.5 Benn to Amla , FOUR , darted quicker at 93kph , short as well , Amla rocks back and cracks it to the deep backward point fence after getting on top of the bounce. Impressive shot that from the South African skipper 35.4 Benn to Amla , no run , on middle and leg , worked to mid-wicket 35.3 Benn to Amla , no run , skids on with the arm , punched to cover 35.2 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Amla defends it carefully , back to Benn again 35.1 Benn to Amla , no run , pushed through on off , Amla defends it back to Benn 34.6 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , dragged short and outside off , Amla goes deep in the crease and punches it wide of to mid-wicket 34.5 Samuels to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on off , Amla is forward to keep it out , head over the ball 34.4 Samuels to Amla , no run , straight ball outside off , left alone 34.3 Samuels to Amla , no run , pushed to the right of the bowler 34.2 Samuels to Amla , no run , flatter and quicker outside off , punched off the back foot , but straight to the fielder at cover 34.1 Samuels to du Plessis , 3 runs , the batsman takes it from the fourth stump and paddles it fine. The fielder in the deep chases and just boots the ball in. The result is three 33.6 Benn to Amla , no run , slider outside off , Amla reads it well and shoulders arms 33.5 Benn to Amla , no run , straighter ball on middle , tapped back to Benn 33.4 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , on the shorter side on middle and leg , helped wide of leg slip for a single 33.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , drifts in on middle , du Plessis gets right behind the line in defence 33.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery on off , du Plessis comes down the track and defends it back to Benn 33.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up on off and middle , blocked to silly mid-on 32.6 Samuels to Amla , no run , fuller and just outside off , clipped to mid-on 32.5 Samuels to Amla , no run , turned to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 32.4 Samuels to Amla , no run , Samuels drags his length back on the stumps , blocked back to Samuels 32.3 Samuels to Amla , FOUR , full and outside off , du Plessis lays into a cover-drive. Benn misfields at cover and allows a four. Sloppy stuff from Benn 32.2 Samuels to du Plessis , 1 run , wristed from outside off past mid-wicket 32.1 Samuels to du Plessis , no run , pushed to short mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 31.6 Benn to Amla , no run , straight ball on middle , jammed in front of Benn 31.5 Benn to Amla , no run , a bit shorter and on off , Amla gets an inside-edge onto the pad , the ball nearly rolls back onto the stumps , but Amla has it covered with his bat at the last moment 31.4 Benn to Amla , no run , Benn drifts this one on off , Amla is solid in defence 31.3 Benn to Amla , no run , slides on with the arm on off , blocked to the left of Benn 31.2 Benn to Amla , no run , defended to short leg again , off the back foot 31.1 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , blocked to short leg 30.6 Samuels to du Plessis , no run , much fuller and pushed in the channel just outside off , knocked back to Samuels 30.5 Samuels to Amla , 1 run , quicker on middle and leg , tucked to mid-wicket , where Johnson makes a diving save 30.4 Samuels to Amla , no run , tossed up on the fourth stump , Amla is forward in defence 30.3 Samuels to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on off , forward and smothered 30.2 Samuels to Amla , no run , pushed through , clipped to the leg-side 30.1 Samuels to Amla , FOUR , on middle and leg , Amla twirls his wrists and flicks it sweetly , Gabriel slides in the deep in vain , the ball runs away to the deep mid wicket fence 29.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , Benn shortens his length on the stumps , du Plessis hangs back and defends it to the leg-side 29.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , du Plessis uses his feet and taps this to silly mid-on 29.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flat and fired on off , du Plessis drives it to cover 29.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , du Plessis gets a leading edge on the flick , but the ball does not carry to cover 29.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , dug in short on off , blocked to silly mid-on 29.1 Benn to du Plessis , 2 runs , fuller and straighter , tickled fine for a couple , beating leg slip 28.6 Samuels to Amla , no run , on a length and on off , Amla gets forward and works it towards mid-on 28.5 Samuels to Amla , no run , flatter on off , blocked in front of cover 28.4 Samuels to Amla , no run , pushed back to Samuels 28.3 Samuels to Amla , no run , blocked towards point off the back foot , it came more off the outside half of the bat 28.2 Samuels to Amla , no run , flatter and outside off , Amla camps on the back foot and punches it in front of square on the off-side 28.1 Samuels to du Plessis , 1 run , dug in shortish on off , turned backward of square leg Marlon Samuels [ 1.0-0-1-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Benn to Amla , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , blocked to short leg from the crease 27.5 Benn to Amla , no run , left alone outside off 27.4 Benn to Amla , no run , pushed to the covers 27.3 Benn to Amla , no run , punched off the back foot to mid-on 27.2 Benn to Amla , no run , darted outside off , left alone Hashim Amla , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.1 Benn to du Plessis , out A Petersen Run Out ! ! Pushed through with a bit of turn on off , Plessis pokes it towards gully off a controlled outside edge and sets off for a risky single. Petersen responds to Faf but Blackwood is quick to swoop in on the ball from backward point and throws the stumps down with a direct hit. Petersen is well short. A Petersen run out ( Blackwood ) 42 ( 85 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Benn to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! A direct hit and Alviro Petersen is in trouble. TV umpire is called into service. He is short by a long way and has to walk back to the hut . 26.6 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , 2 runs , good length ball outside off , Petersen presses forward and drives it in the gap between mid-off and cover for a brace 26.5 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , another mistimed drive from Jerome Taylor , this time the ball trickles to mid-off , straight to the fielder 26.4 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , fuller length and outside off , mistimed drive back to Jerome Taylor Coming back to the lbw appeal , Hawk-Eye shows that the ball would have climbed over the stumps 26.3 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , more shorter and outside off , Petersen lifts his bat and lets it go 26.2 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , back of a length and hurries on middle , shapes in to catch the batsman high on the thigh pad. Going over the stumps I guess. Jerome Taylor has a chat with Ramdin behind the stumps and decides against a review. So , the lbw appeal amounts to nothing 26.1 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , fullish and just a shade outside off , Petersen comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-on 25.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , darted on the fourth stump line , pushed defensively back to the bowler 25.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery on off , forward and smothered back to Benn 25.4 Benn to A Petersen , 1 run , flatter on middle and leg , worked to mid-wicket 25.3 Benn to A Petersen , no run , looped up on off , Petersen camps in the crease and defends it back to Benn 25.2 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , leg stumpish and nudged behind square leg 25.1 Benn to du Plessis , 2 runs , short of length and outside off , some extra bounce as well , Faf rocks back and punches it towards deep point Drinks are on the field now 24.6 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , fullish delivery just around off , Petersen presses forward and blocks it back to the bowler 24.5 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Petersen comes forward and drives it back to the bowler 24.4 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Petersen lifts his bat and lets it go through to the keeper 24.3 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , good length delivery which straightens from off , Petersen is squared up and defends it to the off-side 24.2 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , good length delivery outside off , Petersen shoulders arms 24.1 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , fuller length on middle , Petersen gets forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 23.6 Benn to A Petersen , 1 run , comes on the front foot and eases it to long-on to bring up the 50-run stand between these two 23.5 Benn to A Petersen , no run , tossed up delivery turning away outside off , Petersen presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 23.4 Benn to A Petersen , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Petersen comes forward and turns it to the on-side 23.3 Benn to A Petersen , no run , shortens the length a touch , Petersen goes back and turns it to mid-wicket 23.2 Benn to A Petersen , SIX , tossed up delivery on off and middle , Petersen charges down the track and lofts it high over the long-on fence for a maximum 23.1 Benn to A Petersen , no run , fullish delivery on middle , Petersen comes forward and pushes it back to the bowler 22.6 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go through to the keeper 22.5 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , 2 runs , short delivery outside off , du Plessis goes on the back foot and mistimes the pull towards the vacant region between mid-wicket and mid-on for a brace 22.4 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Petersen comes across and nudges it to deep square leg 22.3 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Petersen comes on the front foot and drives it straight to cover 22.2 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Petersen stays inside the crease and punches it to cover 22.1 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Petersen leaves it alone 21.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , loopy delivery on middle , du Plessis comes forward and pushes it to back to the bowler 21.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up delivery on middle , du Plessis clips it off his pads to mid-wicket 21.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , straighter delivery on middle , du Plessis presses forward and defends it back to the bowler 21.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery on middle , du Plessis turns it to FSL 21.2 Benn to du Plessis , FOUR , tossed up delivery on the pads , du Plessis leans forward and glances it to the fine leg fence for another boundary 21.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery just around off , du Plessis skips down the track and drives it to mid-on 20.6 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , 1 run , fullish on middle and leg , du Plessis leans forward and flicks it off his pads to deep mid-wicket 20.5 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , FOUR , overpitches this one just outside off , du Plessis comes on the front foot and drives it to the right of the mid-off fielder for a magnificent boundary 20.4 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , good length ball outside off , du Plessis shoulders arms 20.3 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , fullish just outside off , du Plessis gets forward and blocks it to the off-side 20.2 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery on off , du Plessis comes forward and blocks it back to the bowler 20.1 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , FOUR , starts off with a short delivery outside off , du Plessis goes on the back foot and pulls in the air over the mid-wicket fielder for a boundary Jerome Taylor [ 5.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , skips down the track and pushes it to the right of mid-on for a run 19.5 Benn to du Plessis , no run , comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-on 19.4 Benn to du Plessis , no run , leans forward and defends it back to the bowler 19.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , tossed up delivery on off , du Plessis turns it to FSL 19.2 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , du Plessis leans forward and drives , the ball goes off the outisde half of the bat to point 19.1 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flatter delivery on off , du Plessis blocks it back to the bowler Sulieman Benn , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Benn on for the first time today. He has a slip and a FSL in place 18.6 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , short and wide delivery outside off , Petersen rocks back and misses the pull 18.5 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , good length delivery outside off , Petersen lifts his bat and lets it go 18.4 S Gabriel to A Petersen , 2 runs , yet another fuller length delivery on middle and leg , Petersen flicks it off his pads to deep mid-wicket for a brace 18.3 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , fullish just outside off , Petersen leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and drives it straight to Gabriel 18.2 S Gabriel to du Plessis , 1 run , fuller length delivery around off , du Plessis comes on the front foot and defends , gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls to the on-side as the batsen complete a quick single 18.1 S Gabriel to A Petersen , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Petersen rocks back , swivels the pull along the ground to deep mid-wicket 17.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of good length ball outside off , du Plessis comes forward and watches the ball go through to the keeper 17.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , good length delivery coming in a touch into the right-hander , du Plessis shoulders arms to it 17.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no ball , short of length delivery outside off , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go , Holder has overstepped again 17.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fullish delivery shaping away a touch outside off , du Plessis watches the ball go through to the keeper 17.3 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , fuller length delivery straying on the pads , du Plessis leans forward and helps it along the way wide off Ramdin to the fine leg fence for a boundary 17.2 J Holder to du Plessis , 2 runs , back of a length delivery which keeps a bit low on off and middle , du Plessis jumps inside the crease and brings his bat just in time and turns it to the vacant deep backward square leg region for a brace 17.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , starighter delivery on middle , du Plessis flicks it to mid-wicket 16.6 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , good length delivery wide outside off , Petersen shoulders arms 16.5 S Gabriel to du Plessis , 1 run , too full and too straight on the pads , du Plessis leans forward and tucks it to deep square leg 16.4 S Gabriel to du Plessis , no run , fullish on middle and off , du Plessis gets forward and flicks it to mid-on 16.3 S Gabriel to du Plessis , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the hips , du Plessis skips inside the crease and helps it to deep backward square leg 16.3 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no ball , 1 run , good length delivery angling into the right-hander , Petersen leans forward and works it to deep square leg , Gabriel has overstepped 16.2 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Petersen lifts his bat and lets it go 16.1 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , back of a length delivery jagging back into the right-hander , Petersen hops inside the crease and defends it to the off-side 15.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , another fuller length ball just outside off , du Plessis gets forward and defends it to the off-side 15.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery on off , du Plessis comes on the front foot and blocks it to mid-on 15.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , on a length delivery angling into the right-hander , du Plessis gets forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 15.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , good length delivery just outside off , du Plessis watches it go through to the keeper 15.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery shaping away outside off , du Plessis shoulders arms 15.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fullish outside off , du Plessis comes forward and lets it go through to the keeper 14.6 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , on a length outside off , Petersen lifts his bat and lets it go 14.5 S Gabriel to du Plessis , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle , du Plessis comes forward and plays it with soft hands to mid-wicket for a quick single 14.4 S Gabriel to du Plessis , no run , good length ball in the channel just outside off , du Plessis presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 14.3 S Gabriel to du Plessis , no run , fullish on off , du Plessis pushes it off the front foot to mid-on 14.2 S Gabriel to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , du Plessis presses forward in defence and is beaten 14.1 S Gabriel to A Petersen , 1 run , good length delivery just outside off , Petersen comes across and works it to deep backward square leg 13.6 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , short delivery outside off , du Plessis rocks back and pulls it in the air to the deep mid-wicket fence for a boundary 13.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , good length delivery shaping away from off , du Plessis comes on the front foot and looks to defend , gets an outside edge which rolls to gully 13.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of length delivery outside off , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go through to the keeper at the last moment 13.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , du Plessis goes back and punches it to cover 13.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller in length and jagging away outside off , du Plessis leaves it alone 13.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , good length delivery shaping away a touch outside off , du Plessis shoulders arms 12.6 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Petersen defends it from the crease to the off-side 12.5 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , good length delivery coming into the right-hander , Petersen lifts his bat and lets it go 12.4 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , another fuller length delivery just outside off , Petersen comes forward and blocks it , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat to gully 12.3 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , fullish outside off , Petersen presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 12.2 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , yorker length delivery on off , Petersen jams it to mid-on 12.1 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , good length ball around off , Petersen gets forward and blocks it to the on-side Shannon Gabriel [ 3.0-1-14-0 ] is back into the attack 11.6 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , edged and fell short. This was a fuller length delivery just outside off , du Plessis comes forward and pushes at it with soft hands , gets a thickish outside edge , which falls in front off the fielder at second slip and goes to the third man boundary Welcome back.. Holder to complete his over Lunch on Day 2 : Holder has helped West Indies to claw back in this session with the wicket of Elgar just before lunch. West Indies lost their last four wickets for just 30 runs , Steyn grabbed a four-fer and West Indies were bowled out cheaply for 329. Petersen and Elgar started off in a positive manner with Petersen being the aggressor. Taylor and Gabriel struggled with their line and lengths as they were a bit expensive in their short spell. Join us in a short while for the second session.. . 11.5 J Holder to Elgar , out Lbw ! ! Holder strikes just at the stroke of lunch. This was a back of a length delivery coming in to the left-hander , Elgar stays inside the crease and looks to work it to the on-side and misses , the ball hits below the knee roll in front of middle and leg. Elgar thought of going for a review and had a chat with Petersen before deciding against it. Elgar lbw b J Holder 8 ( 30 ) [ 4s-1 ] J Holder to Elgar , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 11.4 J Holder to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Elgar is happy to leave it alone 11.3 J Holder to Elgar , no run , good length ball outside off , Elgar lifts his bat and lets it go 11.2 J Holder to Elgar , no run , fullish just outside off , Elgar leans forward and pushes it to point 11.1 J Holder to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Elgar shoulders arms 10.6 Samuels to A Petersen , no run , another full ball on middle , Petersen turns it short mid-wicket 10.5 Samuels to A Petersen , no run , flighted delivery on off , Petersen presses forward and flicks it to mid-on 10.4 Samuels to Elgar , 1 run , fullish delivery on the pads , Elgar comes across and works it to square leg for a run 10.3 Samuels to Elgar , no run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Elgar lifts his bat and lets it go to the keeper 10.2 Samuels to Elgar , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Elgar leaves it alone 10.1 Samuels to Elgar , no run , flighted delivery on off , Elgar comes forward and defends it to the off-side Marlon Samuels , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 9.6 J Holder to A Petersen , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Petersen comes on the front foot and defends it to cover 9.5 J Holder to A Petersen , no run , length delivery outside off , Petersen presses forward and pushes it to cover 9.4 J Holder to A Petersen , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Petersen comes across , lifts his bat and lets it go through to the keeper 9.3 J Holder to A Petersen , no run , on a length outside off , Petersen is happy to let that go to the keeper 9.2 J Holder to A Petersen , no run , fullish outside off , Petersen shoulders arms 9.1 J Holder to A Petersen , no run , good length ball just outside off , Petersen presses forward and pushes it to mid-on 8.6 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , another bumper on the stumps , Elgar is happy to duck underneath 8.5 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Elgar goes back and blocks it to the bowler 8.4 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Elgar ducks underneath it 8.3 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , good length delivery on off , Elgar comes forward and defends it to the on-side 8.2 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , FOUR , beautiful shot , fuller length delivery wide outside off , Elgar gets down on one knee and drives it through the cover region for a boundary 8.1 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Petersen punches it to cover-point 7.6 J Holder to A Petersen , 3 runs , length delivery on the pads , Petersen clips it off his pads to deep backward square leg 7.5 J Holder to A Petersen , FOUR , fuller length delivery on middle , Petersen leans forward and flicks it past the mid-wicket fielder for another boundary 7.4 J Holder to A Petersen , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Petersen looks to cut and is beaten 7.3 J Holder to A Petersen , FOUR , brilliant shot ! This was a fuller length delivery just outside off and shaping away a touch , Petersen comes on the front foot , presents the full face of the bat and drives it to the right of diving Taylor at mid-off , who gets a hand to it but could n't stop it from reaching the boundary 7.2 J Holder to A Petersen , no run , fuller length delivery shaping away outside off , Petersen lifts his bat and lets it go 7.2 J Holder to A Petersen , no ball , good length on the pads , Petersen turns it to mid-wicket , Holder has overstepped here 7.1 J Holder to A Petersen , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Petersen gets forward and drives it to cover Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Holder comes in as first change and aborts his run-up midway 6.6 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , 1 run , short of length delivery on the hips , Petersen tucks it to fine leg 6.5 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Petersen goes back and punches it to mid-off 6.4 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , 2 runs , straighter line on middle , Petersen leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 6.3 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , tighter line on off , Petersen comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 6.2 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , in the channel just outside off , Petersen defends it at the last moment to the off-side 6.1 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone 5.6 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , full and on off , Elgar gets half forward and drives it towards mid-on 5.5 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Elgar shuffles across and defends it 5.5 S Gabriel to Elgar , wide , Gabriel sprays this one full and way outside off , wide called 5.4 S Gabriel to A Petersen , 1 run , Gabriel drifts one onto Petersen 's pads , whipped away to deep mid-wicket for a single 5.3 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , lovely length from Gabriel , pitched up and held its line outside off , Petersen goes for the ambitious drive and is beaten. It 's been a mixed bag by the two Windies pacers so far 5.2 S Gabriel to Elgar , 1 run , full and wide from Gabriel , Elgar squeezes it square on the off-side for a single Gabriel switches to round the wicket 5.2 S Gabriel to Elgar , 5 wides , that 's a shocker from Gabriel , too short and too high , no chance for Ramdin , another five runs added to the total 5.1 S Gabriel to A Petersen , 1 run , fuller length delivery and angling back into Petersen , he closes the face of the bat and drives it in front of square on the on-side for a single 4.6 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Elgar shuffles across and defends it 4.5 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Elgar stays behind the line and defends it 4.4 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , 1 run , length ball on Petersen 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single Back over the wicket to Petersen 4.3 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , 1 run , short and just outside off , Elgar swivels across on the pull , does n't get hold of the shot , just a single towards mid-wicket 4.2 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , that one spat from a length ! Are the cracks opening up here ? On a good length and a hint of angle back into Elgar , he was surprised by the bounce , gets hit on his gloves as he took his bottom hand off the handle 4.1 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Elgar plays with soft hands , gets a thick edge towards one of the two gullies Two slips and two gullies for Taylor 3.6 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , on a good length outside off and holding its line , left alone 3.5 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping back in , Petersen covers the line , closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on 3.4 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , ths one came back with the angle , Petersen was caught on the move , gets struck high on the pads 3.3 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , another bumper from Gabriel , Petersen drops his wrists , bends low and sways away from the line 3.2 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , very loose from Petersen , short and wide from Gabriel , Petersen went for the upper cut , misses the ball by a distance 3.1 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Petersen gets behind the line and defends it 2.6 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , beautifully bowled by Taylor , on a good length and a hint of shape back into Elgar , he had to play at that , pushes forward and is beaten on the outside edge 2.5 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Elgar hops across and defends it towards the off-side 2.4 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , that 's a much better bouncer from Taylor , short and just outside off , Elgar drops his wrists and sways away from the line as the ball whizzes past 2.4 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , 5 wides , that 's too short and too high from Taylor , Elgar bends underneath it , no chance for Ramdin as well , five wides added to the total 2.3 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Elgar covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 2.2 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , tad fuller but well wide outside off , left alone 2.1 Jerome Taylor to Elgar , no run , Taylor comes from round the wicket and bangs one short and just outside off , Elgar drops his wrists and lets it go 1.6 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , nicely bowled by Gabriel , comes from wide off the crease , drifts the ball back in before straightening , Petersen was pushing at the original line and is beaten completely 1.5 S Gabriel to A Petersen , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and just outside off , he presents the full face of the bat and punches it back past the bowler , comes back for the second run 1.5 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no ball , another bumper from Gabriel , but he has overstepped once again , left alone 1.4 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , that 's a cracker ! This was pitched up in that corridor outside off , nips way slightly before straightening , Petersen had to play at that , lucky that the ball whizzed past the outside edge , misses the off-stump by a whisker 1.4 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no ball , another bumper from Gabriel , Petersen drops his gloves and lets it go , Gabriel has overstepped though 1.3 S Gabriel to A Petersen , no run , another bumper from Gabriel , Petersen drops his wrists and sways away from the line 1.2 S Gabriel to Elgar , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Elgar dabs it to the left of backward point for a single 1.1 S Gabriel to Elgar , no run , on a good length and on off , Elgar pushes half forward and gets an inside edge , the ball lobs off the pads and falls in front of the batsman Shannon Gabriel , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , length ball and on Petersen 's pads , turned away towards the on-side 0.5 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , 2 runs , too short and too wide from Taylor , Petersen stands tall and punches it square behind point for a couple of runs 0.4 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , Taylor shortens his length outside off , defended with soft hands towards the off-side 0.3 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Petersen gets behind the line and defends it 0.2 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , Petersen shuffles across and defends it 0.1 Jerome Taylor to A Petersen , FOUR , too straight from Taylor , ends up drifting onto Petersen 's pads , he shuffles across and whips it past mid-on , the ball races away across the fast outfield A Petersen and Elgar are at the crease. A Petersen is on strike. Jerome Taylor will open the attack Taylor will open the bowling for West Indies. Three slips and a gully in place. . Curtly Ambrose is giving a pep talk to his bowlers as the players come back onto the ground.. so do the batsmen . West Indies will be disappointed with their efforts today. They started promisingly with Jason Holder looking in good touch. Dale Steyn provided some respite for the hosts , scalping Jermaine Blackwood for 56. The tail then went on to play their shots , some came off well , but wehn it did n't , they were made to look rather foolish. Steyn ended with 4 wickets , Harmer took 3 and Morkel ended with 2 wickets. South Africa will be happy with the morning 's work. They would now look to bat big and gain a huge first innings lead. Join us in a while. . 99.5 M Morkel to Benn , out Caught by Bavuma ! ! Morkel ends the West Indies ' first innings at 329. This was pitched up and held its line outside off , Benn was rooted to his crease as he went for the drive , ca n't keep it along the ground and spoons it towards mid-off. Bavuma dives forward and holds onto the chance. Benn c Bavuma b M Morkel 5 ( 11 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Morkel to Benn , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Benn is OUT. West Indies have been bowled out for 329 99.4 M Morkel to Benn , no run , good comeback from Morkel , the off-cutter from Morkel , Benn prods across and defends it 99.3 M Morkel to Benn , FOUR , Big Benn has nailed it ! This was banged in short and on the stumps , Benn swivels across and thumps it over square leg , one bounce and over the ropes for a boundary 99.2 M Morkel to Benn , no run , short of a length and shaping away from off , Benn looks to slog it over square leg and misses 99.1 M Morkel to Benn , no run , on a length and on off , Benn gets his bat behind the ball and blocks 98.6 Steyn to S Gabriel , no run , Steyn gets his line wrong , slants this one way down leg-side , Gabriel looks to flick and misses 98.5 Steyn to Benn , leg byes , 1 run , on a good length and a hint of shape back into Benn , he looks to flick and misses , the ball hits the pads and rolls away behind square on the off-side 98.4 Steyn to Benn , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from off , Benn pushes forward and is beaten 98.3 Steyn to Benn , no run , on a length and just outside off , Benn gets behind the line and defends it 98.2 Steyn to Benn , no run , the bumper from Steyn , Benn ducks underneath and lets it go 98.1 Steyn to Benn , no run , Steyn bangs one short and just outside off , does n't rise as much as Big Benn expected , pushed square on the off-side , refuses the single 97.6 M Morkel to S Gabriel , no run , short of a length and on Gabriel 's ribs , he gets his bat behind the line and blocks 97.5 M Morkel to S Gabriel , FOUR , Gabriel had had enough of ducking and weaving away from the line , backs away to a length ball and heaves it towards the mid-wicket fence for a boundary 97.4 M Morkel to S Gabriel , no run , another bouncer from Morkel , Gabriel ducks underneath it and lets it go 97.3 M Morkel to S Gabriel , no run , short and angling back into Gabriel , he was n't in any position as he swayed away from the line , left his gloves hanging , the ball pops in the air but drops well in front of 2nd slip 97.2 M Morkel to Benn , 1 run , short of a length and angling away from off , steered away towards third man. He did n't want a single but Gabriel scampers across for a run Shannon Gabriel , right handed bat , comes to the crease 97.1 M Morkel to Jerome Taylor , out Caught by Steyn ! ! West Indies are throwing their wickets here. This was a gentle loosener from Morkel , short and on Taylor 's hips , he looks to help it on its way , gets a top-edge that goes high and behind square on the on-side. Steyn runs across to his left , watches the ball all along and takes the catch. West Indies have lost their ninth wicket. Jerome Taylor c Steyn b M Morkel 13 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Morkel to Jerome Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Morne Morkel [ 18.0-1-74-0 ] is back into the attack 96.6 Steyn to Jerome Taylor , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Taylor steers it square on the off-side for a single , retains the strike with that run 96.5 Steyn to Jerome Taylor , 2 runs , that 's nicely played by Taylor , pitched up and on the stumps , Taylor presents the full face of the bat and lofts it over mid-on for a brace 96.4 Steyn to Jerome Taylor , no run , another bouncer from Steyn , Taylor ducks underneath and lets it go Sulieman Benn , left handed bat , comes to the crease 96.3 Steyn to J Holder , out Caught by van Zyl ! ! Fourth wicket for Steyn , this was banged in short by Steyn , Holder was looking to pull it over mid-wicket , the ball was too quick onto him. He ends up getting a top-edge , off the splice of the bat and offers a simple catch to van Zyl at mid-on. Another batsman got a start and threw it away. J Holder c van Zyl b Steyn 23 ( 34 ) [ 4s-4 ] Steyn to J Holder , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 96.2 Steyn to Jerome Taylor , 3 runs , Taylor is looking to bat in an attacking manner , this was full and shaping away from off , Taylor throws his bat and slices it over backward point. Harmer gives chase , slides near the ropes and pulls the ball back in , saves a run for his team 96.1 Steyn to Jerome Taylor , no run , tad fuller and on the stumps , Taylor gets behind the line and defends it with a straight bat 95.6 Philander to Jerome Taylor , 1 run , on a good length and on Taylor 's pads , worked in front of mid-on for a single 95.5 Philander to Jerome Taylor , FOUR , much better from Taylor , way too short from Philander , Taylor shuffles across and clubs it wide of mid-on , the ball races away to the fence 95.4 Philander to Jerome Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor gets behind the line and defends it 95.3 Philander to Jerome Taylor , 2 runs , that 's a good old slog from Taylor , the length was n't there to play the shot , gets enough to clear mid-on and comes back for the second run 95.2 Philander to Jerome Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor shuffles across and defends it 95.1 Philander to J Holder , 1 run , top-edge and safe , Holder was n't in any control over the pull shot , gets a top edge that falls in between the keeper and the man running in from backward square leg 94.6 Steyn to J Holder , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , punched off the backfoot past point , just a single 94.5 Steyn to J Holder , 4 runs , that 's sloppy from South Africa , this was short and on Holder 's hips , he tucked it in front of square on the on-side , runs hard and comes back for the second run. The return from the deep is wayward , there was no one backing up and the batsmen get a bonus couple of runs 94.4 Steyn to J Holder , no run , back of a length and on off , Holder rides with the bounce and defends it 94.3 Steyn to J Holder , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Holder shuffles across and defends it 94.2 Steyn to Jerome Taylor , leg byes , 1 run , too straight from Steyn , ends up drifting onto Taylor 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads towards long leg , brings up West Indies ' 300 Jerome Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 94.1 Steyn to Blackwood , out Lbw ! ! Steyn strikes early on Day 2 ! This was pitched up and held its line round middle and leg , Blackwood was looking to work it towards the on-side , had to bring his bat in front of the pads , in doing so , he went right across the line of the ball , gets struck right in front of leg-stump , the ball was crashing onto the stumps. Easy call for Umpire Aleem Dar and the replays vindicate him. West Indies have lost all their specialist batsmen now. Blackwood lbw b Steyn 56 ( 113 ) [ 4s-6 ] Steyn to Blackwood , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Blackwood has been given out LBW. He wants a review. That looked pretty straight , was there an inside edge ? Looks like there 's no edge on that , the height does n't seem to be an issue , Blackwood was struck on his knee-pad , three reds , Blackwood is OUT 93.6 Philander to J Holder , no run , on a length and just outside off , Holder stays behind the line and defends it 93.5 Philander to J Holder , no run , leading edge ! This was full and swung away late from the off-stump line , Holder was looking to whip it towards the on-side , closes the face of the bat and gets a soft leading edge towards cover 93.4 Philander to J Holder , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Holder gets a good stride forward as he blocks 93.3 Philander to J Holder , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , punched off the backfoot towards cover 93.2 Philander to J Holder , FOUR , Holder is looking in excellent touch today , this was overpitched and just outside off , Holder leans forward , plays with an open face and drives it past extra cover , another boundary for Holder , there has been quite a few already today 93.1 Philander to J Holder , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Holder shuffles across and defends it 92.6 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Blackwood gets behind the line and defends it 92.5 Steyn to Blackwood , 2 runs , too straight from Steyn , Blackwood works it to the right of mid-on , the fielder shies at the bowler 's end and misses. The back-up fielder ca n't stop it cleanly and allows a second run 92.4 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Blackwood prods across and defends it 92.3 Steyn to Blackwood , 2 runs , good timing on this one , this was pitched up and held its line on middle , Blackwood shuffles across and pushes it past the bowler , the fielder at mid-on gives chase and hauls the ball back in 92.2 Steyn to Blackwood , FOUR , 3rd Test fifty for Blackwood , a very well played knock from the youngster , gets a round of applause from his mates in the dressing room. Coming to the shot , he leant forward to a well pitched up ball and drives it past mid-off , the ball races away to the fence Just one over for Harmer , Steyn is back into the attack. Two slips and a gully in place 92.1 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Blackwood gets a big stride forward and drives it to cover Dale Steyn [ 21.0-5-59-2 ] is back into the attack 91.6 Philander to J Holder , FOUR , cracking shot , fuller length delivery and shaping away from off , Holder leans into the drive and places it in the gap between cover and extra cover , no need to run for those 91.5 Philander to J Holder , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Holder shuffles across and defends it 91.4 Philander to Blackwood , 3 runs , that 's nicely bowled by Philander , on a good length and a hint of shape away from off , Blackwood was opened up as he looked to defend , gets a thick edge past gully , the batsmen run hard and get back for the third run 91.3 Philander to Blackwood , no run , on a good length outside off and holding its line , left alone 91.2 Philander to Blackwood , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Blackwood gets a good stride forward and defends it towards mid-off Two slips and a gully in place 91.1 Philander to Blackwood , no run , extra bounce for Philander , on a good length and a hint of shape away from off , Blackwood is lured into the push , spars at it and withdraws at the last moment 90.6 Harmer to J Holder , no run , Harmer drifts one on middle , Holder gets his bat in front of the pads as he blocks 90.5 Harmer to J Holder , FOUR , that 's a lovely shot from Holder , this was well flighted by Harmer , Holder gets a big stride forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and drives it past extra cover for a boundary 90.4 Harmer to J Holder , no run , pushed through by Harmer , Holder goes back and defends it towards the bowler 90.3 Harmer to J Holder , no run , slower and on the stumps , Holder goes back and defends it with a straight bat 90.2 Harmer to J Holder , no run , Harmer drifts one on off , Holder gets half forward and blocks A slip and a FSL in place 90.1 Harmer to J Holder , no run , flighted and just outside off , Holder prods half forward and defends it It 's a cloudy morning in Cape Town , should be good for the pace bowlers. The sun is attempting to break though , that should comfort the visiting batsmen. The second new ball is just 10 overs old. The players are out in the middle. We are set for the start of Day 2 Simon Harmer was impressive on debut , finishing with excellent figures of 3/67. Steyn took two wickets and went past Makhaya Ntini 's tally of 390 Test wickets. It was a decent day 's work-out on a pretty placid pitch . It 's day 2 of the third and final Test between South Africa and West Indies. After a forgettable first Test , the visitors have improved as the tour progressed. In good batting conditions in Cape Town , the visitors finished the day at 276/6. Leon Johnson and Denesh Ramdin made fifties but failed to convert their knocks into big hundreds. Jermaine Blackwood has looked in good touch and it is up to him to take the visitors to a fighting score . Steyn picked up 2 wickets , while van Zyl also helped himself to one. Debutant Harmer was the pick of the bowlers with figures of 3/67. Morne passed the outside edge many times with some good seam movement and extra bounce , but did not have any reward to show for. Can Holder hang in with Blackwood tomorrow to push the visitors past the 325-mark ? Or will the South African bowlers wrap up the lower-order quickly ? Do join us back on day 2. Until then , take care and goodbye . Stumps , Day 1 : So , honours have been shared on the first day though one may feel that South Africa have inched ahead with Steyn nipping out the West Indian skipper. Three of West Indies ' top 5 passed 40s , but none managed to convert it past 54. After Chanders fell over the flick off the first ball of the final session , Ramdin combined well with Blackwood in a steady 94-run stand. Then , Ramdin fell to the second new ball , chipping one back to Steyn . 89.6 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , back of a length and on off , Blackwood solidly punches it to cover 89.5 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , good length ball around the fourth stump line with a bit of away shape , Blackwood comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 89.4 Steyn to J Holder , 1 run , fullish on off , pushed to cover with no feet movement 89.3 Steyn to J Holder , FOUR , fullish and on the leg stump , Holder just about flicks it over a leaping mid-wicket. He gets off the mark with a four 89.2 Steyn to J Holder , no run , outside off , Holder lifts his bat and lets it go 89.1 Steyn to J Holder , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Holder inches forward and pushes it back to Steyn 88.6 Philander to Blackwood , no run , fullish and outside off , Blackwood spars at it and gets beaten. He is annoyed with himself for chasing that one , especially with only an over left in the day 88.5 Philander to Blackwood , no run , close to off , Blackwood chops it in front of square on the off-side off the back foot 88.4 Philander to Blackwood , FOUR , shortish and outside off , Blackwood steers it wide of a gully and places it to the third man fence. He did well to get on top of the bounce on that occasion 88.3 Philander to Blackwood , no run , short of length and on off , punched off the back foot to mid-off 88.2 Philander to Blackwood , no run , on a good length and on the fourth stump , tapped to cover 88.1 Philander to Blackwood , no run , back of a length and just outside off , punched off the back foot. The man at cover makes a diving save 87.6 Steyn to J Holder , no run , full toss , which is pushed down leg. Holder does not bother with it 87.5 Steyn to J Holder , no run , very full and outside off , Holder looks for a drive but misses as the ball slides under his bat 87.4 Steyn to J Holder , no run , back of a length and zips through outside off , ignored 87.3 Steyn to J Holder , no run , bouncer outside off , Holder drops his wrists and lets it sail over to the keeper 87.2 Steyn to J Holder , no run , back of a length and around off , forward and defended Graeme Smith and Ntini are in the house . 87.1 Steyn to J Holder , no run , back of a length and in the channel outside off , beating Holder on the outside edge again 86.6 Philander to Blackwood , no run , outside off and Blackwood just lets it go through to ABdV 86.5 Philander to Blackwood , no run , pitched up and straightens outside off , left alone 86.4 Philander to Blackwood , no run , back of a length and comes in , punched back at the bowler off the back foot 86.3 Philander to Blackwood , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Blackwood stands tall and punches it down the track 86.2 Philander to Blackwood , no run , good length ball on off , Blackwood jams his bat down , the ball rolls to cover after taking the inside-edge 86.1 Philander to Blackwood , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Blackwood does not move his feet much and drives it to mid-off Vernon Philander [ 14.0-1-50-0 ] is back into the attack 85.6 Steyn to J Holder , no run , banged in short and rises on the off stump , Holder fends it back to Steyn 85.5 Steyn to J Holder , no run , outside off again , much better from Holder as he shoulders arms 85.4 Steyn to J Holder , no run , extra bounce on this length ball outside off , Holder wafts and misses 85.4 Steyn to J Holder , wide , wayward , wild ball from Steyn. Darts it wide down leg , AB flies across to his left to glove the ball 85.3 Steyn to J Holder , no run , tight line outside off , zips away past the outside edge Jason Holder , right handed bat , comes to the crease 85.2 Steyn to Ramdin , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Steyn breaks the partnership and pumps his fist. This was a good length ball on middle , Ramdin aims to check his push but lobs it back to the bowler after playing a bit too early. Steyn now passes Ntini on the list of leading South African Test wicket-takers with 391 scalps. Pollock tops the list with 421 wickets. Ramdin c and b Steyn 53 ( 103 ) [ 4s-6 ] Steyn to Ramdin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 85.1 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , Ramdin stands tall and punches this back of a length ball to cover. The line was outside off Dale Steyn [ 18.0-4-53-1 ] is back into the attack Steyn takes over for Philander . 84.6 M Morkel to Ramdin , 1 run , dug in short and outside off , Ramdin looks for an upper cut , but recalls that third man is in the deep at the last moment. The WI skipper eventually waves it over the slip cordon 84.5 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , short of length on the leg stump , Ramdin hops up , the ball takes the glove and dies in front of short leg 84.5 M Morkel to Ramdin , wide , bumper climbs over the leg stump , Ramdin half-ducks and lets it go again 84.4 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , short of length and slanted across , Ramdin half-ducks and lets it harmlessly pass to the keeper Morne goes round the stumps. Square leg on the hook and deep fine leg in as well to go with a short leg . 84.3 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , back of a length and on the fourth stump , dabbed to cover 84.2 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , Ramdin does not move his feet much and blocks this fuller length ball on off to cover 84.1 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , good length ball on off , Ramdin inches forward and defends it towards mid-off 83.6 Philander to Ramdin , 1 run , fullish and comes in on off again , Ramdin shuffles across and tickles it towards fine leg off the inside part of the bat and will keep strike 83.5 Philander to Ramdin , no run , fullish and just outside off , Ramdin dabs it to point and cries 'no ' to his partner 83.4 Philander to Ramdin , no run , good length ball curving in on off , Ramdin works it to mid-wicket after pressing forward 83.3 Philander to Ramdin , no run , back of a length and outside off now , Ramdin lifts his bat and lets it go 83.2 Philander to Blackwood , 1 run , inside-edge and safe ! Shortish and close to off , Blackwood looks for the punch through the off-side , the ball takes the inside-edge and skids away fine 83.1 Philander to Blackwood , no run , slightly back of a length on middle , Blackwood hangs back and blocks it to mid-on 82.6 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , Ramdin shuffles across and defends this one to mid-on 82.5 M Morkel to Blackwood , 1 run , Blackwood stays back , rides the bounce of this shortish ball outside off and steers it behind point , there is protection in the deep however 82.4 M Morkel to Blackwood , no run , back of a length and hurries on to the batsman , strking him high on his thigh. Blackwood had missed the flick 82.3 M Morkel to Blackwood , no run , back of a length , Blackwood stands up tall and punches it to cover 82.2 M Morkel to Blackwood , no run , good length ball coming in on the leg stump , Blackwood swishes and misses. The ball was slipping down leg. It was more of an enquiry from Morne , rather than an appeal for lbw 82.2 M Morkel to Blackwood , no ball , on the hips again , Blackwood mistimes the flick in front of square on the leg-side. Morne has been caught overstepping 82.1 M Morkel to Blackwood , no run , worked off the hips to mid-wicket 81.6 Philander to Ramdin , 2 runs , dug in short and outside off , Ramdin stands tall and punches it towards sweeper cover for his 12th Test fifty. Now , can he carry on and make a big one ? 81.5 Philander to Ramdin , no run , indipper on off , Ramdin comes forward and jams it out 81.4 Philander to Ramdin , FOUR , pitched up on middle and leg , Ramdin takes toll of it , flicking it past mid-wicket , the ball sped away to the fence 81.3 Philander to Ramdin , no run , similar length and close to off , pushed back to Philander 81.2 Philander to Ramdin , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Ramdin stays back and punches it to cover , straight to the fielder 81.1 Philander to Ramdin , no run , pitched up and nipping away outside off , left alone Vernon Philander [ 12.0-1-42-0 ] is back into the attack Philander and not Steyn will share the new ball with Morne . 80.6 M Morkel to Blackwood , no run , good length ball on middle , blocked down the pitch towards mid-on 80.5 M Morkel to Blackwood , no run , good length ball , which is straight in line , pushed back to Morkel 80.4 M Morkel to Blackwood , FOUR , dug in short and wide outside off , Blackwood upper cuts it over backward point. The man in the deep was squarer and the result is a four 80.3 M Morkel to Ramdin , 1 run , keeps it on the shorter side , the line is on off , Ramdin dabs it in front of cover for a quick single and that raises 250 for the visitors 80.2 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , back of a length and on off , Ramdin closes his bat early early , gets a leading edge that drops in front of Morkel. Well out of reach of Morne 80.1 M Morkel to Blackwood , 1 run , dug in short and outside off , Blackwood stays back and punches it in front of square on the on-side Morne Morkel [ 15.0-1-64-0 ] is back into the attack RSA take the second new ball straightaway. Morne will make first use of it. Two slips and a gully in . 79.6 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , on a length just outside off , Ramdin covers the line and shoulders arms 79.5 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , shortish and outside off , left alone 79.4 van Zyl to Blackwood , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Blackwood drives it to deep extra cover 79.3 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , back of a length just outside off , Blackwood punches it off the outside half to backward point 79.2 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , on a length close to off , Blackwood drops it in front of cover with soft hands 79.1 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , good length ball on off , Blackwood defends it back to the bowler 78.6 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , floated up on off , Ramdin wrists it only as far as short mid-wicket 78.5 Harmer to Ramdin , FOUR , super shot ! Tossed up on middle and leg , Ramdin kneels down and sweeps it past square leg , he did well to beat the man in the deep , the ball almost took umpire Reiffel with it 78.4 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flighted close to off , Ramdin presses it to the left of the bowler after coming forward Switches to round the sticks 78.3 Harmer to Blackwood , 1 run , tossed up on off , Blackwood works it away down to long-on 78.2 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , hangs back and blocks it to the off-side 78.1 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , throws this up gently , Blackwood drives it inside part to the right of the bowler 77.6 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , full on off and middle , Ramdin clips it towards mid-on 77.5 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , shortens the length close to off , Ramdin steers it towards backward point 77.4 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , fuller and just outside off , Ramdin drives and picks out cover 77.3 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , back of a length on off , Ramdin knocks it down the wicket 77.2 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , shapes back in a touch , Ramdin looks to defend with an angled bat , gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls to cover 77.1 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , full and angling in , Ramdin on-drives it straight to mid-on 76.6 Harmer to Ramdin , 1 run , flighted on the stumps , Ramdin kneels down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 76.5 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , pushed through and skids on , Ramdin brings his bat and jams it off the inside half to squarish mid-wicket 76.4 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , slower and on middle , Ramdin turns it softly to short mid-wicket 76.3 Harmer to Blackwood , 1 run , floated up on off , Blackwood eases it down to long-on Goes over the wicket for Blackwood 76.2 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , tossed up on off , Blackwood defends it to the off-side 76.1 Harmer to Ramdin , 1 run , flighted from round the wicket , Ramdin drops it front of point and takes off for a quick single Drinks are on the field now 75.6 van Zyl to Ramdin , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Ramdin rides the bounce and cuts it towards sweeper cover 75.5 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , on a length and shapes back in , Ramdin knocks it off the inside part to short mid-wicket 75.4 van Zyl to Blackwood , 1 run , shortens the length , Blackwood middles the punch to sweeper cover 75.3 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , back of a length around off , Blackwood stands tall and inside edges the punch to mid-on 75.2 van Zyl to Ramdin , 1 run , pulls the length back outside off , Ramdin punches it square of the wicket 75.1 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , pitched up well wide of off , Ramdin mistimes the drive to mid-off 74.6 Harmer to Ramdin , 1 run , tossed up on leg-stump , Ramdin sweeps it to deep backward square and retains the strike Changes to round the wicket 74.5 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , too full and on the stumps , Ramdin squeezes it to short mid-wicket 74.4 Harmer to Blackwood , 1 run , straight roller outside off , Blackwood steers it with an angled bat behind point for a single 74.3 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , floated up outside off , Blackwood smothers it with a forward defence 74.2 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , turns it with the turn to the on-side , picks out squarish mid-wicket 74.1 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , flatter and on off , punched back to the bowler 73.6 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , full and on off , Ramdin drives it to mid-off , ca n't take the single as he hit it too well 73.5 van Zyl to Blackwood , 1 run , on a length close to off , Blackwood eases it with the straightest of bats to mid-off 73.4 van Zyl to Ramdin , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Ramdin drives it crisply to sweeper cover 73.3 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , fuller and just outside off , Ramdin drives it straight to cover 73.2 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , touch short and outside off , Ramdin cuts and finds backward point to perfection 73.1 van Zyl to Ramdin , no run , good length ball on middle , Ramdin knocks it to the left of the bowler 72.6 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , tossed up on off , Blackwood dead-bats it back to the bowler 72.5 Harmer to Ramdin , 1 run , drifts it down leg , Ramdin paddles it to long leg 72.4 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , floated up on middle , Ramdin leans forward and works it to squarish mid-wicket 72.3 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , gets to the pitch and wrists it straight to short mid-wicket 72.2 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flighted on off , Ramdin prefers to hang back and defend to the on-side 72.1 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , quicker and outside off , Ramdin push-drives it to point 71.6 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , nips back in from a length , Blackwood gets an inside edge onto the back thigh , the ball pops up to the off-side , ABD who is standing up to the stumps dives forward , but it is too far away from him 71.5 van Zyl to Ramdin , 1 run , angling in on middle and leg , Ramdin ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball dribbles down to fine leg 71.4 van Zyl to Blackwood , 1 run , bit too full , Blackwood squeezes the drive to the left of mid-off 71.3 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Blackwood defends it down the wicket 71.2 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , shortens the length outside off , Blackwood eases it to backward point with an open face 71.1 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , on a length just outside off , Blackwood shoulders arms Stiaan van Zyl [ 3.0-1-5-1 ] is back into the attack 70.6 Harmer to Blackwood , 1 run , whips it past short leg for a quick single , Bavuma got a hand but could n't stop it completely 70.5 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , slower and on off , defended off the back foot to Harmer 70.4 Harmer to Ramdin , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn and nurdles it to backward square leg 70.3 Harmer to Ramdin , FOUR , superb shot ! Harmer gives this bit more air , Ramdin kneels down and nails the slog sweep to the cow corner fence , the ball bounced only once before going into the rope 70.2 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flatter and on off , Ramdin hangs back and dabs it to backward point 70.1 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flighted on off , Ramdin blocks it off the front foot to the on-side 69.6 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , back of a length around off , Blackwood punches it to cover , where Faf makes a fine stop , saved a certain boundary there 69.6 Steyn to Blackwood , 5 wides , what happened there ? Must have lost his grip on the ball. Bangs it in halfway down the wicket and sprays it well outside the pitch down leg , ABD had no chance of stopping that. Even Reiffel had a smile on his face seeing that wayward delivery from Steyn 69.5 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , huge shout for lbw , but umpire Reiffel shakes his head and then says not-out. Inswinging yorker bowled from wide of the crease , Blackwood is pinged right on the boot , but the angle was taking it down leg. South Africa do n't even bother to discuss about taking the review 69.4 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , shortish and climbing on the batsman , Blackwood gets on top of the bounce and drops it in front of cover , he wanted the single but Ramdin sends him back 69.3 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Blackwood sits down , sways back and lets the ball to go through 69.2 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , banged in short on off , Ramdin jumps up and fends it awkwardly to the on-side , Blackwood calls through for a quick single 69.1 Steyn to Blackwood , 1 run , fullish and on off , Blackwood drives it to deepish mid-off , for an easy single 68.6 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , tossed up on the stumps , Ramdin bends his front leg slightly and sweeps it straight into the man at short leg , Bavuma is hit on the shin guard 68.5 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , drags the length back on off , Ramdin backs away and punches it to extra cover 68.4 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flighted delivery on off , Ramdin presses forward and blocks it back to Harmer 68.3 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , hangs back and turns it gently to short mid-wicket , straight to Amla 68.2 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flatter and on off , Ramdin punches it to short mid-wicket 68.1 Harmer to Ramdin , 2 runs , fraction short and outside off , Ramdin chops the cut past point , Vern thought there was someone sweeping on the rope and did n't chase the ball at first , but his team-mates let him know that he had to run behind the ball Simon Harmer [ 19.0-5-48-3 ] is back into the attack 67.6 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , back of a length well wide of off , Blackwood is happy to let it pass 67.5 Steyn to Blackwood , 2 runs , whenever he is beaten , Blackwood goes for the release shot , he throws his bat at this pitched up delivery , slices it to sweeper cover , where Bavuma does the tiding up 67.4 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , peach ! That is a Steyn special. As a batsman you can only hope not to edge it. Angled in on a fuller length , jags away late , Blackwood is half-forward to defend , the ball beats the outside edge quite comprehensively 67.3 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , keeps it short of length on off , Blackwood gets behind the line and knocks it to mid-on 67.2 Steyn to Blackwood , 2 runs , back of a length around off , Blackwood punches it by standing tall towards square third man , sprints back for the second 67.1 Steyn to Ramdin , 3 runs , was that a drop ? No , fell short of Elgar. Full and shaping away , Ramdin drives it with laden feet , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and goes to the right of gully , Elgar dives but ca n't stop the ball 66.6 Elgar to Ramdin , 1 run , drags the length back outside off , Ramdin goes back and cuts it behind square for a single 66.5 Elgar to Ramdin , no run , arm-ball that skids on , Ramdin goes deep in the crease and punches it to the right of Elgar , who moves across and stops the ball 66.4 Elgar to Blackwood , 1 run , flatter and around off , Blackwood taps it with an angled bat between cover and point , looks up at his skipper who calls him through for a quick single. That was a well judged run 66.3 Elgar to Ramdin , 1 run , Ramdin stretches forward , takes it on the full and eases the drive to long-on 66.2 Elgar to Ramdin , no run , floated up around off , Ramdin dead-bats it to the right of the bowler 66.1 Elgar to Ramdin , no run , flighted on off , Ramdin smothers it with a forward defensive 65.6 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , short of length outside off , Blackwood lifts his bat and lets it go. Good carry through to ABD , who takes it head height 65.5 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , gloved but short ! Short and down leg , Blackwood looks to help it on its way with a pull shot , he only manages to get a glove and the ball drops just in front of ABD , who was diving to his left. Blackwood had his front leg in the air while playing that , not a convincing stroke 65.4 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , shortens the length on off , Ramdin gets inside the line and tucks it wide of mid-wicket , Steyn is not pleased giving away that single 65.3 Steyn to Blackwood , 1 run , fuller and on off , Blackwood drives it along the ground to deepish mid-off 65.2 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , back of a length just outside off , left alone 65.1 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , pitched up around off , Ramdin slices the drive wide of cover , Faf dives to his left and keeps them to a single 64.6 Elgar to Blackwood , no run , tossed up on off , Blackwood presses forward and defends it to the on-side 64.5 Elgar to Blackwood , no run , nice loopy delivery , Blackwood goes for the ambitous drive , inside edges it to the right of the bowler 64.4 Elgar to Blackwood , 2 runs , quicker and just outside off , Blackwood uses the depth of the crease to cut past backward point for a couple 64.3 Elgar to Blackwood , no run , throws this up gently outside off , Blackwood drives and picks out extra cover 64.2 Elgar to Blackwood , no run , flighted on off and middle , Blackwood lunges forward and blocks it to the on-side 64.1 Elgar to Ramdin , 1 run , drops it short and outside off , Ramdin cuts it to sweeper cover Dean Elgar , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 63.6 Steyn to Blackwood , FOUR , another iffy stroke by a West Indian batsman , fuller and outside off , Blackwood throws his bat at it and slices it off the outside half over backward point to collect a boundary 63.5 Steyn to Blackwood , no run , there comes another away going delivery , Blackwood has a poke at it before withdrawing his bat inside the line , he was clearly beaten there 63.4 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , pitched up and straightens , Ramdin drives on the up wide of cover , his bottom hand came off as he played that. Steyn is getting the ball to reverse 63.3 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , inswinging yorker on off , Ramdin gets his front toe out of the way and jams it to the off-side , Steyn thought it was boot first , but Amla disagrees with him 63.2 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , nips back in from short of length , Ramdin camps on the back foot and knocks it down the track , it was more like ball hitting the bat than the other way round 63.1 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , almost strikes with his first ball , fullish and just outside off , the ball holds its line , Ramdin goes for the drive through the line , the ball zips past the outside edge Dale Steyn [ 14.0-4-31-1 ] is back into the attack 62.6 Harmer to Ramdin , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Ramdin gets to the pitch and eases it down to long-on 62.5 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , floated up on the fourth stump , blocked back down the wicket 62.4 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , pushed through just outside off , Ramdin dabs it with an angled bat to point 62.3 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flatter and on off , Ramdin punches it to short mid-wicket off the back foot 62.2 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flighted around off , Ramdin defends it back to the bowler 62.1 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , tossed up on off , Ramdin push-drives it to the right of Harmer 61.6 M Morkel to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length around off , Ramdin stands tall , eases the punch between point and cover for a single 61.5 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , on a length just outside off , Ramdin covers the line and shoulders arms 61.4 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , good comeback from Morne , shortens the length and is in the corridor of uncertainty , Ramdin had to play at that , the ball straightens enough to beat the outside edge 61.3 M Morkel to Ramdin , FOUR , not the most convincing of shots , but Ramdin will take it. Back of a length and closer to the off-stump , Ramdin waits for it and back cuts it past a diving gully , no one guarding the third man fence 61.2 M Morkel to Ramdin , FOUR , lovely shot ! Shortish and bit of width on offer , Ramdin rides the bounce and cuts it behind point , the pace of Morne takes the ball to the fence. That was a well controlled shot by the West Indian skipper 61.1 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , fuller and on off , Ramdin blocks it back to the bowler 60.6 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , floated up close to off , Blackwood defends it to the left of the bowler 60.5 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , dropped ! ABD should have left it to Petersen. Goes straight on around off , Blackwood plays for the turn and the outside is found , ABD stretches across , gets a glove but ca n't hold on. Petersen was moving to his left before ABD intervened 60.4 Harmer to Ramdin , 1 run , bit too straight from Harmer , drifts onto middle and leg , Ramdin nudges it behind square on the leg-side 60.3 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flighted on off , Ramdin gets a good stride forward and blocks it to mid-wicket 60.2 Harmer to Blackwood , 1 run , bit too full and on the stumps , Blackwood wrists it down to long-on 60.1 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , hangs back and works it with the spin towards mid-wicket 59.6 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , back of a length outside off , Ramdin hoists his bat up and lets it pass , nice carry through to ABD 59.5 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , shortish and outside off , Ramdin ignores it 59.4 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , pitched up just outside off , Ramdin inside edges the drive onto the boot , the ball lobs up and drops in front of Morne 59.3 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , fullish and close to off , Ramdin push-drives it back to Morne 59.2 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , on a length and in the channel around off , Ramdin shoulders arms 59.1 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , fuller and on off , Ramdin knocks it down the pitch with a straight bat 58.6 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , works it with the turn to the on-side , Amla fields the ball again 58.5 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , pushed through close to off , Blackwood defends it down the wicket 58.4 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , flatter and around off , punched back to the bowler with a straight bat 58.3 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , plays a short-arm whip to Amla at short mid-wicket 58.2 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , turns it gently to short mid-wicket off the back foot 58.1 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , tossed up on off , Blackwood camps on the back foot and blocks to FSL 57.6 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , fullish and outside off , Ramdin walks into the drive to cover , picks out Faf 57.5 M Morkel to Blackwood , 1 run , good length ball on off , Blackwood stays in the crease and taps it to the right of point , for a single 57.4 M Morkel to Blackwood , FOUR , " catch " was the shout by Morne , it was on a length just outside off , Blackwood drives it on the up , the ball was in the air as it went past a flying Faf at cover. No need to play shots when you have lost a wicket in the previous over 57.3 M Morkel to Blackwood , no run , shortens the length outside off , Blackwood lifts his bat and lets it go 57.2 M Morkel to Blackwood , no run , slightly fuller and outside off , Blackwood drives without much feet movement to point 57.1 M Morkel to Blackwood , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Blackwood stands tall and knocks it to cover Morne Morkel [ 12.0-0-50-0 ] is back into the attack 56.6 Harmer to Ramdin , FOUR , streaky but four ! Harmer throws this up gently outside off , Ramdin reaches out and squirts it off the outer half of the bat to the third man fence , Vern just accompanied the ball to the rope 56.5 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , pushed through on off , Ramdin stays back and pushes it to Amla at short mid-wicket 56.4 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , too full and around off , Ramdin jams it off the inside part to short mid-wicket 56.3 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flighted on off , Ramdin defends it to short mid-wicket 56.2 Harmer to Ramdin , no run , flatter just outside off , Ramdin bunts it from the crease to the off-side Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 56.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , out Stumped ! ! What a strike ! First ball after tea and South Africa have nipped out Chanderpaul. Harmer seems to be on a roll in his first Test , picks up his third. This was fired down the leg-side , Chanderpaul misses the flick , loses balance and steps out of the crease , ABD whipped the bails off in a flash. Even the third umpire was not needed for that. Chanderpaul st de Villiers b Harmer 9 ( 48 ) [ 4s-1 ] Harmer to Chanderpaul , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! Harmer will start off proceedings after tea.. He has a slip and short leg in place for Chanderpaul. . Welcome back.. Apart from Brathwaite , the West Indian batsmen got starts , but threw it away. Chanderpaul holds key , if the visitors have to post a competitive first innings total. Can the rest of the batters rally around the veteran ? Or will the South African bowlers run though the lower-order ? Answers coming up in a short while.. . The Proteas will look to dominate the final session of the day and would ideally want the wicket of Chanderpaul to fall soon after tea. However , Chanderpaul is the key player for the Windies here. Can he put up a fight and take West Indies to safer shores ? Join us in a short while to find out . After that Samuels and Chanderpaul looked in good nick , with the former especially being severe on the bowlers. However , a good spell from Steyn and Harmer dried up runs and Samuels struggled to take singles as well. Soon afterwards , van Zyl was introduced in the attack and he got his first Test wicket of Samuels with his first ball . Tea , Day 1 : South Africa have again pulled things back after it looked like Samuels will take the game away from them. Earlier , Johnson looked streaky , but managed to get to his second Test fifty. However , his resistance ended soon after as the debutant Harmer took his second wicket . 55.6 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , full and little wide outside off , Blackwood wo n't play at those and that 's tea on day 1 55.5 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , on a good length and coming back in on off , Blackwood pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge and dribbles away into the on-side 55.4 van Zyl to Blackwood , FOUR , great shot from Blackwood , it was on a fullish length just outside off , Blackwood leans forward and drives it past a diving mid-off for a boundary 55.3 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Blackwood hangs back and pushes it towards cover off the front foot 55.2 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , on a good length and outside off , Blackwood leaves 55.1 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , leg byes , 1 run , fullish delivery down leg , Chanderpaul fails to tickle it fine , the ball rolls away behind square off the pad and the batsmen take a leg bye 54.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , drags it a little short outside off , Chanderpaul hangs back and dabs it to squarish third man region after opening the face of the bat , he will keep the strike 54.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , floated up on middle , Chanderpaul comes on the front foot and blocks it into the off-side 54.4 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Chanderpaul turns it into the on-side 54.3 Harmer to Blackwood , 1 run , tossed up around off , Blackwood drives it wide of mid-off and sets off for a single 54.2 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , touch flatter this time , Blackwood punches it into the off-side off the back foot 54.1 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , gives this one more air outside off , Blackwood was looking to defend off the front foot , the ball goes past the outside edge and even the keeper could n't collect it cleanly 53.6 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , on a length and around off , Chanderpaul comes on the front foot and blocks 53.5 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , low full toss on off , Chanderpaul flicks it to mid-wicket 53.4 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , tad fuller this time , Chanderpaul comes on the front foot and gently drives it into the off-side 53.3 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , angling away outside off , Chanderpaul leaves 53.2 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , good delivery from van Zyl , it was on a length and shapes back in from outside off , Chanderpaul was pushing at it , he gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball loops up and rolls away into the on-side A slip and a gully in place 53.1 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , length delivery outside off , Chanderpaul covers the stumps and leaves it for the keeper to collect 52.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , quicker delivery from Harmer , Chanderpaul dabs it towards cover and the batsmen run through for a quick single 52.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , floated up around middle stump line , Chanderpaul comes forward and bunts it back towards the bowler 52.4 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , tossed up on leg , Chanderpaul moves across and knocks it to mid-off 52.3 Harmer to Blackwood , 1 run , shortens the length and drifting on the pads , Blackwood stays back and works it behind square on the on-side for a single 52.2 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , loopy off-break just around off , Blackwood defends off the front foot 52.1 Harmer to Blackwood , no run , floated up on off , Blackwood comes forward and blocks 51.6 van Zyl to Chanderpaul , no run , angles this one away outside off , Chanderpaul is happy to let it go 51.5 van Zyl to Blackwood , 1 run , on a length and just outside off , Blackwood leans forward and drives it to mid-off to get off the mark 51.4 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , another one that 's fuller and outside off , Blackwood leaves it for the keeper yet again 51.3 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , fullish outside off , Blackwood leaves Just a slip in place 51.2 van Zyl to Blackwood , no run , on a good length and angling in of off , Blackwood pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and lobs back over the pitch Jermaine Blackwood , right handed bat , comes to the crease 51.1 van Zyl to Samuels , out Caught by du Plessis ! ! Ohh no ! What has Samuels done here ? He got a breather with a new bowler in the attack , but instead of releasing the pressure , Samuels gets out. It was fullish and little wide outside off , Samuels went for the drive without much feet movement and hits it straight to du Plessis at cover. This is also van Zyl 's first Test wicket and he is delighted. Samuels is dejected , but it was a very loose shot from him. Samuels c du Plessis b van Zyl 43 ( 70 ) [ 4s-6 ] van Zyl to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Stiaan van Zyl , right-arm medium , comes into the attack van Zyl will come onto bowl his medium pacers here . 50.6 Harmer to Samuels , 1 run , pushed through on off , Samuels taps it towards backward point and gets to the other end , this was also the first run for Samuels in 22 balls 50.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , drags this one short and on middle and leg , Samuels works it into the on-side off his pads 50.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , touch flatter on the stumps , Samuels stays back and punches it to mid-off 50.3 Harmer to Samuels , no run , pushed through quicker this time , Samuels stays inside the crease and dead-bats it 50.2 Harmer to Samuels , no run , slightly slower and on the stumps , Samuels hangs back and defends 50.1 Harmer to Samuels , no run , quicker and fuller on off and middle , Samuels blocks off the front foot 49.6 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , good bumper from Steyn to finish the over , Chanderpaul ducks as the ball goes over and across his head 49.5 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , full outside off , Chanderpaul does n't offer a shot 49.4 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , tad fuller this time and outside off , Chanderpaul stays rooted to the crease and drives uppishly , the ball bounces short of a diving backward point , there was no feet movement as such from the batsman there 49.3 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , length delivery angling away outside off , Chanderpaul lifts his bat and shoulders arms 49.3 Steyn to Chanderpaul , wide , poor delivery from Steyn , bowls this one well wide outside off , wided by the umpire 49.2 Steyn to Samuels , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Samuels fails to tickle it fine , the ball rolls away past the keeper after clipping the thigh pad , the batsmen run for a leg bye 49.1 Steyn to Samuels , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Samuels sways away from the line and leaves it for the keeper 48.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , quicker on on off and middle , Chanderpaul blocks it into the on-side with the inside half of the bat , he was a little late to bring his bat down there 48.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , on the pads this time , Chanderpaul goes back and plays a whippy pull to backward square leg 48.4 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , slows this one and on middle and leg , Chanderpaul leans forward and dead-bats it 48.3 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , tossed up around off , Chanderpaul drives it to extra-cover 48.2 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg line , Chanderpaul blocks it into the off-side off with an angular bat 48.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , pushed through on the stumps , Chanderpaul stays back and blocks 47.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , another bumper from Steyn , Samuels gets underneath it and lets it go 47.5 Steyn to Samuels , no run , good short ball from Steyn , it was an effort delivery , Samuels was watching it all along , drops his gloves and sways away from the line 47.4 Steyn to Chanderpaul , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Chanderpaul swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it past square leg for a single 47.3 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , Steyn shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , left alone 47.2 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone Two slips and a gully in place 47.1 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , the bumper from Steyn , Chanderpaul ducks underneath and lets it go 46.6 Harmer to Samuels , no run , Harmer tosses one on Samuels ' pads , turned towards the on-side 46.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , slower and on off , Samuels gets a good stride forward as he blocks 46.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , pushed through flatter and on Samuels ' pads , he is happy to kick it away 46.3 Harmer to Samuels , no run , Harmer drifts one onto Samuels ' pads , defended towards the on-side 46.2 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flighted and on the leg-stump line , nudged towards the on-side 46.1 Harmer to Samuels , no run , tossed up and on Samuels ' pads , defended towards the on-side 45.6 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , Steyn keeps it full and shaping away from off , left alone 45.5 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Chanderpaul does n't need to play those , left alone 45.4 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , the bouncer from Steyn , does n't bounce as much as he expected , pulled straight to square leg 45.3 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 45.2 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone 45.1 Steyn to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Chanderpaul gets forward and drives it towards mid-off Dale Steyn [ 11.0-3-29-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flatter and on Samuels ' pads , he looks to flick and misses 44.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , slower and wider from Harmer , Samuels lunges forward as he blocks 44.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , Harmer gives this one more air , Samuels gets well forward and blocks 44.3 Harmer to Samuels , no run , tossed up and on off , Samuels prods forward and blocks 44.2 Harmer to Samuels , no run , appeal for LBW , but the drift was taking it down leg , he came from round the wicket and from well wide of the crease , rapped Samuels on the pads. Hawk-Eye suggests that the ball pitched outside leg 44.1 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flighted and on middle , Samuels prods forward and blocks 43.6 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , tad fuller and on off , Chanders prods across and defends it back towards the bowler 43.5 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 43.4 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , on a good length and going away with the angle , dabbed with an angled bat towards gully 43.3 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Chanderpaul presses forward and defends it towards mid-off 43.2 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , left alone 43.1 M Morkel to Samuels , 1 run , short and just outside off , Samuels hops across and dabs it past second slip , there 's a third man in place , just a single 42.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , pushed through on off , driven towards Amla at short cover 42.5 Harmer to Samuels , 1 run , Harmer drifts one on the off-stump channel , driven towards mid-off for a single 42.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flatter and on Samuels ' pads , worked to the right of mid-wicket , Chanderpaul wanted a single and is sent back 42.3 Harmer to Samuels , no run , Samuels comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and blocks 42.2 Harmer to Samuels , 2 runs , Harmer gives this one more air , punched past mid-off. du Plessis gets across from long-on , makes a sliding stop and keeps them down to a brace 42.1 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Samuels stays behind the line and defends it 41.6 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Chanderpaul plays inside the line and lets it go 41.5 M Morkel to Samuels , 1 run , short and angling away from the right-hander , steered down towards third man for a single Morkel changes to round the wicket 41.4 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , short of a length and angling away from off , left alone 41.3 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , short and on the off-stump line , Samuels backs away slightly and crashes it to the right of backward point. Bavuma throws himself and saves a certain boundary 41.2 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , 1 run , length ball on the stumps , Chanderpaul shuffles across and tucks it with soft hands , gets a single as the ball rolls away towards mid-wicket 41.1 M Morkel to Chanderpaul , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Chanderpaul presses across and defends it towards the off-side 40.6 Harmer to Samuels , FOUR , that 's very well played by Samuels , just a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch of a well flighted delivery and drills it past mid-off for a boundary 40.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , pushed through by Harmer , Samuels backs away and defends it towards the off-side 40.4 Harmer to Samuels , 2 runs , Harmer drops one short again , Samuels makes room and cuts it square past cover , the batsmen do n't show any urgency and are happy with a brace 40.3 Harmer to Samuels , 2 runs , Harmer drops one short and just outside off , Samuels makes room and punches it past cover. Big Morne ca n't put the dive out and that allows a couple of runs for Samuels 40.2 Harmer to Samuels , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , Samuels goes back and defends it with a straight bat 40.1 Harmer to Chanderpaul , 1 run , flighted and just outside off , driven to the left of extra cover for a single Drinks are on the field now 39.6 M Morkel to Samuels , 2 runs , Samuels is looking to hit Morkel out of the attack , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Samuels gets forward and lofts it through the line , does n't get hold of the shot , but gets enough to clear Philander at mid-off. He does well to chase it down and haul it back in just before the ropes 39.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , another bumper from Morkel , Samuels drops his wrists and sways out of the way 39.4 M Morkel to Samuels , 2 runs , on a good length and just outside off , Samuels does n't get to the pitch of the ball but goes through with the drive , gets it past cover for a brace 39.3 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , whoa ! Samuels was looking to deposit this one out of Newlands ! That 's a shocker of a shot from Samuels , this was pitched up just outside off and straightened from an angle , Samuels got his left leg out of the way and aimed a massive swoosh , the ball missed the bat by a distance 39.2 M Morkel to Samuels , FOUR , short , wide , four , poor ball from Morkel , Samuels gets on top of the bounce and cracks it square on the off-side for a boundary 39.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , short of a length and just outside off , chopped with an angled bat towards gully Morne Morkel [ 9.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , pushed through by Harmer , Chanderpaul stays back and defends it 38.5 Harmer to Chanderpaul , FOUR , lovely shot , Harmer tosses one just outside off , Chanderpaul gets a big stride forward and caresses it past extra cover for a boundary 38.4 Harmer to Chanderpaul , no run , flighted and just outside off , Chanderpaul shuffles across and defends it Shivnarine Chanderpaul , left handed bat , comes to the crease A slip , a FSL and a silly point in for Chanders 38.3 Harmer to Leon Johnson , out Lbw ! ! That looked plumb right from the moment the ball hit his pads. This was the slider from Harmer , pushed through on middle and went on with the angle , Johnson went nowhere with his feet movement , he ends up playing all around the ball and is rapped low on the pads , the ball was going on to hit the middle and leg stump. Umpire Dar raises his fingers almost instantaneously , Johnson does n't even bother to ponder about a review. Leon Johnson lbw b Harmer 54 ( 84 ) [ 4s-9 ] Harmer to Leon Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Johnson has been given out LBW. He is walking 38.2 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , pushed through and on Johnson 's pads , he gets his bat in front of the pads as he blocks 38.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Johnson gets forward and drives it towards cover 37.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Samuels shuffles across and defends it 37.5 Philander to Samuels , FOUR , Samuels was squared up , the edge was found , but it rolls away towards the third man boundary , on a good length and a hint of shape away from off , Samuels was prodding from his crease and is lucky that the edge did n't go towards the cordon 37.4 Philander to Samuels , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Samuels gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 37.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Philander , on a good length and a hint of nip off the seam , extra bounce on that as well , Samuels was jabbing at the ball and missed 37.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Samuels stays besides the line and defends it towards backward point 37.1 Philander to Samuels , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Samuels stays in his crease , stretches out his right hand and drives it straight to extra cover 36.6 Harmer to Samuels , 1 run , nicely bowled by Harmer , gives this one plenty of air and gets it to dip onto Samuels , he was lunging forward , does n't get to the pitch and scoops it in the air towards mid-on. Amla was at a catching position at short mid-wicket , but the ball went well wide of him 36.5 Harmer to Samuels , no run , pushed through on off , Samuels goes back and defends it with soft hands 36.4 Harmer to Samuels , no run , Harmer drifts one onto Samuels ' pads , nudged towards the on-side 36.3 Harmer to Samuels , no run , tossed up and on off , Samuels gets a big stride forward as he blocks 36.2 Harmer to Samuels , no run , pushed through by Harmer , drifts onto Samuels ' pads , he looks to defend and is struck on the pads 36.1 Harmer to Samuels , no run , flighted and just outside off , Samuels presses across and defends it towards the off-side 35.6 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , Philander shortens his length outside off , Johnson gets behind the line and defends it 35.5 Philander to Leon Johnson , FOUR , Johnson has been happy to play the horizontal bat shot , banged in short by Philander , not much pace or bounce to trouble Johnson , he swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a boundary 35.4 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Johnson gets well forward as he blocks it towards mid-off 35.3 Philander to Samuels , 1 run , on a good length and on the stumps , Samuels drops his bottom hands as he nudges it in front of mid-wicket for a single 35.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven firmly but straight to the fielder at mid-off 35.1 Philander to Samuels , FOUR , lovely shot , this was full and wide from Philander , Samuels gets a decent stride forward , plays away from his body and scythes it through extra cover for a boundary 34.6 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , Harmer drifts one onto Johnson 's pads , he goes back and nudges it towards the on-side 34.5 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , slower and flighted on off , Johnson gets a big stride forward as he blocks 34.4 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , flatter and quicker now , Johnson gets a big stride forward as he shoulders arms 34.3 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , pushed through by Harmer , Johnson covers the line and lets it go 34.2 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , tossed up and on off , Johnson gets half forward and defends it 34.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , FOUR , fifty for Johnson , but he could have so easily holed out here , looks to go inside out to a well flighted delivery , just about manages to clear the fielder at extra cover , Faf was the man out there , reaches his 2nd Test fifty Simon Harmer [ 4.0-1-15-1 ] is back into the attack Harmer is back for a spell. He struck with the last ball before lunch. A slip in place 33.6 Philander to Leon Johnson , 1 run , another short ball from Philander , Johnson was in control of the pull as he gets a single to long leg 33.5 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Johnson gets a big stride forward as he blocks 33.4 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller length delivery and wide outside off , Johnson goes for the drive , hits it in the air but the ball drops well in front of du Plessis at cover 33.3 Philander to Leon Johnson , FOUR , streaky and four , Johnson has had his share of luck here , short of a length and shaping away from off , Johnson spars at that , gets a thick edge that races away in the gap between the cordon , he moves onto 45 33.2 Philander to Leon Johnson , FOUR , top-edge and four , this was banged in short by Philander , Johnson went for the pull , was late in rolling his wrists , gets a top-edge that goes fine , bounces once before going past the ropes 33.1 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Johnson gets half forward and defends it 32.6 M Morkel to Samuels , FOUR , too straight from Morkel , ends up drifting onto Samuels ' pads , he gets inside the line and helps it past the keeper for a boundary 32.5 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , the bumper from Morkel , short and angling away from off , Samuels sways away from the line and lets it go 32.4 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , short and on Samuels ' hips , he hops across and tucks it towards leg gully 32.3 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , 1 run , full and on off , Johnson pushes forward and works with an angled bat past mid-wicket for a single , brings up the 100 for West Indies 32.2 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , 2 runs , on a good length and just outside off , Johnson leans into the ball and pushes it square on the off-side for a brace 32.1 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Johnson hops across and pushes it towards cover 31.6 Philander to Leon Johnson , 1 run , too straight from Philander , worked in front of his square on the on-side for a run 31.5 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Johnson shuffles across and defends it 31.4 Philander to Samuels , 1 run , on a length and wide outside off , Samuels languidly pushes it past short extra cover for a single 31.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Samuels gets a good stride forward in defence 31.2 Philander to Leon Johnson , 1 run , too straight from Philander , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 31.1 Philander to Leon Johnson , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Johnson leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and punches it past mid-on , the fielder gets a hand on that and keeps the batsmen down to a brace Vernon Philander [ 8.0-1-15-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , 1 run , short and angling into Johnson , he swivels across and pulls it behind square. Bavuma at FSL gets a hand as he was taking evasive action , the ball pops behind square for a single 30.5 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , Johnson covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 30.4 M Morkel to Samuels , 1 run , length ball on Samuels ' pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single A leg gully is in as well 30.3 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , the bouncer from Morne , Samuels watches it all along and ducks underneath the ball Morkel switches to round the wicket 30.2 M Morkel to Samuels , FOUR , Samuels will not bother to run for those ! This was pitched up and just outside off , Samuels leans forward and drives it on the up , gets it past the bowler and races away to the straight boundary 30.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , the bouncer from Morkel , angling down leg-side , Samuels awkwardly gets his bat and gloves out of the way 29.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , short of a length and angling away from off , Johnson presses across and defends it with an open bat 29.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , FOUR , Johnson takes on the short ball from Steyn , there were two men in the deep for the shot , Johnson swivels across and pulls it over square leg , bisects the men in the deep for a boundary 29.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , the bumper from Steyn , Johnson ducks underneth it and lets it go 29.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , that was ambitious from Johnson , this was full and wide from Steyn , Johnson went chasing after that , gets an inside edge onto the pads , could have so easily knocked back the stumps 29.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Johnson presses across and defends it back towards the bowler 29.1 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Johnson gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 28.6 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , 1 run , length ball on the stumps , Johnson nudges it in front of mid-wicket and calls for a quick single , Samuels was late in responding but gets home safely 28.5 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , another short ball from Morkel , this time it 's on the stumps , Johnson goes for the pull and misses by a distance 28.4 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , the bumper first up , this is short and well outside off , Johnson drops his wrists and lets it go Morkel switches to round the wicket 28.3 M Morkel to Samuels , 1 run , streaky from Samuels , he is rooted to his crease as he goes for the drive to a full ball , ends up slicing it in the air , wide of cover for a single 28.2 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Morkel , tad fuller and just outside off , Samuels is stuck in his crease as he prods forward in defence Three slips , a gully and a FSL in place for Giraffe 28.1 M Morkel to Samuels , no run , length ball on the pads , Samuels shuffles across and turns it towards FSL Morne Morkel [ 6.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , short of a length and on the off-stump line , Johnson presses across and defends it towards the on-side 27.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller and shaping away from off , looking to tempt Johnson into the drive , he resists as he shuffles across on the leave 27.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , much better from Steyn , on a good length and just outside off , Johnson shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side 27.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , Steyn keeps it full and in that corridor outside off , Johnson does n't need to play at those , left alone 27.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Johnson gets a good stride forward and lets it go Three slips and a gully in place for Steyn 27.1 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Johnson covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Welcome back.. It was shaping up to be a decent session for the visitors , but they lost Devon Smith to the final ball before lunch. That should have perked up Amla and his boys , who are right now in a huddle. . Can South Africa continue bowling well and take some more quick wickets ? Or will West Indies bat well and keep them out ? Join us in a short while to find out Both the openers did well to tackle Steyn and Philander in their opening spell. Morkel was also brilliant as he got the ball to do a lot as he came on as the first change. However , Steyn got Braithwaite out off the second ball of his second spell and Harmer got his first wicket off the last ball before lunch to shift the balance to an equal footing . Lunch , Day 1 : So , South Africa will be the happier side going into lunch. West Indies were doing well to keep the South African bowlers at bay , but Smith 's brainfade before lunch ensures that the session ends nicely balanced . 26.6 Harmer to Devon Smith , out Bowled ! ! First Test wicket for Harmer off the last ball before lunch. It was too close to cut , it was touch quicker and flatter from Harmer , Smith moves away and looks to cut , he misses and the ball hits the top of off and middle , great breakthrough at the cusp of lunch and Harmer is jubilant. Devon Smith b Harmer 47 ( 86 ) [ 4s-8 ] Harmer to Devon Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 26.5 Harmer to Devon Smith , no run , floated up on off , Smith presses forward and blocks it to cover 26.4 Harmer to Devon Smith , no run , tossed up on middle , Smith defends it into the on-side 26.3 Harmer to Devon Smith , no run , touch flatter and down leg , Smith backs away and looks to pull , he misses and wears it on his pad , but he ball was snaking down leg for sure 26.2 Harmer to Devon Smith , no run , slows this one on middle stump line , Smith comes forward and dead-bats it 26.1 Harmer to Devon Smith , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Smith hangs back and blocks 25.6 Philander to Leon Johnson , FOUR , length delivery angling away outside off , Johnson moves across and pokes at it away from his body , the ball flies off the outside edge and luckily for the batsman , it goes in the gap between the third slip and gully 25.5 Philander to Devon Smith , 1 run , straying on the pads , Smith tucks it away to backward square leg and gets to the other end 25.4 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , on a good length and shapes in a little on off , Smith looks to push and gets an inside edge on the pad , there was a stifled appeal for lbw , but the bowler knew that the batsman got an inside edge on that 25.3 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Smith punches it to mid-off after going back in the crease 25.2 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , fullish delivery on middle , Smith bunts it back to the bowler off the inside half of the bat 25.1 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , on a good length and on off , Smith stays rooted to the crease and defends it back to the bowler 24.6 Harmer to Leon Johnson , FOUR , this is not great bowling from the debutant , he sprays this one down leg , Johnson goes down on one knee and sweeps it fine , Steyn at fine leg runs across and tries to stop the ball before the fence with his foot , but the ball still rolls over the fence 24.5 Harmer to Leon Johnson , FOUR , pushed through on middle and leg , Johnson gives the charge and lifts it over the infield on the on-side , the ball runs away to the long-on fence 24.4 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Johnson presses forward and dead-bats it 24.3 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , steps out and almost yorks himselff , Johnson jams it out into the on-side 24.2 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Johnson leans forward and blocks 24.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , floated up on off , Johnson comes on the front foot and pushes it into the off-side with a slightly opened face 23.6 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Smith eases it into the off-side , the batsmen ca n't take a single because of a packed off-side field 23.5 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , slightly back of a length and angling across off , Smith punches it back to the bowler 23.4 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , length delivery around off , Smith stays rooted to the crease and blocks with a straight bat Two slips and a gully in place 23.3 Philander to Leon Johnson , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Johnson moves forward and pushes at it , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away to square leg off the inside edge 23.2 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , on a good length and on middle stump line , Johnson moves across and turns it into the on-side 23.1 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , 124.1 kph delivery on off , Johnson is happy to defend it back Vernon Philander [ 6.0-1-9-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Harmer to Devon Smith , FOUR , pushed through just outside off , Smith slashes the drive to the deep backward point fence off the front foot 22.5 Harmer to Devon Smith , no run , a little more bounce on this one , it was a flighted delivery on middle and off , Smith defends off the front foot , the ball hits him high on the bat and just below the handle because of the extra bounce 22.4 Harmer to Devon Smith , no run , tossed up on middle , Smith drives it back to the bowler 22.3 Harmer to Leon Johnson , 1 run , touch too full from Harmer , Johnson drills the drive past his dive , the batsmen take a single before mid-on cuts it off 22.2 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , on middle and leg this time , Johnson stays back and defends 22.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , slows this one on off and middle , the ball turned away as well , Johnson comes on the front foot and defends it into the off-side 21.6 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith hangs back and blocks it with a straight bat 21.5 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , comes back over the wicket and angles this one across off , Smith comes on the front foot and defends it into the off-side with his bat and pad very close to each other 21.4 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Smith leaves , but the ball does n't bounce much as dies down on its way to the keeper 21.3 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , full and angling in towards the batsman outside off , Smith leaves as the ball was never coming back enough to hit the stumps 21.2 Steyn to Devon Smith , 2 runs , on a good length and just outside off , Smith pushes at it , the ball runs away in the gap between gully and backward point off the outside half of the bat 21.1 Steyn to Devon Smith , FOUR , fullish delivery outside off , Smith comes on the front foot and drives it though the sweeper cover fence Steyn comes round the wicket 20.6 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , Johnson presses forward and blocks this tossed up delivery on off 20.5 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , floated up on off , Johnson leans forward and defends 20.4 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , takes a step forward and drills this flighted delivery on middle and leg back to the bowler 20.3 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , Johnson lunges forward in defence to this tossed up delivery 20.2 Harmer to Leon Johnson , 2 runs , flighted delivery on off , Johnson comes on the front foot and lofts it over the cover region , he did n't time it that well and he is lucky that he did n't hit it straight to a fielder , the batsmen take two 20.1 Harmer to Leon Johnson , no run , tossed up on middle and leg , Johnson leans forward and blocks Simon Harmer , right-arm off break , comes into the attack A slip and a FSL in place from him. He will come round the wicket first up . The debutant Simon Harmer will have his first bowl today. Let 's see how he goes . 19.6 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , another great delivery to end the over , it was on a length and touch slower outside off , Smith was looking to push at it , the ball moves away and goes past the outside edge 19.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Johnson drops it to the right of the cover fielder and the batsmen steal a quick run 19.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , slightly back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Johnson hangs back and dabs it towards gully after opening the face of the bat 19.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , full and outside off , Johnson gets drawn into the drive , but Johnson fails to connect with it by a long margin and the ball goes through to the keeper 19.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Johnson pushes it towards point off the front foot 19.1 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , length delivery outside off , Johnson was in two minds whether to leave it or not , he pulls his bat back at the last moment and lets it go 18.6 M Morkel to Devon Smith , 2 runs , 'Two ' was the call from Smith here , straying on the pads , Smith tucks it away to deep backward square leg and comes back for the second with ease 18.5 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , fullish just outside off , Smith drives it towards cover , where the fielder dives to his right and prevents the batsmen from taking a single 18.4 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , banged in short and outside off , Smith goes for the pull , but can only manage to toe-end it back to the bowler 18.3 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Smith leans forward and drives it straight to cover 18.2 M Morkel to Devon Smith , 2 runs , length delivery on off , Smith comes on the front foot and bunts it through the cover region for a brace 18.1 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Johnson moves across and flicks it over the backward short leg fielder 's head , the ball rolls away to fine leg and the batsmen take a single 17.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , 1 run , length delivery on off , Johnson taps it into the cover off the front foot and gets to the other end 17.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , in the channel outside off and holding its line , Johnson feels for it and is lucky to not have edged it to the keeper 17.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , good delivery again , it was another length delivery that comes back in from outside off , Johnson leaves after putting his front foot across , the ball comes back in and goes past the off stump , not that far away though 17.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , fullish delivery with a hint of inward movement around off , Johnson drives , but gets a thickish inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls away into the off-side 17.2 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , length delivery outside off , Johnson covers the stumps and leaves it for the keeper 17.1 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , on a good length and angling away just outside off , Johnson bunts it into the cover region , the batsmen think about a single , but do n't go through with it 16.6 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery on the pads , Johnson fails to glance it fine , the ball clips the pad and rolls away past short leg , the batsmen take a leg bye and Johnson will keep the strike 16.5 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , good length delivery and just outside off , Johnson blocks it into the off-side off the front foot , he shouts a loud 'No ' to let his partner know that the single was n't on 16.4 M Morkel to Devon Smith , 1 run , angles this one on the pads , Smith jumps in the crease and works it behind square on the on-side and gets to the other end 16.3 M Morkel to Devon Smith , FOUR , touch fuller this time and outside off , Smith leans across and caresses the drive to the sweeper cover fence , that was a great shot as the ball raced away to the fence in no time 16.2 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Johnson drops his wrists on it and calls for a quick single 16.1 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , bangs this one short , Johnson was looking to duck , but the ball did n't bounce as much as Johnson expected , it hits him flush on the arm and lobs up on the pitch 15.6 Steyn to Devon Smith , FOUR , fuller in length and just around off , Smith comes on the front foot and drives it to the long-off fence , the fielder at mid-off had no chance of cutting that off 15.5 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , on a length and just outside off , Smith pushes at it outside off , he was doing so to keep the indipper from crashing into the stumps , but this time the ball holds its line and goes past the outside edge 15.4 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , on a good length and outside off , Smith does n't offer a shot as the ball shoots up towards the keeper off the pitch 15.3 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , peach from Steyn , it was fuller and shapes back in a little just outside off , Smith was leaving and the ball goes past the off-stump , it was n't far away , not sure whether I can call it a good leave or not 15.2 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , angles this one outside off , Smith covers the stumps and shoulders arms 15.1 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Smith lifts his bat and lets it go 14.6 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , the ball jags back in sharply from the length , Johnson was shouldering arms and the ball struck him just around the knee roll , the South Africans are disappointed as Hawk-Eye shows umpire 's call and Aleem Dar gave it 'Not Out ' , this is also the second time Johnson was leaving the ball and the ball came back in to rap him on the pads South Africa have decided to review a lbw appeal. The onfield umpire Aleem Dar gave it 'Not Out'. Morkel 's front foot is fine. It looks very close. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was clipping off and it showed umpire 's call and hence , Johnson stays 14.5 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Johnson stands tall in the crease and defends 14.4 M Morkel to Leon Johnson , no run , on a good length and on off , Johnson blocks it into the off-side 14.3 M Morkel to Devon Smith , 1 run , fuller in length and outside off , Smith drives off the front foot , Rossouw at cover dives to his left and makes a half-stop that allows the batsmen to go through with the single 14.2 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , short of length delivery angling in on top of off , Smith stays rooted to the crease and drops his wrists , the ball rolls away into the off-side 14.1 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , bumper at the batsman , Smith ducks under it Steyn was stretching his back after bowling the last delivery of the over. Is he in some kind of pain ? Let 's hope not 13.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , FOUR , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Johnson whips the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence , he intentionally lifted it above the infield to get it over the fielder 13.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , bowls this one a little wide outside off , Johnson leaves it alone 13.4 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , good delivery from Steyn , it was on a length and jags back in sharply towards the batsman , who was shouldering arms , the ball strikes him above the knee roll , the South African thinktank talk about a review , but decide against it , Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was missing the off stump 13.3 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , good short ball first up , Johnson stays away from the line as it was down leg Leon Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now . 13.2 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , out Caught by Elgar ! ! Steyn returns and strikes. Brathwaite pushes at this back of a length delivery outside off and nicks it through. Elgar at gully snaffles the outside edge , taking a good low catch. Brathwaite would have been better off had he left that alone. Kraigg Brathwaite c Elgar b Steyn 7 ( 35 ) [ 4s-1 ] Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.1 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length and outside off , Brathwaite plays away from the body and jabs it towards point Dale Steyn [ 4.0-2-9-0 ] is back into the attack Steyn is back again . 12.6 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length and seams back in sharply , beats the inside edge of Smith , who pushes at it and gets beaten again. Morkel is giving Smith a proper workout 12.5 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , angled in on middle and off with some extra bounce , Smith is caught in a tangle but gets an inside-edge onto the pad , the ball rolls to the off-side 12.4 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length and shapes in on the leg stump , Smith is hit on the thigh pad 12.3 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , defended back to the bowler 12.2 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , short of length and outside off , Smith lifts his bat and lets it go 12.1 M Morkel to Devon Smith , FOUR , full and outside off , Smith leans forward and drives it to the sweeper cover fence. Smith middled that one 11.6 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , pitched up and comes in on off , bunted to cover from the crease 11.5 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , fired full and tails in on off , Brathwaite digs it out 11.4 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length and on off , turned to mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 11.3 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , good length ball coming in on off , tapped back at the bowler 11.2 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length and outside off , Brathwaite stands tall and punches it to the left of Philander. The man at cover gets across , dives and stops the ball 11.2 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no ball , fullish and outside off , beats the outside edge. The ball may have snapped off a crack and dies in front of AB , who is beaten as well. But the umpire catches Philander overstepping 11.1 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , good length ball just outside off , pushed to cover from the crease 10.6 M Morkel to Devon Smith , 2 runs , Devon Smith aims to drive it through the covers , but the ball takes the inside-edge and runs away behind square leg after beating backward short leg 10.5 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , extra bounce again defeats Smith , who was caught pushing forward again 10.4 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , nip-backer on a fuller length , Smith jams it out via an inside-edge 10.3 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , extra bounce from a back of a length outside off , Smith wafts and misses. The ball skims past the outside edge of the hanging bat of the left-hander 10.2 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , shortish and hurries on Smith , who is hit on the thigh pad. The ball lobs onto the leg-side off an inside-edge , in front of backward short leg 10.1 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , angled outside off on a back of a length , Smith lifts his bat and lets it go 9.6 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , fraction back of a length and outside off , punched to the man at mid-off 9.5 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , bouncer outside off , Brathwaite drops his gloves on it 9.4 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , FOUR , short and outside off , Brathwaite flashes an airy cut wide of backward point , beating Bavuma to his left. The fielder could not even get a hand on it 9.3 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , good length ball on off , blocked back to the bowler 9.2 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , fullish and shaping away close to off , Brathwaite was in a dilemma whether to leave it or play it. He defends it half-heartedly to the off-side 9.1 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , on a length and outside off , pushed towards point 8.6 M Morkel to Devon Smith , 2 runs , back of a length and comes in , Smith just about works it just past Bavuma at backward short leg. Smith ecapes and gets a couple of runs 8.5 M Morkel to Devon Smith , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Smith takes it on. Leaps off his feet and cuts it uppishly over gully for a one bounce four 8.4 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , whoa ! Morkel cuts Smith into half. Back of a length and zips in , beating the inside-edge and the stumps as well. Smith was caught pushing tamely again 8.3 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , pitched up and outside off , Smith looks to drive loosely on the up and is beaten on the outside edge. Amla applauds the effort of Morkel 8.2 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , good length ball on off and middle , Smith comes forward and blocks it to mid-off 8.1 M Morkel to Devon Smith , no run , shapes in from outside off from a back of a length , left alone Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack First change - Morkel replaces Steyn. Round the wicket 7.6 Philander to Devon Smith , 1 run , drifting onto the hips , tucked away to fine leg 7.5 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , Smith is lured into a push away from the body. Played towards point 7.4 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , on a good length and shapes in on middle , blocked towards mid-on 7.3 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , fullish and just outside off , Smith blocks it back to Philander 7.2 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , Philander drags his length back on the stumps , defended back to the bowler off the back foot 7.1 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , fuller length , push-driven to mid-off 6.6 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , Steyn throws a glance at the pitch. That one never really kicked up the way he intended it to. Dug in down leg , the ball however scuttles through to the keeper 6.5 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , Steyn is in a short-pitched-mood. Bouncer - sails over a ducking Brathwaite 6.4 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , short and down leg , Kraigg Brathwaite gets inside the line 6.3 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , fuller and shapes in on off , Brathwaite drives with no feet movement , the inside-edge sneaks away to the leg-side 6.2 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , fuller now , just a shade outside off , Brathwaite comes on the front foot and defends it back to Steyn 6.1 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , 137.2kph lifter outside off , Brathwaite keeps his eyes on it before dropping his gloves and sinking below 5.6 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , hamless delivery down leg , Smith misses the glance. The ball deflects to the keeper off the thigh pad. No bat involved. Good call from the umpire 5.5 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , Smith is forward to block it to mid-off 5.4 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , 1 run , slightly back of a length and on off , Brathwaite stays in his crease and works it through backward square leg 5.3 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , good length ball on off , Brathwaite is forward and across to block it towards mid-on 5.2 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , top ball from Vern ! Pitched up and curls away outside off , Brathwaite feels for it , away from the body and is beaten completely 5.1 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , pitched up and swerving in , Brathwaite gets an inside-edge onto the pad. The ball rolls away in front of square on the off-side 4.6 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , Smith covers his off pole and lifts his bat , letting the ball go 4.5 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , pitched up and on middle , Smith checks his push to the off-side. Smith pulled his bottom hand off the bat as he met the ball 4.4 Steyn to Devon Smith , FOUR , banged in short and outside off at 141.3kph , Devon Smith though does not care as he rocks back and swivel-pulls it away to the deep mid-wicket boundary 4.3 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , Steyn shortens his length on the stumps , defended to the off-side off the back foot 4.2 Steyn to Devon Smith , FOUR , pitched up and outside off , Smith gets a good stride forward and drives it past the covers. Hit up the up and well-placed as well 4.1 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , short of length and outside off at 141kph , Smith jabs it with hard hands , playing it in front of point 3.6 Philander to Devon Smith , 1 run , floated on a length and outside off , Smith pushes it wide of cover. Not much feet movement from the left-hander again , but he gets off the mark 3.5 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , on a good length and close to off , Smith reads it well and lets it pass 3.4 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , Philander traps Devon Smith in the crease now , the batsman looks to punch it through the off-side. But has to settle with an inside-edge to the leg-side 3.3 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , pitched up with some away shape to go with it , Smith taps it towards point after coming forward 3.2 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , good length ball on middle , Smith prods forward and defends it to the off-side 3.1 Philander to Kraigg Brathwaite , 1 run , Philander strays on the pads , flicked down to fine leg 2.6 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , much quicker from Steyn , Smith though is not interested 2.5 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , full and pushed across off , left alone 2.4 Steyn to Devon Smith , no run , good length ball on the stumps , Smith stays back and pats it to mid-off 2.3 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , West Indies open their account as Brathwaite pushes it past cover for a single 2.2 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , short and spilled down leg , Brathwaite gets well inside the line and leaves it 2.1 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , good length ball attacking the off stump , Brathwaite crouches low to defend it 1.6 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , pitched up and shaping away on the fourth stump , Smith comes halfway forward and blocks it to the off-side 1.5 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , on a length and outside off , forward and dabbed in front of point 1.4 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , on a good length and comes in on middle , Smith defends it with his bat-pad close together 1.3 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , nip-backer from Philander , Smith is caught on the back foot and gets an inside-edge just above the thigh pad , the ball lobs onto the pitch 1.2 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , an encore from Vern ! Fuller and seams away outside off , Smith pushes at it with his feet in cement. Beaten on the outside edge again 1.1 Philander to Devon Smith , no run , this one leaves Smith outside off. He is lured into a limp push and is beaten emphatically Vernon Philander , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Vern at the other end with a similar attacking field - 3 slips and a gully . 0.6 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , similar length and nipping away , Brathwaite plays away from the body but does so with soft hands , dabbing it in front of gully. Steyn starts off 2015 with a maiden 0.5 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , fullish and coming in on off , Brathwaite goes forward and across as he blocks it to the right of Steyn 0.4 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , keeps it on a short of length again , this is sprayed down leg. Brathwaite does not bother with it A few cracks in the pitch already. Looks more like a day 2 pitch . 0.3 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , banged in shortish and on off , Brathwaite hangs back and fends it to the off-side 0.2 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , back of a length and nipping away outside off , Brathwaite lifts his bat and lets it go 0.1 Steyn to Kraigg Brathwaite , no run , tight line around off with a bit of away movement , Brathwaite defends it to cover Kraigg Brathwaite and Devon Smith are at the crease. Kraigg Brathwaite is on strike. Steyn will open the attack Cape Town basks in bright sunshine. South Africa are in a huddle , while the West Indian openers stride out to the middle. Here is Steyn with the new ball. 3 slips and a gully awaiting the edge . Teams : South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Alviro Petersen , Dean Elgar , Faf du Plessis , Hashim Amla ( c ) , AB de Villiers ( w ) , Stiaan van Zyl , Temba Bavuma , Simon Harmer , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Kraigg Brathwaite , Devon Smith , Leon Johnson , Marlon Samuels , Shivnarine Chanderpaul , Denesh Ramdin ( w/c ) , Jermaine Blackwood , Jason Holder , Jerome Taylor , Sulieman Benn , Shannon Gabriel It 's confirmed - Harmer will make his Test debut. For WI , Blackwood replaces Peters . West Indies have won the toss and have opted to bat Barring Alviro Petersen , all the South African batsmen are in fine form. A series win will also ensure that the Proteas finish No.1 on the ICC Test rankings at the end of season cut-off date , as the focus shifts to the limited-overs format from next week . Hello and welcome to the third and final Test at Cape Town. Thankfully , the weather for this Test is nice and warm - far cry from the conditions in PE. Toss , team confirmation and all the action to follow shortly . West Indies , who offered stiff resistance through hundreds from Brathwaite and Samuels , will look to improve their game further - the bowling in particular needs to be incisive if they are to defy the hosts. Captain Ramdin himself has admitted that the visitors bowled too many bad balls . After a massive win in Centurion , rain held up South Africa 's charge in PE , preventing them from sealing the series last year itself. Off-spinner , Simon Harmer is expected to make his debut at the expense of Tahir , who leaked runs in PE . Overview : Persistent rain in Port Elizabeth prevented South Africa from sealing the series in 2014. However,West Indies , for a change , gave a good account of themselves after their abject surrender in Centurion. A New Year Test at Newlands gives them renewed hope to build on , from their performance in the rain-inflicted second Test. No. 1 Test side , South Africa , will hope to begin the year with another series win. By their lofty standards , they came up with an indifferent performance , especially with the ball. They 'll look to iron out the chinks and seal the series with a win in Cape Town . South Africa : If it was Hashim Amla , AB de Villiers and Stiaan van Zyl in Centurion , it was Dean Elgar and Faf du Plessis in Port Elizabeth. The South African batsmen have constantly notched up big scores to allow their bowlers room to launch an all-out attack. Dale Steyn also got among the runs in the second Test with a whirlwind half-century. However , Alviro Petersen continued his poor run of scores with a strange dismissal. With South Africa 's think-tank reluctant to change too much , Petersen will play in Cape Town and would hope to get some form going. Their lower-order remains relatively inexperienced with Stiaan van Zyl and Temba Bavuma playing a grand total of 3 Tests between them.While Steyn had a forgettable Test with the ball , the team would have been pleased with Morne Morkel 's burst. Leg-spinner , Imran Tahir , despite picking three wickets in a heap , late on the fourth evening , bowled too many boundary balls forcing CSA selectors to include off-spinner , Simon Harmer , in the squad . West Indies : Port Elizabeth was one of West Indies ' better performances in recent Test history. The four-prong seam attack of Holder , Taylor , Gabriel and Peters bowled with far greater control. Sulieman Benn hit a probing line , only to be denied by shoddy fielding. In Kraigg Brathwaite , they appear to have a young opening batsmen of potential. Marlon Samuels , in the company of Brathwaite played sensible cricket before the all-so-familiar collapse late on day four. West Indies will hope for the out-of-form Shivnarine Chanderpaul to fire once again to mount any serious challenge against the mighty Proteas . Pitch and Conditions : The Newlands pitch is expected to offer considerably pace and bounce but is said to settle down nicelyon Days 2 and 3 for batting. The forecast is clear for all five days , a welcome change from the rainand bad-light situation in Port Elizabeth . Statistics and Trivia : Dale Steyn 's 26-ball fifty in Port Elizabeth was the second fastest by a South African ( behindJacques Kallis ' 24-ball effort against Zimbabwe ) and the fourth-fastest overall in Test history . Shivnarine Chanderpaul averages more in the third match of a Test series than he does in the firstand the second . Quotes : " If the bowlers had to bowl all afternoon , there might have been some tired bodies with only twodays before the next game. Now we will have some fresh bodies , " - South Africa skipper , Hashim Amla , believes that the washout in Port Elizabeth will help hisbowlers . " We had two centurions against the number one bowling attack in the world " - West Indies coach , Stuart Williams , was happy with what he saw in Port Elizabeth . Teams : West Indies ( From ) : Kraigg Brathwaite , Devon Smith , Leon Johnson , Marlon Samuels , Shivnarine Chanderpaul , Denesh Ramdin ( c & w ) , Jason Holder , Jerome Taylor , Sulieman Benn , Shannon Gabriel , Keon Peters , Narsingh Deonarine , Chadwick Walton , Sheldon Cottrell , Jermaine Blackwood South Africa ( From ) : Alviro Petersen , Dean Elgar , Faf du Plessis , Hashim Amla ( c ) , AB de Villiers ( w ) , Stiaan van Zyl , Temba Bavuma , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir , Kyle Abbott , Kagiso Rabada , Rilee Rossouw , Simon Harmer Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
