Graphs A cracker of a game to start the T20I series. The next match is at the New Wanderers Stadium , Johannesburg on Sunday. That is a Day game and it starts at 15 : 00 local time. Do join us for all the action. For now , cheers and bye. . Gayle : 'It was a wonderful atmosphere to play cricket , the crowd here ( Cape Town ) is really great. We decided to play our shots and it came off very well. I have n't batted a lot , I had my first net session here in South Africa ( just one net though ) . Hopefully , I will continue to play well. I just had a good time bantering with my fellow team-mate , Rabada ( in Ramslam Challenge ) . It was nice to get going , right from the start. The ball was coming on nicely to the bat , but there were times when the ball stopped a bit after pitching. They bowled short at me , that made my task easier , I could free my arms and disturb their line and lengths.' Chris Gayle is the MoM for his 31-ball 77 Sammy : 'We were very determined , we saw the Tests closely , we saw how they dominated. But we have a good team for this format of the game. We have a lot of power-hitters , it 's difficult to pick the best eleven. Simmons and Flecther were sitting on the bench tonight. We read the conditions and decided to have this line-up. Sometimes , our plans does n't fall in place but that 's how we play this game. I thought we gave them a sniff towards the end ( by losing a few wickets ) , we want to finish games off in a clinical fashion.' Faf du Plessis : 'It 's a captain 's nightmare when he ( Gayle ) hits to all parts of the ground. It 's difficult to skipper when a team of big hitters run amok. We knew we had to dismiss Gayle early , we had a chance , but the ball just went wide off Rossouw 's reach. The ball was stopping a bit , hence , we went for the short ball. We need to adapt to the conditions. I thought 150 was par , so to get 165 was more than competitive. I thought we pulled things back nicely after Gayle 's blitz. We will look to do better in the next match.' It was a Chris Gayle show at Newlands. He ran amok and scored 52 runs at one stage from just 11 balls , completing a 17-ball fifty in the process , the fastest by a West Indian batsman. He looked determined to finish it off on his own. But after his dismissal , for a 31-ball 77 , West Indies threatened to undermine all his work. Samuels played a good hand , making a fine 41. The visitors lost a heap of wickets towards the end , but Gayle 's knock had placed them in a comfortable position. Nothing much to say about South Africa 's bowling , although Tahir impressed once again. The visitors go 1-0 up in the 3-match series . 19.2 Wiese to Pollard , FOUR , West Indies win ! Another short ball from Wiese , Pollard swivels across and pulls it over mid-wicket for the winning boundary Darren Sammy , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.1 Wiese to Ramdin , out Caught by Kyle Abbott ! ! West Indies are making things difficult for themselves ! Another man perishes to the short ball , this was banged in short by Wiese , Ramdin was n't in any control over the shot , the top-edge is easily swallowed by Abbott at deep backward square leg. West Indies still need 2 runs to win. Ramdin c Kyle Abbott b Wiese 2 ( 5 ) Wiese to Ramdin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! David Wiese [ 2.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Kyle Abbott to Pollard , no run , Abbott bowls the bouncer as Pollard was coming down the track , the batsman ends up ducking underneath it 18.5 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , steered away behind square on the off-side for a single 18.4 Kyle Abbott to Pollard , 1 run , length ball on Pollard 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 18.3 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , 1 run , short and wide from Abbott , Ramdin gets on top of the bounce and ramps it over 1st slip , the fielder at third man gets across and keeps them down to a single 18.2 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , no run , short and angling away from off , Ramdin looks to pull and misses 18.1 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Ramdin looks to cut and misses Kyle Abbott [ 3.0-0-27-0 ] is back into the attack Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.6 Parnell to A Russell , out Caught by Kyle Abbott ! ! West Indies are losing wickets as they near the victory post. This was a back of a length delivery from Parnell , Russell backed away on the pull , gets a steepling top-edge , Abbott settled himself underneath the skier and takes a well judged catch at deep backward square leg. After conceding 23 in his first over , Parnell ends with 2/39. A Russell c Kyle Abbott b Parnell 6 ( 6 ) [ 4s-1 ] Parnell to A Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.5 Parnell to Pollard , 1 run , another short ball from Parnell , Pollard fends it away awkwardly , the ball rolls behind square on the on-side for a single 17.4 Parnell to Pollard , no run , short of a length and angling across Pollard , he rides with the bounce and keeps the ball down 17.3 Parnell to A Russell , 1 run , Parnell follows Russell as he backed away , pushed towards mid-on for a single 17.2 Parnell to A Russell , FOUR , too short from Parnell , Russell backs away and hacks it to the right of mid-on. Rabada gets a bad bounce and the ball bursts through to the boundary 17.1 Parnell to A Russell , no run , short of a length and on off , Russell backs away and defends it towards point Excellent figures from Tahir. He ends with 3/28 , despite all the bashing from Gayle. . 16.6 Tahir to A Russell , 1 run , Russell comes down the track , presents the full face of the bat and drives it down towards long-on , just a single 16.5 Tahir to A Russell , no run , tossed up and on off , Russell gets behind the line in defence Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.4 Tahir to Samuels , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! Tahir runs all around Newlands as he went on the celebratory run ! This was the googly , wider and well outside off , Samuels came down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball , opts to pad it away , the ball lobs off the pad , hits the bat and loops towards point where Rossouw holds onto a simple chance. West Indies lose their fourth wicket. Samuels c Rossouw b Tahir 41 ( 32 ) [ 4s-5 6s-1 ] Tahir to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.3 Tahir to Samuels , no run , Tahir drifts one outside off , defended back towards the bowler 16.2 Tahir to Pollard , 1 run , flatter and on Pollard 's pads , tucked behind square on the on-side for a single 16.1 Tahir to Pollard , no run , appeal for LBW , but Pollard was struck well outside off , he came down the track , the bat was hid behind the pad as Pollard did n't get to the pitch of the ball Imran Tahir [ 3.0-0-26-2 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Parnell to Samuels , FOUR , short and on the off-stumps , Samuels was late on the pull , gets a bottom edge that races away to the fine leg boundary 15.5 Parnell to Pollard , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Pollard 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 15.4 Parnell to Pollard , no run , the bumper from Parnell , Pollard drops his wrists and sways away from the line 15.3 Parnell to Samuels , 1 run , full and on off , driven down towards long-off for a single 15.2 Parnell to Samuels , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Samuels rides with the bounce and defends it towards backward point Kieron Pollard , right handed bat , comes to the crease 15.1 Parnell to Dwayne Bravo , out Caught by Reeza Hendricks ! ! Bravo falls , but is it too late for South Africa ? This was short and angling across Bravo , he was shuffling across on the flick , closes the face of the bat early , gets a leading edge that pops towards mid-wicket. 1st wicket for Parnell. Dwayne Bravo c Reeza Hendricks b Parnell 8 ( 13 ) Parnell to Dwayne Bravo , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.6 Kyle Abbott to Samuels , FOUR , short and wide from Abbott , Samuels backs away and thumps the cut high over point , one bounce and over the ropes 14.5 Kyle Abbott to Samuels , 2 runs , that will go down as a dropped chance by Tahir , but he never got into any kind of position , another quick bouncer from Abbott , Samuels was n't in control of the pull , the top-edge went high and towards long leg. Tahir came rushing forward , misjudges the ball completely , puts in the dive , but the ball drops in front of him 14.4 Kyle Abbott to Samuels , SIX , lovely shot , too many short balls from Abbott , Samuels was waiting for this one , rocks back and drills it high and over mid-wicket for a maximum 14.3 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , Bravo hops across and nudges it in front of mid-wicket for a single 14.2 Kyle Abbott to Samuels , 1 run , Samuels was cramped for space as Abbott followed him with a bouncer , the mistimed pull goes wide off mid-wicket 14.1 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , back of a length and on Bravo 's pads , tucked to the left of mid-wicket for a single Kyle Abbott [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Wiese to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , full and on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 13.5 Wiese to Samuels , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , slapped away towards long-off for a single 13.4 Wiese to Samuels , FOUR , easy pickings for Samuels , length ball on his pads , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a boundary 13.3 Wiese to Samuels , no run , full and angling into Samuels , he backs away and defends it 13.2 Wiese to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed to the left of backward point for a single 13.1 Wiese to Dwayne Bravo , no run , short of a length and well outside off , slapped away straight to the man at cover David Wiese [ 1.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Behardien to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , the slower ball from Behardien , worked towards long-on for a run 12.5 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , full and on the stumps , punched down towards long-on for a single 12.4 Behardien to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , length ball on Bravo 's pads , whipped away past mid-wicket for a single 12.3 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed towards short third man 12.2 Behardien to Samuels , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Samuels looks to cut and misses 12.1 Behardien to Samuels , FOUR , slower ball from Behardien , Samuels was early into the drive , gets a thick edge that beats short third man and races away to the fence Farhaan Behardien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Rabada to Dwayne Bravo , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Bravo presses across and defends it 11.5 Rabada to Dwayne Bravo , no run , the slower ball from Rabada , good change of pace from Rabada , driven towards cover 11.4 Rabada to Dwayne Bravo , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler 11.3 Rabada to Samuels , 1 run , full and on Samuels ' pads , clipped away towards long leg for a single 11.2 Rabada to Samuels , no run , back of a length and holding its line outside off , Samuels backs away and misses the attempted cut 11.1 Rabada to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Bravo , he shuffles across and whips it in front of square on the on-side for a single 10.6 Tahir to Dwayne Bravo , 1 run , flighted delivery and on off , eased down towards long-on for a single Dwayne Bravo , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.5 Tahir to Gayle , out Caught by van Wyk ! ! Oh Dear ! Why did Gayle attempt a reverse sweep ? He was playing the conventional shots and sending them soaring into the crowd , this was the wrong 'un once again , Gayle went for the reverse sweep , the ball goes off his gloves. van Wyk does n't take it on first attempt , but keeps his cool and grabs the rebound. Gayle walks off to standing applause from the capacity Newlands crowd. Gayle c van Wyk b Tahir 77 ( 31 ) [ 4s-5 6s-8 ] Tahir to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 10.4 Tahir to Gayle , no run , the wrong 'un from Tahir , slower and spinning away from outside off , Gayle goes for the slog sweep and misses 10.3 Tahir to Gayle , SIX , Gayle is on fire here , this was pushed through on off , Gayle goes down on his knees and slog sweeps it , hard and flat , into the crowd at mid-wicket 10.2 Tahir to Gayle , SIX , even mishits are clearing the ropes , this was the wrong 'un from Tahir , Gayle was looking to go back over the bowler 's head , does n't get hold of the shot. Miller lined himself up and in front of the ropes at long-off , but the ball went just over him 10.1 Tahir to Gayle , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Gayle plays inside the line and lets it go 9.6 Rabada to Samuels , no run , another bumper from Rabada , Samuels made room for the pull , the ball sails over his shoulder 9.5 Rabada to Samuels , FOUR , Rabada bangs one short and on the stumps , Samuels makes room by backing away , cuts it over backward point and races away to the fence 9.4 Rabada to Gayle , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , driven down towards long off for a single 9.3 Rabada to Samuels , 1 run , full and on Samuels ' pads , tucked past square leg for a single 9.2 Rabada to Gayle , 1 run , change of pace from Rabada , slips in the slower ball as Gayle backed away , pulled towards mid-wicket for a single 9.1 Rabada to Gayle , no run , short of a length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler Kagiso Rabada [ 2.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Tahir to Gayle , 1 run , tossed up and on Gayle 's pads , swpet away behind square on the on-side for a single 8.5 Tahir to Gayle , SIX , you ca n't keep this man quiet for a long time , this was full and wide from Tahir , Gayle gets a big stride forward and launches it back past the non-striker , the fielder at long-off is very square , the ball sails into the stands 8.4 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , full and on Samuels ' pads , whipped away towards deep mid-wicket for a single 8.3 Tahir to Gayle , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , skidded onto Gayle after pitching , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 8.2 Tahir to Gayle , no run , a rare dot ball to Gayle , tossed up and on middle , defended back towards the bowler 8.1 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , the wrong 'un from Tahir , Samuels goes for an ambitious drive , gets an inside edge behind square on the on-side 7.6 Parnell to Samuels , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Samuels plays with an open face and steers it down towards third man 7.5 Parnell to Samuels , no run , that 's a good bumper from Parnell , Samuels was caught in two minds , dos well to drop his gloves and sways away from the line 7.4 Parnell to Samuels , no run , on a good length and on Samuels ' pads , defended back towards the bowler 7.3 Parnell to Gayle , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 7.2 Parnell to Samuels , 1 run , short of a length and angling away from off , opens up Samuels as he prodded forward , the edge races away towards third man for a single 7.1 Parnell to Gayle , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 6.6 Tahir to Samuels , no run , Tahir drifts one on Samuels ' pads , turned towards the on-side 6.5 Tahir to Samuels , no run , Tahir gives this one more air , pushed towards cover 6.4 Tahir to Samuels , no run , the wrong 'un from Tahir , Samuels gets a big stride forward and drives it towards cover 6.3 Tahir to Samuels , 2 runs , Tahir gives this one more air , driven past extra cover for a couple of runs 6.3 Tahir to Samuels , wide , pushed through flatter and quicker , but down leg-side , wide called 6.2 Tahir to Samuels , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , defended towards the off-side Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.1 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , out Lbw ! ! Tahir has struck first ball , he is pumped up. Unnecessary from Smith , looks to play the reverse sweep to a full ball , misses and is struck palpably in front of middle and off. Simple decision for the umpire , Smith admonishes himself as he walks away. Much needed wicket for South Africa , these two were running away with the match. Replays suggest Smith might have just got a bit of glove before the ball hit his pads , he was n't happy as he stormed off. Dwayne Smith lbw b Tahir 20 ( 20 ) [ 4s-3 ] Tahir to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 5.6 Parnell to Gayle , FOUR , 17-ball 50 for Gayle , the quickest T20 fifty by a West Indian player , this was full and wide from Parnell , Gayle slices it high and over point , the ball bounces away to the ropes , 23 from the over 5.5 Parnell to Gayle , FOUR , too short from Parnell , Gayle swivels across and helps it on its way , races away to the fine leg boundary in a moment , finesse from the big man 5.4 Parnell to Gayle , SIX , poor bowling from Parnell , back of a length and well outside off , Gayle backs away , frees his arms and swings it deep into the stands over long-off 5.3 Parnell to Gayle , FOUR , Gayle is enjoying himself here , length ball from Parnell , Gayle gets underneath and pulls it over mid-wicket for a boundary 5.2 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , steered down towards third man for a single 5.1 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , lucky and four , this was full and on off , Smith lost his shape as he went for a big slog , gets a thick inside edge past his off-stump , beats the keeper and races away to the fence Wayne Parnell , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 4.6 Wiese to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , length ball on Smith 's pads , nudged to the left of short fine where Tahir makes a tumbling stop 4.5 Wiese to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of a length and well outside off , chopped straight to the fielder at point 4.4 Wiese to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , that 's another boundary for Smith , length ball on off , Smith makes good use of the bottom hand and whips it over mid-wicket for a boundary 4.3 Wiese to Dwayne Smith , no run , on a good length and angling into Smith , defended towards the on-side 4.2 Wiese to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , that 's ferocious from Smith , he wants a piece of the cake as well , length ball from Wiese , Smith makes room and slaps it past extra cover for a boundary 4.1 Wiese to Dwayne Smith , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , defended back towards the bowler David Wiese , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 3.6 Rabada to Gayle , 2 runs , some luck for Gayle , but he has deserved it , this was short and just outside off , Gayle went for the cut , gets it high on the bat , Parnell circles around the ball , he lost it under the lights as the ball pops in front of him 3.5 Rabada to Gayle , FOUR , Gayle is taking Rabada apart here ! This was pitched up and on the stumps , Gayle backs away and drills it past mid-on for another boundary 3.4 Rabada to Gayle , SIX , Gaylestorm has well and truly begun , Rabada saw Gayle making room outside leg , goes full and wide outside off , Gayle reaches out and lofts it high and over long off for a maximum 3.3 Rabada to Gayle , FOUR , full toss from Rabada , Gayle looks to drive and slices it behind square on the off-side for a boundary 3.2 Rabada to Dwayne Smith , leg byes , 1 run , too straight from Rabada , ends up drifting onto Smith 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , sneaks in a leg bye 3.1 Rabada to Dwayne Smith , no run , full and angling into Smith 's pads , he looks to whip and misses 2.6 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , SIX , Gayle is in a six hitting mood here , comes down the track , makes room and launches a length ball over the long off ropes for his third six 2.5 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , swung away behind square on the on-side for a single 2.4 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 2.3 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , short and well outside off , Smith drops his wrists and lets it go 2.2 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , 2 runs , on a length and angling into Smith 's pads , whipped away behind square for a couple of runs 2.1 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , fuller length delivery and on middle , defended back towards the bowler 1.6 Rabada to Gayle , SIX , this is the Gayle of old , a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and waltz it high and over long on for a maximum 1.5 Rabada to Gayle , SIX , Gayle gets going with a massive six , Rabada misses his length , offers a length ball on off , Gayle gets a big stride forward and lofts it high and over mid-on for a maximum 1.4 Rabada to Gayle , byes , FOUR , good short ball from Rabada , beats Gayle for pace as he went for the hook , van Wyk tips the ball over the bar , three men give chase , but the ball beats them to the ropes 1.3 Rabada to Gayle , no run , on a good length and on the middle stump line , defended back towards the bowler 1.2 Rabada to Gayle , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , Gayle pushes forward and is beaten by the away movement 1.1 Rabada to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Smith goes for an ambitious drive , gets a thick inside edge towards short fine , just a single Kagiso Rabada , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , no run , loud shout for LBW , Gayle was caught on the move to one that nipped back in , gets struck on the back-pad , the angle was taking it away from the stumps though 0.5 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , no run , short and on Gayle 's hips , he hops across and defends it 0.4 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , tad fuller and on off , pushed to the left of mid-off for a single 0.3 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , defended with a straight bat towards mid-on 0.2 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , crunched to the right of mid-off where the fielder makes a tumbling stop 0.1 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , Smith pushes forward with soft hands , gets a thick outside edge past 2nd slip Dwayne Smith and Gayle are at the crease. Dwayne Smith is on strike. Kyle Abbott will open the attack Welcome back.. Two slips in place for Abbott A decent effort from South Africa. The openers started steadily , but both fell in the space of five deliveries. Faf du Plessis threatened before being dismissed for a well made 20-ball 38. Rilee Rossouw anchored the innings with an unbeaten 51 as the hosts posted a challenging total. Holder was the most impressive of the West Indian bowlers. The vistors have plenty of power-packed batsmen in their line-up. Can they chase down the target ? Join us in a while. . 19.6 Cottrell to Behardien , 2 runs , full and on off , driven to the right of long on where Russell makes a good stop , limits the batsmen to a couple of runs. SA end up with 165 19.5 Cottrell to Behardien , no run , length ball angling back into Behardien , he swings and misses , the ball whizzes past the off-stump 19.4 Cottrell to Behardien , 2 runs , another high full toss from Cottrell , mistimed drive towards long-on , the running is good though as they come back for the second run 19.3 Cottrell to Rossouw , 1 run , full and following Rossouw as he backed away , driven down towards long-on 19.2 Cottrell to Behardien , 1 run , yorker length delivery and well outside off , squeezed away square on the off-side for a single Cottrell switches to round the wicket 19.1 Cottrell to Rossouw , 1 run , high full toss from Cottrell , driven towards mid-wicket for a single , raises his 2nd T20 fifty Sheldon Cottrell [ 3.0-0-26-2 ] is back into the attack 18.6 A Russell to Behardien , SIX , lovely shot , Russell misses his length by a fraction , offers width as well , Behardien launches it inside out over extra cover , the timing is sublime as the ball soars into the crowd 18.5 A Russell to Behardien , 2 runs , full and on the stumps , Behardien clears his left leg and drills it back at the striker 's end , the stumps take a beating but they cost Behardien a couple of runs 18.4 A Russell to Behardien , no run , Russell slips in the slower ball , Behardien was looking to launch it over Newlands , misses it completely 18.3 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , squeezed away square on the off-side for a single 18.2 A Russell to Behardien , 1 run , full and just outside off , Behardien looks to drive and gets a bottom edge towards short fine 18.1 A Russell to Behardien , no run , the bumper from Russell , Behardien ducks underneath and lets it go Andre Russell [ 3.0-0-33-1 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , 2 runs , that 's excellent running , on a good length and just outside off , worked in front of long off for a brace 17.5 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , FOUR , nicely played by Rossouw , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and slaps it back over the bowler 's head , one bounce and over the ropes 17.4 Dwayne Bravo to Behardien , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , chopped away square on the off-side for a single 17.3 Dwayne Bravo to Behardien , 2 runs , another slower ball from Bravo , slapped away towards backward point for a single. Sammy has a shy at the bowler 's end , Bravo ca n't gather it cleanly and allows another run 17.2 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , 1 run , another slower ball from Bravo , scooped behind square on the on-side for a single 17.1 Dwayne Bravo to Behardien , 1 run , the slower ball from Bravo , tapped past cover for a single Dwayne Bravo [ 2.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Cottrell to Rossouw , FOUR , that 's a good shot from Rossouw , spots the slower ball early , gets a big stride forward and heaves it over mid-wicket for a boundary , 10 runs came from Cottrell 's third over 16.5 Cottrell to Rossouw , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler 16.4 Cottrell to Rossouw , 2 runs , the slower ball from Cottrell , Rossouw spots it early and drives it towards long-on , runs hard and gets back for the second run 16.3 Cottrell to Rossouw , FOUR , lucky and four , this was full and swung back into Rossouw , no room for the whip , Rossouw gets a thickish inside edge that brushes past the leg-stump and races away to the fence Farhaan Behardien , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.2 Cottrell to D Miller , out Caught by Dwayne Bravo ! ! Huge wicket for West Indies. This was nicely bowled by Cottrell , slips in the slower wide ball , Miller was looking to go over extra cover , opens the face of the bat and ends up slicing it to Dwayne Bravo at sweeper cover. He does n't drop those , Miller falls just as he was about to cut loose. D Miller c Dwayne Bravo b Cottrell 24 ( 21 ) [ 4s-1 ] Cottrell to D Miller , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.1 Cottrell to Rossouw , 1 run , on a good length and shaping away , Rossouw comes down the track and gets a thick edge on the drive , just a single to third man 16.1 Cottrell to Rossouw , wide , Cottrell sprays this one full and well outside off , wide called Sheldon Cottrell [ 2.0-0-14-1 ] is back into the attack 15.6 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , Cottrell has dropped Rossouw , low full toss from Russell , Rossouw went for the lap sweep , hits it in the air and to the left of short fine , Cottrell dives , gets both hands but ca n't hold on 15.5 A Russell to D Miller , 1 run , short and just outside off , Miller was late on the pull , gets a bottom edge towards the off-side , just a single 15.4 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , yorker length delivery and well outside off , driven down towards mid-off for a single 15.3 A Russell to D Miller , 1 run , full and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single 15.2 A Russell to D Miller , 2 runs , full toss from Russell , driven to the right of sweeper cover , Samuels gets across and keeps them down to a brace 15.1 A Russell to D Miller , no run , short of a length and well outside off , slapped towards Sammy at backward point , he fumbles but the batsmen decide against a single Andre Russell [ 2.0-0-27-1 ] is back into the attack 14.6 Sammy to Rossouw , 2 runs , width on offer from Sammy , slapped away wide of long off for a couple of runs 14.5 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , short of a length and just outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at short third man 14.4 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single Ramdin is up to the stumps now 14.3 Sammy to D Miller , no run , full and on off , punched back at the stumps at the bowler 's end. Sammy applauds the stumps for saving some runs 14.2 Sammy to D Miller , FOUR , too short from Sammy , you ca n't bowl that length with his pace , pulled away towards mid-wicket , Russell was charging across , but the ball goes past him , one bounce and over the ropes 14.1 Sammy to D Miller , 2 runs , too straight from Sammy , nudged past square leg for a couple of runs 13.6 Dwayne Bravo to D Miller , 1 run , full and wide from Bravo , Miller lashes it to the right of point where Sammy makes a decent stop , just a single 13.5 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , 1 run , another slower ball from Bravo , nudged towards short fine for a single 13.4 Dwayne Bravo to D Miller , 1 run , full and on Miller 's pads , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 13.3 Dwayne Bravo to D Miller , 2 runs , good running from Miller , on a length and on off , Miller works it in front of mid-wicket , takes on Russell and gets back for the second run 13.2 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , pulled away towards mid-wicket. Pollard gets across and keeps them down to a single 13.1 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , FOUR , length ball from Bravo , Rossouw clears his left leg and drags it across to the mid-wicket boundary , good start to the over 12.6 Sammy to D Miller , 2 runs , short of a length and well outside off , slapped away square on the off-side , the batsmen run hard and come back for the second run 12.5 Sammy to D Miller , 2 runs , too straight from Sammy , Miller shuffles across and clips it behind square on tyhe on-side , back for the second run 12.4 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , Rossouw makes room to a length ball and slaps it to long off for a single 12.3 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Miller 's pads , whipped away in front of mid-wicket. Russel swoops on the ball and throws it back to the bowler , all in one motion , just a single 12.2 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , full and on off , driven down towards long-off for a single 12.1 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , short and on Miller 's hips , pulled straight to short fine for a single Darren Sammy , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , no run , Bravo keeps it full and outside off , Rossouw attempts the reverse paddle and is beaten 11.5 Dwayne Bravo to D Miller , 1 run , change of variation from Bravo , slips in the slower ball , driven down towards long off for a single 11.4 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Rossouw looks to pull and gets a bottom edge towards short fine Bravo switches to round the wicket 11.3 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , 2 runs , Rossouw shimmies down the track , makes room and drives it to the right of long-off , gets back for the second run 11.2 Dwayne Bravo to Rossouw , no run , Bravo slips in the slower ball , he rolled his fingers around it , dabbed straight to the fielder at backward point 11.1 Dwayne Bravo to D Miller , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , punched down towards long off with a straight bat Dwayne Bravo , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Nurse to D Miller , 1 run , Nurse drops one short and wide outside off , Miller makes room and cuts it to deep point for a single 10.5 Nurse to Rossouw , 1 run , Nurse drifts one wider outside off , worked past cover for a single 10.4 Nurse to Rossouw , FOUR , the reverse sweep attempted by Rossouw , gets a bottom edge on the shot , the ball sneaks under Ramdin 's legs and races away to the fence 10.3 Nurse to D Miller , leg byes , 1 run , run , psuhed through by Nurse , Miller gets an inside edge onto the pads , rolls away towards the on-side 10.2 Nurse to Rossouw , 1 run , pushed through by Nurse , Rossouw comes down the track and gets an inside edge onto the pads. There 's some miscommunication between the two batsmen , but the ball was well away from the keeper 10.1 Nurse to Rossouw , no run , tossed up and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 9.6 A Russell to D Miller , no run , the bumper from Russell , Miller ducks underneath it David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 9.5 A Russell to du Plessis , out Caught by Sammy ! ! Soft dismissal for du Plessis ! That 's a bonus wicket for Russell , a friendly full toss on middle , Faf was looking to flick it towards the on-side , closed the face of the bat and gets a leading edge. It went straight up in the air , Sammy called for it at cover and gobbled the chance. Faf was looking in great touch , West Indies have grabbed a lucky wicket. du Plessis c Sammy b A Russell 38 ( 20 ) [ 4s-5 6s-2 ] A Russell to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.4 A Russell to du Plessis , FOUR , Russell goes short and just outside off , du Plessis swivels across and pulls it over mid-wicket , a couple of bounces and over the ropes 9.3 A Russell to du Plessis , SIX , dropped and six , Holder was the man at long off , this was full and wide from Russell , Plessis goes down on his knees and lofts it towards long off , Holder was well in front of the ropes , he jumps and lets the ball burst through his hands , the ball rolls over the ropes 9.2 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , pulled away towards long-on for a single 9.2 A Russell to Rossouw , wide , Russell slips one down leg-side , wide called 9.1 A Russell to Rossouw , 2 runs , excellent running from du Plessis , length ball outside off , Rossouw punched it towards long off , du Plessis runs hard and comes back for the second run , Rossouw has to dive to make his ground Andre Russell [ 1.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Nurse to Rossouw , 1 run , flatter and well outside off , Rossouw makes room and cuts it towards deep cover for a single 8.5 Nurse to du Plessis , 1 run , tossed up and on off , worked towards mid-wicket for a single 8.4 Nurse to du Plessis , SIX , du Plessis is on a roll here , Nurse drops this one short , du Plessis goes deep inside the crease , pulls it high and over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 8.3 Nurse to du Plessis , FOUR , that 's an excellent shot from du Plessis chips down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it back over the bowler 's head , almost went all the way 8.2 Nurse to Rossouw , 1 run , full and on Rossouw 's pads , flicked behind square on the on-side for a single 8.1 Nurse to Rossouw , no run , slower and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 7.6 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , lovely shot , third boundary of the over , du Plessis comes down the track , makes room as he does so , opens up the off-side and carves a full ball through extra cover for a boundary 7.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , good comeback from Holder , slips in the middle stump yorker , du Plessis makes room and digs it out 7.4 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , superbly played by du Plessis , fraction shorter and just outside off , Faf rocks back and pulls it wide of mid-wicket , the timing is sweet as the ball races away to the fence 7.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , Holder shortens his length , du Plessis goes hard on the cut , mistimes it towards the off-side 7.2 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , nicely played by du Plessis , a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lifts it over mid-on for a boundary 7.1 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , Holder digs one short as Rossouw came down the track , gets a thick inside edge that rolls away towards the keeper , calls du Plessis through for a quick single 6.6 Nurse to Rossouw , 1 run , this one is drifted across Rossouw , driven towards long-on for a single 6.5 Nurse to du Plessis , 1 run , flatter and quicker from Nurse , skids through after pitching , cracked square on the off-side for a single 6.4 Nurse to Rossouw , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-on for a single 6.3 Nurse to du Plessis , 1 run , flatter and well outside off , worked towards mid-wicket for a single 6.2 Nurse to du Plessis , no run , slower and wider from Nurse , du Plessis nudges it towards the off-side 6.1 Nurse to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , pushed back towards the bowler Ashley Nurse , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 5.6 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Rossouw mistimes the pull towards mid-on 5.5 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis shuffles across and tucks it past mid-wicket , he wanted a second run but Rossouw is n't sure of it and sends him back 5.4 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Rossouw punches it towards cover and sets off for a quick single , Sammy has a shy at the bowler 's end , he misses by a distance , but Rossouw was well in 5.3 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , driven straight to mid-off 5.2 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , short of a length and well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover Rilee Rossouw , left handed bat , comes to the crease 5.1 J Holder to van Wyk , out Caught by Gayle ! ! Catching practice for Gayle at 1st slip. Nothing shot from van Wyk , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , van Wyk was looking to dab it down towards third man , gets a thick edge , straight to Gayle. The big man does n't drop those. All of a sudden , South Africa have lost both openers. van Wyk c Gayle b J Holder 17 ( 15 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] J Holder to van Wyk , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.6 Cottrell to du Plessis , no run , Cottrell digs one short and well outside off , du Plessis was late on the pull , the ball whizzed through to the keeper 4.5 Cottrell to du Plessis , no run , low full toss from Cottrell , punched towards mid-on 4.4 Cottrell to du Plessis , 2 runs , full and slipping onto du Plessis ' pads , he nudges it fine and is off the mark with a brace 4.4 Cottrell to du Plessis , wide , on a good length outside off and shaping away , left alone , called as a wide , looked a tad harsh on the bowler 4.3 Cottrell to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of shape back into du Plessis , he closes the face of the bat and drives it back at the bowler Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.2 Cottrell to Reeza Hendricks , out Lbw ! ! Cottrell salutes the crowd as he gets the first wicket. This was full and shaped back into Hendricks , the batsman was looking to work it towards the on-side , misses and is struck low on the boots , the impact was around middle and leg , that would have crashed into the leg-stump. Simple call for the umpire. South Africa lose their first wicket. Reeza Hendricks lbw b Cottrell 12 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] Cottrell to Reeza Hendricks , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 4.1 Cottrell to Reeza Hendricks , FOUR , unlucky for Cottrell , short of a length and just outside off , Hendricks was playing with an angled bat , gets an inside edge that bounces over Ramdin and races away to the fence for a boundary Sheldon Cottrell [ 1.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack 3.6 J Holder to Reeza Hendricks , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , Hendricks plays with an open face and guides it down towards third man 3.5 J Holder to van Wyk , 1 run , on a length and on off , worked in front of mid-wicket for a single 3.4 J Holder to Reeza Hendricks , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on his pads , clipped to the right of mid-on for a single 3.3 J Holder to van Wyk , leg byes , 1 run , length ball on van Wyk 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side for a single 3.2 J Holder to van Wyk , no run , short of a length and angling away from outside off , van Wyk looks to dab and misses 3.1 J Holder to van Wyk , no run , back of a length and just outside off , defended with an angled bat towards the off-side 2.6 A Russell to van Wyk , 1 run , on a length and on van Wyk 's pads , nudged in front of mid-wicket for a single 2.5 A Russell to van Wyk , FOUR , short , wide and four , poor ball from Russell , van Wyk goes deep inside his crease as he cracks it square past point for a boundary 2.4 A Russell to Reeza Hendricks , 3 runs , back of a length and well outside off , Hendricks stands tall and punches it over extra cover , Dwayne Bravo gives chase and hauls the ball back before the ropes , the batsmen get three 2.3 A Russell to van Wyk , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , van Wyk hops across and nudges it towards the on-side for a single 2.2 A Russell to van Wyk , FOUR , that 's too short from Russell , banged it halfway down the pitch , van Wyk swivels across , rolls his wrists and paddles it behind square for a boundary 2.1 A Russell to van Wyk , no run , back of a length and just outside off , van Wyk has no room to play the cut , chops it towards cover point Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 1.6 J Holder to Reeza Hendricks , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Hendricks opens the face of the bat and steers it straight to the fielder at backward point 1.5 J Holder to Reeza Hendricks , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Holder , shortens his length and gets this one to shape away from outside off , Hendricks was sparring at that , nearly edges it through to the keeper 1.4 J Holder to Reeza Hendricks , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Hendricks gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 1.3 J Holder to Reeza Hendricks , no run , on a good length outside off and shaping away , Hendricks is happy to let it go 1.2 J Holder to Reeza Hendricks , 2 runs , short of a length and well outside off , Hendricks eases it square on the off-side , beats point and comes back for the second run 1.1 J Holder to Reeza Hendricks , no run , short and well outside off , Hendricks was looking to help it towards the on-side , the ball grazes the bottom edge and rolls away to the keeper Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Cottrell to van Wyk , no run , mild appeal for LBW , but the ball was sailing over the top of the stumps , this was dug in short and on the stumps , van Wyk went for the pull and missed 0.5 Cottrell to van Wyk , no run , on a good length outside off and shaping away from outside off , left alone 0.4 Cottrell to van Wyk , no run , back of a length and just outside off , van Wyk steers it straight to backward point 0.3 Cottrell to van Wyk , SIX , cracking shot , Cottrell drops one short and on the stumps , van Wyk swivels across and helps it on its way , the timing is sweet and the ball sails behind square on the on-side for a maximum 0.2 Cottrell to van Wyk , no run , short of a length and angling back into van Wyk , he shuffles across on the whip and is hit on the pads 0.1 Cottrell to Reeza Hendricks , 1 run , short and on Hendrik 's thigh pad , he swivels across and pulls it towards long leg for a single Reeza Hendricks and van Wyk are at the crease. Reeza Hendricks is on strike. Cottrell will open the attack Right , it 's time for the shortest format of the game. Would it be uncharitable to say this gives West Indies the best chance to pick up some silverware on the tour ? They definitely look the stronger of the two teams. . Teams : West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Marlon Samuels , Dwayne Bravo , Kieron Pollard , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy ( c ) , Andre Russell , Jason Holder , Ashley Nurse , Sheldon Cottrell South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Morne van Wyk ( w ) , Reeza Hendricks , Rilee Rossouw , Faf du Plessis ( c ) , David Miller , Farhaan Behardien , David Wiese , Wayne Parnell , Kyle Abbott , Kagiso Rabada , Imran Tahir South Africa have won the toss and have opted to bat On the other hand , West Indies will welcome some of their star performers. Chris Gayle , who sat out of the Tests with a back problem returns. Dwayne Bravo , Kieron Pollard and Andre Russell are back as well. Unlike the Tests , this is one format that they might well start as favourites . There 's a vast difference in the teams though. The hosts have opted to rest Test stalwarts Hasim Amla , AB de Villiers , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Vernon Philander. JP Duminy , who is recovering from a knee injury , is expected to play a part later on . It 's time for the T20Is. After having vanquished the visitors in the Tests , the Proteas begin their preparation for the 2015 WC with 5 ODIs. But before that , there is a small matter of playing 3 T20Is , the first of which will be played here in Newlands , Cape Town. Hello , and a welcome to one and all to the first T20I between South Africa and West Indies . Preview Outplayed in a Test series , West Indies will seek to turn the tables on South Africa in a three-match Twenty20 international series , which starts at Newlands on Friday. While South Africa have rested several key players , the West Indies T20 squad boasts more experience than the Test squad which was beaten 2-0 in the three-match series . Gayle and Pollard 's return is expected to come as a big boost for a side that struggled against the likes of Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Vernon Philander. " We are generally a happy bunch of boys. We are moving forward. There 's a new energy and a different calibre of players , " Darren Sammy , West Indies ' T20 captain , was quoted as saying by ESPNCricinfo . " We gained a bit of knowledge but at the same time it was a plus for the South Africans , who were able to get some information on us , " Sammy said. " But we are very confident. We won a World T20 three years ago and we believe we have some of the best players in the world in this format. " The hosts , however , will be without the services of AB de Villiers , Morkel , Philander and Steyn , and in their absence , the onus will be upon skipper Faf du Plessis to guide his team. West Indies and South Africa have not met in the Twenty20 format since 2010 and the visitors have only won one of their six encounters in the shortest format , in Port Elizabeth back in 2007 . Teams : West Indies ( From ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Lendl Simmons , Marlon Samuels , Kieron Pollard , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy ( c ) , Andre Russell , Jason Holder , Ashley Nurse , Sheldon Cottrell , Sulieman Benn , Andre Fletcher , Carlos Brathwaite South Africa ( From ) : Morne van Wyk ( w ) , Reeza Hendricks , Rilee Rossouw , Faf du Plessis ( c ) , Jean-Paul Duminy , David Miller , Farhaan Behardien , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Kyle Abbott , Kagiso Rabada , Marchant de Lange , Imran Tahir , David Wiese , Justin Ontong Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
