Graphs Got to feel for Faf ! He scores a big hundred , a rare feat in the 20-over format , yet ends up on the losing side. Anyway , that ends a terrific game of cricket. These two sides will lock horns again on Wednesday for the final T20I at Durban. Looking forward to your company then. Goodbye ! Wow ! Some really strong words from Gayle there in the presentation . Gayle : " No , I did n't have a net , I did n't train to be honest and then I go and get some sleep. I am so glad that we actually won the series , I wanted to win this so bad. This morning I saw the World Cup squad , no Pollard and no Bravo , I felt really really hurt deep inside and that 's the reason why I actually wanted to win the series. We have the best team here and to see those two guys excluded , it 's really sad for West Indies cricket. If you really believe in our ability , those two guys should have been in the squad in South Africa for the 50-over tournament and the World Cup squad. I am so glad , I am really happy to actually win this and kind of show them up a bit , so I am really glad. But back to the cricket , a good performance from the team , a lot of runs scored again. Faf batted really well , chasing 230 , we needed two big scores over 50. Myself and Marlon got the big scores. Overall , I am happy and I am happy to have won the game for Bravo and Pollard as well. " Chris Gayle is the Man of the Match Sammy : " To be fair , at the halfway stage , we were pretty confident. In T20s , it will take a team effort. I feel for Faf , brilliant innings but he ends up on the losing side. Cricket is the real winner and the crowd was brilliant. South Africa is a good team , especially after the Test series. Last game we did not have a clinical finish but in this game we showed why we won the T20 WC. This is the beauty of T20 , we back the guys in the dressing room. It 's good to have Chris in the side. We have a good batting line-up. Once we do the right things , it 's hard to stop us. It was a good game of cricket. Except Tahir , all their bowlers were under the pump. " Faf : " It 's my first T20I hundred , feels like you need a bit of luck. But it 's very very bitter-sweet to go down like that. Nothing is out of their reach. Chris Gayle , you try to get him out but he scores all around the ground. I think we did not land the yorkers well , quite a few full tosses , but it 's tough to bowl yorkers with the new ball. I thought I was going to pause at one stage , I ran a lot of twos. I tried to lead from the front but we could n't get over the line tonight. Apologies to the crowd for not being on the winning side , it was like the 438 game. " Gayle threatened to break Levi 's record for the fastest ever T20I hundred ( off 45 balls ) , but was dismissed for 90 off just 41 balls. He smashed the bowlers to all corners and the boundaries were n't big enough for him . Chasing 232 , the intent was pretty clear from Smith and Gayle. Though the former perished early , Gayle bludgeoned the bowling and shared a record 152-run stand for the second wicket with Samuels. It looked like West Indies would win with three overs to spare , but Wiese brought the hosts back by removing both in quick succession. The visitors lost their way slightly as South Africa picked up 5 wickets in a space of 38 runs. However , Sammy stayed calm when it mattered and took West Indies past the line to achieve a record win. Phew ! Insane stuff from the Caribbean boys ! So West Indies have sealed the three-match series 2-0 with one game to go. The home fans can not believe that South Africa have lost the match , despite scoring 231. The West Indies players come downstairs and shake hands with the South Africans . 19.2 de Lange to Sammy , SIX , what a way to finish the game , a big 'woo hoo hoo ' from him and this is the highest successful run chase by any team in T20Is. Low full toss from de Lange , Sammy slogs it away into orbit over mid-wicket. He pumps his fist and punches the glove with his partner 19.1 de Lange to Ramdin , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Ramdin taps it to backward point and gets Sammy back on strike Marchant de Lange [ 3.0-0-35-1 ] is back into the attack West Indies need just three runs now. Kyle Abbott ends , 4-0-68-1 - the most number of runs conceded by a bowler in a T20I . 18.6 Kyle Abbott to Sammy , 2 runs , full and outside off stump , drilled to long-off , Ramdin is quick to return for the second 18.5 Kyle Abbott to Sammy , 2 runs , very full from Abbott , Sammy digs it out to deep mid-wicket , races back for the second , puts in the dive and makes his ground 18.4 Kyle Abbott to Sammy , FOUR , surely , West Indies are almost there now ! Low full toss on the leg stump , Sammy whips it away fiercely and beats deep mid-wicket and deep backward square leg 18.3 Kyle Abbott to Sammy , FOUR , that ball was delivered at 130.3kph and Sammy hit that at 200kph ! My word , it went very flat and it bounced just inside the rope. Full and outside off stump , Sammy carves it away with a strong bottom hand grip and it rockets , literally rockets to the sweeper cover boundary 18.2 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , 1 run , yorker wide outside off stump , Ramdin squeezes it out to backward point 18.1 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , FOUR , that 's cruel for the bowler ! Another full toss from Abbott , remember he bowled five in one over earlier in the innings , Ramdin slogs and gets an inside edge , fine leg is very square and he had no chance 18.1 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , wide , no Kyle Abbott ! Full and way outside off stump and West Indies get a free run Well , 21 needed off 12 and it 's pretty tensed out there . 17.6 Phangiso to Ramdin , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Ramdin flicks it to mid-wicket This is the highest score for West Indies in T20Is . 17.5 Phangiso to Sammy , 1 run , yorker on the leg stump , dug out to deep mid-wicket , ca n't get back for the second Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.4 Phangiso to Dwayne Bravo , out Caught by Ontong ! ! Oh Bravo loses his shape while trying to muscle this out of the ground and he does n't time it properly. It 's a friendly full toss and Bravo hits it straight to long-off. He is gutted with himself. Dwayne Bravo c Ontong b Phangiso 10 ( 5 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Phangiso to Dwayne Bravo , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.3 Phangiso to Dwayne Bravo , SIX , that 's in the air and it 's gone all the way. Must tell you that it was a mistimed hit from Bravo. Flighted ball down the leg-side , Bravo slogs it high in the air and sends it over mid-wicket 17.2 Phangiso to Dwayne Bravo , no run , flighted delivery down the leg-side , Bravo misses the flick and is hit on the pad 17.1 Phangiso to Sammy , 1 run , excellent stop David Wiese ! That was four for sure. Slower through the air outside off stump , Sammy cuts very hard but backward point makes a good diving save to his left Aaron Phangiso [ 2.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack West Indies need 30 off the last three overs . 16.6 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Bravo , FOUR , in the airrrr and just wide of the man at short third man ! Full and wide outside off stump , Bravo drives with an angled bat and beats Behardien to his right. Nice way to end the over 16.5 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Bravo , no run , yorker outside off stump , Bravo tries to squeeze it out to third man but misses Darren Sammy , right handed bat , comes to the crease It 's now down to 34 needed off 20 . 16.4 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , out Caught by D Miller ! ! Full toss and Russell has hit it straight to long-off. Russell is livid with himself and he kicks the turf ! The crowd erupts. Good grab by Miller as well , he just jumped slightly to take it above his head. Russell hit that well , but he hit it flat. A Russell c D Miller b Kyle Abbott 14 ( 6 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Kyle Abbott to A Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.3 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , FOUR , clever batting from Russell. Full and wide outside off stump , Russell opens the face of the bat and squeezes it out past short third man 16.2 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , SIX , baaannggg ! Full delivery on the leg stump , Russell takes his front leg out of the way and slogs it hard over mid-wicket. He hit that ball very hard 16.1 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , 2 runs , fullish and outside off stump , Russell mistimes the drive to towards long-off , Dwayne Bravo races back for the second , the throw comes at him , but luckily , Abbott grabs the ball. Otherwise , it would have hit Bravo on the chest Kyle Abbott [ 2.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack Last 15 balls : 15 runs and three wickets . 15.6 Wiese to A Russell , 1 run , slower delivery on the leg stump , Russell pushes it to long-on Dwayne Bravo , right handed bat , comes to the crease 15.5 Wiese to Pollard , out Caught by Behardien ! ! This is a great comeback from Wiese. Gayle , Samuels and now he gets Pollard. Wow ! What a turnaround. Slower delivery on the leg stump , Pollard slogs but gets a top edge , Pollard slams the bat onto the ground after getting the edge , long-on runs in and takes a good catch. Pollard c Behardien b Wiese 7 ( 5 ) [ 4s-1 ] Wiese to Pollard , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.5 Wiese to Pollard , wide , slower bumper but it 's too high 15.4 Wiese to Pollard , FOUR , top-edge but it flies over short third man. Short and outside off stump , Pollard swings hard and gets away with the edge. handy runs for West Indies 15.3 Wiese to A Russell , 1 run , pulled away to deep square leg 15.2 Wiese to Pollard , 1 run , shortish slower ball from Wiese , Pollard inside-edges the pull onto thigh pad and it rolls towards short third man Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 15.1 Wiese to Samuels , out Caught by Behardien ! ! Good length delivery on the leg stump , Samuels makes room and slogs , hits it flat but long-on runs to his right and swallows the ball. Wiese gets another key wicket. Is there a twist in the tale ? All of a sudden , two quick wickets have put pressure back on West Indies. End of a good innings from Samuels. Samuels c Behardien b Wiese 60 ( 39 ) [ 4s-7 6s-2 ] Wiese to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Samuels it OUT ! Tahir has bowled well , he ends 4-0-29-0. The asking rate is now 11.87 , but with Bravo , Sammy and Russell to come , you would say West Indies are the favourties . 14.6 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , driven to deep extra-cover 14.5 Tahir to Samuels , no run , googly from Tahir , Samuels defends with soft hands and looks for a run but Pollard says no 14.4 Tahir to Pollard , 1 run , low full toss , hit hard but Ontong does well at long-on 14.3 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , floated up outside off stump , driven down to long-off 14.2 Tahir to Samuels , no run , short and way outside off stump , tapped to point 14.1 Tahir to Samuels , 2 runs , that 's a lovely drive from Samuels , he allows it to spin away and sends it to deep extra-cover , Miller does well to tidy up in the deep 13.6 Wiese to Samuels , 1 run , shortish slower ball from Wiese , Samuels toe-ends the pull through backward square leg 13.5 Wiese to Pollard , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Pollard drills it straight down the ground for a run Kieron Pollard , right handed bat , comes to the crease Alright , can South Africa claw their way back into the game now ? 13.4 Wiese to Gayle , out Caught by van Wyk ! ! He could have got the fastest ever T20I hundred but he perishes ! Wiese is pumped. Slower delivery outside off stump , Gayle tries to guide it to third man , but gets a thickish edge and the keeper does the rest , taking the catch to his left. Gayle gets a standing ovation as he walks back. End of a sensational innings from the big left-hander. Thank you for the entertainment sir ! Gayle c van Wyk b Wiese 90 ( 41 ) [ 4s-9 6s-7 ] Wiese to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.4 Wiese to Gayle , wide , need to rebowl that sir ! Full and way outside off stump , Gayle did n't even bother to move 13.3 Wiese to Samuels , 1 run , low full toss from Wiese , Samuels drills it to long-on 13.2 Wiese to Samuels , no run , slower ball down the leg-side , the ball brushes the pad en route to the keeper The previous best stand for West Indies was 145 . 13.1 Wiese to Samuels , FOUR , the highest stand for West Indies in T20Is for any wicket. Short and wide outside off stump , Samuels rocks back and cuts fiercely past backward point David Wiese [ 2.0-0-27-0 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Tahir to Gayle , no run , appeal for caught behind , Tahir jumps up and down , he thought he had his man , but the umpire disagrees. Flighted delivery from Tahir , Gayle slogs early and misses , the ball pops in the air off the pad , the keeper takes the catch but there was no bat/glove involved 12.5 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , nudged to backward square leg and that 's a fifty for Samuels. Well done sir ! He raises his bat and acknowledges the applause 12.4 Tahir to Gayle , 1 run , 'caaaatchhh ' is the cry from Tahir but it does n't carry to Rossouw at deep mid-wicket. Gayle slogs this flighted delivery very flat , but does n't get the placement right 12.3 Tahir to Gayle , no run , 99.9kph flatter ball from Tahir , defended straight back to the bowler 12.2 Tahir to Gayle , 2 runs , shortish and down the leg-side , Gayle helps it away to fine leg 12.1 Tahir to Gayle , byes , FOUR , that 's unlucky for Tahir and the keeper ! The quicker ball from Tahir , Gayle tries to defend , but the ball keeps very low and sneaks past the bat , sneaks through the keeper 's legs as well for four more ! Imran Tahir [ 2.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 11.6 de Lange to Samuels , no run , Samuels tries to be cheeky and calls for Gayle for a quick single , well there was never a run in it and rightly Gayle yells out 'noooo'. He almost tapped this slower ball back to the bowler 11.5 de Lange to Gayle , 1 run , low full toss on the leg stump , flicked powerfully to deep square leg 11.4 de Lange to Gayle , no run , slower ball bumper outside off stump , Gayle lets it go , looks at the square leg umpire , who is happy with the height 11.3 de Lange to Gayle , FOUR , no sir , no freebies please ! Low full toss outside off stump , Gayle does n't try to overhit the ball , just places the drive past extra-cover and he timed it so sweetly that sweeper cover was not even in the picture 11.2 de Lange to Samuels , 1 run , nice and full from Lange , Samuels flicks it through backward square leg 11.1 de Lange to Samuels , FOUR , lady luck is with West Indies ! Yorker outside off stump , de Lange would argue that he bowled a good ball , but Samuels somehow managed to fend it with an angled bat , the ball takes a thick edge and goes fine , Phangiso puts in the dive at third man and tries to flick it back with his left hand but the ball escapes Marchant de Lange [ 2.0-0-25-1 ] is back into the attack Gee ! What is a safe score against this team ? The asking rate is just 9.44. Yes , just 9.44 ! 10.6 Ontong to Gayle , SIX , low full toss , front leg out of the way and bannggggg ! He did really well to get under the ball and send it flat over long-on. The fielder was very square and he had no chance 10.5 Ontong to Samuels , 1 run , full toss and Ontong gets away with it. Samuels hits it flat and on the bounce to long-on 10.4 Ontong to Gayle , 1 run , fires this full and outside off stump , driven along the ground to long-off Ontong to bowl from round the wicket to Gayle . 10.3 Ontong to Samuels , 1 run , full and outside off stump , drilled to long-off 10.2 Ontong to Samuels , FOUR , no one at sweeper cover and Samuels has played a brilliant punchy-drive ! Very full from Ontong , ca n't bowl there with no protection in the deep , Samuels easily sends it through cover-point 10.1 Ontong to Samuels , FOUR , flighted delivery outside off stump , Samuels drives very hard , Miller runs to his left from long-off , puts in the dive and flicks the ball back , but his back foot was in contact with the rope Justin Ontong , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Off-spinner into the attack now and this is going to be interesting. Gayle has a bit of a history against offies ! 9.6 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , Samuels looks to drive it very hard but gets an inside edge that rolls to deep mid-wicket 9.5 Tahir to Gayle , 1 run , very full , drilled down to long-on 9.4 Tahir to Gayle , SIX , has that gone into the top tier ? Looks like it has ! This is a great shot from Gayle. It was the googly and my word , how did it go that far despite Gayle meeting it from the bottom of the bat ? Long-off was just ball-watching on that occasion 9.3 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , driven along the ground to long-on 9.2 Tahir to Gayle , 1 run , wow ! Chris Gayle takes off for a quick single and it was his call. That 's very rare ! Fast and very full , Gayle digs it out , the ball rolls towards short mid-wicket and Gayle immediately calls for a run 9.1 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , bravely advances to this googly , maybe he picked it , and drives it hard to long-off 8.6 Phangiso to Gayle , no run , slower through the air from Phangiso , Gayle tries to sweep , loses the bottom hand grip and gets hit on the pad 8.5 Phangiso to Gayle , SIX , that 's the 100-run stand as well ! Flighted delivery on the stumps , Gayle goes down on one knee and plays the slog-sweep , the bat made a sweet sound as it made contact with the ball and it went way back over deep mid-wicket 8.4 Phangiso to Gayle , FOUR , that 's hit very hard and even David Miller , who is very quick could n't get there ! Phangiso tries to fire it in , just misses the length and Gayle drills it powerfully to beat long-on 8.3 Phangiso to Gayle , SIX , a big 'aaaaahhh ' from Phangiso after bowling this ball. He knows he 's bowled a bad ball. Rank long hop and it was slightly down the leg side as well , Gayle pulls it handsomely over deep square leg 8.2 Phangiso to Samuels , 1 run , easily pushed away to deep extra-cover 8.1 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , flatter and outside off stump , Samuels cuts well , but the fielder at point makes a good stop 7.6 Tahir to Gayle , no run , good finish to the over ! Fast and full outside off stump , tapped to extra-cover 7.5 Tahir to Gayle , no run , this time at 97.1kph , Gayle drives it to the right of the bowler , who dives to his right and stops the ball 7.4 Tahir to Gayle , no run , darts this at 100.2kph , punched off the back foot to extra-cover 7.4 Tahir to Gayle , wide , googly but way outside off stump , easy call from the umpire 7.3 Tahir to Gayle , SIX , what ! Full toss ? You are asking for trouble ! Gayle spots it early and absolutely smashes it over long-on. He scored a 17-ball fifty the other night and it 's a 20-ball fifty tonight 7.2 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , floated up outside off stump , Samuels drives it down to long-off 7.1 Tahir to Gayle , 1 run , fast and short on the off stump , flat-batted to long-on Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Spin at both ends now ! Tahir to operate from round the wicket to Gayle . 6.6 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , good piece of fielding from Abbott ! Slowish and shortish outside off stump , Samuels cuts well but backward point does well to save four 6.5 Phangiso to Gayle , 1 run , low full toss , flicked gently towards deep mid-wicket , Faf , who was in the deep runs to his right , tumbles and keeps it down to a run 6.4 Phangiso to Samuels , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , driven off the back foot to long-on 6.3 Phangiso to Gayle , 1 run , slow and down the leg-side , Gayle glances it away to backward square leg 6.2 Phangiso to Gayle , FOUR , catch it is the cry but there was no one at square leg ! Flighted delivery just outside off stump , Gayle slogs and sends it very square , the ball races away to the boundary 6.1 Phangiso to Gayle , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , sends the slog along the ground to mid-wicket , Faf tumbles to his left and grabs the ball. That was hit very hard Aaron Phangiso , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Pace off the ball now ! West Indies have scored 86/1 , their highest powerplay score . 5.6 Wiese to Samuels , no run , slower ball outside off stump , cut to point 5.5 Wiese to Samuels , FOUR , bad ball and it got the treatment it deserved ! Short and on the leg stump , Samuels takes his front leg out of the way and muscles it flat over mid-wicket for a one bounce four 5.4 Wiese to Samuels , no run , slower ball bumper , Samuels goes early into the pull and misses 5.3 Wiese to Samuels , 2 runs , this is clever batting from Samuels. Slower ball goes short and outside off stump , with third man inside the ring , Samuels cuts it over the infield , Abbott gives chase and pulls it back just inside the rope 5.2 Wiese to Samuels , FOUR , no Imran Tahir ! Got to back your bowlers at this stage ! Low full toss from Wiese , Samuels flicks it away behind square on the on-side and beats Tahir 's dive at short fine leg 5.1 Wiese to Samuels , SIX , that ball almost hit the camera ! Wiese takes pace off the ball but Samuels spotted it very early , allowed the ball to come and muscled it straight back over the sightscreen 4.6 de Lange to Gayle , no run , another bouncer , but this time there 's a bit more pace on it and Gayle gets beaten on the pull shot 4.5 de Lange to Gayle , SIX , fifty of the partnership comes up off just 21 balls. He 's a tall man and he will not be troubled by the short balls if they do n't rise much. Gayle opens up and pulls it flat over the deep mid-wicket boundary 4.5 de Lange to Gayle , wide , oops ! Loses control of this slower ball bumper and sprays it way outside off stump. Gayle tried to reach out but could n't make contact 4.4 de Lange to Gayle , no run , short again from de Lange , Gayle pulls and misses 4.3 de Lange to Gayle , FOUR , he overcompensates his length ! Bowls this very full and on the leg stump , maybe he was trying to shape it back into the left-hander , Gayle manages to get under the ball by going deep in the crease and plays a whippy shot over mid-wicket 4.2 de Lange to Gayle , FOUR , that 's a dreadful ball , especially when the batsman is giving himself some room ! Short and on the stumps , Gayle rocks back and pulls it easily over mid-wicket 4.1 de Lange to Gayle , no run , excellent yorker and Gayle has been pinged on his right boot. He 's not moving very well ! Inswinging toe-crusher , Gayle tries to dig it out but gets an inside edge that hits his boot Marchant de Lange [ 1.0-0-10-1 ] is back into the attack 3.6 Wiese to Samuels , SIX , he started the over with a nothing ball and ends the over in the same manner. He bowled this on a good length , as always , Samuels went leg-side and lofted this straight back over the bowler 's head 3.5 Wiese to Samuels , no run , this is a good comeback from Wiese after being hit for four early in the over. Short ball on the stumps , Samuels toe-ends the pull to the keeper 3.4 Wiese to Samuels , no run , short and wide outside off stump , Samuels is not balanced in his crease as he moves leg-side , gently taps it towards point 3.3 Wiese to Samuels , no run , Samuels makes room again , but Wiese follows him with a short of length delivery and he fails to make proper contact with the ball 3.2 Wiese to Samuels , no run , play and a miss ! Short and wide outside off stump , should have been put away , Samuels slashes and misses 3.2 Wiese to Samuels , wide , oopsy ! Wiese sprays this down the leg-side , looking to cramp Samuels for room with a yorker 3.1 Wiese to Samuels , FOUR , no Wiese , ca n't bowl length to hard-hitters of the cricket ball ! Good length delivery just outside off stump , Samuels makes room and smashes it to the left of the bowler and mid-off could do nothing about it David Wiese , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 2.6 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , SIX , for a change , Abbott pitches one but perishes ! Short and asking to be hit , Gayle pulls , does n't get hold of it , yet the ball goes a long way back over the deep mid-wicket boundary. 22 runs off the over and West Indies have raced to 44/1 in 18 balls 2.5 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , FOUR , my word ! Fifth full toss off the over. Kyle Abbott is not able to grip the ball ! He bowls this wide outside off stump as well and Gayle carves it away through cover-point , that ball went very flat and bounced just inside the boundary 2.4 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , FOUR , this is the fourth full toss he 's bowled in the over. Easy ball for Gayle. He waits for it and drives it powerfully to the right of mid-off Abbott to come round the wicket 2.3 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , FOUR , and another full toss , three in a row ! Front leg out of the way , Gayle drills it very hard to the right of the bowler and mid-off had no chance 2.2 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , FOUR , Gayle aims leg-side but the ball goes off-side. Gayle backs away to go big , Abbott bowls another full toss , Gayle swings hard , the ball hits him high on the bat and goes wide of mid-off , beating Tahir 's full length dive to his right 2.1 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , no run , wow ! Gayle has simply defended this full toss from Abbott , maybe he was a little bit surprised 1.6 de Lange to Samuels , 2 runs , Samuels goes leg-side and cuts this short ball high in the air , the ball almost plugs near the deep backward point boundary 1.6 de Lange to Samuels , wide , short ball but the umpire does n't like the height on it Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.5 de Lange to Dwayne Smith , out Lbw ! ! Appeal for LBW , the umpire takes his time but raises his finger to delight the home crowd. Good length delivery just nipping away off the deck , Smith misses the flick , he was beaten by the movement and the ball strikes him right in line with middle stump. It hit him on the back pad and it was a good decision by the umpire. Dwayne Smith lbw b de Lange 17 ( 9 ) [ 4s-4 ] de Lange to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 1.4 de Lange to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , short of a length delivery on the leg stump , Smith plays a whippy flick shot and it flies easily over mid-wicket. He timed that ball really well 1.3 de Lange to Gayle , 1 run , Gayle backs away and absolutely smashes this fuller length delivery , it 's a very tough chance for the bowler as it was hit with immense power , de Lange does well to half-stop the ball going low to his left in his followthrough , Gayle takes off for a run as it rolls towards mid-on , he was lazy to ground his bat but he just managed to reach home before the fielder fired a direct-hit Third umpire has been called for a run-out check , but Gayle is safe ! 1.2 de Lange to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , steeply rising short of a length ball from de Lange , Smith was hurried on the pull shot , the ball runs away to fine leg off the glove 1.1 de Lange to Gayle , 1 run , leading edgeeee but safe ! Good length delivery from de Lange , Gayle looks to defend with an angled bat , the ball goes in the air off the edge , but there is no one at cover-point to swallow the ball Marchant de Lange , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Good start to the chase for West Indies and with Gayle , Smith , Samuels , Pollard , Bravo , Sammy and Russell , 232 is gettable. The boundaries are n't that big too ! 0.6 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , keeper and the man at slip appeal for LBW , but the bowler was n't interested ! Short of a length angling into the right-hander , Smith misses the flick and is hit on the pad. The was sliding down the leg-side Now there is a man at slip . 0.5 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , short ball from Abbott , Smith ducks under it 0.4 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , another edge but there is no one at slip. Again Smith opts to go over the leg-side , just a hint of outswing on this short of length delivery and the thick edge races away to the third man boundary 0.3 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , clever stuff from Smith. He allowed the short of length delivery to come and just opens the face of the bat at the last moment to guide it very fine to the third man boundary Fine leg is inside the ring . 0.2 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of length delivery from Abbott , Smith mistimes the slog into the on-side 0.1 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , outside edge and it has flown over backward point. Abbott starts off with an outswinging short of length delivery , Smith slogs and gets away with the edge as it goes over the infield Dwayne Smith and Gayle are at the crease. Dwayne Smith is on strike. Kyle Abbott will open the attack Welcome back.. . Bar Bravo , none of the bowlers managed to pose a challenge to South Africa. This game is n't over yet. West Indies have quite a few power-hitters of their own. Join us back in a few minutes to see how the run-chase pans out . Riding on Faf 's sparkling century , South Africa have powered their way to a huge total - the fourth highest in T20Is. Rossouw and van Wyk were dismissed early , but Miller and Faf combined well in an enterprising 105-run stand to put West Indies under the pump. The visitors never really recovered as Faf continued to attack them , blending brute power with timing. His 119 contained some fancy scoops as well . 19.6 Dwayne Bravo to Kyle Abbott , out Kyle Abbott Run Out ! ! Good yorker just outside off , Kyle Abbott ca n't jam it out. He strays out of his crease in search of a quick single , but has to retreat. Ramdin makes no mistake this time , he collects the ball cleanly and under-arm flicks it back onto the stumps to catch Abbott short. Easy call for the TV umpire and Abbott runs back to the pavilion. Kyle Abbott run out ( Ramdin ) 2 ( 2 ) Dwayne Bravo to Kyle Abbott , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! TV ump called in for a run-out call. Abbott is run-out. Nevertheless , RSA finish with a massive 231/7 . 19.5 Dwayne Bravo to Kyle Abbott , 2 runs , back of a length and on off , drilled over the bowler 's head. Long-off hunts the ball down 19.4 Dwayne Bravo to Behardien , 1 run , dragged to deep mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 19.3 Dwayne Bravo to Behardien , no run , off-speed delivery outside off , Behardien drives early , gets an outside edge and it dies in front of Ramdin Kyle Abbott , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.2 Dwayne Bravo to Wiese , out Caught by Dwayne Smith ! ! Fuller and outside off , Wiese sits back in the crease but does not quite get under the ball. Miscues it in the air and Smith catches it at long-off. Wiese c Dwayne Smith b Dwayne Bravo 6 ( 2 ) [ 6s-1 ] Dwayne Bravo to Wiese , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.1 Dwayne Bravo to Wiese , SIX , full and outside off - right in the slot - Wiese smashes it over the bowler 's head. It was the slower one from Bravo and the batsman spotted it Dwayne Bravo [ 3.0-0-23-1 ] is back into the attack David Wiese , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.6 J Holder to du Plessis , out Caught by Dwayne Bravo ! ! Faf has finally holed out. The Wanderers rises to give Faf a standing ovation. Length delivery on leg , du Plessis looks for a lofted hit and mistimes it straight down the throat of long-on , where Bravo takes a simple catch. Faf did n't get enough power behind that. du Plessis c Dwayne Bravo b J Holder 119 ( 56 ) [ 4s-11 6s-5 ] J Holder to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.5 J Holder to du Plessis , SIX , full toss on the stumps , du Plessis winds up and smokes it over deep mid-wicket Round the stumps to Faf . 18.4 J Holder to Behardien , 1 run , full on off from over the stumps , flicked to backward square leg , where Sammy does well to dive and stop the ball , keeping it to just a single 18.3 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , full toss just outside leg from round the stumps , Faf gets it to long-on off the inside half of the bat 18.2 J Holder to Behardien , 1 run , very full and outside off , drilled to long-off 18.1 J Holder to Behardien , no run , yorker outside off , Behardien ca n't squeeze it out 17.6 A Russell to Behardien , 1 run , pitched up and just outside off , drilled down to long-off 17.6 A Russell to Behardien , wide , bouncer outside off , Behardien drops his wrists and evades it. Too high says the ump and Russell is annoyed with the call. Replays show that the ball sailed above the head of the batsman 17.5 A Russell to Behardien , no run , back of a length and close to off , Behardien slogs and only meets with thin air 17.4 A Russell to Behardien , no run , outside off , Behardien swings and misses. He almost swung himself off his feet on that occasion This is now RSA 's highest T20I score vs West Indies . 17.3 A Russell to du Plessis , 1 run , Faf steps out , the bowler delivers a yorker , the former gets an inside-edge to the off-side Fine leg moves back now . 17.2 A Russell to du Plessis , FOUR , what a shot from Faf ! He shuffles across , falls over and loses his balance. Yet he half paddles/flicks it past short fine 17.1 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , near yorker on off , dug out back to the bowler , who makes a half-diving save in his follow through , he deflects the ball onto his mouth Andre Russell [ 3.0-0-32-0 ] is back into the attack Looks like Faf is suffering from cramps. He is in some discomfort . 16.6 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , the partnership between du Plessis and Behardien is now worth 50 runs. Faf makes room outside leg , Holder misses the yorker and dishes out a full toss , which is sliced over cover 16.5 J Holder to Behardien , 1 run , low full toss , shapes in , the batsman gets an inside-edge onto the pad , the ball rebounds to the leg-side 16.4 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , back of a length and outside off as Faf makes room , flat-batted down to mid-off after reaching out 16.3 J Holder to du Plessis , 2 runs , low full toss on off , whipped to deep mid-wicket 16.2 J Holder to du Plessis , 2 runs , outside leg as the bowler follows Faf. He drags it to deep mid-wicket off the inside half and takes the hosts past 200 16.1 J Holder to Behardien , 1 run , full and outside off , push-driven to extra-cover off the front foot Jason Holder [ 2.0-0-23-1 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Cottrell to du Plessis , FOUR , century for Faf , he becomes only the second South African after Levi to score a T20I ton. He eases the helmet off his head , leaps in the air and pumps his fist. The South African skipper then hugs Behardien and acknowleges the cheers from Johannesburg crowd. This was fuller on middle and leg , du Plessis flicks his wrists and plays it in front of square 15.5 Cottrell to du Plessis , SIX , full ball on middle , Faf backs away and lifts it inside-out over extra-cover. The South African captain is putting on a show here 15.4 Cottrell to du Plessis , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off , Faf makes room and hammers it in front of square on the off-side. Russell now does well to slide in the deep and keep it down to only two 15.3 Cottrell to du Plessis , 2 runs , on a length and outside off , push-driven in front of square on the off-side 15.3 Cottrell to du Plessis , no ball , FOUR , high full toss outside off , du Plessis swivels on the back foot and puts it away to the backward square leg boundary. This is now Faf 's highest score in T20Is 15.2 Cottrell to du Plessis , FOUR , an encore ! Faf takes it from outside off and half paddles/scoops it over short fine. He moves onto 83 15.1 Cottrell to du Plessis , 2 runs , on a length and outside off , Faf gets across and scoops it over to fine leg Sheldon Cottrell [ 2.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 14.6 Pollard to du Plessis , 1 run , pitched up and outside off , du Plessis plays a whippy drive to long-on 14.5 Pollard to du Plessis , FOUR , outlandish stroke from Faf ! Back of a length and slower outside off , du Plessis shuffles way across off and scoops it over short fine 14.4 Pollard to du Plessis , 2 runs , off-speed full ball outside off , dragged to deep mid-wicket. The misfield from Russell gives away an extra run. Pollard is a frustrated man , he screams his lungs out 14.3 Pollard to du Plessis , 2 runs , clipped away towards long-on again 14.2 Pollard to du Plessis , 2 runs , slower full ball outside off , Faf wrists it through towards long-on. He gets back for the second 14.1 Pollard to Behardien , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , the batsman stands tall and punches it wide of cover Kieron Pollard , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 13.6 Dwayne Bravo to du Plessis , 2 runs , back of a length and just outside off , turned through mid-on for a brace. Another example of good running between the wickets 13.6 Dwayne Bravo to du Plessis , wide , slower ball , pushed wide outside off , Faf lets it be. Well past the tram-line 13.5 Dwayne Bravo to Behardien , 1 run , slower back of a length ball outside off , the batsman waits for it and punches it wide of mid-off to get off the mark 13.4 Dwayne Bravo to du Plessis , 1 run , pitched up and outside off , drilled to deep extra-cover Farhaan Behardien , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.3 Dwayne Bravo to Ontong , out Caught by J Holder ! ! DJ Bravo breaks into a celebratory jig. Shortish and outside off and hurries onto the batsman , who goes for a pull and miscues it. The ball skews in the air off a top-edge , Holder settles under it at short third man. Ontong c J Holder b Dwayne Bravo 19 ( 12 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Dwayne Bravo to Ontong , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.2 Dwayne Bravo to Ontong , FOUR , full on off , Ontong sits back , gets under it and whacks it between mid-wicket and long-on , picks the gap to perfection 13.1 Dwayne Bravo to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis shuffles across , takes it from outside off and picks it away to deep mid-wicket 12.6 A Russell to Ontong , SIX , leg stump full toss as Russell misses the yorker , Ontong sits back and powers it over deep square leg. The no-ball has hurt Russell badly. To add insult to injury , Ramdin missed the run-out 12.5 A Russell to Ontong , no run , on the leg stump , Ontong misses the flick 12.4 A Russell to du Plessis , 1 run , Faf runs down the track , Russell drags his length back. He mistimes the forehanded pull back to the bowler , who makes a half-stop in his follow-through. The bowler then recovers and gathers the ball and fires a throw to the keeper as the batsmen set off for a risky single. Ramdin takes the bails off but fails to gather the ball again and lets off Ontong. Poor stuff from Ramdin , he fluffs a run-out chance 12.3 A Russell to Ontong , 1 run , tucked away towards deep backward square leg 12.3 A Russell to Ontong , no ball , FOUR , full toss above the hip , flicked over backward square leg. Poor ball and it gets the treatment. No-ball for height and Russell put his hand up in apology straightaway 12.2 A Russell to du Plessis , 1 run , another low full toss , worked to fine leg off the inside half of the bat 12.2 A Russell to du Plessis , wide , darted down leg , du Plessis misses the glance and is wided 12.1 A Russell to du Plessis , 2 runs , low full toss on off , whipped to deep mid-wicket for two. Faf dives and beats the throw from the deep , Ramdin also did not collect the ball to help South Africa 's cause. WI needed a direct throw there 11.6 Dwayne Bravo to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis looks for a forcing drive , only gets it off an inside-edge that rolls to square leg 11.5 Dwayne Bravo to Ontong , 1 run , 104.6kph full ball outside off , wristed through square leg. The duo push for two , but it is n't there 11.4 Dwayne Bravo to du Plessis , 1 run , another slower cutter from Bravo , Faf ca n't manufacture his own pace , nudges it to the leg-side 11.3 Dwayne Bravo to Ontong , 1 run , pushed with a close bat face to short mid-wicket. The duo set off for a quick single. Sammy throws the stumps down , but Ontong was in. Sammy was a bit slow there 11.2 Dwayne Bravo to Ontong , no run , slower on the leg stump , Ontong is perhaps early into the flick and misses his stroke 11.1 Dwayne Bravo to du Plessis , 1 run , change of pace outside off , carved away to sweeper cover Dwayne Bravo [ 1.0-0-8-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 A Russell to Ontong , 2 runs , full toss on the leg stump , helped away fine. The throw from the deep is wild and that results in an easy brace for the hosts 10.6 A Russell to Ontong , wide , bouncer outside off , beats the new batsman on the hook. Loads of height on this Russell offering and it is called a wide 10.5 A Russell to Ontong , no run , fuller and straighter , flicked to mid-wicket 10.4 A Russell to Ontong , no run , fullish and just outside off , blocked back to the bowler Justin Ontong , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.3 A Russell to du Plessis , out D Miller Run Out ! ! No fifty for Miller. He is gutted on his way back to the hut. This was very full and outside leg , following Faf , who was making room. He gets an inside-edge onto the pad , the ball rolls onto the pitch. The duo look for a quick single and Faf takes off. Miller responds as well , but Russell runs forward and boots the ball onto the stumps to catch Miller short. His bat was lifted in the air , when the bails came off the groove. D Miller run out ( A Russell ) 47 ( 26 ) [ 4s-4 6s-3 ] A Russell to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! TV umpire called into service for a run-out check. Looks like Miller 's bat is in the air , despite a dive. His bat is still in the air while the bails lob off the groove. Nice soccer skills from Russell ! End of an entertaining knock for Miller. OUT flashes on the big screen 10.2 A Russell to D Miller , 1 run , too full and outside off , jammed out to the off-side sweeper 10.1 A Russell to D Miller , FOUR , full toss outside off , David Miller fails to control the drive , slices it over a leaping Gayle at cover Andre Russell [ 1.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Benn to du Plessis , 2 runs , worked towards mid-on for a brace. Once again , excellent running between the wickets. 100 partnership off only 48 balls 9.5 Benn to du Plessis , SIX , darted short on middle , du Plessis rocks back and muscles the pull over deep mid-wicket to reach his 6th T20I fifty in grand style 9.4 Benn to D Miller , 1 run , full toss on the leg stump , whipped away to deep mid-wicket 9.3 Benn to D Miller , SIX , tossed up outside off , Miller slog-sweeps it high and over mid-wicket for his third six of the game 9.2 Benn to D Miller , 2 runs , full on the leg stump , Miller comes down the track and whips it wide of long-on. The duo hustle for the second and make it 9.1 Benn to D Miller , no run , flatter and outside off , Miller misses the reverse-sweep completely Sulieman Benn [ 2.0-0-25-1 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Sammy to du Plessis , SIX , full and outside off from round the stumps , du Plessis backs away and lofts it over long-off. Sammy 's opening over ends the same way it started 8.5 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , Miller sits back and firmly pulls it to deep mid-wicket 8.4 Sammy to du Plessis , 1 run , Faf shuffles across , paddles it but ca n't beat short fine 8.3 Sammy to du Plessis , 2 runs , full and straight , flicked away to deep mid-wicket 'It 's a really good start and we would like to get close to 200 ' , says JPD on air . 8.2 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , wide line outside off , cracked to sweeper cover for a single 8.1 Sammy to D Miller , SIX , on a fullish length and outside off , Miller takes it on and spanks it over long-on. He launches it into the top tier. What a way to greet Sammy ! Darren Sammy , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Ramdin upto the stumps for Sammy . 7.6 Cottrell to D Miller , leg byes , 1 run , hurled in on the leg stump , Miller misses the flick and is struck on the pad. The ball was sliding down leg and thus Cottrell 's mild lbw shout is flushed down the drain 7.5 Cottrell to du Plessis , 1 run , drifting down leg , tickled to short fine leg for a quick single. Benn was a touch slow , he misses the direct hit as well. Miller dives full length and is safe 7.4 Cottrell to du Plessis , FOUR , friendly full toss on the stumps , clubbed away over a leaping mid-wicket. The left-arm pacer misses the yorker and Faf takes toll of it 7.3 Cottrell to D Miller , 1 run , straighter in line , tucked away past mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 7.2 Cottrell to D Miller , 2 runs , back of a length and on middle , Miller hangs back and works it behind square on the leg-side. He looks for a couple and puts pressure on the fielder - Holder misfields and allows the second to be taken easily 7.1 Cottrell to D Miller , no run , back of a length and on off , pushed to the right of Cottrell Sheldon Cottrell [ 1.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 6.6 Dwayne Bravo to D Miller , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and nips back in , the batsman misses the flick , the ball pings the thigh and rolls away to the off-side The replacement ball has arrived . 6.5 Dwayne Bravo to D Miller , SIX , fuller and outside off , Miller gets under it and launches it straight over the bowler 's head for a massive blow. It was in Miller 's arc and it is out of the park - into the golf course. The ball is lost and Faf helps himself to some beverage 6.4 Dwayne Bravo to D Miller , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , punched to the man at mid-on 6.3 Dwayne Bravo to du Plessis , 1 run , on a length and outside off , drop in pace from DJ Bravo , slogged away to long-on. The single raises the fifty of the partnership 6.2 Dwayne Bravo to du Plessis , no run , back of a length and shapes in from outside off , du Plessis aims to punch it away , the ball takes the bottom-edge and dies in front of a diving Ramdin 6.1 Dwayne Bravo to D Miller , 1 run , overpitched and outside off , driven down to long-off Dwayne Bravo , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 20 runs came off the previous over. South Africa are off to a racy start , despite losing 2 wickets . 5.6 Benn to du Plessis , FOUR , tripe bowling from Benn. Dropped very short and asking to be punished. Faf rocks back and puts it away to the deep mid-wicket fence with another strong pull 5.5 Benn to du Plessis , FOUR , another full toss from Benn , Faf moves across and slaps it away to the deep point fence with utter disdain 5.4 Benn to du Plessis , FOUR , du Plessis comes down the track , Benn darts a full toss , flicked away past short fine 5.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , Benn drags his length back on middle , du Plessis looks for a cut and mistimes it to mid-off 5.2 Benn to du Plessis , SIX , flatter and on middle and leg , du Plessis bends down and slog-sweeps it over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 5.1 Benn to du Plessis , 2 runs , pushed through , du Plessis makes room and lifts it over cover-point , although he was not in control of it Sulieman Benn [ 1.0-0-5-1 ] is back into the attack Sammy and Benn have a chat. One slip in . 4.6 J Holder to D Miller , no run , Holder now overcompensates with a half volley outside off , drilled to covers , where Gayle stops the ball and wrings his hand in pain , for that ball was travelling at the rate of knots 4.5 J Holder to D Miller , FOUR , back of a length and on middle , Miller sits back and pulls it away to the deep mid-wicket fence. Holder is getting too predictable with his length 4.4 J Holder to D Miller , FOUR , shortish on the hips , Miller swivels on the back foot and half pulls/whips it away behind square on the leg-side for the second four of the over 4.3 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis comes down the track , Holder delivers a full toss , squeezed out to mid-off off an inside-edge 4.2 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , on a good length and outside off , Faf shuffles across and flicks it in the air in front of square leg. Simmons gets across , juggles the ball , slides and lets it through to the fence. Holder is not a happy man 4.1 J Holder to D Miller , 1 run , shortish and hurries on the stumps , Miller takes a step forward and dabs it in front of short cover After finishing off the over , Russell gestures to the medical staff. He is in some discomfort and goes to the dug-out for some treatment. He swaps his boots as well . 3.6 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , bouncer on the leg stump , du Plessis sinks under it 3.5 A Russell to D Miller , 1 run , tickled to short fine from a middle and leg line , diving save from the fielder. Big Benn was the man there 3.4 A Russell to D Miller , no run , good length delivery on the fourth stump , Miller drags it to mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 3.3 A Russell to D Miller , FOUR , back of a length and skids on outside off. Looks like a cross-seamer , Miller punches it in front of point , Sammy and Smith give the chase , but the ball wins the race 3.2 A Russell to D Miller , no run , extra bounce from a back of a length and outside off , Miller is forward , swishes and gets beaten 3.1 A Russell to du Plessis , 1 run , mighty full and straight , whipped away to deep backward square leg 3.1 A Russell to du Plessis , wide , on a length and moves away wide outside off , du Plessis swings and misses Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 2.6 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis steps out , Holder pulls his length back , mistimed cut in front of cover-point 2.5 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , short and outside off again , du Plessis shuffles across off and executes a half pull/flick over backward square leg. Stylishly done by the South African skipper 2.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , keeps it short and close to off , du Plessis stays in the crease and fends it in front of point 2.3 J Holder to D Miller , 1 run , shortish and just below chest height , worked wide of mid-wicket 2.3 J Holder to D Miller , wide , slanted across off , that 's too wide and another extra added to the total David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 2.2 J Holder to Rossouw , out Caught by Ramdin ! ! A big appeal for caught behind , Rossouw starts walking. Seeing Rossouw walk , the umpire raises his finger. This was banged in short and outside off , enjoys steep extra bounce as well. The batsman goes for a pull and can only top-edge it to Ramdin behind the stumps. Rossouw c Ramdin b J Holder 15 ( 9 ) [ 6s-2 ] J Holder to Rossouw , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 2.1 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , similar length and outside off , cut away towards third man. Faf aims for a second but decides against it at the end 2.1 J Holder to du Plessis , wide , short and too wide outside off , the umpire deems it a wide after Faf leaves it Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 1.6 Cottrell to Rossouw , 2 runs , shortish and widish outside off , Rossouw cuts it to backward point , the ball bounces in front of the fielder ( Russell ) and bursts through him. Sammy runs back and gathers the ball. Meanwhile , there is a miscommunication between the wickets on the second. Ramdin flicks the ball back onto the stumps but Rossouw makes his crease 1.5 Cottrell to Rossouw , no run , Rossouw comes down the track , manufactures a full delivery and drills it past the bowler before finding mid-on 1.4 Cottrell to Rossouw , SIX , dragged short on off , Rossouw rocks back and pulls it up and over mid-wicket. The ball lands in the West Indian dug-out 1.3 Cottrell to Rossouw , no run , much fuller and outside off , Rossouw seeks to drive but slices it in the air in front of point 1.2 Cottrell to Rossouw , SIX , banged in short and wide outside off , Rossouw leaps off his feet and upper cuts it over the backward point fence. He exploits the shortest boundary here at Johannesburg Cottrell has a couple of slips to assist him . 1.1 Cottrell to Rossouw , no run , back of a length and nips away a bit on off , pushed down to mid-on Sheldon Cottrell , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Benn to du Plessis , no run , slider outside off , du Plessis leaves it alone Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.5 Benn to van Wyk , out Caught by Pollard ! ! Benn strikes in the very first over. This was a nothing delivery - short and wide outside off again - van Wyk goes for a cut , but fails to keep it down. He hits it straight to Pollard at backward point. That should have been put away by van Wyk , instead he picked out the fielder. Benn is all smiles. van Wyk c Pollard b Benn 4 ( 3 ) [ 4s-1 ] Benn to van Wyk , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 0.4 Benn to van Wyk , FOUR , dropped short and wide outside off , van Wyk rocks back and nails the cut in front of square , after beating Sammy 's dive 0.3 Benn to van Wyk , no run , Benn pulls his length back outside off , van Wyk goes for a cut , but can only chop it to cover Benn has a slip in place . 0.2 Benn to Rossouw , 1 run , this one is outside off , Rossouw stays back and taps it wide of cover to get off the mark 0.1 Benn to Rossouw , no run , flatter and quicker on the leg stump , pushed to the left of Benn Rossouw and van Wyk are at the crease. Rossouw is on strike. Benn will open the attack The players are walking out to the middle. The West Indies team is in a huddle. Skipper Sammy has some encouraging words for them. Benn will start proceedings for West Indies . Teams : South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Morne van Wyk ( w ) , Rilee Rossouw , Faf du Plessis ( c ) , David Miller , Justin Ontong , Farhaan Behardien , David Wiese , Kyle Abbott , Marchant de Lange , Imran Tahir , Aaron Phangiso West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Dwayne Smith , Chris Gayle , Marlon Samuels , Dwayne Bravo , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Kieron Pollard , Andre Russell , Darren Sammy ( c ) , Jason Holder , Sheldon Cottrell , Sulieman Benn West Indies have made one change - Sulieman Benn will be replacing Ashley Nurse. For South Africa , Justin Ontong , Aaron Phangiso and Marchant de Lange come in place of Reeza Hendricks , Wayne Parnell and Kagiso Rabada . West Indies have won the toss and have opted to field The pitch is expected to be a belter so we might have another exciting game on the cards. South Africa will need a win here if they are to keep the series alive. Will their bowlers be able to show more intent this time ? We will find out soon. Hello and welcome to the second T20I being played at Johannesburg. Toss and teams coming up in a while.. . On the other hand , South Africa have vastly depleted resources to choose from in this series. With most of the big stars rested , the onus lies on Faf du Plessis to make use of his young team wisely. First of all , he would want to tweak their pace attack , which was taken to the cleaners by the West Indian batsmen. Batting-wise , they will need to be more dominating. Although they put up a decent score of 165 in the first game , it was not enough to pose a challenge to the opposition 's fiery batting line-up . When it comes to T20s , it is hard to find a better suited player than Christopher Henry Gayle. His extraordinary hitting in the opening T20I at Newlands ensured that the visitors began the 3-match series with a bang. After a disappointing Test series , West Indies rode on Gayle 's record fifty to get back to winning ways. While the Jamaican will be expected to fire again , the visitors would want the rest of their team to find good momentum as well . Preview : Chris Gayle 's record fifty blew South Africa away in the opening T20I on Friday. The hosts , however bounced back and gave West Indies a good run for their money and they will be eager to come back on level terms in the second T20I and stay alive in the series. Meanwhile , the tourists will be eager to carry the momentum forward and clinch the T20I series in Johannesburg . South Africa : South Africa 's batting performance in the first T20I could be considered a bit conservative and more suited to ODIs. Rilee Rossouw scored a half-century , but took some time getting there while , Faf du Plessis fell after a cameo. Morne van Wyk and Reeza Hendricks could not convert their starts , while David Miller was not at his aggressive best. Farhaan Behardien managed some useful runs in the end , which helped South Africa to 165/4 - a competitive score , but not a commanding one , considering the opposition 's power-packed batting order. South Africa will be hoping that the batsmen show more intent with their shot-making in the second T20I The bowlers , apart from Imran Tahir , were ripped apart by Gayle , with most of them going in excess of 7.5 an over. Kyle Abbott , Wayne Parnell and David Wiese hardly made an impact while 19-year old fast bowler , Kagiso Rabada was sent on a leather hunt by Gayle. The bowlers will aim to step up to the plate on Sunday . West Indies : Gayle 's belligerence turned the first T20I completely in favour of West Indies. His 77 off 31 balls , a knock in which he surpassed Kieron Pollard 's record for the fastest fifty by a West Indian , got the smiles back after a disappointing Test series. While Gayle , Marlon Samuels , and to an extent Dwayne Smith , took West Indies closer , the visitors almost made a hash of things when they lost wickets in a heap. South Africa managed to take the game till the last over even after Gayle left West Indies at 114/2 in the 11th over. While they will be hoping for Gayle to fire again , the rest of the batsmen need to take some responsibility . Barring Jason Holder , all West Indian bowlers conceded more than 8 an over , with Andre Russell ( economy of 10.75 ) going for the most. Sheldon Cottrell picked up a couple of wickets and troubled the South African batsmen on occasions , but he did not always find the right areas. Some of the other bowlers were wayward too , which helped South Africa post a total in excess of 160. West Indies will be hoping for tighter spells from the bowlers in the next match as they look to take an unassailable lead in Johannesburg Team News : With the bulk of star players being rested , South Africa will have to make best use of what ever resources that are available for them. Skipper , Faf du Plessis needs to lead from the front and provide guidance to the inexperienced lot in the team. As far as changes to the eleven is concerned , the hosts might look at bringing in Marchant de Lange for Rabada. The Proteas also have the option of Justin Ontong , should they think of a change in the batting order . While West Indies are likely to go in with the same eleven , the focus will be on Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard in this game. Having been left out of the World Cup squad , the duo will be keen to make a statement . Numbers : 86 : The number of runs Dwayne Bravo requires to become the second West Indian after Chris Gayle with 1000 or more runs in T20Is . 8 : The number of sixes Chris Gayle needs to go past Brendon McCullum ( 87 ) for the record of most sixes in T20Is . Quotes : " It 's a captain 's nightmare when he ( Gayle ) hits to all parts of the ground. It 's difficult to skipper when a team of big hitters run amok. " -Faf du Plessis " I thought we gave them a sniff towards the end ( by losing a few wickets ) , we want to finish games off in a clinical fashion. " -Darren Sammy Teams : West Indies ( From ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Marlon Samuels , Dwayne Bravo , Kieron Pollard , Andre Russell , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy ( c ) , Jason Holder , Ashley Nurse , Sheldon Cottrell , Sulieman Benn , Lendl Simmons , Andre Fletcher , Carlos Brathwaite South Africa ( From ) : Morne van Wyk ( w ) , Reeza Hendricks , Faf du Plessis ( c ) , Rilee Rossouw , David Miller , Farhaan Behardien , David Wiese , Wayne Parnell , Kyle Abbott , Kagiso Rabada , Imran Tahir , Marchant de Lange , Aaron Phangiso , Justin Ontong , Jean-Paul Duminy Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
