Graphs West Indies may have lost the first game , but do n't count them out. Gayle as an individual can take the game away from any opposition and the Proteas will be wary of this fact as well. Other batters like Samuels and Ramdin can also be dangerous. Will the South Africans continue their march ? Or will West Indies make a rousing comeback in the series ? Join us for the second game on Sunday to find out. Also , do n't forget that it 's a day game. Until then , take care. Ciao ! After 48.2 overs , the heavens opened up and the South African innings ended prematurely. On resumption , West Indies were given a target of 229 from 33 overs , but the visitors did n't bat well at all. After another rain delay saw another over being cut down , West Indies , who were never in the game , lost their last three wickets in the next 2.2 overs and eventually , South Africa won by 61 runs ( D/L method ) . Earlier , South Africa got off to a poor start with both Rossouw and du Plessis getting out for a duck. However , Hashim Amla and AB de Villiers steadied the innings and put on 99 runs for the third wicket. During his knock , Amla also became the fastest to reach 5000 ODI runs , overtaking Virat Kohli and Sir Vivian Richards. After Amla got run-out for 66 , Miller came to the crease and compiled a superb 123-run partnership with his captain. Even though Miller ( 70 off 68 ) and de Villiers ( 81 off 94 ) got out in quick succession , they gave a good platform for the lower order to push for a few more runs. With the bounce and swing available , chasing a target above 250 was never going to be easy on this track . West Indies imploded after the initial fireworks from Chris Gayle. Apart from the first wicket partnership of 51 , the West Indian batsmen struggled on a wicket that had good bounce and carry. As soon as Gayle got out , the floodgates opened and West Indies were chasing the game since then. Imran Tahir was the pick of the bowlers for South Africa , picking up 3/30. He was well supported by Steyn and Philander , who also finished with 3 wickets each . AB de Villiers : 'First 10 overs were n't easy. You got to give a lot of credit to Hash ( Hashim Amla ) and the guys who batted around him. I am a little embarrassed to get the Man of the Match award. I thought David Miller played much better than me. I got to give myself a bit of credit as I kept it together for most of the innings and got out at a bad time again. I was always comfortable with the score we got , I thought anything above 250 was a good total to defend. There was a lot happening on the wicket today. It looked like he ( David Miller ) played on a different wicket today. It 's normally Hash , who makes the wicket look easy which he did again today , but I thought David was the best batter today. Morne van Wyk is an incredible player , but he is not in the World Cup squad ( about him keeping the wickets ) . We need to give chances to guys like Rilee Rossouw , Farhaan Behardien and JP ( JP Duminy ) , who has n't played for a while. We ca n't afford to keep them out because I ca n't keep wickets. I will take it on the chin and keep for a couple of games until Quinton ( Quinton de Kock ) is ready and make sure all the guys get into good form. No real experimenting , we are only waiting for Quinton to be back. Rilee will probably be our extra top-order batter and we want him to do well. All of them bowled well in partnerships today. It was not easy , I had to make a lot of changes as it was a shortened game. It is never easy to bowl to guys like Chris Gayle , Marlon Samuels and Darren Sammy. In a shortened game , you know that they are coming after you. So , we mixed it up nicely and the guys kept their focus. Immy ( Imran Tahir ) was the standout bowler today , but everyone who bowled around him bowled extremely well. We love that as it 's for a great cause , We normally play well in the pink and it should be good at 'The Bullring ' ( talking about the next ODI ) . They are a world-class team and we will try to do our basics well.' AB de Villiers is the Man of the Match for his 81. He also took 4 catches and has a stumping to his name Jason Holder : 'We thought that things were in our favour at that stage ( after the game was shortened due to rain ) . We got off to a good start , but lost ground in the middle. Chris Gayle is a crucial batsman for us. It is a problem we have been having for a period of time ( talking about the batting collapses ) . It was pretty good , it was a good challenge and they were getting away from us , but we came back well though ( on his captaincy and today 's bowling performance ) . We just need to bowl better and rotate strike better.' Time for the presentation ceremony 28.2 Steyn to Jerome Taylor , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! That 's it. South Africa go 1-0 up in the series. It was on a good length and in the channel outside off , Taylor pokes at it away from his body and gets an outside edge that is swallowed by the South African captain de Villiers. Jerome Taylor c de Villiers b Steyn 2 ( 6 ) Steyn to Jerome Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Sulieman Benn , left handed bat , comes to the crease 28.1 Steyn to J Holder , out Caught by D Miller ! ! Another wicket goes down for the Windies. It was a good length delivery outside off , Holder swings hard and gets a top-edge that balloons up high in the air , Miller from point back-tracks and takes a good catch to dismiss the West Indian captain. J Holder c D Miller b Steyn 2 ( 6 ) Steyn to J Holder , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Dale Steyn [ 5.0-1-27-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 M Morkel to Jerome Taylor , no run , bouncer from Morkel once again , Taylor ducks underneath 27.5 M Morkel to Jerome Taylor , 2 runs , another bouncer from Morkel , Taylor was looking to pull it , he gets a top-edge that runs away to fine leg for a couple of runs 27.4 M Morkel to Jerome Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Taylor swings hard , but connects with thin air 27.3 M Morkel to Jerome Taylor , no run , short ball from Morkel again , Taylor ca n't connect with the pull and is hit on the shoulder , that must be a little painful 27.2 M Morkel to Jerome Taylor , no run , South Africa review a caught behind appeal , but replays show that there was no edge there. It was another short delivery outside off , Taylor was looking to pull it and fails to connect , the keeper collects , the South Africans thought that they had their man , but the umpire was not interested 27.1 M Morkel to J Holder , leg byes , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Holder fails to fend it away and wears it on his body Morne Morkel [ 4.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack Jerome Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 26.6 Tahir to Ramdin , out Bowled ! ! Ramdin goes now. It was floated up around off , Ramdin goes for the slog sweep and misses. The ball crashes into the stumps and the Windies are 8 down now. Ramdin b Tahir 31 ( 32 ) [ 4s-2 ] Tahir to Ramdin , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 26.5 Tahir to Ramdin , FOUR , floated up around off , Ramdin goes down on one knee and heaves it to the deep mid-wicket fence for another boundary 26.4 Tahir to J Holder , 1 run , pushed through on middle stump line , Holder works it to mid-wicket 26.3 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , flatter delivery sliding on middle , Ramdin pulls it , gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball dribbles away to short fine leg and the batsmen take a single 26.2 Tahir to Ramdin , no run , tossed up outside off , Ramdin chops it back to the bowler 26.1 Tahir to Ramdin , 2 runs , full and on middle , Ramdin flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace Imran Tahir [ 5.0-0-22-2 ] is back into the attack They are ready to continue now , 1 over has been reduced and the target has been revised to 226 . Oh , Wait ! The rain has subsided and the players are coming back onto the field. But there 's a heavy breeze and the umpires are waiting whether to start the match or not . 22 : 07 Local Time , 20 : 07 GMT , 01 : 37 IST : It has started to rain again ! The umpires have asked the players to walk off the field . 25.6 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Ramdin goes back and dabs it to short third man for a run 25.5 Steyn to J Holder , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Holder pushes it towards point and completes the single 25.4 Steyn to J Holder , no run , short of good length delivery very close to off , Holder swings wildly and misses , that was very close to the off-stump 25.3 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , good length delivery on the pads , Ramdin flicks it to short fine leg 25.2 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , good length delivery swinging away outside off , Ramdin comes on the front foot and looks to drive , gets beaten 25.1 Steyn to Ramdin , 2 runs , short of length delivery on the hips , Ramdin comes across and flicks it to fine leg , where Duminy puts in the dive and saves two runs for his side 24.6 Philander to J Holder , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Holder pokes at it and misses Jason Holder , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.5 Philander to A Russell , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Philander has the last laugh as he gets his man. This was a short of length delivery just outside off , Russell stays inside the crease and has a swipe across the line , feathers a top-edge to AB , who takes an easy catch. Philander gives a send off to Russell as well. A Russell c de Villiers b Philander 19 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 6s-2 ] Philander to A Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 24.4 Philander to A Russell , SIX , friendly full toss just outside off , Russell back away and lofts it high over the long-off fielder for back-to-back maximums 24.3 Philander to A Russell , SIX , fullish on off , Russell clears his front leg , gets down on one knee and smashes it over the wide long-off fence for his first maximum 24.2 Philander to Ramdin , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle , Ramdin leans forward and clips it to deep square leg 24.1 Philander to A Russell , 1 run , shortish and wide outside off , Russell chops it in front of cover for a run 23.6 Steyn to A Russell , 1 run , short ball on middle , Russell comes down the track yet again and mistimes the pull to mid-on 23.5 Steyn to A Russell , FOUR , slower short delivery outside off , Russell backs away and smashes it through the covers for a boundary 23.4 Steyn to A Russell , no run , short delivery outside off , Russell skips down the track and has huge swipe at it and misses 23.3 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Ramdin comes forward and pushes it to mid-wicket for a run 23.2 Steyn to A Russell , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Russell opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man for a single 23.1 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , angles this one on the pads , Ramdin tucks it away behind square for a single Dale Steyn [ 3.0-1-14-1 ] is back into the attack Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease It is batting powerplay time. West Indies need more than 10 runs an over here. Dale Steyn is back into the attack . 22.6 Philander to Sammy , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Sammy is gone now. It was short and wide outside off , Sammy was looking to cut it , but he can only manage an edge and de Villiers takes a simple catch. Philander did n't even realise that he has got his man , de Villiers also did n't celebrate much. It was only after Sammy stood his ground that de Villiers appealed and the umpire raised his finger. Sammy c de Villiers b Philander 4 ( 8 ) Philander to Sammy , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.5 Philander to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Ramdin waits in the crease , guides it to third man and gets to the other end 22.4 Philander to Sammy , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Sammy stays inside the crease and steers it to third man 22.3 Philander to Ramdin , 1 run , this time he connects , it was a short of length delivery outside off , Ramdin hangs back and cuts it to sweeper cover for a single 22.2 Philander to Ramdin , no run , shortish and shaping away a little wide outside off , Ramdin looks to cut , but ca n't connect 22.1 Philander to Sammy , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sammy taps it square of the wicket and gets to the other end Vernon Philander [ 4.0-0-25-1 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Duminy to Sammy , 1 run , shortish and a little wide outside off , Sammy stays deep in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover 21.5 Duminy to Sammy , no run , floated up on off , Sammy presses forward and blocks 21.4 Duminy to Sammy , no run , tossed up outside off , Sammy drives it straight to cover-point 21.3 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Ramdin leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 21.2 Duminy to Sammy , 1 run , tossed up on middle and leg , Sammy moves across and turns it to deep mid-wicket for a single 21.1 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , floated up on middle stump line , Ramdin eases it down to long-on 20.6 Tahir to Sammy , no run , friendly full toss outside off , Sammy drives it straight to cover Darren Sammy , right handed bat , comes to the crease 20.5 Tahir to J Carter , out Stumped ! ! West Indies are 5 down now. It was the wrong'un from Tahir , Carter was pushing at it and the ball goes past his blade , he dragged his foot out while pushing forward and de Villiers whips the bails off in a flash. The debutant Carter makes his way back. J Carter st de Villiers b Tahir 17 ( 26 ) [ 4s-3 ] Tahir to J Carter , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! The TV umpire has been called in for a stumping chance. Did Carter get his foot down in time ? It does n't look like it as there was something behind the line , but it was not grounded and the debutant Carter has to go 20.4 Tahir to J Carter , FOUR , shortish outside off , Carter cuts hard and gets it off the toe-end of the bat , Morkel at backward point dives over the ball and the ball runs away to the fence , poor work by Giraffe there 20.3 Tahir to J Carter , no run , floated on off , Carter drives it back to the bowler 20.2 Tahir to J Carter , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Carter lifts his bat and lets it go 20.1 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , flatter outside off , Ramdin dabs it to backward point and sets off for a single , Carter also rushes to the striker 's end and just about makes it in time. Had that been a better throw , he would have been out 19.6 Duminy to J Carter , no run , slider going with the angle down leg , Carter ca n't lay bat on it and wears it on the pad , there was a stifled appeal , but it was going down leg 19.5 Duminy to J Carter , no run , tossed up on off , Carter drives it hard , but straight to cover 19.4 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , pushed through on the pads , Ramdin works it wide of mid-on and the batsmen take a single 19.3 Duminy to J Carter , 1 run , floated up on middle stump line , Carter comes down the track and eases it down to long-on for a single 19.2 Duminy to J Carter , no run , floated up just outside off , Carter dabs it towards backward point after opening the face of the bat , Ramdin at the other end thought that the single was on , Carter sends him back 19.1 Duminy to J Carter , no run , pushed through on the pads , Carter fails to work it into the on-side , the ball rolls away into the on-side after clipping the pad 18.6 Tahir to J Carter , 1 run , flighted delivery on the pads , Carter works it to deep mid-wicket for a single 18.5 Tahir to J Carter , no run , flipper on the stumps from Tahir , Carter just about manages to squeeze it out 18.4 Tahir to J Carter , no run , tossed up on off , Carter drives it to cover 18.3 Tahir to J Carter , FOUR , floated up on the pads , it was the wrong'un from Tahir , Carter sweeps and gets it fine , but Philander at short fine is a little late to get down and the ball goes through his hands , it runs away to the fence and Carters collects four 18.2 Tahir to J Carter , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Carter leans forward and drives hard , but straight to cover 18.1 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , full toss on leg , Ramdin bunts it down to long-on 17.6 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Ramdin tucks it away to deep mid-wicket after hanging back in the crease 17.5 Duminy to J Carter , 1 run , tossed up around off , Carter drives it towards cover and gets to the other end 17.4 Duminy to J Carter , no run , pushed through just outside off , Carter was pushing at it , but the ball keeps very low and the keeper collects 17.3 Duminy to J Carter , no run , pushed through on the pads , Carter was looking to sweep it , but ca n't make a proper connection 17.2 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Ramdin punches it to long-on 17.1 Duminy to Ramdin , FOUR , floated up on middle stump line , Ramdin goes down on one knee and sweeps hard , the ball runs away to the deep backward square leg fence , Steyn from fine leg runs across and puts in the dive , but the ball trickles away to the fence 16.6 Tahir to J Carter , no run , tossed up on off , Carter pushes it towards cover 16.5 Tahir to J Carter , no run , yorker just outside off , Carter opens the face of the bat and jams it out towards backward point 16.4 Tahir to J Carter , FOUR , that was a poor ball from Tahir , it was loopy and down leg , Carter was looking to sweep and takes it on the full , he dispatches it to the fine leg fence 16.3 Tahir to J Carter , no run , flatter and turning in on leg , Carter fails to work it fine and wears it on his thigh pad 16.2 Tahir to J Carter , no run , quicker one just outside off , Carter dabs it into the off-side off the back foot 16.1 Tahir to J Carter , no run , wrong'un from Tahir just outside off , Carter was pushing at it thinking that it will spin back in , the ball beats the outside edge and de Villiers collects it 15.6 Duminy to J Carter , 1 run , tossed up on the pads , Carter works it to deep square leg , he will keep the strike 15.5 Duminy to J Carter , no run , flatter just outside off , Carter stays on the back foot and punches it into the off-side 15.5 Duminy to J Carter , wide , drifting down leg , Carter fails to sweep it fine , the keeper collects and the umpire calls it a wide 15.4 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , flatter and outside off , Ramdin hangs back and cuts it to sweeper cover 15.3 Duminy to J Carter , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Carter turns it behind square and gets to the other end 15.2 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , floated up around off , Ramdin pushes it towards cover-point with soft hands and the batsmen pinch a quick single 15.1 Duminy to Ramdin , no run , flatter delivery angling away outside off , Ramdin tries to dab it fine , but fails to connect Jean-Paul Duminy [ 2.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack Jonathan Carter , left handed bat , comes to the crease 14.6 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , out Lbw ! ! Smith goes now and West Indies are struggling here. It was the quicker one from Tahir that went on with the angle , Smith was suprised by the pace and failed to get his bat down in time. The ball strikes him right in line with middle stump and since he was back in the crease , it was an easy decision for the umpire. That ball was bowled just under 100kph , fairly quick for a spinner. Dwayne Smith lbw b Tahir 29 ( 38 ) [ 4s-3 ] Tahir to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 14.5 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , shortish and wide outside off , Smith cuts it to point 14.4 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , pushed through on middle stump line , Smith turns it into the on-side 14.3 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , low full toss from Tahir , Smith pushes it back to the bowler 14.2 Tahir to Ramdin , 1 run , googly outside off , Ramdin looks to drive , but drags it towards long-on off the inside half of the bat 14.1 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , pushed through on middle stump line , Smith works it towards backward square leg Coming back to the dismissal of Samuels , he had the bat in his wrong hand and that 's why he had to turn to get back. If the bat was in his left hand , he would have been safe . Drinks are on the field now 13.6 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , straighter in line , Smith works it behind square on the on-side , he will keep the strike 13.5 M Morkel to Ramdin , 1 run , angles this one on middle and leg , Ramdin works it past square leg for a single 13.4 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , on a good length and around off and middle , Ramdin comes on the front foot and defends it into the off-side 13.3 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , fuller in length and on the pads , Ramdin fails to work it into the on-side and wears it on his pad , that was sliding down leg though 13.2 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , bowls this one slightly wide outside off , Ramdin leaves it alone 13.1 M Morkel to Ramdin , no run , on a good length and on off , Ramdin taps it towards point Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.6 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , out Samuels Run Out ! ! This is a gift from Samuels. He was too lazy there. It was tossed up on off , Smith drives it to mid-off and Samuels was backing up too far. Behardien at mid-off fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end and Samuels was a little lazy to get back in the crease , a direct-hit catches him short and Samuels laziness has brought about his downfall. The third umpire was called in to check and the South Africans are ecstatic with the outcome. Samuels run out ( Behardien ) 11 ( 16 ) [ 6s-1 ] Tahir to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 12.5 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , wrong'un from Tahir , Samuels tucks it away behind square for another single 12.4 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , on middle and leg , Smith works it to mid-wicket 12.3 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , flighted delivery on off , Smith pushes it towards extra-cover 12.3 Tahir to Samuels , 2 wides , sprays this one down the leg-side , de Villiers fails to glove it properly , the batsmen sneak in an extra run apart from the wide 12.2 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , floated up on the stumps , Smith punches it down to long-on for a single 12.1 Tahir to Dwayne Smith , no run , googly from Tahir , Smith waits for it in the crease and dabs it to short third man Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 11.6 M Morkel to Samuels , SIX , short of length delivery just outside off , Samuels backs away and cuts it over the deep backward point fence for a six , that flew off Samuels ' blade 11.5 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , full and angling in on middle and leg , Smith works it to deep square leg off the inside half of the bat 11.4 M Morkel to Samuels , 1 run , full outside off , Samuels guides it to third man and gets to the other end 11.3 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Smith mistimes the pull in front of square and takes a single 11.2 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length delivery angling into middle and leg , Smith fails to work it into the on-side and wears it on his thigh pad 11.1 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , back of a length delivery just outside off , Smith pushes at it , gets a thickish outside edge that runs away past the slip and races away to the fence Morne Morkel [ 2.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length delivery shaping in from outside off , Samuels drops his writs on this one 10.5 Steyn to Samuels , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Samuels lets it go to the keeper 10.4 Steyn to Samuels , no run , another short delivery coming in with the angle , Samuels sways away from the line 10.3 Steyn to Samuels , no run , short delivery just outside off , Samuels sways away from it and watches the ball go through to the kepeer 10.2 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length delivery much closer to off , Samuels is not bothered playing at it 10.1 Steyn to Samuels , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Samuels lifts his bat and lets it go 9.6 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , no run , goes back and cuts it straigh to backward point 9.5 Duminy to Samuels , 1 run , floatef outside off , Samuels stands tall and punches it to sweeper cover for a single 9.4 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , stays back and punches it to long-off for a run 9.3 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , 2 runs , comes on the front foot and drives it away from the body , gets an outside egde to third man 9.2 Duminy to Samuels , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Samuels gets a leading edge to the off-side 9.1 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , byes , 1 run , slider outside off , Smith comes forward and looks to push at it and misses , AB behind the stumps could n't glove it completely , the ball rolls to the short fine leg fielder as they sneak in a bye 8.6 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Smith stays on the back foot and guides it to square third man 8.5 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , no run , fullish on leg , Smith comes forward and misses the flick , the ball rolls back to the bowler off the pads 8.4 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , short delivery outside off , Smith rocks back and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a boundary 8.3 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , no run , on a length just outside off , Smith leans forward and pushes it to cover 8.2 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of good length on off and middle , Smith pushes it to the right of the bowler 8.1 Steyn to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Smith punches it to cover Dale Steyn [ 1.0-0-9-1 ] is back into the attack 7.6 Duminy to Samuels , no run , shortens the length a touch , Samuels goes back and cuts it straight to backward point 7.5 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , skips down the track to this flighted delivery and flicks it to long-on 7.4 Duminy to Dwayne Smith , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Smith cuts it very late to point 7.3 Duminy to Samuels , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Samuels comes forward and punches it to sweeper cover 7.2 Duminy to Samuels , no run , leans forward to this flighted delivery and blocks it to cover 7.1 Duminy to Samuels , no run , comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 6.6 Philander to Samuels , leg byes , 1 run , shortish delivery on the body , Samuels misses the nudge , the ball rolls off the pads behind square Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.5 Philander to Leon Johnson , out Lbw ! ! Philander gets the second breakthrough for South Africa. This was a back of length delivery swinging into the left-hander from middle , Johnson comes on the front foot and misses the flick , the ball hits him on the knee roll , Hawk-Eye suggets that the ball was crashing into the middle stump. That was a superb review by AB and Co. Leon Johnson lbw b Philander 0 ( 6 ) Philander to Leon Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Philander has asked for a review for an LBW call against Johnson. The onfield decision is 'Not Out'. Philander 's front foot is fine , the ball hits him on the knee roll , there 's no inside edge. Is is going over ? No , three reds on the Hawk-Eye and Johnson has to go 6.4 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , short of length delivery going away from the left-hander , Johnson comes across and pushes at it and is beaten 6.3 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Johnson goes on the back foot and defends it back to the bowler 6.2 Philander to Leon Johnson , no run , short of length delivery on the hips , Johnson jumps inside the crease and pushes it to the on-side 6.1 Philander to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Smith goes back and dabs it to third man 5.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , short of good length ball coming in a touch , Johnson blocks it off the front foot to cover 5.6 Steyn to Leon Johnson , wide , short delivery down the leg-side , wide signalled 5.5 Steyn to Leon Johnson , no run , good length delivery on off , Johnson comes forward and defends it to the off-side Leon Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 5.4 Steyn to Gayle , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Steyn has the last laugh as he dismisses Gayle. This was a short of good length delivery just outside off , Gayle back away and looks to smash it once again , but this time he gets an outside edge which goes straight into the hands of AB. Steyn is pumped after that wicket. Gayle c de Villiers b Steyn 41 ( 24 ) [ 4s-5 6s-2 ] Steyn to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.3 Steyn to Gayle , FOUR , fuller length delivery just outside off , Gayle comes forward and slices the drive over the infield and to the deep extra cover fence for another boundary 5.2 Steyn to Gayle , no run , short of length delivery around off , Gayle looks to cut but gets beaten 5.1 Steyn to Gayle , FOUR , short delivery just outside off , Gayle looks to push at it , but manages to get a thick outside edge that just about goes over a leaping AB de Villiers , the ball runs away to the third man boundary Dale Steyn , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 4.6 Philander to Gayle , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Gayle yet again backs away and clubs it to long-on 4.5 Philander to Gayle , 2 runs , short delivery on off , Gayle backs away and pulls it to long-on 4.4 Philander to Gayle , SIX , that 's as flat a six as it can get ! This was short of length delivery on off , Gayle rocks back and pulls it away to the deep mid-wicket fence for another maximum 4.3 Philander to Gayle , no run , length delivery just around off , Gayle clubs it to mid-off 4.2 Philander to Gayle , no run , slower delivery outside off , Gayle goes hard at it again , but fails to make a connection 4.1 Philander to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , short of length delivery on the hips , Smith tucks it to deep square leg for a single 3.6 M Morkel to Gayle , SIX , crunched ! This was a short of length delivery on off , Gayle backs away and pulls it high and over the deep mid-wicket fence for another six , that was a super shot 3.5 M Morkel to Gayle , FOUR , back of a length delivery on off , Gayle crashes it to the long-off fence , the ball reaches the boundary in no time 3.4 M Morkel to Gayle , no run , good length delivery in the channel outside off , Gayle pokes and misses 3.3 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Smith stays inside the crease and taps it to mid-on for a run 3.2 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Smith goes back and defends it 3.1 M Morkel to Gayle , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Gayle swipes across the line , gets a top-edge which falls well short of the third man fielder 2.6 Philander to Gayle , 1 run , short delivery on middle , Gayle pulls it to deep backward square leg for a run , it went on the bounce to the fielder there 2.5 Philander to Gayle , no run , slower delivery a little wide outside off , Gayle makes room , but is unable to reach the ball 2.4 Philander to Gayle , no run , short of length delivery on off , Gayle backs away and looks to pull but misses 2.3 Philander to Gayle , 2 runs , good length delivery just outside off , Gayle backs away and slices it high in the air towards deep backward point region , Miller gives the chase and almost pulled off a stunner , the batsmen run back for the second 2.2 Philander to Gayle , FOUR , smashed ! This was a good length delivery around off , Gayle backs away and smashes it past the bowler for back-to-back boundaries 2.1 Philander to Gayle , FOUR , short of length delivery on the hips again , Gayle stays inside the crease and flicks it to the deep square leg fence for his first boundary 1.6 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , good length delivery on off , Smith blocks it to mid-on 1.5 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , short of length delivery on the hips , Smith rocks back and swivels the pull to the deep backward square leg fence for the first boundary of the West Indian innings 1.4 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 2 runs , fuller length delivery outside off , Smith comes down the track and slices it in the air to deep backward point for a brace 1.4 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , wide , fuller length delivery wide outside off , wide called 1.3 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , short delivery down the leg-side , Smith misses the pull , but the umpire somehow does n't signal wide as the ball swung back in after it went past the batsman 1.2 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length delivery much closer to the off-stump , Smith goes back and looks to fend it away , the ball takes the inside edge back onto the body and then rolls away into the off-side 1.1 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , good length delivery on off , Smith comes forward and looks to defend , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away into the leg-side Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Philander to Gayle , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on off , Gayle smashes hard over the bowler 's head , who was taking evasive action , mid-on fielder gives chase and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 0.5 Philander to Gayle , no run , short of length delivery shaping away outside off , Gayle flashes hard at it without much foot movement , Philander instantly went up as soon as the ball went into the hands of AB , replays suggest that there was a tiny nick on it 0.4 Philander to Gayle , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Gayle again takes his bottom hand off and pushes it to cover 0.3 Philander to Gayle , no run , another short of length delivery on middle , Gayle takes his bottom hand off and pushes it with one hand back to the bowler 0.2 Philander to Gayle , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Gayle opens the face of the bat and guides it to second slip , he played it with soft hands , hence it did n't carry 0.1 Philander to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , short delivery at the body , Smith camps on the back foot and pulls it to deep backward square leg Dwayne Smith and Gayle are at the crease. Dwayne Smith is on strike. Philander will open the attack The South African players are in a huddle. The West Indian openers Chris Gayle and Dwyane Smith stride out to the middle. Philander will open the attack with two slips in place . Revised playing conditions : The mandatory powerplay will be 7 overs long. The batting powerplay will be for 3 overs. 3 bowlers can bowl 7 overs and 2 bowlers can bowl 6 . 19 : 43 Local Time , 17 : 43 GMT , 23 : 13 IST : There 's good news folks. West Indies innings will start at 20 : 00 local time and they will be chasing 229 in 33 overs . Neil Manthorp 's tweet : Inch of standing water on outfield in places...huge battle to get back on the field . 19 : 15 Local Time , 17 : 15 GMT , 22 : 45 IST : The umpires are out in the middle and are having a look at the conditions. There is plenty of water on the outfield and it will take some doing to dry it up for the game to resume . If the West Indies innings is cut short to 20 overs , they will have to chase down a target of 161 . 18 : 58 Local Time , 16 : 58 GMT , 22 : 28 IST : It has stopped raining for now and the groundsmen are trying to clear out the water on the covers and the field. However , there 's more rain expected later . Neil Manthorp 's tweet : The latest we can start a 20-over innings for Windies ( to get a match ) is 8 : 51pm. Not 8 : 50 , or 8 : 52. Exactly 8 : 51.. . 18 : 16 Local Time , 16 : 16 GMT , 21 : 46 IST : By our watch , we should start losing overs now as the extra one hour is over . 17 : 55 Local Time : It is still raining out there and the wind is fairly strong for now. Maybe , that will take the clouds away from Durban. We will keep you updated if there 's any more news . 17 : 30 Local Time : Herschelle Gibbs has tweeted that it is not looking promising. He says that there will at least be a 90 minutes delay . 17 : 17 Local Time : Ohh no ! The rain is here and the umpires have decided to stop the play for now. The groundsmen come running and cover the pitch. It is heavy for now and there 's a strong breeze as well. We have one hour before the umpires start deducting the overs. It could be a lengthy delay folks , but we will be here with you. We will update you when ever there 's some news on the resumption . 48.2 Jerome Taylor to Steyn , no run , bumper from Taylor , Steyn moves away from the line and leaves it for the keeper 48.1 Jerome Taylor to M Morkel , 1 run , comes from round the wicket and bowls this slower off-cutter just outside off , Morkel pushes it towards cover from the crease and sets off for a single , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end and Morkel would have been on his way back had that hit Jerome Taylor [ 9.0-0-49-2 ] is back into the attack 47.6 A Russell to Steyn , FOUR , full toss from Russell , Steyn drives and beats the diving cover , the ball runs away to the fence and it is a welcome boundary for the Proteas 47.5 A Russell to Steyn , no run , another flashing shot from Steyn and another miss from him , Steyn backed away to hit it hard , but could only connect with thin air 47.4 A Russell to M Morkel , leg byes , 1 run , good delivery from Russell , it was banged in short and at the batsman , Morkel looks to fend it away , but ca n't make a connection , the ball pings him on the helmet and runs away fine , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 47.3 A Russell to M Morkel , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Morkel bunts it towards cover , Steyn at the non-striker 's end was looking for the single , but Morkel sends him back 47.2 A Russell to Steyn , 1 run , Steyn backs away and Russell follows him with a fuller one , Steyn drives it back towards the bowler , who half-stops it with his right hand after getting down in his followthrough , but he ca n't protect the single as the ball rolls away towards mid-off Morne Morkel , left handed bat , comes to the crease 47.1 A Russell to Philander , out Caught by Leon Johnson ! ! Another one bites the dust. It was fuller in length and outside off , Philander goes for the inside-out lofted drive , but ends up skying it high. Johnson at sweeper cover gets under it and takes a good catch and Philander has to walk back. Philander c Leon Johnson b A Russell 4 ( 8 ) A Russell to Philander , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 46.6 J Holder to Steyn , no run , another back of a length delivery from Holder , Steyn backs away and looks to pull it hard , ca n't make a connection though 46.5 J Holder to Steyn , no run , Steyn backs away once again and Holder follows him with a yorker , the batsman gets beaten because of the pace and the ball goes past the blade and through to the keeper 46.4 J Holder to Steyn , no run , Steyn was waiting for the short ball there and Holder bowls this full and on leg stump line , he jams it out back to the bowler 46.3 J Holder to Steyn , no run , another short one from Holder , Steyn flashes hard once again and once again he fails to connect , the keeper collects 46.2 J Holder to Steyn , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Steyn backs away and has a wild swing at it , he ca n't connect though 46.1 J Holder to Steyn , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Steyn tries to fend it away and could n't quite get out of the way , the ball takes the handle and hits the helmet before dropping short of the keeper behind the stumps Jason Holder [ 8.0-0-52-1 ] is back into the attack South Africa have not hit a boundary in the last 28 balls. The conditions have also changed dramatically as it has become dark out there. Quite overcast in Durban . 45.6 A Russell to Philander , no run , bumper from Russell , Philander ducks under it 45.5 A Russell to Steyn , 1 run , full and just outside off , Steyn comes forward and drives it to sweeper cover for a single 45.4 A Russell to Steyn , no run , another one that 's short and over the stumps , Steyn backs away and has a waft at it , he only connects with thin air 45.3 A Russell to Steyn , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Steyn sways away from the line of fire and leaves it for the keeper Dale Steyn , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.2 A Russell to Duminy , out Caught by Ramdin ! ! The dangerman Duminy is gone. It was a good short ball from Russell. Duminy was looking to pull it hard , but was cramped for room there , he ends up gloving it to the keeper , who takes a simple catch. He walked off even before the umpire raised his finger. Duminy c Ramdin b A Russell 12 ( 17 ) A Russell to Duminy , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.1 A Russell to Duminy , 2 runs , slightly short and wide outside off , Duminy cuts it to squarish third man region , where a misfield from Samuels allows the batsmen to come back for the second 44.6 Jerome Taylor to Duminy , 1 run , back of a length delivery angling into the batsman on off and middle , Duminy moves across and tucks it away to deep backward square leg and he will keep the strike 44.5 Jerome Taylor to Philander , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Philander drops it in front of cover and charges to the other end , he manages to make it in time 44.4 Jerome Taylor to Philander , 2 runs , full toss from Taylor , Philander flicks it past a diving short mid-wicket and the batsmen come back for the second 44.3 Jerome Taylor to Philander , no run , very full on middle stump line , Philander digs it out towards mid-wicket , Duminy was backing up too far there and Carter at mid-wicket picks the ball up quicky and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , Duminy would have been a goner had that hit , but luckily for South Africa , he survives 44.2 Jerome Taylor to Philander , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Philander turns it into the on-side off the back foot 44.1 Jerome Taylor to Duminy , 1 run , short and around off , Duminy stays back in the crease and dabs it to third man for a single 43.6 A Russell to Duminy , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Duminy hops in the crease , opens the face of the bat and guides it towards third man , he will keep the strike 43.5 A Russell to Philander , 1 run , full on the stumps , Philander moves across and works it to deep square leg 43.4 A Russell to Philander , no run , on a good length and outside off , Philander pushes at it after coming forward , the ball squirts off the inside edge and rolls away into the leg-side Vernon Philander , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.3 A Russell to Behardien , out Behardien Run Out ! ! Superb footwork from Russell to dismiss Behardien. It was a back of a length delivery angling into the batsman , who pushes at it and gets an inside edge that rolls away back on the track. Behardien was looking for the single and sets off without taking note of the bowler , who was haring across towards the ball. Russell kicks the ball back on the stumps with his left foot and Behardien , who had put in the dive , falls short of the crease. Great bit of footwork from the bowler there. Behardien run out ( A Russell ) 12 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 ] A Russell to Behardien , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 43.2 A Russell to Behardien , 2 runs , angling in on middle and leg , Behardien tucks it away behind square on the on-side for a brace 43.1 A Russell to Duminy , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Duminy hops up and pushes it towards backward point , the batsmen take a single Andre Russell [ 7.0-0-37-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Jerome Taylor to Duminy , leg byes , 1 run , too straight and full from Taylor , Duminy fails to work it through the leg-side and wears it on his pad , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye as the ball rolls away into on-side 42.5 Jerome Taylor to Behardien , 1 run , fuller delivery on middle and leg , Behardien moves across and works it towards mid-wicket for a single 42.4 Jerome Taylor to Duminy , 1 run , short of length delivery on off and middle stump line , Duminy blocks it towards backward point with soft hands and the batsmen take a quick run 42.3 Jerome Taylor to Duminy , no run , comes from round the wicket and angles this on off from a good length , Duminy leans forward and defends with a straight bat 42.2 Jerome Taylor to Behardien , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Behardien opens the face of the bat and drops his wrists , the ball rolls away towards backward point and Duminy took on the fielder , he managed to reach the striker 's end in time 42.1 Jerome Taylor to Behardien , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Behardien rocks back and punches it to cover Jerome Taylor [ 7.0-0-41-2 ] is back into the attack 41.6 J Holder to Duminy , no run , back of a length delivery that has some extra bounce on it , Duminy was looking to push at it , the extra bounce forces him to take his bottom hand off the bat , the ball rolls away towards point , he negotiated it well at the end 41.5 J Holder to Behardien , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Behardien hangs on the back foot and mistimes the punch to the right of the point fielder , the batsmen steal a quick single 41.5 J Holder to Behardien , 1 run , to cover point 41.4 J Holder to Duminy , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Duminy waits for it in the crease and dabs it to third man 41.3 J Holder to Behardien , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Behardien hops up and punches it towards sweeper cover 41.2 J Holder to Behardien , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Behardien hangs back and pulls it fiercely to the deep backward square leg fence , the fielder at deep square could only watch it crash into the fence 41.1 J Holder to Behardien , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the hips , Behardien goes back and tucks it to deep backward square leg 40.6 Benn to Duminy , no run , goes back and blocks it on the wicket Farhaan Behardien , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.5 Benn to de Villiers , out Caught by A Russell ! ! Benn gets the big fish. This was a tossed up delivery on off , de Villiers skips down the track and looks to go over long-on , but does n't get the timing right on the loft as he drags it to Russell at long-on. Two wickets in two overs for West Indies. de Villiers c A Russell b Benn 81 ( 94 ) [ 4s-6 ] Benn to de Villiers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 40.4 Benn to de Villiers , no run , fullish on off , de Villiers drives it with an open face to cover 40.3 Benn to Duminy , 1 run , goes on the back foot and pushes it to deep square leg for a run 40.3 Benn to Duminy , wide , floated delivery down the leg-side , wide called 40.2 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , shortens the length a touch just outside off , de Villiers goes back and punches it to sweeper cover 40.1 Benn to Duminy , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Duminy comes on the front foot and drives it to long-off 39.6 J Holder to Duminy , 1 run , fullish outside off , Duminy leans forward and drives it to sweeper cover 39.5 J Holder to Duminy , no run , length delivery outside off , Duminy cuts it to backward point 39.4 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , de Villiers hops inside the crease and mistimes the pull to long-on 39.3 J Holder to Duminy , 1 run , fuller length angled across the left-hander , Duminy guides it to third man 39.2 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , de Villiers jumps inside the crease and drops his wrist on it , the ball rolls away towards point , the batsmen run for a quick single Jean-Paul Duminy , left handed bat , comes to the crease 39.1 J Holder to D Miller , out Caught by Dwayne Smith ! ! Holder strikes and breaks this dangerous partnership of 123. This was a slower delivery outside off , Miller shimmies down the track and lofts it inside out straight to sweeper cover , where Smith completes an easy catch. A wonderful innings from Miller comes to an end. D Miller c Dwayne Smith b J Holder 70 ( 68 ) [ 4s-7 6s-2 ] J Holder to D Miller , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Jason Holder [ 6.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Benn to de Villiers , FOUR , fullish ball on middle , de Villiers comes forward and paddles it very fine to the fine leg fence for a cheeky boundary 38.5 Benn to de Villiers , no run , flighted delivery on middle and turning away , de Villiers gets down on one knee and looks to sweep but misses , the ball hits him on the pad below the knee roll , there was a loud appeal but the umpire said 'Not Out ' , West Indies decide to review the decision , but Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was turning too much and it would have missed the off stump Benn has asked for a review for a LBW call on de Villiers , Benn 's footing is fine , but Hawk-Eye suggests it was missing , ABD is safe . 38.4 Benn to D Miller , 1 run , comes down the track and punches it to long-on 38.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , touch wider on off , de Villiers steers it wide of point 38.2 Benn to de Villiers , no run , goes back and punches it back to the bowler 38.2 Benn to D Miller , 2 wides , floated down the leg-side , Miller misses the glance , the keeper misses as well , the batsmen pinch an extra run for it The umpires have asked the fourth umpire for another ball as it might have gone out of the park 38.1 Benn to D Miller , SIX , flighted delivery just around off , Miller skips down the track and smashes it over the to long-on fence for a maximum , that was a very big hit , the ball might have gone out of the park as well 37.6 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , fuller and wide outside off , Miller leans forward and flashes at it , gets a thickish outside edge to third man 37.5 Sammy to D Miller , no run , slower ball on middle , Miller pushes off the front foot to mid-wicket 37.4 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , good length delivery on off , de Villiers eases it to long-on 37.3 Sammy to de Villiers , 2 runs , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers cuts it to sweeper cover for a brace 37.2 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle , Miller leans forward and flicks it between mid-wicket and long-on for a run 37.1 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers goes back and punches it to sweeper cover 36.6 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , de Villiers comes forward and pushes it with soft hands towards cover for a quick single 36.5 Benn to D Miller , 1 run , leans forward and eases the drive to long-on 36.4 Benn to D Miller , no run , comes on the front foot and pushes it to the left of the bowler , Benn moves quickly and stops it 36.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover 36.2 Benn to de Villiers , FOUR , tossed up delivery just outside off , de Villiers gets down on one knee and sweeps it to the deep backward square leg fence for a boundary , the partnership between these two has now crossed 100 runs 36.1 Benn to D Miller , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Miller flicks it through mid-wicket 35.6 Sammy to de Villiers , no run , slightly short of length just outside off , de Villiers punches it to cover 35.5 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , good length delivery angling across the left-hander , Miller pushes it to sweeper cover for a run 35.4 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , short of good length around off , de Villiers punches it to long-on 35.3 Sammy to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , de Villiers drives it to the right of mid-off 35.2 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , on a length on the pads , Miller leans forward and tucks it to deep mid-wicket 35.1 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , good length delivery on off , de Villiers stays back and punches it to long-on 34.6 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , gets well forward and tucks it to deep backward square leg 34.5 Benn to D Miller , 1 run , fullish on off , Miller pushes it off the front foot to long-on 34.4 Benn to D Miller , no run , skips down the track and looks to work it again to the on-side , but the ball hits the pad and dribbles away to cover 34.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover 34.2 Benn to D Miller , leg byes , 1 run , skips down the track and looks to work it through the on-side , he misses and the ball takes the pad and rolls to the off-side , they sneak in a leg bye 34.1 Benn to D Miller , no run , goes back and cuts it to cover Sulieman Benn [ 6.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , fuller length delivery on off , Miller works it to deep square leg 33.5 Sammy to D Miller , FOUR , fuller length delivery just outside off , Miller leans forward and drives it to to long-off , the fielder from long-on comes across and tries to stop it with his foot , but the ball rolls back and reaches the fence 33.4 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , on a length just outside off , de Villiers comes on the front foot and drives it wide of mid-off 33.3 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , good length delivery on middle and off , Miller comes forward and drives it to long-on 33.2 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , de Villiers rocks back and cuts it to sweeper cover 33.1 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , short of good length delivery on off , Miller eases it to long-on to get to his 8th ODI fifty 32.6 A Russell to D Miller , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Miller drives it to the right of mid-off for a run 32.5 A Russell to D Miller , no run , good length delivery on off , Miller flicks it to the on-side 32.4 A Russell to D Miller , FOUR , short delivery around off , Miller goes on the back foot and swivles the pull to the deep backward square leg fence for a boundary 32.3 A Russell to D Miller , no run , good length delivery around off , Miller comes on the front foot and pushes it to mid-wicket 32.2 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , de Villiers works it to short mid-wicket for a quick single 32.1 A Russell to de Villiers , no run , back of a length delivery anging into the pads , de Villiers misses the flick , the ball goes off the thigh pad to the off-side 31.6 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , good length delivery on off , de Villiers leans forward and eases it to long-on 31.5 Sammy to de Villiers , no run , short of good length on off , de Villiers punches it back to the bowler 31.4 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Miller works it off his hips to deep backward square leg 31.3 Sammy to D Miller , no run , good length delivery around off , Miller blocks it to the off-side 31.2 Sammy to D Miller , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Miller turns it to mid-wicket 31.1 Sammy to D Miller , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Miller comes forward and pushes it to point Darren Sammy [ 6.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now 30.6 A Russell to de Villiers , no run , yorker on off , de Villiers jams it back to the bowler 30.5 A Russell to D Miller , leg byes , 1 run , another one that 's been banged in short and at the batsman , Miller fails to connect with the pull and wears it on his body 30.4 A Russell to D Miller , no run , short delivery from Russell , Miller drops his wrists and lets it go through to the keeper 30.3 A Russell to D Miller , no run , on a good length and on off , Miller defends it into the off-side off the front foot 30.2 A Russell to D Miller , no run , on a good length and angling in on off , Miller was looking to clip it through the leg-side and closes the bat face early , the leading edge balloons up , but falls just short of the fielder at point 30.1 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers dabs it to third man for a single 30.1 A Russell to de Villiers , wide , banged in short and that sails way over the batsman 's head , wided by the umpire The batting powerplay yielded 34 runs 29.6 J Holder to D Miller , 2 runs , on a good length and aroun d off , Miller was looking to work it through the on-side , closes the bat face a little too early and gets a leading edge that goes square of the wicket , the batsmen take a couple 29.5 J Holder to D Miller , 2 runs , angling in on middle stump line , Miller moves across and bunts it wide of long-on for a brace 29.4 J Holder to D Miller , FOUR , beautiful shot ! It was overpitched on off , Miller comes on the front foot and drives it straight down the ground , the ball runs away to the fence 29.3 J Holder to D Miller , no run , full and around off , Miller drills the drive back towards the bowler , who parries it towards the non-striker while trying to stop it , the batsmen ca n't take a single as the ball rolls back over the track after hitting de Villiers at the bowler 's end 29.2 J Holder to D Miller , 2 runs , Miller goes forward and across to this back of a length delivery just outside off , he punches it through mid-wicket and there was ample time to take the second run as well 29.1 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , fuller in length and on middle and leg , de Villiers wrists it to long-on for a single Jason Holder [ 5.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 A Russell to D Miller , no run , short of length delivery angled across off , Miller lifts his bat and lets it go 28.5 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers guides it to third man after opening the face of the bat 28.4 A Russell to D Miller , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Miller swivels and pulls it to deep backward square leg , he rolled his wrists to send it along the ground 28.3 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , another dab from de Villiers , it was just short of a good length and just outside off , de Villiers dabbed it towards third man 28.2 A Russell to D Miller , 1 run , slightly back of a length ang angling away outside off , Miller opens the face of the bat and guides it towards third man for a single 28.1 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , de Villiers dabs it to third man from the crease Andre Russell [ 4.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , de Villiers pushes it towards short mid-wicket and sets off for the single , the run brings up the 43rd ODI fifty for de Villiers , the number one batsman in ODIs 27.5 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , 1 run , another yorker on off , Miller digs it out into the on-side and gets to the other end 27.4 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , no run , fullish delivery angling in just outside off , Miller was looking to drive it through the off-side , the ball beats the blade and the keeper gloves it 27.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , angles this one on the pads and was fuller in length , de Villiers clips it to mid-wicket , the batsmen take a quick single 27.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , FOUR , great shot from de Villiers , it was overpitched on off , de Villiers leans forward and caresses the drive wide of mid-off for a magnificent boundary 27.1 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , 1 run , good ball from Taylor , almost a yorker on middle stump line , Miller jams it to long-on for a single , he did well to get his bat down in time Jerome Taylor [ 6.0-0-33-2 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Benn to de Villiers , no run , shortens his length this time , de Villiers hangs back and dabs it towards short third man , de Villiers wanted the single there , but Miller was not interested 26.5 Benn to de Villiers , no run , floated up on leg , de Villiers moves away and pushes it to mid-wicket 26.4 Benn to D Miller , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Miller turns it towards mid-wicket and gets to the other end 26.4 Benn to D Miller , wide , sliding down the leg-side , Miller ca n't tickle it fine , the keeper collects and the umpire calls it a wide Over the wicket to the left-hander 26.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , low full toss on middle and leg , de Villiers eases it down to long-on 26.2 Benn to de Villiers , no run , flatter and on the stumps , de Villiers backs away and looks to cut , he misses and almost falls over , but manages to drag his back foot back in the crease 26.1 Benn to de Villiers , no run , floated up on off and it turns away sharply as de Villiers was pushing at it , the ball beats the outside edge because of the turn away as well as the extra bounce 25.6 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , slower and low full toss from Sammy , de Villiers bunts it to long-on , he will keep the strike 25.5 Sammy to D Miller , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Miller knocks it towards mid-off and sets off for a single , Gayle at mid-off has a direct-hit at the non-striker 's end , but Miller was safe 25.4 Sammy to D Miller , no run , slower off-cutter around off , Miller was early into the push , luckily for him , he did n't end up chipping it towards the bowler , the ball dribbles off the face of the bat and back on the track 25.3 Sammy to D Miller , FOUR , slightly short of length and wide outside off , Miller opens the face of the bat and cuts it late , he finds the gap between backward point and short third man , it was a little uppish , but in the gap 25.2 Sammy to D Miller , no run , fuller and just around off , Miller bunts it towards mid-off after leaning forward 25.1 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , angling into the pads , de Villiers works it to deep square leg from the crease , the batsmen cross over Darren Sammy [ 5.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack South Africa have decided to take the batting powerplay. Two big-hitters , de Villiers and Miller are at the crease. Let 's see how it goes . 24.6 Benn to D Miller , no run , quicker and on leg , Miller works it to backward square leg 24.5 Benn to D Miller , no run , shimmies down the track and turns this delivery on middle stump line towards mid-wicket 24.4 Benn to D Miller , 2 runs , on the pads , Miller works it wide of long-on for a brace 24.3 Benn to D Miller , SIX , gives the charge and launches this flighted delivery over the long-on fence , it was a great shot and Miller used his feet to good effect 24.2 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , de Villiers drives it towards sweeper cover and gets to the other end 24.1 Benn to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers gives the charge and Benn darts it on his pads seeing the batsman step out , de Villiers pads it into the off-side 23.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , fuller in length and on leg stump line , de Villiers clips it to deep square leg and he will keep the strike 23.5 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , 1 run , angles this one on off and middle , Miller flicks it to deep square leg after moving across slightly 23.4 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , no run , back of a length delivery angling in from outside off , Miller punches it to the right of the bowler 23.3 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , too straight from Taylor , de Villiers works it to square leg off his pads and gets to the other end 23.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , just short of a good length and on the stumps , de Villiers punches it back to the bowler 23.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 2 runs , length delivery on middle and leg , de Villiers bunts it wide of mid-on , the fielder at mid-on gives chase and the batsman run for a brace 22.6 Benn to D Miller , no run , drags his length back as Miller steps out of the crease , he dead-bats it 22.5 Benn to D Miller , no run , angling on the pads , Miller works it towards square leg 22.4 Benn to D Miller , no run , floated up just outside off and turning back in towards the batsman , Miller fails to tuck it away into the on-side and wears it on his pad 22.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle stump line , de Villiers eases it down to long-off 22.2 Benn to D Miller , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Miller moves across and turns it to deep square leg for a single 22.1 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , shortish just outside off , de Villiers hangs back and cuts it late to short third man , the batsmen pinch a quick single 21.6 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , FOUR , half volley from Taylor , Miller drills the drive past the bowler and the ball runs away to the long-off fence , the fielder at mid-off was a mere spectator 21.5 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , FOUR , great response from the batsman now , it was fuller in length and outside off , Miller presses forward and creams the drive to the deep extra cover fence 21.4 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , no run , this is good bowling from Taylor , Miller was looking to go forward and Taylor bangs this one short , Miller was caught napping and he could n't fend it off properly , he wears it on his left hand 21.3 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , no run , good delivery from Taylor , it was a yorker on off , Miller managed to dig it out and the bat turns in his hand while trying to do so 21.2 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , no run , touch fuller and just outside off , Miller jams it out into the off-side , he was a little late to get his bat down A slip is in place for Taylor 21.1 Jerome Taylor to D Miller , no run , on a good length and angling in from outside off , Miller leans forward and defends it back to the bowler Jerome Taylor [ 4.0-0-20-2 ] is back into the attack Taylor will start from round the wicket 20.6 Benn to de Villiers , no run , shortish and outside off , de Villiers dabs it towards short third man , Miller was almost half way down the track from the non-striker 's end in search of a single , but de Villiers sends him back 20.5 Benn to de Villiers , no run , slightly quicket and on the stumps , de Villiers pushes it back to the bowler 20.4 Benn to D Miller , 1 run , even before the ball was bowled , Miller shuffles across his stumps and works this tossed up delivery to backward square leg 20.4 Benn to D Miller , 1 run , to backward square leg, Benn will come over the wicket to the left-handed Miller 20.3 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , de Villiers bunts it down to long-off and gets to the other end 20.2 Benn to de Villiers , 2 runs , drifting on the pads , de Villiers turns it past square leg , the batsmen have ample time to come back for the second 20.1 Benn to de Villiers , no run , floated up on off and middle , de Villiers presses forward and blocks 19.6 Sammy to D Miller , no run , slightly fuller and angling away outside off , Miller puts his front foot forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 19.5 Sammy to D Miller , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Miller defends it into the off-side 19.4 Sammy to D Miller , no run , angles this one away outside off , Miller shoulders arms 19.3 Sammy to D Miller , FOUR , poor fielding from Benn , it was fuller outside off , Miller leans forward and drives it to mid-off , Benn was a little late to get down and field the ball , the ball goes through his hands and runs away to the fence David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 19.2 Sammy to Amla , out Amla Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. Amla departs after a good knock. It was slightly short and wide outside off , Amla slices the cut towards the right of third man , he decides to take on the throw from Russell in the deep , but Russell fired it right at the top of the stumps and Ramdin whips the bails off in a flash , Amla was stretching to reach the crease , but falls short. Amla run out ( A Russell/Ramdin ) 66 ( 66 ) [ 4s-10 ] Sammy to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Is Hashim Amla run-out here ? He was looking for the second there , but looks in a spot of bother. The third umpire puts it as out on the big screen and Amla has to go after a good knock 19.1 Sammy to Amla , no run , length delivery just outside off , Amla gets behind the line and blocks 18.6 Benn to de Villiers , no run , floated up on middle stump line , de Villiers defends off the front foot 18.5 Benn to Amla , 1 run , quicker and drifting on the pads , Amla turns it behind square on the on-side 18.4 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , de Villiers punches it long-on 18.3 Benn to Amla , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Amla bunts it down to long-on 18.2 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , slightly flatter and just outside off , de Villiers cuts it to backward point for a single 18.1 Benn to Amla , 1 run , floated up on off , Amla eases it down to long-off Hashim Amla has become the fastest to reach 5000 ODI runs. He took 101 innings to reach this landmark . 17.6 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Amla taps it to sweeper cover , he will keep the strike 17.5 Sammy to Amla , FOUR , touch fuller this time around and just outside off , Amla leans forward and caresses the drive through the cover region , it was a little uppish , but well placed in the gap 17.4 Sammy to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Amla opens the face of the bat while punching it towards backward point 17.3 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , on a good length and on off , de Villiers leans forward and bunts it past the non-striker , the mid-on fielder stops the ball and the batsmen take a single 17.2 Sammy to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers lines up for a big swing , but ends up mistiming this length ball towards mid-on 17.1 Sammy to de Villiers , no run , length delivery on off and middle , de Villiers defends it back to the bowler 16.6 Benn to Amla , FOUR , shortish outside off , Amla waits for it in the crease and cuts it late to the third man fence , the fielder at short third man had no chance of stopping that 16.5 Benn to Amla , no run , quicker and fuller from Benn , Amla drills it back to the bowler 16.4 Benn to de Villiers , 1 run , drags this one short outside off , de Villiers goes deep in the crease and cuts it square of the wicket for a single 16.3 Benn to de Villiers , no run , floated up outside off and spinning away from the batsman , de Villiers was looking to drive it through the off-side , the ball turns and goes past the outside edge 16.2 Benn to Amla , 1 run , slightly flatter and on the pads , Amla turns it towards short mid-wicket and gets to the other end A slip in place for Benn 16.1 Benn to Amla , no run , starts from round the wicket and tosses it up around off , Amla leans forward and blocks it into the off-side Sulieman Benn , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 15.6 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , the ball had extra bounce as well , Amla hangs back , gets on top of the bounce and dabs it to third man , he will keep the strike 15.5 Sammy to Amla , no run , angling on leg , Amla fails to work it into the leg-side , he wears it on his pad , there was an appeal , but the ball was sliding down leg 15.4 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , short delivery just outside off , de Villiers hangs back and guides it towards third man , he played that very late , the batsmen take a single The keeper is upto the stumps 15.3 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , on a good length and angling into the pads , Amla moves across slightly and flicks it to deep square leg 15.2 Sammy to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Amla punches it to short cover off the back foot 15.1 Sammy to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Amla defends it into the off-side Drinks are on the field now 14.6 A Russell to de Villiers , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers punches it to cover 14.5 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Amla goes on the back foot and pushes it to square leg to get to his 26th ODI fifty 14.4 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , short of good length ball on the hips , de Villiers works to deep backward square leg 14.3 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , fullish on middle , Amla leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 14.2 A Russell to Amla , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Amla goes on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side for a magnificent boundary 14.1 A Russell to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Amla pushes it to cover 13.6 Sammy to de Villiers , no run , fuller length on off , de Villiers defends it back on the track 13.5 Sammy to de Villiers , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on the pads , de Villiers comes across and clips it to deep backward square leg for a brace 13.4 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on middle , Amla stays inside the crease and punches it to mid-on for a run 13.3 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers guides it to third man for a run 13.2 Sammy to de Villiers , leg byes , FOUR , length delivery sliding on the pads , de Villiers misses the flick , the ball goes off the pads to fine leg 13.1 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , fuller length delivery on the pads , Amla comes across and clips it to deep backward square leg 12.6 A Russell to de Villiers , 2 runs , full toss on middle , de Villiers comes on the front foot and flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 12.5 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , short of good length delivery around off , Amla goes back and whips it to deep square leg 12.4 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , de Villiers dabs it to third man 12.3 A Russell to de Villiers , byes , FOUR , short delivery on the stumps , de Villiers camps on the back foot and misses the pull , the ball goes over the keeper 's hand for four byes 12.2 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Amla goes back and works it to square leg for a run 12.2 A Russell to Amla , wide , short delivery down the leg-side , wide signalled 12.1 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , short of good length delivery just around off , de Villiers plays it with soft hands towards gully and completes a quick single 11.6 Sammy to de Villiers , 1 run , on a length but straying on the pads , de Villiers comes across and works it to fine leg 11.5 Sammy to de Villiers , no run , another length delivery just outside off , de Villiers comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 11.4 Sammy to de Villiers , no run , good length delivery on off , de Villiers leans forward and blocks it to the off-side 11.3 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , good length delivery on the pads , Amla comes forward and clips it to deep square leg for a run 11.3 Sammy to de Villiers , 2 wides , length delivery sliding down the leg-side , de Villiers misses the glance , the keeper gets a hand on it , but the ball runs away to fine leg 11.2 Sammy to de Villiers , no run , good length delivery just outside off , de Villiers looks to run it down to third man but fails to connect Ramdin is up to the stumps for Sammy 11.1 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , short of good length just outside off , Amla goes back and works it to short mid-wicket for a quick single Darren Sammy , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 10.6 A Russell to de Villiers , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers pokes at it and misses 10.5 A Russell to de Villiers , 2 runs , short delivery outside off , de Villiers goes back and dabs it to third man , runs hard and completes the second run easily 10.4 A Russell to de Villiers , no run , good length delivery on off , de Villiers gets forward and defends it to the off-side 10.3 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Amla jumps inside the crease and whips it to fine leg 10.2 A Russell to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Amla punches it to cover 10.1 A Russell to Amla , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Amla lifts his bat and lets it go 9.6 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery on off , de Villiers blocks it to the off-side 9.5 J Holder to de Villiers , FOUR , fullish ball on off , de Villiers comes well forward , presents the full face of the bat and drives it straight down the ground for a magnificent boundary 9.4 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Amla works it off the front foot to mid-on 9.3 J Holder to Amla , FOUR , good length delivery on middle , Amla comes on the front foot and flicks it brilliantly through the mid-wicket region for a boundary 9.2 J Holder to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery jagging back into the right-hander , Amla misses the flick , a muted appeal for LBW is turned down 9.1 J Holder to Amla , no run , short of length delivery on off , Amla goes on the back foot and pushes it to the on-side 8.6 A Russell to de Villiers , no run , just short of good length delivery outside off , de Villiers jumps in the crease and pushes it towards the point region 8.5 A Russell to de Villiers , no run , ouch ! That must be painful. This was a short of length delivery which jags back into the right-hander , de Villiers looks to cut , but gets hit on the the right glove 8.4 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Amla comes forward and pushes it with soft hands towards point for a quick single 8.3 A Russell to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers goes on the back foot and dabs it to third man 8.2 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Amla goes back and works it to square leg 8.1 A Russell to Amla , FOUR , brilliant shot , short of length delivery on the hips , Amla hops inside the crease and whips it to the deep square leg boundary Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 7.6 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , de Villiers stays inside the crease and blocks it 7.5 J Holder to de Villiers , no run , slower off-cutter around off , de Villiers comes forward and pushes it to the on-side with soft hands 7.4 J Holder to de Villiers , FOUR , straighter delivery on the pads , de Villiers comes across and helps it along the ground to the fine leg fence for another boundary 7.3 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , another short of length delivery on middle , Amla jumps inside the crease and works it to mid-wicket for a single 7.2 J Holder to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Amla goes back and punches it to short cover 7.1 J Holder to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , de Villiers goes back and dabs it to third man for a run 6.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Amla comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 6.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , slower full toss on middle , Amla comes on the front foot and flicks it between mid-on and mid-wicket for a boundary 6.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , slower yorker on off , Amla gets well forward and defends it back to the bowler 6.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , fullish just outside off , Amla comes on the front foot and mistimes the drive to mid-off 6.2 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , 1 run , fuller length delivery outside off , de Villiers gets well forward and pushes it to cover-point for a quick single 6.1 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , de Villiers lifts his bat and lets it go 5.6 J Holder to Amla , no run , short of length delivery on off , Amla blocks it back to the bowler 5.5 J Holder to Amla , FOUR , good length delivery just outside off , Amla comes on the front foot and crashes the drive through the covers for another boundary 5.4 J Holder to Amla , leg byes , FOUR , short of good length delivery sliding on the pads , Amla gets forward and misses the glance , the ball rolls off the thigh pad to the fine leg boundary 5.3 J Holder to Amla , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Amla camps on the back foot and punches it brilliantly through the covers region for a boundary 5.2 J Holder to Amla , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Amla goes on the back foot and punches it to cover 5.1 J Holder to Amla , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Amla goes back and blocks it to the off-side 4.6 Jerome Taylor to de Villiers , FOUR , fuller length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , de Villiers comes on the front foot and pushes , gets an outside edge which goes past the second slip fielder to the third man fence AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.5 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , out Lbw ! ! Taylor strikes again ! This was another fuller length delivery swinging back into the right-hander , du Plessis comes on the front foot and looks to flick , but is hit on the back pad right in front of middle stump. du Plessis thinks about going for the review and has a chat with Amla before deciding against it. du Plessis lbw b Jerome Taylor 0 ( 7 ) Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 4.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Amla punches it to mid-off for a run 4.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , good length delivery on off , Amla comes forward and pushes it to mid-on 4.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , fuller length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Amla comes forward and looks to drive , gets an outside edge which flies wide of the second slip fielder and to the third man fence for another boundary 4.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , good length delivery on off and shaping in a touch , Amla comes on the front foot and punches it to the long-off fence for a magnificent boundary 3.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of length delivery on middle , du Plessis goes on the back foot and works it to square leg 3.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery wide outside off , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go 3.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of good length delivery outside off , du Plessis gets well forward and watches the ball go through to the keeper 3.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , du Plessis shoulders arms 3.3 J Holder to du Plessis , wide , short delivery down the leg-side , du Plessis ducks under it , wide signalled 3.2 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on the hips , Amla jumps inside the crease and looks to whip , gets an inside edge onto the pads to square leg 3.1 J Holder to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Amla comes forward and drives , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat to square leg 2.6 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off and shaping in , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go 2.5 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery swinging away from the right-hander , du Plessis gets forward and blocks it to the off-side Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.4 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , out Bowled ! ! Taylor has struck early in the innings for West Indies. This was a fuller length delivery angling in from round the stumps , Rossouw was caught in the crease , looks to drive and misses , the off stump gets uprooted. Rossouw is gone for a duck. Rossouw b Jerome Taylor 0 ( 5 ) Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 2.3 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , no run , fuller length delivery outside off from round the wicket , Rossouw pushes it to cover 2.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , good length delivery on the off and middle , Amla comes on the front foot and looks to go over mid-on , but manages to chip it in the air but in the gap between mid-on and mid-wicket 2.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Amla gets forward and pushes it to cover 1.6 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Rossouw stays inside the crease and looks to cut , gets beaten 1.5 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Rossouw gets on top of the bounce and pushes it to the off-side 1.4 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , straighter delivery straying on the pads , Amla comes forward and whips it to fine leg 1.3 J Holder to Amla , no run , good length delivery outside off , Amla comes forward and lets the ball go through to the keeper 1.3 J Holder to Amla , wide , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Amla misses the glance , there was a shout for a caught behind , but the umpire signals it wide 1.2 J Holder to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Amla lets it go through to the keeper 1.2 J Holder to Amla , wide , short of good length delivery sliding down the leg-side , wide signalled Holder has two slips in place. . 1.1 J Holder to Amla , no run , good length delivery outside off , Amla shoulders arms Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack The West Indian skipper will partner Jerome Taylor from the other end 0.6 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Rossouw blocks it off the back foot 0.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Amla jumps inside the crease and works it to mid-wicket 0.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , short of good length delivery outside off , Amla lifts his bat and lets it go 0.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , length delivery on off , Amla gets forward and pushes it to the left of the bowler 0.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , good length delivery around off , Amla comes on the front foot and pushes it to the off-side 0.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Amla comes forward and blocks it back to the bowler Amla and Rossouw are at the crease. Amla is on strike. Jerome Taylor will open the attack The players are walking out to the middle , earlier Jonathan Carters received his ODI cap from Richie Richardson. Hashim Amla will partner with Rilee Rossouw. Jerome Taylor will start the proceedings for West Indies with two slips in place . Teams : South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Hashim Amla , Rilee Rossouw , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( w/c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Farhaan Behardien , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Leon Johnson , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Jonathan Carter , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Sulieman Benn , Jerome Taylor South Africa have won the toss and have opted to bat Hello and welcome to the first ODI between South Africa and the West Indies. Toss and teams coming up in a short while. Stay tuned . Chris Gayle , who sat out in the last T20 , will also be back in the side. However , Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard , who were overlooked for the World Cup squad , are not part of the ODI series squad as well. The West Indies will be led by a new captain in Jason Holder . South Africa managed to win the last T20I , but Chris Gayle 's sheer dominance during the first two games showed us that the Proteas are not invincible. The hosts will definitely be boosted by the return of their star players. AB de Villiers , Dale Steyn , Hashim Amla , Morne Morkel and Vernon Philander were all absent during the T20Is , but will play the ODI series. JP Duminy , who has recovered from his knee injury and participated in the last T20I , is all set to feature in the ODIs too . After a 2-0 drubbing in the Test series , West Indies came back strongly to lift the T20I series 2-1. Their charge was led by their opening batsman Chris Gayle , who was belligerent with the bat. He played the first two T20Is and registered scores of 77 and 90 , thrashing the Proteas bowlers to all parts of the park . Preview : South Africa and West Indies square up in five one-day internationals , starting at Kingsmead on Friday , in their final round of competitive matches before the World Cup starts in Australia and New Zealand next month. South Africa will be fielding their World Cup squad , with the exception of injured wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock , who has been replaced for the series by veteran Morne van Wyk . West Indies announced their one-day squad for South Africa late last year and the World Cup squad , announced last week , has three changes. Darren Bravo , Sunil Narine and Kemar Roach will be playing in the World Cup but are not in South Africa. Three players named for the South African series , Carlos Brathwaite , Narsingh Deonarine and Leon Johnson , will not be going to the World Cup . AB de Villiers had a rocky start as South African one-day captain after being appointed in 2011 but the side showed major improvement last year , briefly rising to top place in the International Cricket Council rankings before suffering a 4-1 defeat in a series in Australia late last year. Missing from the Australian series was JP Duminy , a reliable batsman and off-spin bowler , and South Africa 's lack of a quality all-rounder was exposed , with their lower order batsmen struggling to maintain an acceptable scoring rate in the closing overs. Duminy made his return to action after a knee injury in the final Twenty20 international against the West Indies on Wednesday and will give the side a better balance . Outclassed in the Test series , West Indies dominated the first two Twenty20 internationals before losing the third with a weakened team. They are likely to be competitive against South Africa , although the hosts will start favourites with star players De Villiers , Hashim Amla , Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel back in action after missing the Twenty20 games . Like South Africa , the West Indies selected a different captain for each format on the tour. All-rounder Jason Holder will lead the one-day side and will also be in charge for the World Cup . Teams : West Indies ( From ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Lendl Simmons , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Narsingh Deonarine , Jason Holder ( c ) , Jerome Taylor , Sulieman Benn , Leon Johnson , Sheldon Cottrell , Jonathan Carter , Carlos Brathwaite South Africa ( From ) : Morne van Wyk ( w ) , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( c ) , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Imran Tahir , Morne Morkel , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Kyle Abbott , Farhaan Behardien Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
