Graphs So , that 's it from this game. We can expect changes in the South African team for the next game as de Villiers pointed out in the post-match presentation. Join us for the fourth ODI on Sunday and do n't forget that it is a day game. Many thanks for your company folks. Until next time , take care . Philander : 'It is a great thing to do well for the team. I think you are always in the game and you need the ball to nip more and I did that today. We ( him and Tahir ) were complimenting each other really well. Morne bowled well with the new ball. Tahir is a good limited overs bowler and he was no different today. We are putting in the hard work and our confidence is high. We feed each other with that confidence and the boys are all working well. Hopefully , we can win the next one as well. They are a dangerous team and probably , they will come right at some point. They are a good side and we have to respect them for that.' Vernon Philander is the Man of the Match for his figures of 3/27 AB de Villiers : 'Very very happy with the performance again. You got to win three in a row to win the World Cup. We did that today , winning three in a row. They lost a few quick wickets and anything above 200 would have been a good score. Even I have been a part of a losing side a number of times. So , they need to pick themselves up. West Indies are a world class team and have world class players. We will try to win the next two games. Very happy with Philander 's performance , it was not his type of wicket and he did really well. Tahir also bowled really well. We want to give everyone a go and it will be a good chance for all the 15 players in the World Cup squad. Not that I know of and everyone is healthy ( on any injury concerns ) .' Jason Holder : 'We just batted poorly. There 's no way to sum it up. We kept losing wickets there. Very disappointed. We did n't make amends in this game. We have got a few senior players , who have not stepped up so far. We want to finish well in the last two games and make amends. We just have to bat well and our bowling needs to improve as well. The wicket was a bit slow. Once you got settled , you could bat well. The South Africans did that. We lost the Test series , made amends in the T20Is and now back to that again. I can promise an improved performance in the last two games.' With such a low total on the board , a South African win looked inevitable. They came out to bat and lost Rossouw just before the supper break. Since then , du Plessis and Amla batted brilliantly and made sure that there were no more hiccups. du Plessis was a little slow to start off , but picked up his scoring rate and registered his 12th ODI fifty. Amla 's amazing form with the bat continued as he registered his 3rd consecutive 50-plus score in the series. Eventually , they took South Africa over the line in the 25th over. Stay tuned for the presentation . It has been a very dominating performance from the South Africans. They were brilliant with the ball and never let any batsman settle. Regular wickets meant that the West Indies were bowled out for a meagre 122 , their second lowest total against South Africa in ODIs. Everyone bowled well for South Africa. Tahir picked up 4 wickets , Philander took 3 and Steyn took 2. However , you ca n't forget Morne Morkel as well , he kept the other end tight and took the wicket of Russell . Amla and du Plessis congratulate each other and the players shake hands as they walk off the field . 24.4 Gayle to Amla , FOUR , South Africa take an unassailable 3-0 lead with this boundary , it was short and on leg , Amla hangs on the back foot and pulls it to the fine leg fence 24.3 Gayle to Amla , no run , flatter just outside off , Amla punches it to short cover 24.2 Gayle to du Plessis , 1 run , loopy slowish delivery on middle and leg , du Plessis works it to deep square leg 24.1 Gayle to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , du Plessis defends it into the on-side Chris Gayle , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 23.6 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 1 run , du Plessis brings up his 12th ODI fifty , it was fuller and outside off , du Plessis drives it to mid-off and sets off for a single , Benn at mid-off picks it and has a shy at the stumps , but du Plessis was well in 23.5 Brathwaite to du Plessis , no run , length delivery on off , du Plessis gets right behind the line and blocks it solidly 23.4 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Amla hangs back and dabs it to third man after opening the face of the bat 23.3 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 1 run , straying on the pads , du Plessis glances it to fine leg for a single 23.2 Brathwaite to du Plessis , FOUR , too slow , too short and too wide , du Plessis has a lot of time to go on the back foot and he pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence with ease 23.1 Brathwaite to du Plessis , no run , fullish delivery on off , du Plessis jams the drive to mid-on 22.6 Benn to Amla , no run , tossed up on the stumps , Amla presses forward and dead-bats it 22.5 Benn to Amla , no run , floated up on middle stump line , Amla bunts it towards mid-on 22.4 Benn to Amla , 2 runs , shortish outside off , Amla goes deep in the crease and cuts it to deep backward point , the sweeper runs to his left and stops the ball , the batsmen take a couple 22.3 Benn to Amla , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Amla leans forward and defends 22.2 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , floated up on the pads , du Plessis clips it to deep mid-wicket for a single 22.1 Benn to Amla , 1 run , flatter outside off , Amla punches it to sweeper cover and gets to the other end 21.6 Brathwaite to du Plessis , no run , full toss outside off , du Plessis pushes it to mid-off 21.5 Brathwaite to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , dabbed to backward point 21.4 Brathwaite to du Plessis , FOUR , dropped ! du Plessis survives another chance and this time Taylor is the culprit. It was banged in short and at the batsman , du Plessis top-edges the pull , Taylor from fine leg runs to his left , puts in the dive to catch the ball and floors it , he got a hand on it though and to make matters worse , the ball trickles away to the fence 21.3 Brathwaite to du Plessis , no run , slightly back of a length delivery on the stumps , du Plessis punches it to mid-off 21.2 Brathwaite to du Plessis , no run , length delivery on off and middle , du Plessis bunts it to mid-on 21.1 Brathwaite to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , du Plessis punches it into the off-side 20.6 Benn to Amla , FOUR , great batting from Amla , this is his 3rd consecutive 50-plus score in this series and his 27th ODI fifty. It was another flatter delivery from Benn , Amla punches it through the covers and the ball runs away to the fence in no time , super batting from Amla 20.5 Benn to Amla , FOUR , tossed up on off , Amla leans forward and lofts it inside-out for a magnificent boundary 20.4 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , on the pads , du Plessis stays inside the crease and turns it past square leg 20.3 Benn to du Plessis , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , du Plessis defends it to the right of the bowler 20.2 Benn to Amla , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Amla cuts it towards sweeper cover and gets to the other end 20.1 Benn to du Plessis , 1 run , flatter outside off , du Plessis hangs on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover Sulieman Benn [ 1.0-0-8-0 ] is back into the attack A slip in place for Benn 19.6 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , du Plessis pulls it behind square and he will keep the strike 19.5 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 2 runs , straying on the pads , du Plessis nurdles it to fine leg , good running ensures the batsmen come back for the second before the ball is hunted down 19.4 Brathwaite to du Plessis , no run , length delivery on off and middle , du Plessis bunts it towards mid-on 19.3 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Amla waits in the crease and dabs it to third man 19.2 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 3 runs , dropped ! That is a poor , poor effort from the tall man Benn , it was the slower one from Brathwaite , du Plessis gives the charge and looks to loft it over mid-off , he does n't get the required elevation and luckily for du Plessis , Benn at mid-off completely misjudges the height on that one and jumps way too early , can only get his right hand on it , the ball runs away towards long-off and the batsmen take three 19.1 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 2 runs , back of a length delivery just outside off , du Plessis punches it through the covers off the back foot , the fielder from cover-point gives chase and hauls the ball back in before the boundary , the batsmen take two 18.6 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , 1 run , angling in on the pads , du Plessis flicks it towards deep backward square leg , he will keep the strike 18.5 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , 2 runs , good running between the wickets , it was a length ball on middle stump line , du Plessis works it behind square and comes back for the second with ease 18.4 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , slower ball just outside off , du Plessis bunts it to short cover 18.3 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , fuller delivery on off stump line , du Plessis leans forward and drives it to mid-on 18.2 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , FOUR , that 's a great shot from Faf as he jabs the pull to the deep backward square leg fence , the ball just raced away to the fence in no time 18.1 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , du Plessis hops and punches it towards backward point with an angular bat 17.6 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 1 run , on a good length and on off stump line , du Plessis turns it to deep square leg for a single , this run also brings up the 50-run partnership between these two 17.5 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Amla works it to fine leg off the back foot 17.4 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 1 run , length delivery outside off , du Plessis opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 17.3 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , on the pads once again , Amla jumps in the crease and flicks it behind square for another single 17.2 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , du Plessis waits inside the crease and runs it down to third man after opening the face of the bat 17.1 Brathwaite to Amla , leg byes , 1 run , angling into the pads , Amla fails to clip it fine , the ball takes the pad and runs away fine , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 16.6 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , slower ball outside off , du Plessis waits for it and cuts it towards point 16.6 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , wide , banged in short and way over the batsman 's head , du Plessis ducks under it and the umpire calls it a wide 16.5 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , FOUR , just short of a good length and outside off , du Plessis hammers it through the covers for a boundary , his right hand came off the bat while playing the shot , but it still reached the fence in a very short time 16.4 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , du Plessis defends it into the off-side 16.3 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , leg byes , 2 runs , straying on the pads this time , du Plessis fails to clip it fine , the ball clips the pad and runs away fine , the keeper makes a half-stop with his left hand , but the batsmen have ample time to come back for two leg byes 16.2 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , FOUR , fuller in length and on the stumps , du Plessis comes down the track and drills it over the bowler , who had to duck. The ball runs away to the fence in no time 16.1 Jerome Taylor to du Plessis , no run , length delivery and another forward defensive from du Plessis , the ball dribbles away to mid-on Jerome Taylor [ 3.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Amla defends it into the off-side off the back foot 15.5 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , du Plessis hangs on the back foot and dabs it to third man after opening the face of the bat 15.4 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , length delivery on middle and leg , Amla tucks it away to fine leg and gets to the other end 15.3 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Amla defends it to short mid-wicket 15.2 Brathwaite to Amla , FOUR , too straight from Brathwaite , Amla flicks it off his pads to the deep square leg boundary , good use of the wrists there 15.1 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , length delivery around off , Amla defends it into the off-side , he was looking for a single , but Faf sends his back Carlos Brathwaite , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Brathwaite replaces Holder into the attack 14.6 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , fuller in length and on off , du Plessis works it to mid-on 14.5 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , short delivery at the batsman , Amla pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a single , he rolled his wrists over it to send it along the ground 14.4 A Russell to Amla , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Amla pushes it towards mid-on 14.3 A Russell to Amla , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Amla defends it towards the point region 14.2 A Russell to Amla , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Amla punches it to short cover 14.1 A Russell to Amla , no run , length delivery on off , Amla bunts it past the bowler , who dives full length to his right to try and stop the ball , he ca n't get a hand and the ball rolls away towards mid-on 13.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , just short of a good length delivery on the stumps , du Plessis defends it to silly mid-on 13.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , slower ball outside off , du Plessis defends it to backward point 13.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , du Plessis moves across and clips it to mid-on off the inside half of the bat The drizzle is back , but the action is going to continue for now 13.3 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , full and on leg , Amla tickles it to fine leg 13.2 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , short delivery on leg stump line , du Plessis swivels and checks his pull , the ball rolls away towards fine leg and the batsmen cross over 13.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , slightly fuller and on off , du Plessis stays in the crease and defends it towards backward point 12.6 A Russell to Amla , no run , bumper from Russell outside off , Amla drops his wrists and lets it go 12.5 A Russell to Amla , no run , length delivery outside off , Amla flashes hard at it , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 12.4 A Russell to du Plessis , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , du Plessis pulls and almost hit it straight to Carter at deep square leg , luckily for du Plessis , the ball bounces just short of the diving fielder and the batsmen take a single 12.3 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , just short of a good length and on off , du Plessis gets behind the line and blocks it into the off-side 12.2 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , length delivery outside off , du Plessis punches it straight to short cover 12.1 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , angling in on leg , du Plessis fails to work it into the leg-side , gets hit on the pad , but the ball was going down leg 11.6 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , fuller in length and on leg , du Plessis clips it to fine leg and he will keep the strike 11.5 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , too straight from Holder , Amla hops in the crease and nurdles it towards fine leg for another run 11.4 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , length delivery outside off , du Plessis waits on the back foot and dabs it to third man after opening the face of the bat 11.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , length delivery on off and middle , du Plessis defends it towards short mid-wicket 11.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , du Plessis taps it towards backward point after opening the face of the bat 11.1 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Amla jumps in the crease and works it past square leg for a single 10.6 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , like the action replay of the last delivery , du Plessis fails to work this length delivery on leg into the on-side and is hit on the pad , the West Indians do n't appeal though this time 10.5 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , angling in on leg , du Plessis fails it clip it into the on-side , wears it on his pad , there was an appeal , but the ball was going down leg 10.4 A Russell to du Plessis , 2 runs , length delivery on middle stump line , du Plessis works it away behind square on the on-side , good running ensures that the batsmen take the second run easily 10.4 A Russell to du Plessis , wide , banged in short and outside off , du Plessis lets it go and the umpire calls it a wide for height 10.3 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , slightly back of a length delivery just outside off , du Plessis defends it into the off-side off the back foot 10.2 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Amla whips it to deep square leg and gets to the other end 10.1 A Russell to Amla , FOUR , Amla starts off with a boundary after the break , it was a back of a length delivery outside off , Amla goes on the back foot and punches it square of the wicket , the ball runs away to the fence 9.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , du Plessis shouts 'No , no ' after blocking this back of a length delivery into the off-side with an angular bat 9.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of length delivery outside off , du Plessis stands tall and blocks it to mid-off 9.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , du Plessis hangs back and punches it to cover 9.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , back of a length delivery angling in on off , du Plessis stays inside the crease and defends it into the off-side 9.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , in the channel outside off , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go 9.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and just outside off , du Plessis leans forward and blocks it to short cover Jason Holder will start the proceedings after the supper break. A catching leg gully and a short cover in place. There is a little delay as the wind is strong and the bails are repeatedly falling over . Let 's hope that the weather clears up in the next few overs . The umpires have a discussion and decide that they will start for now . Welcome back. The players are making their way out to the middle. It is drizzling right now , but the players are still walking out . That will be the supper break. South Africa have started strongly , even though they lost Rossouw. Amla has continued his fine form from the previous two games and has looked fluent. Faf is giving him company , with only 85 more needed , it should not be a problem for this strong batting line-up. West Indies ' bowlers do not look like getting a wicket and there is no intent in the field , apart from skipper Holder. Join us back for the second part of the run-chase in few minutes.. . 8.6 A Russell to du Plessis , 1 run , touch short and on off , du Plessis goes back and pulls , Holder at short mid-wicket gets a hand and takes the pace off the ball 8.5 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , too full and around off , du Plessis squeezes it with an open bat face to point 8.4 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , pitched up outside off , du Plessis leans into the drive , hits it straight to short cover. Gayle fumbles , but the no run taken 8.3 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , shortens the length around off , du Plessis stands tall and punches it to cover 8.2 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , back of a length outside off , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go 8.1 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , short delivery on the stumps , du Plessis sways away from the line of the delivery 7.6 Deonarine to du Plessis , 1 run , pushed through on off , du Plessis works it down to long-on and retains strike 7.5 Deonarine to Amla , 1 run , tossed up on off , Amla wrists it along the floor to long-on 7.4 Deonarine to Amla , no run , flighted on off , Amla dead-bats it down the wicket 7.3 Deonarine to du Plessis , 1 run , keeps a tad low , du Plessis does well to bring his bat down and knock it to long-on 7.2 Deonarine to Amla , 1 run , picks it from outside off and whips it off the back foot to deep mid-wicket 7.1 Deonarine to du Plessis , 1 run , flatter and on off , du Plessis punches it to long-on Narsingh Deonarine , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 6.6 A Russell to Amla , no run , bumper to finish off the over , Amla bends down and lets the ball go through to Ramdin 6.5 A Russell to Amla , no run , punched towards short cover , where Gayle dives and makes a half stop , the batsmen do n't risk a run 6.4 A Russell to Amla , FOUR , half volley on middle and leg , Amla does not miss out on those , he leans forward and flicks past the diving short mid-wicket fielder , the timing is sweet on that 6.3 A Russell to Amla , no run , back of a length around off , Amla bunts it towards cover 6.2 A Russell to Amla , no run , again , short and plenty of width on offer , Amla cracks a cut straight to cover , he missed out there 6.1 A Russell to Amla , no run , starts off with a short of length delivery outside off , Amla looks to force it off the back foot , gets it off the inside part towards mid-on , Faf was halfway down the wicket for the single before being sent back. No harm done though Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 5.6 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , tucked away behind square for a single 5.5 J Holder to Amla , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Amla half-ducks under it and allows it to sail over him Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 5.4 J Holder to Rossouw , out Caught by Deonarine ! ! Poor shot ! Rossouw is disappointed with himself , he shakes his head as he walks back to the pavilion. It was a harmless short delivery , Rossouw fetches it from outside off , ends up splicing it high in the air towards mid-off , Deonarine settles under it and takes it calmly. Rossouw c Deonarine b J Holder 7 ( 14 ) [ 4s-1 ] J Holder to Rossouw , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.3 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , short of length on off , Rossouw camps back and punches it to mid-off Changes to over the wicket 5.2 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , back of a length on off , Rossouw gets right behind the line and defends it to cover 5.1 J Holder to Rossouw , FOUR , Rossouw joins in ! It was not a bad delivery , on a length just outside off , Rossouw drives it on the up past the diving cover fielder , it was all hand-eye coordination from the opener 4.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , simply superb ! Amla makes batting look so easy. It was slightly short and there was a bit of width as well , Amla stands tall and punches it beautifully through the extra cover region 4.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , fuller and close to off , Amla goes for the drive , the bat turns in his hands and the ball dribbles off the inside half to mid-on 4.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , shortens the length around off , knocked off the back foot to cover 4.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , FOUR , poor delivery and Taylor pays the price for it , slides it onto the pads , Amla helps it on the way with a nice glance , the fielder at fine leg was inside the cicle 4.2 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , excellent bit of work from the West Indian captain , Amla whips the short of length delivery to the right of short mid-wicket , Holder dives and makes a fine stop , he also has a shy at the stumps. It would have been close had he hit , as Amla had taken a couple of steps down the pitch 4.1 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Amla plays a free flowing punch to mid-off , straight to the fielder 3.6 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , bit of extra bounce on this occasion , Rossouw is surprised by that , he takes his bottom hand of the bat and fends it to the on-side 3.5 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , attacking the stumps is Holder , Rossouw stays in the crease and bunts it in front of mid-on 3.4 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , tad short in length , Rossouw toe-ends the punch to cover , shouts a loud " no " to Amla 3.3 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , back of a length on off , Amla goes for the whip to the leg-side , gets an inside edge onto the thigh and the ball drops into the off-side 3.2 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , Holder also comes round the wicket , slanted in , Rossouw wrists it wide of mid-on , he called for two but has to settle with one 3.1 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , short of length just outside off , Amla jumps up and punches it towards cover , he takes off for a risky single and would have been short had the fielder hit the timber at the non-striker 's end Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 2.6 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , no run , on a length close to off , Rossouw defends it solidly with bat and pad close together 2.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , there is a bit of movement for Taylor , but the length is short , Amla works it off the inside part to deep square leg 2.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , keeps it back of a length on off , Amla punches it down the wicket , Taylor bends down and stops the ball 2.3 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , half hearted appeal for lbw , tails back in from short of length , Amla jumps up and fails to nail the clip , is struck above the knee roll. The ball was clearly going over the stumps 2.2 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Rossouw punches it to mid-off and takes off immediately for the single , makes it easily even though there was a direct hit 2.1 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , no run , Taylor goes round the wicket , angles it into the batsman , Rossouw gets nicely behind it and defends it to cover 1.6 Benn to Amla , 2 runs , flighted outside off , Amla leans into the drive , the short cover fielder got a hand and took the pace off the ball. That was also heading towards the rope otherwise 1.5 Benn to Amla , no run , arm-ball that skids on , Amla is beaten for pace as he misses the whip through the leg-side , is struck on the pad but it was heading down leg 1.4 Benn to Amla , no run , much better from Benn , slower and on off , Amla presses forward and defends it to the off-side 1.3 Benn to Amla , FOUR , top shot ! Those fast hands come into effect. Quicker and outside off , the length is tad short , Amla plays the square drive through the packed off-side field , the timing takes it to the fence 1.2 Benn to Amla , no run , fraction short and outside off , Amla cuts it straight to the backward point fielder 1.1 Benn to Amla , 2 runs , flatter delivery around off , Amla goes back and punches it to the left of mid-off , Holder gives chase and keeps it down to two Sulieman Benn , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack West Indies starting off with the spin. Benn to take the other new ball. He has a slip and short mid-wicket in place. . 0.6 Jerome Taylor to Amla , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Amla digs it out to the on-side and opens his account. There was no one at mid-wicket 0.5 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , again , the length is slightly short and on off , Amla punches and picks out mid-on 0.4 Jerome Taylor to Amla , no run , short of length on off , Amla goes back and pats it in front of the short mid-wicket fielder 0.3 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Rossouw eases the punch between cover and point 0.2 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , no run , on a length close to off , Rossouw hangs back and knocks it to mid-off 0.1 Jerome Taylor to Rossouw , no run , good length ball on off , Rossouw prefers to stay in the crease and bunts it in front of cover Rossouw and Amla are at the crease. Rossouw is on strike. Jerome Taylor will open the attack The players are out in the centre with Rossouw taking strike against Taylor. He has just the one slip in place. The other catcher is at short mid-wicket. . Now upto the Proteas ' batsmen to knock off these runs and take an unassailable 3-0 lead in the series. The players will be out soon as the innings was completed well before the stipulated close time. Stay tuned ! South Africa were brilliant with the ball. Philander got the ball to move both ways early on and picked up three wickets. Steyn was in on the act , he scalped two and reached 150 wickets in ODIs. However , it was Imran Tahir who was the pick of the bowlers. The wily leg-spinner picked up four wickets and bamboozled the batsmen with his variation . This is the third lowest score at Buffalo Park and second lowest for West Indies against South Africa. It was a poor performance with the bat from West Indies , that is putting it mildly. Smith got a peach at the start , but apart from that , there were some reckless shots played by the batsmen. Gayle chased a wide one , Samuels miscued Tahir and Russell was the worst among all. He went for a wild slog and lost his leg stump. If not for the 26-run last wicket partnership , the total would have been well below 100 . 33.4 Tahir to Benn , out Stumped ! ! Another batsmen throws it away ! Ian Bishop on air says , " I just can not understand " . Another wrong 'un from Tahir , Benn has had enough of missing the sweep shot , he shimmies down the track and is beaten by the drift and turn away , easy stumping for ABD. Benn st de Villiers b Tahir 18 ( 19 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Tahir to Benn , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 33.3 Tahir to Benn , no run , tossed up and turns back in , Benn goes on his knee , misses the sweep again and this time it was very close to kissing the off-pole 33.2 Tahir to Benn , no run , floated up from round the wicket , Benn kneels down and fails to nail the sweep 33.1 Tahir to J Holder , 1 run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Holder is drawn into the drive , goes off the outside half to sweeper cover. It was in the air as well , but Holder got it in the gap Imran Tahir [ 7.0-0-27-3 ] is back into the attack 32.6 M Morkel to J Holder , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Holder steers it to third man with an angled bat 32.5 M Morkel to Benn , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Benn rocks back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , nicely played as he rolled his wrists on top of the ball 32.4 M Morkel to Benn , 2 runs , good length ball close to off , Benn drives and gets a thickish outside edge , the ball squirts past a diving backward point fielder 32.3 M Morkel to Benn , no run , shortens the length , Benn hangs back in the crease and taps it in front of cover 32.2 M Morkel to Benn , no run , slanted across the left-hander , Benn flays at it away from the body , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 32.1 M Morkel to J Holder , 1 run , back of a length on off , Holder shuffles across and tucks it towards deep mid-wicket , he wanted two but Benn was not keen Morne Morkel [ 6.0-0-21-1 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Philander to Benn , no run , shortens the length on off , Benn stands up and drops it to the on-side 31.5 Philander to Benn , SIX , monster hit ! It is out of the ground and the umpires have called for a spare ball. Charges down the wicket , converts it into a length delivery and hammers it long , well over the long-on rope 31.4 Philander to Benn , no run , curls back in from a length , Benn 's feet go nowhere as he jams it onto the stumps. Philander thought he had his man 31.3 Philander to J Holder , 1 run , full and drifting onto the pads , Holder stays inside the line and flicks it to deep backward square leg 31.2 Philander to J Holder , FOUR , banged in mid-way down the wicket at 129kph , it sat up nicely for Holder , who moved away to the leg-side and forehanded the swat over mid-on , he got enough wood for the ball to reach the fence 31.1 Philander to J Holder , no run , on a length close to off , Holder marches down the wicket giving himself some room , drags it off the inside edge onto the pad. He was looking for the drive through cover 30.6 Tahir to Benn , no run , slower and on off , it was the googly , Benn watches it carefully and defends it towards the slip fielder 30.5 Tahir to Benn , no run , pushed through outside off , Benn prods at it and is beaten 30.4 Tahir to Benn , FOUR , lovely shot ! A repeat of the first four he hit in this over. A nice loopy delivery outside off , Benn goes inside out and lofts it to deep extra cover , once again the ball goes on the bounce. Nice use of the long handle from the big man 30.3 Tahir to Benn , no run , straight roller just outside off , Benn plays for the turn and is beaten 30.2 Tahir to Benn , FOUR , that boundary brings up the 100 , wrong 'un just outside off , not sure whether Benn picked it , but he went through with the inside out loft , times it beautifully as the ball goes on the bounce to the deep extra cover fence 30.1 Tahir to Benn , no run , quicker and outside off , Benn push-drives it to cover-point with an open face 29.6 Philander to J Holder , no run , almost ! Back of a length outside off , Holder looks to force it off the back foot , the ball keeps a tad low and squirts off the inside edge. It was not far away from the stumps 29.5 Philander to Benn , 1 run , on a length close to off , Benn hangs back and gets an outside wide of the slip fielder 29.4 Philander to Benn , no run , good length ball on off , Benn blocks it down the wicket 29.3 Philander to Benn , no run , fuller and on off , Benn defends it off the outer half down the wicket Sulieman Benn , left handed bat , comes to the crease 29.2 Philander to Jerome Taylor , out Lbw ! ! That looked dead ! You ca n't get easier decisions than that. The ball was hitting the middle of middle stump. The nip-backer from Vern , skids on and hurries onto Taylor , who is stuck in the crease and is rapped on the back pad. He was simply beaten for pace. Jerome Taylor lbw b Philander 0 ( 2 ) Philander to Jerome Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 29.1 Philander to J Holder , 1 run , tad too straight , on middle stump , Holder gets inside the line and clips it to deep mid-wicket This is interesting ! Batting PP has been taken . 28.6 Tahir to Jerome Taylor , no run , nice loopy leg-break , Taylor leans forward and drops it in front of cover , wants a single but Holder is not interested Jerome Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 28.5 Tahir to Brathwaite , out Lbw ! ! Top call from ABD ! Tahir was uncertain whether to go for the review or not , but his captain wanted to go for it. It was another wrong 'un , Brathwaite had no clue about it , he prods forward and misses the forward defensive , is struck in front of off and would have gone onto hit leg-stump. Umpire Cloete thought the impact was outside off , but it was not to be. Brathwaite lbw b Tahir 4 ( 10 ) Tahir to Brathwaite , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! South Africa are reviewing an LBW call. Tahir 's front foot is fine. No bat involved. It is crashing into leg-stump. OUT ! 28.4 Tahir to Brathwaite , no run , driven to the right of cover , no timing on that 28.3 Tahir to Brathwaite , no run , flighted on leg-stump , Brathwaite kneels down and fails to connect with the sweep , the ball goes off the pad , it also takes a deflection from back of the bat and drops just in front of slip 28.2 Tahir to Brathwaite , no run , googly that turns back in from outside off , Brathwaite leans forward and misses the defence , the impact was outside off 28.1 Tahir to J Holder , 1 run , tossed up on off , Holder eases it square of the wicket with an open face Imran Tahir [ 5.0-0-18-2 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Philander to J Holder , 1 run , drags the length back , Holder looks to pull , gets an inside edge onto the thigh pad and the ball dribbles behind square 27.5 Philander to J Holder , no run , again , tight line from Vern , Holder presses it to cover after getting a good stride forward 27.4 Philander to J Holder , FOUR , lovely shot ! It was on a length and on the fourth stump line , Holder shuffles across after walking down the wicket , he clips it from front of his pads and hits the gap between mid-wicket and mid-on 27.3 Philander to J Holder , no run , jags back outside off , Holder has a feel for it away from the body before pulling the bat inside the line. He was certainly beaten there 27.2 Philander to J Holder , no run , pitched up and straightens , Holder drives it with laden feet to mid-off , it was more off the outside part of the bat 27.1 Philander to J Holder , no run , good length ball on off , it holds its line , Holder plays a loose drive away from the body , the ball squirts off the inside edge to mid-wicket Vernon Philander [ 5.0-2-9-2 ] is back into the attack 26.6 M Morkel to J Holder , 1 run , angled in on off and middle , Holder tucks it to the right of mid-wicket and sets off 26.5 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , nip-backer from short of length , Holder stays rooted to the crease and misses the flick , the ball strikes him on the inner thigh 26.4 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , the line is well outside off , Holder brings his bat inside the line and lets it go 26.3 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , shortish and well wide of off , Holder leaves it alone. Practises a cut shot after letting the ball pass 26.2 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , on a length just outside off , Holder is not interested in playing that 26.1 M Morkel to J Holder , no run , back of a length on off , Holder is half-forward and defending to cover 25.6 Tahir to Brathwaite , no run , tossed up close to off , Brathwaite presses forward and blocks 25.5 Tahir to J Holder , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Holder goes back and punches it wide of mid-on , Morne dives and does not allow the ball to go any further 25.4 Tahir to J Holder , no run , flighted around off , Holder pushes it into the off-side 25.3 Tahir to J Holder , no run , stifled appeal for lbw , it was heading down leg though. It was a googly on middle and leg , Holder misses the forward defensive and is rapped on the pads. South Africa do n't bother to take the review Jason Holder , right handed bat , comes to the crease 25.2 Tahir to J Carter , out Lbw ! ! West Indies slip further ! Carter was slightly unlucky there as the ball was just kissing the leg-stump. It was touch short and turning into the batsman , Carter goes deep in the crease and looks to pull , he misses and is struck on the back thigh , Tahir and ABD went up straightaway and S Ravi obliged. Carter had a chat with his partner and took the review. The Hawk-Eye made sure that the onfield calls stays. J Carter lbw b Tahir 18 ( 35 ) [ 6s-1 ] Tahir to J Carter , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Carter has reviewed an LBW decision. S Ravi was quick to raise his finger. No issues with the front foot. The ball hit him on the back thigh. There is no inside edge. Ball is clipping the leg-stump , so the onfield call remains . 25.1 Tahir to Brathwaite , 1 run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Brathwaite eases the drive to sweeper cover 24.6 M Morkel to Brathwaite , 3 runs , fullish and coming back into middle and leg , Brathwaite leans forward and clips it between mid-wicket and mid-on. The batsmen run three and Morne is not happy with it , he kicks the non-striker 's stumps in frustration- after he was unable to flick off the bails before the batsman could reach in 24.5 M Morkel to Brathwaite , no run , length delivery on off , Brathwaite defends it into the off-side towards point 24.4 M Morkel to Brathwaite , no run , back of a length and coming back in , Brathwaite manages to defend it back 24.3 M Morkel to Brathwaite , no run , banged in short this time ! Brathwaite does well to get out of the way , that was a well directed bouncer from Morne Carlos Brathwaite , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.2 M Morkel to A Russell , out Bowled ! ! Six down and West Indies are yet to reach triple figures ! It was a length delivery from Morne that jags back in , Russell backs away , clears his front leg and looks to whack it into the on-side , misses it completely and the ball hits top of the leg-stump. A Russell b M Morkel 16 ( 25 ) [ 4s-2 ] M Morkel to A Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 24.1 M Morkel to A Russell , no run , good start by Morne ! It was a good length ball shaping away , Russell pokes at it listlessly and gets beaten Morne Morkel [ 4.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Tahir to J Carter , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 23.5 Tahir to J Carter , SIX , fantastic by Carter ! It was a full delivery from Tahir , Carter picked it up well and slogs it over the deep mid-wicket fence 23.4 Tahir to J Carter , no run , flighted outside off , Carter lunges forward to defend , gets an inside edge onto the pads 23.3 Tahir to A Russell , 1 run , flighted on middle , Russell clears his front leg and drives it to long-on 23.2 Tahir to J Carter , 1 run , drifts it on leg , Carter gets down and sweeps it to fine leg 23.1 Tahir to J Carter , 2 runs , outside off , Carter gets back and guides it with an open bat face to third man , Rossouw fields it well near the rope 22.6 Steyn to A Russell , no run , fullish on off , Russell gets forward and defends it down the track towards the bowler 22.5 Steyn to A Russell , no run , Russell pokes his bat at an outswinger , the ball just about beats the outside edge and goes through 22.4 Steyn to A Russell , FOUR , fuller length and outside off , Russell opens the face of the bat and steers it with soft hands to third man between the keeper and Amla at first slip , who dived to his left but did not get to the ball 22.3 Steyn to A Russell , FOUR , powerful shot ! It was a short one from Steyn , Russell swivels back , gets into position quickly and muscles the pull between mid-wicket and mid-on for a boundary 22.2 Steyn to A Russell , no run , banged in short on the stumps , Russell ducks underneath it 22.1 Steyn to A Russell , 2 runs , touch back of a length and wide of off , Russell goes on the back foot and punches it powerfully past the diving cover fielder 21.6 Tahir to J Carter , no run , tough caught behind chance missed ! Carter presses forward to defend , the ball drifts in , takes the inside edge and deflects onto the pads and flies behind but it ABD is not able to hold on as it was wide of him 21.5 Tahir to J Carter , 2 runs , quicker one on middle and leg , Carter gets down and paddle sweeps it to fine leg 21.4 Tahir to J Carter , no run , lunges on the front foot and drives it to cover 21.3 Tahir to J Carter , no run , gets down on one knee and looks to sweep , misses and the ball goes straight on through to the keeper 21.2 Tahir to J Carter , no run , flighted around off , Carter lunges forward to defend , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat behind point 21.1 Tahir to J Carter , no run , floated on off , Carter blocks it off the front foot Imran Tahir [ 2.0-0-4-1 ] is back into the attack Change of ends for Tahir 20.6 Steyn to A Russell , no run , length delivery shaping back in sharply , Russell looks to work it into the on-side off the back foot , gets an inside edge onto the pads 20.5 Steyn to J Carter , 1 run , fullish and around off , Carter gets forward and drives it to sweeper cover 20.4 Steyn to A Russell , 1 run , back of a length and around off , Russell punches it off the back foot to cover-point for a brisk single 20.3 Steyn to A Russell , no run , goes on the back foot on this back of a length delivery on middle and blocks 20.2 Steyn to A Russell , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Russell defends again 20.1 Steyn to A Russell , no run , short of a good length delivery coming back into the batsman , Russell defends Dale Steyn [ 4.0-1-9-2 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Duminy to A Russell , 1 run , super effot from Steyn at short fine leg ! He almost got to the ball there. Duminy drifts it on leg , Russell gets down and looks to sweep , gets a top-edge and flies to short fine , where Steyn dives full length to his right , gets his hands to the ball but is not able to hold on as he lands hard 19.5 Duminy to J Carter , 1 run , full on middle and off , Carter drives it to long-on 19.4 Duminy to J Carter , no run , gets forward and defends 19.3 Duminy to J Carter , no run , gets inside the line and punches it to mid-off 19.2 Duminy to A Russell , 1 run , gets deep inside the crease and punches it to long-off 19.1 Duminy to A Russell , no run , full on off , Russell defends it off the front foot Jean-Paul Duminy [ 2.0-0-8-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Tahir to A Russell , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to long-on 18.5 Tahir to A Russell , no run , stays back and guides it to backward point 18.4 Tahir to A Russell , no run , missed stumping ? It was full ball turning away from the batsman , Russell lunges forward and looks to drive , misses and the ball goes through to ABD , who fumbles a bit and is not quick to whip off the bails. However , looked like Russell dragged his back foot inside the line before ABD could get control of the ball 18.3 Tahir to A Russell , no run , full around off , Russell gets forward and defends it to cover 18.2 Tahir to A Russell , no run , leans on the front foot and defends 18.1 Tahir to A Russell , no run , wrong 'un from Tahir , Russell reaches out and drives it to cover , where the fielder dives and makes a fine stop 17.6 Behardien to J Carter , no run , backs away and looks to cut , inside edges the ball onto the pads 17.5 Behardien to A Russell , 1 run , strays it onto the pads , Russell leans forward and turns it to square leg 17.4 Behardien to A Russell , no run , length ball on middle and leg , Russell defends it with a straight bat to the right of the bowler 17.3 Behardien to J Carter , 1 run , good length delivery on middle and off , Carter gets forward and drives it to long-on 17.2 Behardien to J Carter , no run , touch back of a length on middle and off , Carter bunts it to point 17.1 Behardien to J Carter , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Carter defends 16.6 Tahir to J Carter , 1 run , flighted outside off , Carter punches it to sweeper cover Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.5 Tahir to Samuels , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! West Indies have lost half of their side with only 52 on the board ! Samuels comes charging down the track , fair bit of drift and turn for Tahir as Samuels does not get to the pitch of the ball and miscues it to long-off. Rossouw runs along the rope , maintains his balance and holds onto a fantastic catch. Samuels c Rossouw b Tahir 26 ( 38 ) [ 4s-4 ] Tahir to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.4 Tahir to J Carter , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Carter drives it to long-off for an easy single 16.3 Tahir to Samuels , 1 run , full on off , Samuels comes forward and drives it gently towards long-off 16.2 Tahir to Samuels , no run , on the leg-stump line again , Samuels remains on the front foot and turns it behind square 16.1 Tahir to Samuels , no run , flighted on the leg-stump , Samuels lunges forward and works it to square leg Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 15.6 Behardien to J Carter , no run , comes on the front foot and softly defends it into the off-side 15.5 Behardien to J Carter , no run , length ball in the channel outside off , Carter presses forward and lets that go through 15.4 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , continues to bowl it full and around off , comfortably driven by Samuels to sweeper cover 15.3 Behardien to J Carter , 1 run , full and around the off-stump , Carter drives it gently straight to mid-off 15.2 Behardien to J Carter , no run , touch fuller and just outside off , Carter presses forward and drives it to cover 15.1 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , fullish one on middle , Samuels gets forward and drills it to long-off Farhaan Behardien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. West Indies are in plenty of trouble here. They need a good partnership to bail them out and the onus lies on Samuels . 14.6 Steyn to J Carter , no run , on a length and shapes away a touch , beats the outside edge of Carter 's bat as he looks to defend off the front foot 14.5 Steyn to J Carter , no run , fullish and outside off , left alone by Carter Steyn has to pull out of his delivery stride. He is a bit annoyed at that. The umpire stopped him as Duminy at deep square leg moved before the ball was bowled 14.4 Steyn to Samuels , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Samuels opens the face of the bat and helps it to third man Something seems to be troubling Samuels. He is hopping painfully 14.3 Steyn to Samuels , no run , touch back of a length and around off , Samuels stays back and defends it behind point 14.2 Steyn to Samuels , no run , back of a length and angling in , Samuels defends it towards point 14.1 Steyn to Samuels , no run , shortish and coming back into the batsman , Samuels misses it and the ball hits him on the inner thigh 13.6 Duminy to Samuels , 1 run , on the middle-stump line , Samuels drives it off the front foot to long-on 13.5 Duminy to J Carter , 1 run , pitched up on middle , Carter gets forward and drives it to long-on 13.4 Duminy to J Carter , no run , full and just outside off , Carter gets forward and drives it to mid-off 13.3 Duminy to J Carter , no run , flighted around off , Carter presses forward and blocks 13.2 Duminy to J Carter , no run , goes on the back foot and blocks it with an angled bat 13.1 Duminy to Samuels , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-on 12.6 Steyn to J Carter , no run , short on the stumps , Carter gets back in the crease and looks to fend , the ball deflects off his glove to the off-side 12.5 Steyn to J Carter , no run , in the channel outside off , Carter lifts his bat and lets it go 12.4 Steyn to J Carter , no run , banged in short and outside off , Carter sways away from the line and lets that go through Jonathan Carter , left handed bat , comes to the crease 12.3 Steyn to Ramdin , out Bowled ! ! Oh dear ! West Indies are in deep trouble ! Chopped on by Ramdin ! It was a length delivery from Steyn that jags back in a touch , no feet movement from Ramdin as he hangs his bat at it , the ball takes the inside edge and crashes into the stumps. The ball did not rise as much as Ramdin had hoped. Ramdin b Steyn 2 ( 10 ) Steyn to Ramdin , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 12.2 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , short of a good length and around off , Ramdin defends it to short cover , finds the fielder there 12.1 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , short of length on off , Ramdin blocks it off the back foot to the left of the bowler 11.6 Duminy to Samuels , FOUR , overpitched and outside off , Samuels comes on the front foot and caresses the drive to the sweeper cover fence for his fourth boundary 11.5 Duminy to Samuels , no run , flighted delivery on off , Samuels drives it off the front foot but straight to cover 11.4 Duminy to Samuels , no run , on middle and off , Samuels comes forward and pushes it into the off-side 11.3 Duminy to Samuels , no run , presses on the front foot and defends with an angled bat towards point 11.2 Duminy to Ramdin , 1 run , flighted one on middle , Ramdin gets forward and drives it to long-on 11.1 Duminy to Ramdin , no run , round the wicket , floated on off and middle , Ramdin lunges forward and defends it to cover , wants a single but is sent back Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Spin into the attack with Duminy . 10.6 Steyn to Samuels , no run , short and outside off , Samuels gets his bat away from the line and lets that go through 10.5 Steyn to Ramdin , 1 run , short and outside off , Ramdin gets back and drags the pull to deep square leg , he has not middled it and it drops well before Behardien in the deep 10.4 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , shortish on middle and off , Ramdin is surprised by the bounce , gets back and defends 10.3 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , shortish delivery outside off , Ramdin sways away from the line and lets it go through 10.2 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , angling into the pads , Ramdin tucks it behind square on the leg-side 10.1 Steyn to Ramdin , no run , short of length and just outside off , Ramdin dabs with an open bat face behind point 9.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , gets back on this length ball and drives it to the right of the bowler 9.5 Philander to Samuels , FOUR , powerful shot ! It was a length delivery around off , Samuels stays on the back foot , takes his time and punches it to the sweeper cover fence 9.4 Philander to Samuels , no run , length delivery on middle , Samuels uses his feet and drives it to mid-on 9.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , touch back of a length and around off , Samuels punches it to cover 9.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Samuels defends 9.1 Philander to Samuels , no run , gets forward and drives this straighter delivery to mid-on Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 8.6 Steyn to Deonarine , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! 150th wicket for Steyn ! It was a short delivery from Steyn , not all that wide , Deonarine makes room to it and looks to flat-bat it , the ball takes the outside edge and flies backwards , Amla gets his hands to it at first slip but the ball bursts from his hands , ABD is quick to respond and catches it. Excellent tag team catch. Deonarine c de Villiers b Steyn 10 ( 27 ) [ 4s-2 ] Steyn to Deonarine , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 8.5 Steyn to Deonarine , no run , defends it into the on-side 8.4 Steyn to Deonarine , no run , full on off , stays on the back foot and defends it back to the bowler 8.3 Steyn to Samuels , 1 run , back of a length ball coming back in a touch , it goes off the inside half of the bat , deflects onto the pads and rolls to square leg 8.2 Steyn to Samuels , FOUR , nicely done by Samuels , a little bit of width on offer by Steyn , Samuels comes on the front foot and creams the drive to the sweeper cover fence 8.1 Steyn to Samuels , 2 runs , Samuels leans forward and works it to mid-wicket , Rossouw dives to his right and parries the ball , allows the batsmen to take a second run Dale Steyn , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 7.6 Philander to Deonarine , no run , stays on the back foot and defends just in front of point 7.5 Philander to Deonarine , no run , around off , Deonarine gets forward and knocks it to point 7.4 Philander to Samuels , 1 run , back of a length around off , Samuels punches it to cover for a brisk single , Behardien fires a quick throw at the striker 's end , he misses but Deonarine was safe anyway 7.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , gets forward to this good length ball around off and drives it to mid-on 7.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Samuels defends it into the off-side 7.1 Philander to Samuels , no run , full and onto the pads , Samuels misses the flick , muted lbw appeal but that was going down leg 6.6 M Morkel to Deonarine , 2 runs , strays this onto the pads , Deonarine is quick to tuck it through backward square leg , call for 'two ' starightaway , the throw comes in from the deep at the striker 's end , ABD whips off the bails in an instant but Deonarine was too quick for him Third umpire called for a run-out chance. Easy call for him as Deonarine is well in . 6.5 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , short of length and straighter line , Deonarine blocks it back off the front foot 6.4 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , short again , on middle and leg , Deonarine hops inside the crease and works it towards short mid-wicket 6.4 M Morkel to Deonarine , wide , shortish and sliding down leg , Deonarine does not connect with the glance as the ball was too wide 6.3 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , short of length and angling in on middle and leg , Deonarine deftly turns it in front of square on the leg-side 6.2 M Morkel to Deonarine , FOUR , brilliant shot ! Deonarine comes down the track , takes the ball on full and drills it uppishly past the bowler to the long-off fence 6.1 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , short on middle and leg , Deonarine gets back and defends it to the right of the bowler 5.6 Philander to Samuels , no run , straighter one from Philander , Samuels gets forward and drives it firmly to mid-on 5.5 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length on off , Samuels bunts it towards cover Steyn is warming up. Looks like he is coming on to bowl soon . 5.4 Philander to Samuels , no run , short of a good length around off , Samuels dabs it with an open bat face towards the slip cordon 5.3 Philander to Samuels , no run , short of length on middle , Samuels stays back and blocks it down it down the pitch 5.2 Philander to Samuels , no run , back of a length and coming back in a touch , Samuels defends it off the back foot 5.1 Philander to Samuels , no run , Philander is getting some good swing here ! Samuels looks to push this length ball with laden feet , the ball beats the outside edge of his bat and goes through to the keeper 4.6 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , length ball on off , Deonarine defends it into the off-side 4.5 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , outside off , left alone by Deonarine 4.4 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , another short one banged onto the body , Deonarine takes his bottom hand off the bat as the ball hits him on the arm as he looks to fend 4.3 M Morkel to Deonarine , leg byes , FOUR , shortish and angling into the batsman , Deonarine gets back and looks to work into the on-side , misses and the ball deflects off his body and flies past the slips into the third man fence 4.2 M Morkel to Deonarine , FOUR , cracking shot to get off the mark ! It was a slightly back of a length delivery just outside off , Deonarine punches this authoritatively off the back foot to the deep point fence 4.1 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , teasing line outside off , Deonarine covers the line and shoulders arms to it 3.6 Philander to Samuels , FOUR , lovely shot from Samuels ! He leans onto the front foot to this fuller length ball around off and creams the drive to the deep extra cover fence past the diving cover fielder , excellent placement 3.5 Philander to Samuels , no run , good length and moving in a touch from outside off , Samuels bunts it just in front of point Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.4 Philander to Gayle , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Huge huge wicket for South Africa ! Gayle fails yet again. It was a good length delivery from Philander , Gayle is lured onto the front foot as he attempts to drive this into the off-side , the ball swings away enough to nick the outside edge and travels into the safe hands of ABD behind the stumps. Gayle c de Villiers b Philander 1 ( 5 ) Philander to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.3 Philander to Gayle , no run , back of a length on middle , Gayle presents the full face of the bat and punches it back to the bowler 3.2 Philander to Gayle , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Gayle presses his bat in front of his pads and blocks 3.1 Philander to Gayle , no run , on a length and outside off , Gayle lifts his bat and lets it go 2.6 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Deonarine gets forward and pushes at it , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat and rolls towards the second slip , falls well short of the man there 2.5 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , keeps the length short and in the channel around off , left alone comfortably 2.4 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , in the channel outside off , left alone by Deonarine 2.3 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , good leave from Deonarine ! It was a short of length delivery just moving away from the batsman , Deonarine gets back in the crease and lets it go through 2.2 M Morkel to Deonarine , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Deonarine defends it to short cover off the back foot 2.1 M Morkel to Gayle , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , Gayle stays back and defends it to cover for a quick single , gets off the mark on the first ball he faces 1.6 Philander to Deonarine , no run , back of a length and on middle , Deonarine defends it with a straight bat towards mid-off 1.5 Philander to Deonarine , no run , length ball around off , Deonarine presses forward and taps it towards point 1.4 Philander to Deonarine , no run , good length delivery closer to the off-stump , Deonarine covers the sticks and shoulders arms to it 1.3 Philander to Deonarine , no run , gets forward to this good length delivery around off and taps it into the off-side 1.2 Philander to Deonarine , no run , another beautiful ball ! Draws Deonarine on the front foot with this length ball , the batsman prods at it and is beaten by the away movement Narsingh Deonarine , left handed bat , comes to the crease 1.1 Philander to Dwayne Smith , out Caught by de Villiers ! ! Fantastic delivery from Philander ! Swing straightaway. It was a back of a length delivery from Philander , Smith is pushed back into the crease and looks to poke at it uncertainly , the ball shapes away just a touch , taking the outside edge of his bat. AB de Villiers dives forward and takes a good low catch. Dwayne Smith c de Villiers b Philander 5 ( 7 ) [ 4s-1 ] Philander to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Vernon Philander , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Philander to share the new ball duties with Morne. Just one slip for him . 0.6 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , comes on the front foot and pushes this good length delivery to cover-point , sets off for a quick single 0.5 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , good length on off , Smith knocks it behind point 0.4 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , another lbw shout but not very convincing and the umpire says no straightaway. Smith looks to work this back of a length delivery on the leg-side and misses as the ball shapes back in. That , however , was sliding down leg 0.3 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , length delivery on middle , Smith works it to short mid-wicket 0.2 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , nicely done by Smith this time ! Fuller one from Morne on middle and leg , Smith leans on the front foot and flicks it off his pads to the deep mid-wicket fence 0.1 M Morkel to Dwayne Smith , no run , a fantastic inswinger to start off by Morne , Smith is late in bringing his bat down and the ball hits him on the back pad. Big shout for lbw but not given. Height was probably the issue Dwayne Smith and Gayle are at the crease. Dwayne Smith is on strike. M Morkel will open the attack The national anthems are done and the South African players are taking their places. The West Indian openers are walking out to the middle. Morne Morkel will start proceedings. Two slips to assist him. Here we go with the first delivery.. . Teams : West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Narsingh Deonarine , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Jonathan Carter , Andre Russell , Carlos Brathwaite , Jason Holder ( c ) , Jerome Taylor , Sulieman Benn South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Rilee Rossouw , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( w/c ) , Jean-Paul Duminy , David Miller , Farhaan Behardien , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Imran Tahir , Morne Morkel Two changes for West Indies - Narsingh Deonarine replaces Leon Johnson while Carlos Brathwaite will be playing in place of Darren Sammy. South Africa are unchanged . West Indies have won the toss and have opted to bat West Indies have plenty of work to do , if they have to stay alive in the series. Chris Gayle has not yet fired in the ODIs , even though he was in-form in the T20Is. Marlon Samuels keeps getting starts , but has not yet turned it into a substantial score. Denesh Ramdin scored a fifty in the previous game and Jonathan Carter gave him good support , but it was not good enough to get them to the target. Will they make any changes to their team ? Can they stop South Africa from taking an unassailable 3-0 lead ? Hello and welcome to the third ODI at Buffalo Park. Stay tuned as the toss and teams are not far away... . It was not all about ABD though , Hashim Amla and Rilee Rossouw scored their respective tons as well. The pair were involved in a 247-run opening stand. The three batsmen helped Proteas get their highest ODI total - 439 . The bowlers then made sure that the West Indian batsmen do n't get anywhere close to the target. Dale Steyn was the pick , on a flat wicket the fast bowler ended with figures of 1/29 in his 10 overs . AB de Villiers just took the game away from West Indies in the second ODI at the Wanderers. The South African captain scored the fastest ODI hundred off 31 balls. He beat the previous best by Corey Anderson which came off 36 balls. On the way to his 149 , he set numerous other records. The knock was so special that even a brutal batsman like Chris Gayle bowed down to ABD once the innings was over . Preview : West Indies were swept away by an AB de Villiers ' special on Sunday when the South African star hammered the fastest ODI century in history to help the hosts take a 2-0 series lead at the Wanderers in Johannesburg. That historic knock left the Caribbean side bewildered and searching for answers to make a comeback in the five-match series. The third ODI in East London presents them with a chance to redeem themselves and stop the hosts from taking the series . For South Africa , a series win will be the perfect opportunity for them to search for consistency ahead of the World Cup and finding their perfect combination. With the top order in red-hot form , they will once again hope to bat the West Indies out of the game. With the pitch at Buffalo Park slated to be slower as compared to that at the Wanderers , the bowlers will come into picture and it could all boil down to who makes it tougher for the opposition batsmen to score . South Africa AB de Villiers and his team will aim to seal the series before tinkering with their playing XI. Kyle Abbott , Aaron Phangiso and Wayne Parnell , all part of the World Cup side , are yet to play a game in the series and they may have to wait once more before getting some international exposure before next month 's mega event. One area that has not been fully tested for South Africa is their lower middle order with players like JP Duminy , David Miller and Farhaan Behardien not getting a decent hit in the middle. On the bowling front , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Vernon Philander have been incisive enough and that has not allowed any pressure on Imran Tahir . West Indies The slower nature of the pitch at Buffalo Park gives the West Indies a chance to make an impact with the ball and come up with an improved performance. Sheldon Cottrell could find his way into the team after Jerome Taylor went for plenty in the de Villiers ' carnage. All the bowlers , including captain Jason Holder will have to bring their A game in order to challenge a marauding South Africa. Chris Gayle , who is without an ODI hundred since the last 14 games , could provide that catalyst with an inspirational show. Lendl Simmons could replace Leon Johnson in the top three provided he is fit. Seniors like Dwayne Smith and Marlon Samuels will eye a big knock . Stats South Africa have won 12 out of 16 ODIs in East London. West Indies have lost their only ODI at Buffalo Park , by 43 runs in 1999 . Teams : West Indies ( From ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Leon Johnson , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Jonathan Carter , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Sulieman Benn , Jerome Taylor , Narsingh Deonarine , Lendl Simmons , Sheldon Cottrell , Carlos Brathwaite South Africa ( From ) : Rilee Rossouw , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c/w ) , Jean-Paul Duminy , David Miller , Farhaan Behardien , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Imran Tahir , Morne Morkel , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Kyle Abbott , Morne van Wyk Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
