Graphs That 's it from this match. However , there is plenty of cricketing action coming your way. Join us for all those games. Until next time , take care and Adios ! Although , West Indies won the T20 series 2-1 , they were no match for the Proteas in Tests or ODIs. The hosts had already won the 5-match ODI series 3-0 before the visitors pulled one back , but could not sustain the same momentum as they lost the final game as well. South Africa look like a well-oiled team heading into the World Cup , while West Indies have plenty of issues to iron out before the mega event . Amla : " It has been a wonderful series. We have managed to tick off a few boxes. Rilee ( Rossouw ) is a clean striker of the ball and once he gets going it is difficult to stop him. The match was set-up for me to have some fun. It was a chance for others to get some practice , Parnell put his hand up today. I was trying to hit every ball to the boundary at the end. We have played good cricket , there were times in the series where we were put under the pressure , but did well not to repeat the mistakes that we did against Australia. Everybody is raring to go and we are waiting to get the show going. " Hashim Amla is the Man of the Series for aggregating 413 runs in the 4 matches . Rossouw : " It is very emotional for me , anyone scoring a hundred for his country will be an emotional moment. I was just batting freely and hope there are many more to come. I just take some time at the start and after that my natural game kicks in. Amla keeps me calm and backs me all the time. " Rilee Rossouw is the Man of the Match for scoring his second ODI hundred . Holder : " We just let things slip in the middle and credit to South Africa for capitalizing. I have learnt a lot in the series. We had our chances in the series , but did n't seize the important moments. The batsmen did n't take responsibility , they need to bat through the innings. Very confident heading into the World Cup , Darren Bravo returns which will boost the morale. South Africa is a great country to visit and we enjoyed playing here. " Parnell was the pick of the bowlers , he finished with figures of 4/42 in his 9 overs. He was well supported by the rest of the fast bowlers. Phangiso after taking a beating in the last game , provided the crucial breakthrough of Smith and ended with 1/53. Overall , it was an all-round performance from the hosts. Stay tuned for the presentation... . Ramdin and Samuels then tried to steady the innings , but the creeping run-rate got the better of them. However , the latter finished the tour with a fifty. The hero from the previous , Russell came out attacking , but it lasted only for 12 balls. Sammy and the lower-order denied the inevitable for a while , but it was not long before South Africa sealed the game . Another comprehensive victory for the Proteas. They put the game to rest when they notched up 361 in their 42 overs , after being sent in to bat. West Indies were off to a worst possible start as Gayle went chasing the very first delivery. Deonarine and Smith then stitched a 77-run stand for the second wicket , before both went in succession . 37.4 Behardien to Sammy , out Bowled ! ! Chopped on ! South Africa win the series 4-1. It was a slower delivery outside off , Sammy looks to run it down to third man , gets an inside edge that goes back onto the stumps. Sammy b Behardien 27 ( 25 ) [ 4s-5 ] Behardien to Sammy , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 37.3 Behardien to Sammy , no run , Sammy winds up for a big one , but the length and pace does not allow him to get under it , he knocks it back to the bowler 37.3 Behardien to Sammy , wide , sprays it down leg , Sammy stays inside the line and does not bother with it 37.2 Behardien to Sammy , no run , back of a length on off , Sammy goes back and across , defends it to cover 37.1 Behardien to Sammy , 2 runs , slower delivery on the stumps , Sammy was early into the shot , gets a top-edge that clears mid-wicket , once again the shout was for two and he gets it Farhaan Behardien [ 5.0-0-37-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Kyle Abbott to Cottrell , 2 runs , pitched up just outside off , Cottrell pushes at it , gets a thickish outside edge through backward point , Sammy calls for two and gets it with ease 36.5 Kyle Abbott to Cottrell , no run , bouncer outside off , Cottrell arches back and deals with it comfortably 36.4 Kyle Abbott to Cottrell , no run , tucks this straight onto the thigh pad , the ball rolls in front of square leg 36.3 Kyle Abbott to Cottrell , no run , guides the back of a length ball to point and Sammy has some words of encouragement for his partner 36.2 Kyle Abbott to Cottrell , no run , short of length on off , Cottrell gets behind the line and blocks solidly 36.1 Kyle Abbott to Cottrell , no run , fuller and on off , Cottrell hangs back and defends it to Abbott Kyle Abbott [ 6.0-0-57-2 ] is back into the attack 35.6 de Lange to Sammy , no run , bumper to finish the over , Sammy sinks under it and allows it to sail over him 35.5 de Lange to Sammy , FOUR , banged in halfway down the wicket , Sammy backs away and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , where there are acres of space available. The ball has enough to trickle away to the fence 35.4 de Lange to Sammy , no run , drifts it down leg , Sammy whips it to fine leg and denies the single 35.3 de Lange to Sammy , no run , toe-crushing yorker , Sammy brings his bat down and jams it to the on-side , he did well to get his left boot out of the way 35.2 de Lange to Sammy , no run , pitched up around off , Sammy drives it straight to mid-off 35.2 de Lange to Sammy , wide , lifter down leg , Sammy half-ducks and evades it comfortably , wided for the line 35.1 de Lange to Sammy , no run , fraction short and outside off , Sammy cuts it towards point , where the fielder makes a fine stop 34.6 Parnell to Sammy , 1 run , fuller and on off , Sammy shuffles across and works it to deep mid-wicket , he keeps strike. Parnell finishes his spell , his figures read : 9-0-42-4 34.5 Parnell to Sammy , no run , fuller and just outside off , Sammy middles the drive , but picks out the extra cover fielder 34.4 Parnell to Sammy , FOUR , lovely shot ! Sammy once again brings those supple wrists into play , Parnell drifts one onto the pads , Sammy stays inside the line and whips it behind square , Duminy gets around but ca n't prevent the ball from reaching the fence 34.3 Parnell to Sammy , no run , short of length on off , Sammy defends solidly off the back foot 34.2 Parnell to Sammy , no run , angled across the right-hander , Sammy looks to send it into orbit , but makes contact with thin air 34.1 Parnell to Sammy , no run , back of a length on off , Sammy gets right behind the line and blocks it to the on-side The batting powerplay produced 19 runs and 3 wickets . 33.6 de Lange to Cottrell , no run , shortens the length around off , Cottrell goes fishing before bringing his bat inside the line 33.5 de Lange to Cottrell , no run , good length ball on middle and leg , Cottrell goes deep in the crease and defends to the on-side 33.5 de Lange to Cottrell , wide , bouncer down leg , Cottrell ducks under it , umpire calls it a wide for line Sheldon Cottrell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.4 de Lange to Brathwaite , out Caught by de Kock ! ! de Lange 's time to celebrate ! His first of the game and South Africa are a wicket away. A back of a length delivery just outside off , Brathwaite makes room and goes for the wild swing , gets an outside edge that carries nicely to QdK. It is his third catch of the innings. Brathwaite c de Kock b de Lange 1 ( 9 ) de Lange to Brathwaite , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.3 de Lange to Brathwaite , no run , fuller and on the stumps , Brathwaite flicks it in the air , just short of the mid-on fielder 33.2 de Lange to Brathwaite , no run , short and aimed at the body , Brathwaite gets inside the line and fends it off the glove to the left of QdK 33.1 de Lange to Sammy , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Sammy glides it off the face of the bat to third man 32.6 Parnell to Brathwaite , no run , good length ball on off , Brathwaite dead-bats it down the wicket 32.5 Parnell to Sammy , 1 run , there comes the Sammy special whip , clips this without moving his feet on the bounce to deep square leg 32.4 Parnell to Sammy , FOUR , almost a return catch , but goes wide of Parnell , Sammy drags the length delivery from outside off and hits it to the right of the bowler , the ball eludes the outstretched hand of Parnell and beats the mid-on fielder 32.3 Parnell to Sammy , FOUR , Parnell searches for the yorker , ends up dishing out a full toss , Sammy says thank you and puts it away , flicks it through vacant mid-wicket region for a boundary 32.2 Parnell to Brathwaite , 1 run , short and outside off , Brathwaite slahses it off the outside edge to third man 32.1 Parnell to Sammy , 1 run , Sammy mistimes the punch wide of extra cover , it is good enough for a single though 31.6 de Lange to Brathwaite , no run , shortens the length close to off , Brathwaite taps it to backward point , looks for a run but Sammy is not too keen 31.5 de Lange to Brathwaite , no run , Brathwaite goes for a good old fashioned slog , he is undone by the extra bounce 31.4 de Lange to Brathwaite , no run , good length ball in the channel around off , Brathwaite pokes at it and is beaten 31.3 de Lange to Sammy , 1 run , short of length on off , Sammy tucks it to square leg for a single 31.2 de Lange to Sammy , no run , low full toss which is aimed at the base of off , Sammy squeezes it back to the bowler 31.1 de Lange to Brathwaite , leg byes , 1 run , starts with one down leg , Brathwaite fails to nail the clip , the ball dribbles off the pad to square leg Marchant de Lange [ 5.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Parnell to Sammy , FOUR , dropped ! Duminy denies Parnell his fifth wicket. The bowler is not impressed and lets out a cry in frustration. Full and on the pads , Sammy flicks it in the air straight to deep square leg , JPD lost the ball in the lights , allows it to burst through him and cross the rope 30.5 Parnell to Sammy , no run , slanted across the batsman , Sammy looks to force it off the back foot , is beaten comprehensively Carlos Brathwaite , right handed bat , comes to the crease 30.4 Parnell to J Holder , out Caught by Rossouw ! ! Parnell is reaping rewards of some terrific bowling. He picks his fourth wicket and West Indies are two wickets away from another defeat. It was back of a length around off , Holder is in position to play the pull , he mistimes it completely to mid-on , where Rossouw takes an easy catch. J Holder c Rossouw b Parnell 0 ( 3 ) Parnell to J Holder , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 30.3 Parnell to J Holder , no run , on a length just outside off , Holder has a feel for it away from the body , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 30.2 Parnell to J Holder , no run , almost run-out off the first ball , drops the short of length to the right of the bowler , Parnell runs forward and bends down , picks the ball and flicks it at the stumps , Holder had to dive in to make his ground. He quickly grabs his hamstring. Hopefully , it is nothing serious. He is back up and ready to go Jason Holder , right handed bat , comes to the crease 30.1 Parnell to A Russell , out Caught by de Kock ! ! That is that ! First ball of the powerplay and South Africa have got rid of the dangerous Russell. Short and angled across the right-hander , Russell stays leg-side of the ball and tries to cut , gets a feather on the way to de Kock. Umpire Ravi had a long hard look , before raising the finger. A Russell c de Kock b Parnell 24 ( 12 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Parnell to A Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Time for the batting powerplay ! Fasten your seat belt folks , if Russell is in for these 4 overs , we are going to have plenty of entertainment. Do n't forget Sammy as well.. . 29.6 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , 1 run , back of a length on off , Russell drops it in between cover and point , retains strike 29.5 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , FOUR , what happened there ? It was a short delivery , Russell moves around in the crease , he takes his eyes off the ball , but fails to get his bat out of the way , ball takes the toe-end and goes wide of the keeper. He has a wry smile after the ball races away to the fence 29.4 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , FOUR , hammered ! Abbott misses the yorker , dishes out a fuller length delivery , Russell gets under it and drills it hard and flat to long-off. The ball hardly took off the ground 29.3 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , SIX , muscled ! That is raw power from Russell. Banged in mid-way down the wicket , Russell sets himself for that , pulls it into the crowd at deep mid-wicket. That went 20 rows back 29.2 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , no run , lifter outside off , Russell goes for ramp shot , but does n't make contact 29.1 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , FOUR , back of a length just outside off , Russell clears his front leg and forehands it over mid-off , that almost carried the distance. The fielder was inside the ring and hence it was a calculated shot Darren Sammy , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.6 Parnell to J Carter , out Caught by Kyle Abbott ! ! Second wicket of the over and West Indies are falling apart. Another short delivery that does the trick , Carter arches back and ramps it towards third man , picks out Abbott to perfection , who first lost the ball in the night sky but re-adjusted well to hang onto it. J Carter c Kyle Abbott b Parnell 0 ( 3 ) Parnell to J Carter , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 28.5 Parnell to J Carter , no run , good length ball on off , Carter defends it back to the bowler 28.4 Parnell to J Carter , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Carter lifts his bat and lets it go 28.3 Parnell to A Russell , 1 run , back of a length on off , Russell moves away and knocks it in front of mid-off 28.2 Parnell to A Russell , no run , another short delivery , Russell takes it on , but is hurried by the pace on that. The ball fizzes past the outside edge Jonathan Carter , left handed bat , comes to the crease 28.1 Parnell to Ramdin , out Caught by Amla ! ! Stunning catch by Amla ! The effort delivery from Parnell , dugs it in short and gets it to climb awkwardly , Ramdin takes his eyes off the ball and tries to fend it , the ball hits the handle and balloons to the right of mid-wicket , Amla runs across , slides and pouches it with both hands. West Indies have lost both set batsmen now. Ramdin c Amla b Parnell 40 ( 40 ) [ 4s-1 6s-2 ] Parnell to Ramdin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 27.6 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , FOUR , Russell says enough sighters and whacks this short of length delivery wide of mid-on. Infact , he flat-batted it , even though he did n't middle it the ball got him the desired result 27.5 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , no run , lifter on the stumps , Russell gets his head out of the way and lets it pass 27.4 Kyle Abbott to A Russell , no run , bumper just outside off , Russell sways back and leaves it alone Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.3 Kyle Abbott to Samuels , out Bowled ! ! Cleaned up ! Kyle Abbott is fired up and pumps his fists. The umpires check for a no-ball , the foot is on the line and the third umpire has given it in favour of the bowler. A wicket right after the break. How many times have we seen that ? It was a full delivery targeting the stumps , Samuels makes room and looks to go inside out , misses and the middle-stump is uprooted. Samuels b Kyle Abbott 50 ( 47 ) [ 4s-1 6s-4 ] Kyle Abbott to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 27.2 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , 1 run , short and on off , Ramdin pulls it in front of square for a single 27.2 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , wide , bumper down leg , easy call for the umpire 27.1 Kyle Abbott to Ramdin , no run , de Kock goes up for a caught behind , but no support from Abbott. It was on a length and outside leg , Ramdin backs away and misses the hoick , the ball brushes the back pad on the way to QdK Kyle Abbott [ 4.0-0-32-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now ! 26.6 Parnell to Ramdin , 1 run , yorker outside off , Ramdin jams it off the inside edge to fine leg , that was very close to the off-stump 26.5 Parnell to Samuels , 1 run , Samuels registers his 25th ODI fifty , his second of the series. It was on a length close to off , Samuels runs it down to third man. Ramdin walks up and congratulates his partner 26.4 Parnell to Ramdin , 1 run , fuller and on off , Ramdin heaves it off the inside part to deep square leg 26.3 Parnell to Ramdin , SIX , super shot ! It is the 25th six of the game. Parnell drops it halfway down the wicket , Ramdin pulls it off the front foot , the ball goes flat and over deep square for a maximum 26.2 Parnell to Samuels , 1 run , Parnell allows Samuels to get off strike by bowling it on the pads , the batsman nurdles it to deep square leg 26.1 Parnell to Samuels , no run , slanted across the right-hander , Samuels tries to steer it to third man , ca n't make contact 25.6 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , goes round the wicket , drifts it onto the pads , Samuels tucks it to mid-wicket and retains strike 25.5 Behardien to Samuels , FOUR , big over this for West Indies , another fuller length delivery on off , Samuels clears his front leg and hammers it over the bowler 's head , no chance for the long-off fielder to stop that 25.4 Behardien to Samuels , SIX , consecutive sixes for Samuels , this went and kissed the night sky before coming down. It was a length delivery around off , Samuels gets under it and lofts it over long-on , where a catch is dropped in the crowd 25.3 Behardien to Samuels , SIX , he gets one off the meat and it sails over the rope. Pitched up and width on offer , Samuels frees his arms and sends it sailing over deep extra cover for a maximum 25.2 Behardien to Samuels , no run , Samuels seems to have lost his timing , pulls it straight to mid-wicket , no chance for the single 25.1 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Ramdin clubs the drive on the bounce to deep extra cover Once again the umpires are changing the ball. Umpire Cloete selects one from the box and hands it to Behardien . 24.6 Parnell to Samuels , no run , on a length close to off , Samuels walks away and under edges the cut to the keeper. That was not far away from the off-pole 24.6 Parnell to Samuels , wide , poor cricket all-round , bouncer which is too high , Samuels decides to take it on , but is in no position to play the hook 24.5 Parnell to Samuels , no run , again , drops it mid-way down the wicket , Samuels inside edges the pull onto the pad , the ball rolls away to the off-side 24.4 Parnell to Samuels , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Samuels swats it straight to mid-on 24.3 Parnell to Samuels , no run , short of length on off , Samuels dabs it to backward point , he looks for a single but Ramdin says " no " 24.2 Parnell to Samuels , no run , full and angled across off , Samuels makes room , he backs away too much and ca n't connect with the inside out shot 24.1 Parnell to Ramdin , 1 run , short of length on off , Ramdin whips it to deep backward square leg Wayne Parnell [ 3.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Ramdin chops it wide of cover for a single 23.5 Behardien to Ramdin , FOUR , loose delivery and Behardien pays the price for that , rank long hop on middle and leg , Ramdin had ample time to pick his spot , he pulls it behind square for a boundary 23.4 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , dibbly-dobbly delivery outside off , Samuels drills the drive to deep extra cover 23.3 Behardien to Samuels , no run , good length ball on middle and leg , Samuels pushes it back to the bowler 23.2 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , fuller and on off , Ramdin drives it along the ground to long-off 23.1 Behardien to Ramdin , no run , short and outside off , Ramdin flashes the cut towards backward point , where Amla dives and saves a certain boundary Farhaan Behardien [ 3.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Phangiso to Samuels , SIX , another fine hit ! Great use of the feet , meets the pitch of the ball and lofts it elegantly over deep mid-wicket , Duminy was placed to take the catch , but the ball sailed over him comfortably. That also brings up the 50-run stand 22.5 Phangiso to Ramdin , 1 run , half tracker outside off , Ramdin cuts it to deep backward point 22.4 Phangiso to Ramdin , 2 runs , drags the slog sweep to deep mid-wicket , he was looking to hit it it a lot straighter 22.3 Phangiso to Ramdin , SIX , superb shot ! Ramdin sees some flight on this , skips out of the crease and hammers it over mid-on , the ball has enough power to clear the rope as well. West Indies need plenty more of this 22.2 Phangiso to Samuels , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Samuels comes down the track and lofts it wide of long-on , " catch it " was the shout but it drops safely 22.1 Phangiso to Ramdin , 1 run , fraction short and just outside off , Ramdin cuts it square of the wicket on off-side 21.6 de Lange to Ramdin , 1 run , drops it short on off , Ramdin swivels and pulls it behind square leg 21.5 de Lange to Ramdin , no run , fuller and just outside off , Ramdin push-drives it to cover , picks out the fielder 21.4 de Lange to Samuels , 1 run , drops this in front of cover and calls for a quick single , good response from Ramdin as well 21.3 de Lange to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , Ramdin tucks it to fine leg for a single 21.2 de Lange to Ramdin , no run , short of length around off , Ramdin dabs it off the under edge to QdK 21.1 de Lange to Ramdin , no run , back of a length on off , Ramdin taps it in front of point , wants the single but Samuels is not up for it 20.6 Phangiso to Ramdin , 1 run , flatter and on off , Ramdin eases it off the back foot square of the wicket on the off-side 20.5 Phangiso to Samuels , 1 run , skids on after pitching , Samuels manages to bring his bat down and jams it to long-on 20.4 Phangiso to Samuels , 2 runs , drops it short and outside off , Samuels cuts it to deep backward point for a couple 20.3 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , again , the length is short , Samuels rocks back and slaps it towards cover , where the fielder makes a fine stop. Samuels is not pleased with himself 20.2 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , pulls the length back , Samuels chops it to the left of the bowler , Phangiso dives and makes an acrobatic save 20.1 Phangiso to Samuels , SIX , fantastic shot ! Finally , Samuels manages to get underneath a Phangiso delivery. He shimmies down the pitch and lofts it handsomely over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 19.6 de Lange to Ramdin , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Ramdin sways away from the line of the delivery 19.5 de Lange to Samuels , 1 run , gets inside the line to the back of a length and tucks it to the unmanned mid-wicket region 19.4 de Lange to Samuels , no run , again , the length is touch short , Samuels guides it to backward point with an angled bat 19.3 de Lange to Samuels , no run , short of length on off , Samuels jumps up and drops it adjacent to the wicket on the off-side 19.3 de Lange to Samuels , wide , splays it down leg , Samuels ca n't connect with the glance , good take by QdK diving to his left 19.2 de Lange to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Ramdin punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 19.1 de Lange to Ramdin , 2 runs , fuller and tailing in , Ramdin clips it off the inside part to deep mid-wicket for a brace Marchant de Lange [ 3.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , gives this plenty of air , Samuels drops it dead near his feet 18.5 Phangiso to Ramdin , 1 run , flatter and on off , Ramdin whips it behind square leg for a run 18.4 Phangiso to Ramdin , no run , slower and on off , Ramdin drops it in front of point 18.3 Phangiso to Ramdin , no run , immediately an appeal for lbw with the newer ball , but umpire Ravi is not interested. It was the arm-ball , Ramdin kneels down and misses the sweep , he is struck in front of middle. The Hawk-Eye shows that it was crashing into middle and leg-stump. However , there was no review for South Africa to challenge that decision Some issue with the ball. It seemed like Phangiso could not grip the ball because of the dew. The umpires are calling for ball box. Samuels is not happy with that as he feels it is fine and can be carried on with . 18.2 Phangiso to Samuels , 1 run , drags the length back , Samuels comes down the track and punches it to long-off 18.1 Phangiso to Ramdin , 1 run , clips it from an off-stump line to deep backward square leg 17.6 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , third full toss of the over and Behardien gets away this time as well , Ramdin drives it to long-off 17.5 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , Behardien gets away with yet another full toss , Samuels drives it to deep extra cover , where JPD keeps it down to a single 17.4 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Ramdin drives it hard and towards cover , Faf dives and saves three runs for the side as that had four written all over it 17.3 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , nice loopy delivery , ends up being a full toss , Samuels drills the drive to long-on 17.2 Behardien to Samuels , 2 runs , slips one onto the pads , Samuels tucks it through backward square for a couple 17.1 Behardien to Samuels , no run , too full , almost a yorker , Samuels backs away and jams it to cover 16.6 Phangiso to Ramdin , no run , tossed up on off , Ramdin leans forward and defends in front of short mid-wicket. Initially he was looking to sweep the ball 16.5 Phangiso to Samuels , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Samuels drives it to sweeper cover 16.4 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , Phangiso sees the batsman advance , pulls the length back , Samuels blocks it down the wicket 16.3 Phangiso to Ramdin , 1 run , quicker and on middle , Ramdin whips it square of the wicket on the leg-side 16.2 Phangiso to Samuels , 1 run , uses his feet to get to the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 16.1 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , slider on leg-stump , Samuels does n't make contact with the tickle , ball dribbles to short fine after brushing the pad 15.6 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , back of a length on off , pulled away along the floor to deep square leg 15.6 Behardien to Samuels , wide , drifted down leg , Samuels ca n't lay bat on the glance , excellent take by QdK. Samuels does well not to over balance and venture out of the crease 15.5 Behardien to Ramdin , 1 run , back of a length on off , Ramdin hangs back and knocks it to long-on 15.4 Behardien to Ramdin , no run , strays it down leg , Ramdin misses the clip and wears it on the pad 15.3 Behardien to Ramdin , no run , this one holds its line , Ramdin brings his bat down at an angle , gets a thickish outside edge and that goes in the air to the left of backward point , Amla dives and stops the ball 15.2 Behardien to Ramdin , no run , on a length just outside off , Ramdin bunts it in front of cover 15.1 Behardien to Ramdin , no run , full and homing in on the stumps , Ramdin drives it straight to mid-on 14.6 Phangiso to Ramdin , 1 run , quicker on off , Ramdin nurdles it past diving square leg for a single 14.5 Phangiso to Ramdin , no run , pushed through on off , Ramdin goes for the drive and the ball squirts off the inside edge to square leg 14.4 Phangiso to Samuels , 1 run , pulls the length back around off , Samuels eases it off the back foot to sweeper cover 14.3 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , flat and on the stumps , Samuels punches it to the right of the bowler Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 14.2 Phangiso to Samuels , out Deonarine Run Out ! ! A miscommunication leads to Deonarine being well short of the ground. It was the arm-ball around off , Samuels plays for the turn and gets an inside edge to short fine , Deonarine wanted the run and was halfway down the wicket before Samuels sends him back , Amla under-arms a throw to the bowler , who takes the bails off. Deonarine also lost his bat while trying to get back. It was always the non-striker 's call. Deonarine run out ( Amla/Phangiso ) 43 ( 50 ) [ 4s-5 6s-1 ] Phangiso to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Third umpire called for a run-out chance. Deonarine thinks he is short. He dropped his bat and well short of the crease. OUT ! 14.1 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , quicker and goes on with the arm , Samuels cuts it from the stumps to backward point 13.6 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , this one straightens a touch , Samuels is opened as the ball squirts off the outer half to sweeper cover 13.5 Behardien to Deonarine , 1 run , fuller and on the fourth stump , Deonarine leans forward and knocks it past a sliding Faf at cover-point 13.4 Behardien to Deonarine , no run , slightly short and outside off , Deonarine cuts and finds the backward point fielder 13.3 Behardien to Deonarine , no run , good length ball on off , Deonarine presses it to cover after coming forward 13.2 Behardien to Deonarine , no run , nips back in from a length , Deonarine misses the forward defensive , is struck in the mid-riff and the ball rolls to short third man , Samuels wanted the single but Deonarine was in no position to go through with the run as he was down with pain de Kock is standing up to the stumps 13.1 Behardien to Samuels , 1 run , back of a length around off , Samuels eases the punch to sweeper cover Farhaan Behardien , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 12.6 Phangiso to Samuels , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Samuels cuts it square of the wicket for a single 12.5 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , flatter and around off , Samuels punches it to cover 12.4 Phangiso to Samuels , no run , slower and on off , Samuels pushes it to cover and his bottom hand comes off as he plays it Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease Time for a drinks break. There is plenty of dew around and the groundstaff are using the rope to clear it . 12.3 Phangiso to Dwayne Smith , out Lbw ! ! Trapped in front ! That looked dead as soon as Smith missed it. It was the arm-ball that skids on after pitching , Smith presses forward and does not get bat on the forward defensive , is struck in front of off and middle. He did n't even bother to discuss about taking a review. Dwayne Smith lbw b Phangiso 31 ( 28 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Phangiso to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 12.2 Phangiso to Deonarine , 1 run , fires it in full and on the stumps , Deonarine sweeps it behind square leg for a single 12.1 Phangiso to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , slider on middle and leg , Smith gloves the sweep to short fine leg 11.6 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , pitched up around off , Smith drives it down to long-off and keeps the strike 11.5 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length close to off , Smith goes for the pull without much feet movement , is beaten by the lack of bounce 11.4 Parnell to Deonarine , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Deonarine lofts it inside out , almost picked out the fielder at deep extra cover , the ball bounces just in front of Behardien 11.3 Parnell to Deonarine , no run , on a length close to off , Deonarine guides it to backward point after coming forward 11.2 Parnell to Deonarine , no run , well directed short delivery , Deonarine was looking to fend it , but he did n't have his eyes on the ball , the ball kisses his elbow on the way to the keeper , QdK and Parnell were confident and went for the review immediately. However , the Snicko showed a spike when the ball passed Deonarine 's elbow. Top decision from the on-field umpire and South Africa lose a review South Africa are reviewing a caught behind shout. Parnell is fine with the front foot. Was there a bit of glove ? It came off the elbow. The on-field decision remains . 11.1 Parnell to Deonarine , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Deonarine manages to get underneath it , QdK had to leap to collect that 10.6 Phangiso to Deonarine , 1 run , drags the length and bowls it on leg-stump , Deonarine pulls it behind square for a single 10.5 Phangiso to Deonarine , no run , flighted on off , Deonarine is half-forward and defending to point 10.4 Phangiso to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , arm-ball on the stumps , Smith goes deep in the crease and punches it to mid-wicket 10.3 Phangiso to Deonarine , 1 run , drops it short and on off , Deonarine pulls it in the air and on the bounce to deep mid-wicket 10.2 Phangiso to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , tosses it up on off , Smith kneels down and mishits the slog sweep to deep mid-wicket 10.1 Phangiso to Deonarine , 1 run , half tracker on middle , Deonarine pulls it along the carpet to deep square leg 9.6 Parnell to Deonarine , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Deonarine runs it down to third man with an angled bat 9.5 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Smith rocks back and pulls it in front of square , picks out the fielder in the deep 9.5 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , wide , fires it full and outside off , Smith goes chasing after it , but ca n't make contact 9.4 Parnell to Deonarine , 1 run , too straight , on middle , Deonarine gets inside the line and tucks it to deep mid-wicket 9.3 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , good length ball on off , Smith swats it across the line and down to deep mid-wicket 9.2 Parnell to Deonarine , 1 run , Deonarine hops back in the crease and guides it to third man with an open bat face 9.1 Parnell to Deonarine , no run , back of a length on off , Deonarine shuffles across and blocks it in front of cover 8.6 Phangiso to Deonarine , 1 run , short and around off , Deonarine pulls it on the bounce to long-on 8.5 Phangiso to Deonarine , FOUR , poor delivery from Phangiso , fires it down the leg-side , Deonarine uses the pace on the ball and sweeps it behind square , he beats the two fielders to perfection 8.4 Phangiso to Deonarine , no run , tossed up just outside off , Deonarine skips out of the crease and pushes it back to the bowler 8.3 Phangiso to Deonarine , FOUR , lovely shot ! Flighted up on off and middle , Deonarine kneels down and sweeps it up and over backward square , there was no one protecting the rope in the deep 8.2 Phangiso to Deonarine , no run , comes down the track and defends it to the left of the bowler , Phangiso saw him coming and dragged the length back A leg slip in place for Phangiso , he also goes over the wicket for the left-hander. . 8.1 Phangiso to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , straightaway some turn , Smith goes back and wrists it wide of mid-on Aaron Phangiso , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 7.6 Parnell to Deonarine , no run , pitched up around off , Deonarine moves away to the leg-side and drives it to cover , straight to the fielder 7.5 Parnell to Deonarine , no run , fuller and on off , Deonarine drives and picks out cover-point 7.4 Parnell to Deonarine , no run , back of a length on off , Deonarine sits back and bunts it in front of cover Parnell is not happy with the landing area. He wants some sawdust and the umpire signals to the groundstaff to bring some. The groundsman takes a long time to bring the sawdust. Everything sorted out and play resumes . 7.3 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , back of a length on off , Smith stays inside the line and nurdles it to square leg 7.2 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , no run , another mistimed shot off the back foot , he is going to hard at the ball 7.1 Parnell to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of length on off , Smith mistimes the punch to extra cover Wayne Parnell , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 6.6 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , no run , bumper just outside off , Deonarine arches back and makes a late decision to ramp it over the slip cordon , he went for the shot after the ball had passed him 6.5 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , no run , back of a length on off , Deonarine taps it in front of point , calls " wait " on the single 6.4 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , FOUR , that four brings up the 50 , West Indies have come out attacking and till now it has paid off. Advances down the wicket , converts it into a length delivery and lofts it inside out over extra cover for a boundary 6.3 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , hangs back in the crease and steers the short of length delivery to third man 6.2 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , top shot ! A much better stroke from Smith , who holds his pose after playing that. It was slightly fuller and on the stumps , Smith presents the straight bat and drills it past Deonarine , no need to run for those 6.1 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , SIX , Duminy thought it was coming straight to him , but the ball just went over him. Short delivery on off , Smith pulls , gets the elevation and the required distance. He got it high on the bat and hence did n't get the timing right 5.6 de Lange to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , bangs it in short and around off , Smith walks away and flat-bats it to the left of the bowler , it was just out of reach from de Lange 5.5 de Lange to Deonarine , 1 run , de Lange follows the batsman who was moving away , Deonarine manages to tuck it down to fine leg 5.4 de Lange to Deonarine , no run , it might have been the attempted yorker , ends up as a full toss , Deonarine makes room and slashes it to point , straight to the fielder 5.3 de Lange to Deonarine , no run , short of length just outside off , Deonarine was shaping up to play the pull , but decides against it at the last instant 5.2 de Lange to Deonarine , no run , yorker just outside off , Deonarine squeezes it to backward point 5.1 de Lange to Deonarine , 2 runs , on a length just outside off , Deonarine goes for the loft through the line , the ball hits high on the bat and balloons over mid-off , Parnell gives chase and keeps it to a double 4.6 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , leg byes , 1 run , slips this onto the pads , Deonarine fails to connect with the glance , the ball goes off the thigh pad to fine leg 4.5 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , no run , another one in the corridor of uncertainty , Deonarine covers the line and shoulders arms 4.4 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , no run , in the channel around off , Deonarine is happy to let that go through to de Kock 4.3 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , no run , again , the length is tad short and on off , Deonarine jumps up and bunts it to cover 4.2 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Smith steers it to third man with an angled bat 4.1 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , pulls the length back on off , Smith taps it to the right of the bowler 3.6 de Lange to Deonarine , FOUR , cracking shot to end the over , short and plenty of width on offer , Deonarine stays leg-side of the ball and slaps it on the bounce to the sweeper cover fence. That came right off the meat of the bat 3.5 de Lange to Deonarine , no run , back of a length close to off , Deonarine camps on the back foot and bunts it to cover , wants a single but Smith sends him back rightly 3.4 de Lange to Deonarine , no run , short of length on middle and leg , Deonarine tucks it in front of short mid-wicket 3.3 de Lange to Deonarine , SIX , what a shot ! He has been trying this shot for the last couple of overs. Dug in mid-way down the wicket , Deonarine backs away slightly and flat-bats it high and over long-on for the first maximum of the innings 3.2 de Lange to Deonarine , 2 runs , " catch it " was the shout from some of the close-in fielders , back of a length just outside off , Deonarine guides it behind point , it was in the air but wide of backward point. Phangiso does well to keep them down to two 3.1 de Lange to Deonarine , no run , 142.2kph lifter outside off , Deonarine throws his bat at it , ca n't lay bat on that 2.6 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Smith ducks under it and allows it to go through , he thought it was wide as it was close to the leg-stump line 2.5 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Deonarine splices the pull just over mid-off , the fielder was well in and the ball went over him 2.5 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , wide , short and well wide of off , Deonarine goes chasing after it , is nowhere close to the ball 2.4 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , FOUR , iffy stroke from Deonarine , gives the charge , makes room and looks to carve it through the off-side , the ball shapes back and squirts off the inside edge to the fine leg fence. That was not far away from the leg-stump 2.3 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , no run , tails back in from a length , Deonarine prefers to hang back and knock it towards cover 2.2 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , no run , sharp bouncer around off , Deonarine sways away from the line of the delivery 2.1 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , no run , back of a length on off , Deonarine gets right behind the line and defends it to the left of Abbott 1.6 de Lange to Dwayne Smith , no run , drags the length back , Smith makes room and looks to slap it through the off-side , misses and the ball goes over the sticks. The bounce on the turf saved Smith there 1.5 de Lange to Deonarine , 1 run , 143.6kph short of length delivery angled across the left-hander , Deonarine steers it off the outer half of the past , right in the gap between second slip and gully 1.4 de Lange to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , Smith plays it with an angled bat and eases it past the vacant cover region 1.3 de Lange to Dwayne Smith , no run , bumper on the stumps , Smith sinks under it and allows it to thud into de Kock 's gloves 1.2 de Lange to Dwayne Smith , no run , fuller and on off , Smith charges down and yorks himself , toe-ends it in front of point. He is disappointed that he could not connect properly 1.1 de Lange to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of length around off , Smith stands on one feet and tries to pull , misses as the ball goes past the under edge Marchant de Lange , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Kyle Abbott to Deonarine , no run , back of a length and hint of shape back into the batsman , Deonarine looks to tuck through backward square , ekes out an inside edge onto the pad. The ball rolls down the wicket 0.5 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , good length ball around off , Smith presses forward , opens the bat face and guides it past the diving backward point fielder 0.4 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , stand and deliver stuff from Smith , dug in halfway down the wicket , Smith transfers his weight onto the back foot and muscles the pull in front of square , it only bounced once before reaching the fence 0.3 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , no run , shortens the length outside off , Smith has a waft at it and is beaten. There was some extra bounce on that occasion 0.2 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , crunched ! It was pitched up just outside off , no second measures by Smith , he comes slightly forward and lofts it between extra cover and mid-off , no need to run for those 0.2 Kyle Abbott to Dwayne Smith , wide , splays it well down leg , Smith ca n't get bat on ball , nice acrobatic take from QDK diving to his left Dwayne Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.1 Kyle Abbott to Gayle , out Caught by de Kock ! ! What a start for South Africa ! Gayle , who has been in awful form in the ODIs goes for a first ball duck. It was short and too far outside off , Gayle goes chasing after it and gets a feather through to QDK. The umpire called it a wide , but Amla challenged the decision and got it spot on. Gayle c de Kock b Kyle Abbott 0 ( 1 ) Kyle Abbott to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Straightaway South Africa are reviewing a caught behind appeal. Umpire Ravi calls it a wide. Abbott is fine with the front foot. There was some noice as ball passed bat. Even the Snicko picks up a spike. The decision has been overturned . Gayle and Deonarine are at the crease. Gayle is on strike. Kyle Abbott will open the attack Welcome back.. Amla has the South African players in a huddle. Gayle and Deonarine make their way out to the middle. Surprising not to see Smith at the top of the order. Abbott has the new ball. He has a couple of slips in place to assist him.. . The West Indies bowlers were very poor , that is putting it politely. Once Amla and Rossouw started going after them , they had no clue as to where to bowl. In the last 10 overs , they gave 146 runs and picked up only the 3 wickets. However , it is now upto their batsmen to come out and try chasing down this target. Join us back in a short while.. . Amla started off in a hurry as the West Indies bowlers bowled to his strength , he then settled down and paced his innings to perfection. The opener got to his 19th ODI ton and was only dismissed in the 41st over. Rossouw , on the other hand , took his time before unleashing himself , but once he was in , he raced past Amla to bring up his hundred. Miller and Duminy played cameos at the end to take the total past the 350-mark . Rain delayed the start of proceedings by two and a half hours , but that did n't dampen South Africa 's spirits when they came out to bat. QDK did n't make much of an impact in his comeback game , even Faf failed to get going. However , the pair of Amla and Rossouw got together when the score was 59 and added yet another 247-run stand between them. They had amassed the same number of runs for the opening wicket at the Wanderers as well . 41.6 J Holder to Duminy , SIX , what a way to finish the innings ! He did n't seem to have middled it , but the ball had enough fuel to carry all the way. Full delivery in the zone , Duminy gets underneath it and sends it into the night sky and over long-off 41.5 J Holder to Duminy , FOUR , Duminy was always eyeing that spot , length ball from Holder , Duminy shuffles across and fetches it from outside off and heaves it over backward square , where the fielder was inside the circle 41.5 J Holder to Duminy , wide , slower ball goes horribly wrong , well wide of off , easy call for the ump 41.4 J Holder to Behardien , 1 run , spears it in full and just outside off , Behardien squeezes it out to mid-off for a single 41.3 J Holder to Behardien , FOUR , very sloppy from the West Indies fielder , slower delivery just outside off , Behardien drives it towards mid-off , Russell runs across and allows the ball to roll through his legs Farhaan Behardien , right handed bat , comes to the crease 41.2 J Holder to D Miller , out Caught by Ramdin ! ! A cameo from Miller comes to an end. Holder was not sure whether he nicked it , but the umpire raised his finger. Fires it full and outside off , Miller tries to dig it out , gets a thin edge through to Ramdin , who takes the simplest of catches. D Miller c Ramdin b J Holder 23 ( 9 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] J Holder to D Miller , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.1 J Holder to D Miller , SIX , lovely shot ! It was superb timing from Miller. Full and outside off , Miller reaches for it and slices it with an open face. The timing on that takes it well over the rope Jason Holder [ 8.0-0-55-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 A Russell to Duminy , no run , a well directed yorker from Russell , Duminy moves away to the leg-side , fails to squeeze it away as he is hit on the back boot. The umpire did n't think that the ball would have hit the stumps , but the West Indies reviewed it and the Hawk-Eye showed that it was just clipping off-stump West Indies have reviewed an lbw decision. It is a legal delivery as Russell 's foot is behind the line. There was no inside edge. Was it hitting the off-stump ? The impact also might be a worry here. Umpire 's call and the on-field call remains 40.5 A Russell to Duminy , FOUR , Russell was unlucky there , bangs it in short and around off , Duminy goes for the pull and top-edges it over the keeper 's head. South Africa will take those 40.4 A Russell to Duminy , FOUR , the onslaught continues , slower delivery just outside off , Duminy gets his front leg out of the way and lofts it over mid-on. Even though he did n't middle it , he had enough wood to fetch him a four 40.3 A Russell to Duminy , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Duminy ducks under it and lets the ball sail through. He thought it was a wide for the line , but the umpire did n't think so 40.3 A Russell to Duminy , no ball , Russell flicks the bails off in his delivery stride , hence it is given a no ball. Short of a length angled across off , Duminy allows it to go through Jean-Paul Duminy , left handed bat , comes to the crease 40.2 A Russell to Amla , out Bowled ! ! Another splendid innings from Amla comes to an end. Miller walks up and pats his team-mate on the back and so do some of the West Indian fielders. This is the first time in the series that a bowler has got Amla out. It was a slower one , the length was tad short , Amla looks to drag the pull to deep mid-wicket , but can only manage an inside edge onto the off-stump. Amla b A Russell 133 ( 105 ) [ 4s-11 6s-6 ] A Russell to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 40.1 A Russell to Amla , SIX , extraordinary batting ! Russell has a wry smile on his face. He does n't know how that went all the way. Shortish and outside off , Amla makes room and somehow manages to reach it and he even upper cuts it over third man for a maximum 39.6 Sammy to D Miller , FOUR , another streaky four to end the over , back of a length around off , Miller goes for the front foot pull , the top-edge is found and it flies away fine to the third man fence 39.5 Sammy to D Miller , no run , goes back over the wicket , takes the pace off the ball and it was in the blockhole , Miller is early into the shot , is beaten comprehensively. Ramdin does well to get his pads behind the line of the ball 39.4 Sammy to D Miller , no run , fuller and outside off , Miller opens the face and drives it to Samuels at backward point 39.3 Sammy to D Miller , FOUR , unlucky ! Sammy ca n't believe that it went for four. A well bowled yorker just outside off , Miller tries to dig it out , gets it off the toe-end. The third man was inside the ring and the ball raced away 39.2 Sammy to D Miller , SIX , bang ! That did n't take long. It was a length ball around off , Miller clears his front leg and plays the short-arm heave , that cleared the deep mid-wicket fence by a long way 39.1 Sammy to D Miller , 2 runs , full and wide of off , Miller drives it hard and towards deep extra cover , Carter does well to keep it down to a couple Darren Sammy [ 6.0-0-43-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 A Russell to D Miller , 1 run , shortish and around off , Miller waits for it and steers it down to third man 38.5 A Russell to Amla , leg byes , 1 run , short of length close to off , Amla shuffles across and misses the glance , the ball dribbles off the thigh pad to short fine leg David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 38.4 A Russell to Rossouw , out Caught by J Carter ! ! Finally , West Indies have managed to get one of them out. Rossouw goes back to a standing ovation. Everyone present at the Centurion are up on their feet. It was an off-speed delivery around off , Rossouw is deceived by the lack of pace as he tries to heave it to cow corner , ca n't generate the pace and offers a simple catch to deep mid-wicket. Rossouw c J Carter b A Russell 132 ( 98 ) [ 4s-9 6s-8 ] A Russell to Rossouw , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! This is now the highest third wicket stand for South Africa against any team. The duo had also added 247 runs for the first wicket at the Wanderers . 38.3 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , too straight , on middle and leg , Amla helps it on the way to short fine leg. Either side of the fielder and that would have been another four 38.2 A Russell to Amla , FOUR , on a length just outside off , Amla backs away towards the leg-side and carves it to deep backward point , the fielder at sweeper had no chance of cutting that off 38.1 A Russell to Amla , FOUR , nice juicy full delivery , Amla says thank you very much , moves across his stumps and hammers it on the bounce to the long-off fence. None of the fielder bothered to move Andre Russell [ 6.0-0-60-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Cottrell to Rossouw , SIX , it has become catching practise in the crowd at the Centurion as another one sails into the crowd. It was back of a length on middle and leg , Rossouw gets inside the line and pulls it over backward square for a maximum 37.5 Cottrell to Amla , 1 run , short of length on middle , Amla makes room and clubs it along the ground to long-on 37.4 Cottrell to Amla , 2 runs , Cottrell goes back over the wicket , slants it across the right-hander , Amla slices it over extra cover for a couple , Russell tidies up in the deep 37.3 Cottrell to Amla , FOUR , this was not a bad ball , but a terrific shot from Hash , stays leg-side to the yorker length and squeezes the drive to sweeper cover. The timing was exquisite on that 37.2 Cottrell to Amla , FOUR , the runs continue to flow , shortish and just outside off , Amla arches back and ramps it over short third man. Ca n't bowl there with the third man inside the ring 37.1 Cottrell to Amla , SIX , West Indies bowlers are finding it diifficult to bowl to these two , it was length ball on middle and leg , Amla backs away and hoicks it up and over backward square leg for a maximum Sheldon Cottrell [ 6.0-0-45-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , slower delivery around off , Amla mistimes the heave to long-on , lucky that he did n't time that as it would have gone straight to the fielder 36.5 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , drags the length back , Rossouw slaps it past the bowler , calls for two but ca n't get it 36.4 J Holder to Rossouw , FOUR , clever batting ! It was fuller and just outside off , Rossouw kneels down and scoops it just wide of short fine leg fielder , it is just out of reach from the fielder 36.3 J Holder to Rossouw , SIX , this all too easy for Rossouw , moves across his stumps , converts it into a length delivery , gets underneath it and sends it sailing over long-on for back-to-back sixes 36.2 J Holder to Rossouw , SIX , rubbish delivery from Holder , delivers a friendly full toss outside off , Rossouw walks across his stumps and flat-bats it over long-on. For a second , he might have thought he mishit that , but it cleared the rope comfortably 36.1 J Holder to Rossouw , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Holder thought he had hit it straight to deep extra cover , but that was not the case. It was pitched up just outside off , Rossouw stays leg-side of the ball and lofts it inside out , it was not far from the fielder , but he had no chance 35.6 Brathwaite to Amla , leg byes , FOUR , full and speared in on leg-stump , he was following the batsman there , Amla misses the glance and the ball runs away off the pads to the fine leg fence 35.5 Brathwaite to Amla , 2 runs , another hundred for Amla , his 19th in ODIs. It is also his second of the series. No big celebrations from him , takes off his head gear and soaks in the applause from the crowd. A slower delivery around off , Amla mishits the pull towards long-on. Since the ball did n't have , it allowed him to sprint back for the second 35.4 Brathwaite to Amla , 2 runs , sloppy from Gayle , fullish and outside off , Amla backs away slightly and drives it to extra cover , where Gayle allows the ball to burst through his hands 35.3 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , another low full toss , Rossouw drives it along the carpet to long-off 35.3 Brathwaite to Rossouw , wide , fires it full and outside off , Rossouw does not bother with it 35.2 Brathwaite to Amla , leg byes , 1 run , Brathwaite goes up for an lbw appeal , but the umpire is not interested. Amla shuffles across and misses the full delivery , is hit on the boot and the ball dribbles towards short fine. The impact was outside off 35.1 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , low full toss outside off , Rossouw drags the drive down to long-on , he got it off the toe-end Carlos Brathwaite [ 8.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack 34.6 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , very good over from the skipper , concedes only 3 runs. This was also full and outside off , Rossouw drills the drive to deep extra cover , straight to the fielder 34.5 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , fullish just outside off , Rossouw goes for a mighty drive , ca n't lay bat on ball 34.4 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , Rossouw tries to be too cute , but Holder bowls it well , keeps it full and outside off , Rossouw kneels down and tries to play the scoop , misses it completely 34.3 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Amla walks across his stumps and punches it square of the wicket 34.2 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , full toss outside off , the yorker gone wrong , Rossouw hammers the drive to extra cover , Gayle fumbles and the duo steal a single 34.1 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , yorker well wide of off , Rossouw walks across his stumps and ca n't connect with it , umpire does not call it a wide Jason Holder [ 6.0-0-30-1 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Cottrell to Amla , FOUR , nicely done ! Slower ball bouncer , but the line is on leg-stump , Amla stays inside the line and helps it on the way with a pull , the short fine leg fielder was just a spectator 33.5 Cottrell to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length around off , Rossouw hoicks it on the bounce to deep mid-wicket 33.4 Cottrell to Rossouw , 2 runs , Rossouw brings up his 2nd ODI hundred , both have come in this series. He lets out a huge cry after completeing the second run. Takes off his helmet and acknowledges the applause from the crowd as well as his team-mates. It was a slower delivery , Rossouw drags the heave wide of long-on , where the fielder dives and saves two 33.3 Cottrell to Rossouw , no run , pitched up outside off , Rossouw drills the drive and picks out extra cover , who is right on the edge of the circle 33.2 Cottrell to Rossouw , no run , another well directed full delivery , push-drives it back to Cottrell 33.1 Cottrell to Rossouw , no run , yorker angled in from round the wicket , Rossouw digs it back to the bowler This is the highest third wicket partnership for South Africa against West Indies , the previous best was 160 between Cronje and Gibbs . 32.6 Sammy to Amla , SIX , monster ! This went further back than the previous one. South Africa are turning the heat on here. Another one of the slower deliveries , Amla spotted it early , moves across his stumps and heaves it over cow corner for the second six of the over 32.5 Sammy to Amla , no run , yorker close to off , Amla makes room and jams it back down the wicket , he got it off the inside half of the bat 32.4 Sammy to Amla , SIX , massive hit ! That made a nice sound when ball made contact with the bat. It was a off-cutter outside off , Amla shuffles across , kneels down and slog sweeps it to deep mid-wicket. Goes well 20 rows back 32.3 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , fuller and slower around off , Rossouw chips it gently to long-off 32.2 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Amla backs away and carves it to sweeper cover 32.1 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , starts with a off-speed delivery , Rossouw taps it towards cover and calls for a single Darren Sammy [ 5.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Cottrell to Amla , SIX , fantastic shot ! Takes a cue from the ABD batting manual. Walks across his stumps , goes on his knee and helps it on the way over fine leg for a six. That was a well calculated shot as the fine leg fielder was inside the circle 31.5 Cottrell to Rossouw , 1 run , slower delivery on off , Rossouw leans forward and eases it to long-on. That also brings up the 150-run stand 31.5 Cottrell to Rossouw , wide , fired full and wide outside off , Rossouw thinks about throwing his bat at it , ca n't and wide given 31.4 Cottrell to Amla , 1 run , pitched up just outside off , Amla makes a bit of room and drills it on the bounce to mid-off , Sammy makes a nice stop and throws it at the keeper 's end , but Rossouw makes it in 31.3 Cottrell to Rossouw , 1 run , fuller and slanting into the batsman , Rossouw wrists it to deep mid-wicket for a single 31.2 Cottrell to Amla , 1 run , Cottrell comes round the wicket , spears it in full and around off , Amla mistimes the drive to mid-on , he went too hard on the drive and it came off the inside part 31.1 Cottrell to Rossouw , 1 run , slower delivery outside off stump , Rossouw looks to force it into the off-side , but gets an inside edge that rolls to mid-on Sheldon Cottrell [ 4.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack South Africa have scored 53 runs in the 4-over batting powerplay . 30.6 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , Amla shuffles a long way outside off , Brathwaite fires it just outside leg , umpire does not call it a wide. Amla is not happy with the decision 30.5 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , yorker delivered from round the wicket , Amla squeezes it to backward point and takes off for a single , the fielder fires a throw but Amla makes it back in 30.4 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , too full , almost a yorker , Rossouw gets down and jams it in front of cover Goes back over the wicket 30.3 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 2 runs , change of pace , Rossouw spots it early , works it with soft hands to mid-wicket , the fielder had to run a long way and that gave the batsmen enough time to come back for the second. Rossouw had to dive in to make his ground 30.2 Brathwaite to Rossouw , FOUR , Brathwaite shouts " catch " , but it was nowhere close to the fielder. It was fuller and around off , Rossouw drives it on the up , it was in the air but well wide of mid-off 30.2 Brathwaite to Rossouw , wide , slower delivery goes wrong , down leg , wided by the umpire 30.1 Brathwaite to Rossouw , FOUR , Brathwaite comes round the sticks , darts in a yorker outside off , Rossouw bends down , opens the bat face and steers it between the two men behind point. This is excellent batting 29.6 A Russell to Amla , 2 runs , Russell gets away with a full toss , it was around waist height , Amla backs away and lifts it over the bowler 's head , just a couple this time. A very poor over from Russell , which cost West Indies 28 runs Another free-hit coming up ! 29.6 A Russell to Amla , no ball , Russell has got it horribly wrong in this over , oversteps and splays it down leg , Amla shuffles across and ca n't connect with the glance 29.5 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , takes the pace off the ball , Rossouw charges down and mishits the heave to deep mid-wicket 29.4 A Russell to Rossouw , SIX , Rossouw has taken full toll of the free-hit , it was shortish and close to off , he was waiting for that , uses the depth of the crease and pulls it over deep mid-wicket for the third six of the over 29.4 A Russell to Rossouw , wide , fires it full and wide outside off , Rossouw ca n't reach it and wide signalled. The free-hit remains Free-hit coming up ! 29.4 A Russell to Rossouw , no ball , SIX , carnage at the Centurion , Russell digs it in short and Rossouw is just too good there , he goes back and muscles the pull in front of square for the second maximum of the over. Russell has also overstepped 29.3 A Russell to Rossouw , FOUR , Rossouw has certainly shifted gears , this was pitched up around off , he drills the drive past Amla , who was almost cleaned up. However , Amla applauds the shot 29.2 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Rossouw swings wildly and fails to make contact 29.1 A Russell to Rossouw , SIX , what a shot ! It was not all that short , but Rossouw picks up the length quickly , rocks back and pulls it powerfully to deep mid-wicket. That hardly took off the ground , went flat and over the rope 28.6 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , nice loopy slower one , it ends up being a full toss , Amla tickles it fine , ca n't beat the fielder at short fine leg 28.5 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , fuller and outside off , Amla drives without any foot work and is beaten , he was outfoxed by the pace there. It was quicker from Brathwaite 28.4 Brathwaite to Amla , 2 runs , another slower delivery , that grips in the surface , it was the leg-cutter , Amla shuffles across and closes the bat face as he looks to work it to the on-side , gets a leading edge that loops over point 28.3 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , change of speed , around off , Rossouw drops it in front of cover-point for a quick single 28.2 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , fuller and on the pads , Rossouw flicks and picks out the short fine leg fielder 28.1 Brathwaite to Rossouw , SIX , what a welcome to Brathwaite ! Length delivery right in the slot , Rossouw clears his front leg and tonks it over long-on. That ball went a long way into the crowd Carlos Brathwaite [ 6.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Good going by South Africa. They were struggling on 59/2 at one stage but Rossouw and Amla have brought up their respective fifties and put up a 95-run stand . 27.6 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length on leg , Rossouw whips it with force , but straight to the fielder at deep backward square leg 27.5 A Russell to Rossouw , 2 runs , length delivery outside off , Rossouw gets forward and drives it to long-off and gets to his 2nd ODI fifty , he points the bat towards the dressing room and is congratulated by his partner 27.4 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , stays back and dabs it behind point , he wanted a quick single but is sent back by Amla as the fielder gets to the ball 27.3 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , beautiful delivery from Russell ! He draws Rossouw on the front foot with this fullish ball , it jags away , just beating the outside edge of Rossouw 's bat as he looks to drive 27.2 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , shortish and angled on the hips , Amla hops back and tucks it to deep square leg 27.1 A Russell to Amla , no run , fuller and around off , Amla gets forward and drives it to mid-off Andre Russell [ 4.0-0-28-1 ] is back into the attack Russell coming back into the attack. South Africa have also taken the batting powerplay. It will be of 4 overs . 26.6 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , fuller around off this time , Rossouw gets forward and taps it straight to mid-off , he will have to wait for another over to get to his fifty 26.5 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , back of a length and angled across off , Rossouw knocks it to backward point 26.4 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off to get Rossouw back on strike 26.3 J Holder to Amla , no run , stays back and tucks it off the pads to square leg 26.2 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , gets forward and pushes at this fullish ball , gets a thick outside edge and the ball runs through the vacant slip region towards third man 26.1 J Holder to Rossouw , FOUR , wonderful shot by Rossouw ! He comes down the track to this full and wide ball and lofts it to the long-off fence , the mid-off was inside the circle and he spotted that well 25.6 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , turns this back of a length delivery towards mid-wicket for a quick single 25.5 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rossouw punches it uppishly , the ball falls just short of Holder at mid-off , who moves to his right in an attempt to catch it but is not quick enough to get to the ball 25.4 Sammy to Rossouw , FOUR , short and punished ! It was too short and down leg , Rossouw picks it up well , short-arm jabs it to the deep backward square leg for a one-bounce four 25.3 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Amla gets forward and punch-drives it to long-off 25.2 Sammy to Amla , no run , short of a good length on off , Amla presses forward and turns it towards short mid-wicket 25.1 Sammy to Amla , no run , back of a length outside off , Amla stands tall and slams it to the left of the bowler 24.6 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , shortish on middle and off , Amla gets back and short-arm pulls it to fine leg 24.5 J Holder to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Rossouw gently bunts it towards cover-point for a brisk run 24.4 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , short of length around off , Rossouw punches it off the back foot back to the bowler 24.3 J Holder to Rossouw , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Rossouw tucks it into the leg-side off the inside edge 24.2 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , length delivery on off , Amla leans forward and wrists it to mid-on 24.1 J Holder to Amla , no run , short and wide , Amla cuts it behind point , the fielder fires a direct hit at the non-striker 's end , Rossouw was almost halfway down the track but turns back and grounds his bat quickly Jason Holder [ 4.0-0-21-1 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Sammy to Rossouw , FOUR , lovely stroke from Rossouw , he has picked that up well. Just flicks it off the pads to the fine leg fence 23.5 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , angles it onto the pads again , Amla clips it to fine leg 23.4 Sammy to Amla , FOUR , half volley on leg and Amla has put that away nicely , he leans forward and flicks it off the pads to the deep backward square leg fence , the fielder had no chance of stopping that one 23.3 Sammy to Amla , no run , gets forward to this good length delivery and drives it to cover 23.2 Sammy to Amla , no run , on the pads , Amla leans forward and clips it in front of square on the leg-side 23.1 Sammy to Amla , no run , fuller and straighter , driven to mid-off by Amla 22.6 Deonarine to Amla , 1 run , drifts it on leg , Amla whips it to deep mid-wicket 22.5 Deonarine to Rossouw , 1 run , gets back and works it wide of long-on for a single 22.4 Deonarine to Rossouw , 2 runs , Rossouw goes on the back foot and cuts it to cover , where Gayle dives and stops it 22.3 Deonarine to Rossouw , no run , fuller on off , pushed back to the bowler 22.2 Deonarine to Rossouw , SIX , shorter one from Deonarine , Rossouw gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it with force , the ball bangs right on the deep mid-wicket skirting , the umpires ask for a replay there and deem it as a maximum 22.1 Deonarine to Rossouw , no run , gets forward and pushes it to the right of the bowler 21.6 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length around off , Rossouw bunts it to silly mid-off and calls for a quick single , the bowler fires a wayward throw to the keeper , Amla gets back in safely at the striker 's end. Sammy has his hands up in apology , he almost crashed into Amla 21.5 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Amla punches it off the back foot to deep extra cover 21.4 Sammy to Amla , no run , touch fuller on middle and off , Amla gets forward and mistimes the drive to mid-on 21.3 Sammy to Amla , no run , length delivery on middle , Amla nudges it towards short mid-wicket 21.2 Sammy to Amla , no run , outside off , Amla punches it off the back foot towards backward point 21.1 Sammy to Amla , no run , length delivery on off , Amla leans forward and turns it to short mid-wicket 20.6 Deonarine to Amla , 1 run , shuffles to his left and works it to long-on 20.5 Deonarine to Rossouw , 1 run , stays back and works it to long-on for a comfortable single 20.4 Deonarine to Amla , 1 run , drifts it on middle and leg , Amla flicks it to short fine leg 20.3 Deonarine to Rossouw , 1 run , gets forward and pushes it to long-off 20.2 Deonarine to Amla , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives the full ball to long-off 20.1 Deonarine to Amla , FOUR , Amla brings up his 28th ODI fifty in style ! Moves deep inside the crease and whips this shortish delivery to the fine leg fence , the fielder makes a mess at the rope and is not able to stop the ball from going over Narsingh Deonarine , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Alright , spin into the attack for the first time today 19.6 Sammy to Amla , 3 runs , shortish and outside off , Amla stands tall and ramps it over the keeper 's head towards third man , Deonarine runs along the rope , bends down and makes a good stop , saves one run 19.5 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Rossouw dabs it with his bat parallel to the ground towards third man Slight delay as Ramdin asks for a helmet. He will stand up to the stumps . 19.4 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , shimmies down the track and pushes it back to the bowler 19.3 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , length delivery around off , Rossouw looks to turn it into leg-side , gets a soft leading edge towards mid-off 19.2 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , short of a good length on off , Amla wristily turns it to square leg 19.1 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Rossouw punches it straight to sweeper cover to bring up South Africa 's 100 18.6 Brathwaite to Amla , 2 runs , beautiful shot but good stuff by Carter at the deep extra cover fence to stop it. Amla had driven the full ball elegantly , Carter slides near the rope to his right and makes a fine stop 18.5 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , shorter one again , Rossouw mistimes the pull to deep backward square leg 18.4 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , follows the poor delivery with a fantastic one ! Rossouw stays back and looks to defend , the short of length delivery shapes away a touch and just whistles past the outside edge of his bat 18.3 Brathwaite to Rossouw , FOUR , crunching drive from Rossouw ! It was too wide from Brathwaite , Rossouw flays it powerfully to the extra cover fence 18.2 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , goes on the back foot and defends this back of a length delivery back to the bowler 18.1 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , short of length on off , Rossouw stands tall and punches it towards mid-off 17.6 Sammy to Amla , no run , banged in short this time , Amla comfortably sinks under it 17.5 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , Rossouw looks to slap it into the off-side , the ball takes the inside edge and flies past the leg-stump towards short fine leg 17.4 Sammy to Rossouw , 2 runs , length delivery outside off , draws Rossouw on the front foot , who drives it to long-off 17.3 Sammy to Amla , 1 run , Amla gets forward , the bat turns in his hands and the ball goes off the leading edge towards mid-off 17.2 Sammy to Rossouw , 1 run , touch fuller and outside off , Rossouw pokes at it , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat towards deep point 17.1 Sammy to Rossouw , no run , short of length on middle , Rossouw turns it in front of square on the leg-side Darren Sammy , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Sammy will replace Russell now . 16.6 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , short of length and outside off , Amla hops back and knocks it behind point 16.5 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , length delivery on off , Rossouw pushes at it , gets an inside edge onto the pads that rolls towards short cover , the batsmen steal a single 16.4 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , back of a length on off , Rossouw punches it off the back foot back to the bowler 16.3 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , outside off , Amla just dabs it towards slips and runs for a brisk single 16.2 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , comes forward and pushes it to mid-off , wants a single but decides against it 16.1 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , fuller and outside off , Amla gets forward for a drive and is beaten 15.6 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , outside off , Rossouw covers the line and lets it go through 15.5 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , edged but safe , some extra bounce there again , Rossouw gets back and is surprised by the bounce , the ball goes off the outside edge towards point , the backward point fielder runs towards it and fields it 15.4 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , shaping away from the left-hander , Rossouw has a waft at it and is beaten 15.3 A Russell to Amla , leg byes , 1 run , Amla looks to work it on the leg-side , the ball goes off the thigh pad instead 15.2 A Russell to Rossouw , 3 runs , outside off , Rossouw lofts it between extra cover and mid-off , the fielder at mid-off gives it a chase and stops it near the rope 15.2 A Russell to Rossouw , wide , slides it down leg after banging it short , Ramdin moves to his right and fields it 15.1 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , fantastic fielding by Holder at mid-on. Rossouw gets back and pulls it hard , Holder dives to his right and makes a brilliant stop 14.6 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to mid-off 14.5 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , short of length on middle and off , Rossouw punches it down the track , Brathwaite attempts to get a hand on it as the ball crashes onto the non-striker 's end but is not successful , meanwhile Amla hurries back to ground his bat 14.4 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , back of a length on leg , Amla shuffles across a touch and clips it to fine leg 14.3 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length on off , Rossouw leans forward and works it to mid-on for a brisk single 14.2 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rossouw punches it towards cover 14.1 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , fuller and angled in on off , Rossouw gets forward and taps it back to Brathwaite Drinks are on the field now. Steady going for South Africa now. They started off poorly with Quinton de Kock getting out on 4. Faf du Plessis hung around for a while but he was undone by the extra bounce. The good news for the hosts is that Amla is still at the crease and looking good on 38 . 13.6 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Rossouw gets forward and drives it to mid-off 13.5 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , stays back and defends it towards the off-side 13.5 A Russell to Rossouw , wide , short and sliding down , Rossouw swivels back on that one but is not able to connect 13.4 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , Amla nudges it off his pads to square leg , he slipped at the non-striker 's end and that 's why the batsmen did not go for a second run 13.3 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , shortish and offering good width , Rossouw opens the face of his bat and steers it to square third man , straight to the fielder 13.2 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , fuller and outside off , Rossouw just watches it closely and lets it go 13.1 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , shortish and wide of off , Amla stands tall and slaps it to sweeper cover 12.6 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , fuller and coming back in , Amla wrists it to deep backward square leg 12.5 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , shortish on the hips , Rossouw moves across a touch and tucks it through backward square leg 12.4 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , stays inside the line and defends this short of length delivery back towards the bowler 12.3 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , fuller and angled across the left-hander , who does n't bother to play at it 12.2 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , fullish around off , Amla shuffles across and turns it to mid-wicket 12.1 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , fuller around off , Amla jams it back to the bowler off the inside half of the bat 11.6 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , bouncer on the stumps from Russell , Rossouw ducks slightly and lets it go through to the keeper 11.5 A Russell to Rossouw , no run , length delivery just outside off , Rossouw knocks it to backward point , where Carter makes a good diving stop 11.4 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , back of a length around off , Amla pats it to cover-point for a brisk single 11.4 A Russell to Amla , 5 wides , way way short ! A bumper from Russell that goes well over the keeper as well , who does n't even bother to jump 11.3 A Russell to Amla , no run , in the channel outside off , Amla easily shoulders arms to it 11.2 A Russell to Rossouw , 1 run , short of length on off , Rossouw gets back and looks to work it into the leg-side , gets a leading edge to third man , that was well wide of the slip fielder 11.1 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Amla quickly gets on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover , finds the fielder there 10.6 Brathwaite to Amla , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Amla simply knocks it to cover-point 10.5 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , back of a length around off , Amla defends it towards backward point 10.4 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , touch back of a length on off , Amla defends it back 10.3 Brathwaite to Rossouw , 1 run , fuller on off , Rossouw leans forward and works it off the inside half of the bat to mid-wicket 10.2 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , outside off , Rossouw bunts it behind point 10.1 Brathwaite to Rossouw , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Rossouw stays back and turns it to the left of the bowler Rilee Rossouw , left handed bat , comes to the crease 9.6 A Russell to du Plessis , out Caught by Cottrell ! ! Oh dear , South Africa lose their second ! Umpires check Russell 's front foot but he is fine with it. The bowler bangs it short , du Plessis gets back and shapes up for the pull shot , he takes his eyes off the ball and is not able to control the shot , gets a top-edge and holes out to Cottrell at the fine leg fence. du Plessis c Cottrell b A Russell 16 ( 27 ) [ 4s-2 ] A Russell to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.5 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , short of length and coming back in a touch , Amla tucks it deftly to deep square leg 9.5 A Russell to Amla , 5 wides , what was that , Russell ? He banged it short and outside off , Amla just watches it nonchalantly , the ball flies way over a leaping Ramdin and crosses the third man rope 9.4 A Russell to du Plessis , 3 runs , fuller and straighter in line , du Plessis leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket , fielded near the rope 9.3 A Russell to du Plessis , no run , on a good length and outside off , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go 9.2 A Russell to Amla , 1 run , short of length and wide of off , Amla guides it to third man off the open bat face 9.1 A Russell to du Plessis , 1 run , shortish on middle and leg , du Plessis gets back and short-arm jabs it to fine leg Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Andre Russell from the other end 8.6 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , some width on that one , Amla dabs with an open bat face behind point 8.5 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Amla defends it to the right of the bowler 8.4 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , beaten neck and crop , lovely delivery from Brathwaite ! It was a touch fuller one that jags back , Amla pokes at it with laden feet and misses 8.3 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , shortish and shaping away from the right-hander , Amla flays at it and is beaten 8.2 Brathwaite to Amla , no run , short of length and coming back into the batsman this time , Amla jumps back and turns it in front of square on the leg-side 8.1 Brathwaite to du Plessis , 1 run , short of length around off , du Plessis is squared up on that one as he looks to defend off the back foot , gets a thick outside edge and the ball flies past slip to third man Carlos Brathwaite , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Change of bowling as Carlos Brathwaite comes into the attack , replacing Cottrell. Just a slip in place for him . 7.6 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , du Plessis dabs it with an open bat face to third man 7.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of length around off , du Plessis hops back and punches it behind point 7.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , on a length and outside off , du Plessis bunts it behind point 7.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller and outside off , left alone comfortably 7.2 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , short , wide and punished ! du Plessis stands tall inside the crease , nicely rolls his wrists on that and cuts it square of the wicket 7.1 J Holder to Amla , 3 runs , overpitched by Holder , some width on that as well , Amla comes on the front foot and creams the drive to deep extra cover , three fielders give the ball a chase , in the end Russell slides near the rope and drags the ball back in Hashim Amla has crossed 300 runs in this series. He has only got out once. How good is that ? 6.6 Cottrell to du Plessis , no run , back of a length on off , du Plessis punches it off the back foot towards mid-off 6.5 Cottrell to Amla , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Amla runs it down to third man for a comfortable single 6.4 Cottrell to Amla , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it to the left of the bowler 6.3 Cottrell to Amla , FOUR , another wonderful leg-side boundary by Amla. It was a back of a length delivery on off , Amla does well to lean forward a touch , rolls his wrists and clips it to the long-on fence 6.2 Cottrell to Amla , no run , has a waft at this widish delivery and is beaten 6.1 Cottrell to Amla , SIX , banged in short by Cottrell on stumps , Amla swivels back for the pull , the ball flies off the top-edge over the fine leg fence , Amla had taken his eyes off the ball on that one , luckily the ball went too high and cleared the rope 5.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , teasing line outside off , du Plessis is not interested in playing at those 5.5 J Holder to du Plessis , FOUR , wide of off again , this time du Plessis shuffles across a touch , stands tall and punches it powerfully to the deep backward point fence 5.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , bangs it shortish again and wide of off , du Plessis stands tall and punches it to cover-point 5.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of length and outside off , du Plessis stays inside the line and punches it behind point 5.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of length around off , du Plessis blocks it off the back foot with a straight bat 5.1 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Amla gets forward and drives it to sweeper cover , finds the fielder there 4.6 Cottrell to Amla , 1 run , short of length on the hips , Amla hops inside the crease and tucks it to square leg 4.5 Cottrell to Amla , no run , fuller and angled across the right-hander , left alone 4.4 Cottrell to du Plessis , 1 run , short of length on the pads , du Plessis stays back and tucks it to mid-wicket 4.3 Cottrell to du Plessis , no run , fuller and around off , du Plessis shuffles across and blocks it with the full face of the bat 4.2 Cottrell to du Plessis , no run , on middle and off this time , du Plessis defends it towards short mid-wicket 4.1 Cottrell to du Plessis , no run , length delivery angled in on off , du Plessis defends it into the off-side 4.1 Cottrell to du Plessis , wide , fuller and well outside off , that was too wide for du Plessis to play , easy call for the umpire 3.6 J Holder to Amla , no run , in that channel outside off again , left alone by Amla 3.5 J Holder to Amla , FOUR , short and good width on offer , Amla stands tall , opens the face of his bat and flays it towards the third man fence 3.4 J Holder to du Plessis , 1 run , length delivery around off , du Plessis lunges on the front foot and works it towards mid-on for a quick single 3.3 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short of length and closer to the off-stump now , du Plessis covers the sticks and shoulders arms 3.2 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , fuller this time but in the channel outside off , does not interest du Plessis into playing at it 3.1 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , short and well outside off , du Plessis watches it closely and lets that go through 2.6 Cottrell to Amla , FOUR , on the pads again and the result is the same ! Amla just tickles it off his pads to the fine leg fence . 2.5 Cottrell to Amla , no run , stands tall and cuts this shortish and wide delivery in front of point 2.4 Cottrell to Amla , FOUR , you ca n't bowl to Amla on the pads and get away with it ! It was a short of length delivery shaping back in on leg , Amla just leans forward a touch and flicks it to deep backward square leg 2.3 Cottrell to Amla , no run , touch fuller and coming back into the batsman , Amla leans forward and turns it into the on-side 2.2 Cottrell to Amla , no run , length delivery around off , Amla gets forward and knocks it to cover Revised playing conditions : Two bowlers can bowl 9 overs and three bowlers can bowl 8 2.1 Cottrell to Amla , no run , shortish and outside off , Amla hops inside the crease and slaps it behind point 1.6 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , length delivery on middle and off , du Plessis gets forward and taps it to mid-on 1.5 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , presses on the front foot and defends this length delivery around off with an angled bat 1.4 J Holder to du Plessis , no run , back of a length on off , du Plessis blocks it down the pitch with a straight bat 1.4 J Holder to du Plessis , wide , another one straying well down leg , du Plessis moves deep inside the crease and leaves it alone Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.3 J Holder to de Kock , out Caught by J Carter ! ! Not the kind of start South Africa and de Kock would have wanted. The young man was returning to the side after a long break and has thrown it away ! It was another shortish delivery from Holder around leg , de Kock gets back and looks to pull , ends up top-edging it to the point fielder , who runs forward and snaffles the take. de Kock was hurried into playing that shot and miscued it completely. de Kock c J Carter b J Holder 4 ( 7 ) [ 4s-1 ] J Holder to de Kock , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.3 J Holder to de Kock , wide , short of length and sliding down leg , de Kock misses the glance , collected smartly by Ramdin , who dives to his right behind the stumps 1.2 J Holder to Amla , 1 run , shortish and wide , Amla stands tall and cuts it to sweeper cover Two slips present for Holder as well. . 1.1 J Holder to Amla , no run , on a length and in the channel outside off , Amla covers the sticks and lets it go through Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Cottrell to de Kock , FOUR , fullish and offering good width , de Kock presses forward and slices it over point to the deep backward point fence to get off the mark 0.5 Cottrell to de Kock , no run , length delivery just outside off , de Kock drives it towards cover-point , where the fielder makes a diving stop after a little fumble 0.4 Cottrell to de Kock , no run , short of length and outside off , de Kock stays back and punches it to cover 0.3 Cottrell to de Kock , no run , shaping away from the left-hander , de Kock looks to drive it into the off-side , beaten by the away movement 0.2 Cottrell to de Kock , no run , on a good length around off , de Kock bunts back to the bowler Two slips in place.. . 0.1 Cottrell to de Kock , no run , back of a length delivery to start off , de Kock stays back and pushes it back to the bowler de Kock and Amla are at the crease. de Kock is on strike. Cottrell will open the attack The South African openers Hashim Amla and Quinton de Kock have walked out to the middle. The West Indies players are taking their positions. Sheldon Cottrell to start proceedings. First powerplay will be of 9 overs and the batting powerplay will be of 4 overs . Teams : South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Hashim Amla ( c ) , Rilee Rossouw , Faf du Plessis , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Farhaan Behardien , Wayne Parnell , Kyle Abbott , Aaron Phangiso , Marchant de Lange West Indies ( Playing XI ) : Dwayne Smith , Chris Gayle , Narsingh Deonarine , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Jonathan Carter , Andre Russell , Darren Sammy , Jason Holder ( c ) , Carlos Brathwaite , Sheldon Cottrell Marchant de Lange , Quinton de Kock and Hashim Amla come in for Morne Morkel , Morne van Wyk and AB de Villiers for South Africa. For West Indies , Narsingh Deonarine will replace Leon Johnson , who is nursing a sore neck . West Indies have won the toss and have opted to field 15 : 33 Local Time , 13 : 33 GMT , 19 : 03 IST : Toss at 15 : 40 local and the play will begin at 16 : 00 local. It will be a 42-overs per side match . 15 : 23 Local Time , 13 : 23 GMT , 18 : 53 IST : The rain continues to play hide-and-seek. It has stopped momentarily and covers are off the square . 15 : 15 Local Time , 13 : 15 GMT , 18 : 45 IST : They follow it up with another tweet in just 5 minutes : And the covers are back on... Looks like we 'll be playing the waiting game . 15 : 10 Local Time , 13 : 10 GMT , 18 : 40 IST : A little bit of good news. Cricket South Africa with this update on twitter : The covers are coming off ! 15 : 05 Local Time , 13 : 05 GMT , 18 : 35 IST : The rain refuses to relent and covers are firmly in place. Lot of water has accumulated on the ground . 14 : 20 Local Time , 12 : 20 GMT , 17 : 50 IST : Sorry , no change at the ground. It continues to rain heavily . As we wait for more updates on this match , you can switch tabs and follow the Big Bash final between the Sydney Sixers and Perth Scorchers . 13 : 33 Local Time , 11 : 33 GMT , 17 : 03 IST : Bad news , folks ! It has started to rain again and covers are coming on . 13 : 20 Local Time , 11 : 20 GMT , 16 : 50 IST : If there is no more rain , the toss will take place at 13 : 30 local and match will begin at 14 : 00 local. No overs lost . 13 : 09 Local Time , 11 : 09 GMT , 16 : 39 IST : Cricket South Africa have tweeted : Looks like the covers are coming off slowly but surely. The toss is delayed . There was rain earlier in the day at Centurion. But it seems to have cleared up now . AB de Villiers will be taking a break for this match and Hashim Amla will be captaining in his absence. Also , Quinton de Kock will return to the side , after recovering from an ankle injury . Although South Africa would not be too worried about the way things unfolded , but a defeat just before the World Cup is not something they would want. On the other hand , now that West Indies have finally been able to lift their spirits , they would love to finish the series on a high. South Africa will be looking to bring back their rested players , while the visitors would ideally stick to the winning combination. Hello and welcome to the final ODI being played at the Centurion. We will bring you the toss and team updates in a while. Stay tuned. . After receiving a thorough drubbing in the first three games of the series , West Indies stunned the hosts with a one wicket victory in the previous ODI. Batting first , a vastly depleted South African team posted a competitive 262 on board after struggling on 76/4 at one point. David Miller went on to score his first ODI ton. However , the Caribbean team kept their cool , thanks to a brilliant innings by Andre Russell and chased down the target with nine balls to spare . Preview : West Indies would like to register their second successive ODI win in the fifth and final match against favourites South Africa at Centurion on Wednesday to feel good about their chances at the ICC Cricket World Cup which begins a little over two weeks from now . South Africa were clinical in the first three games and were on course to inflict another loss on West Indies at Port Elizabeth on Sunday when they had reduced them to 73 for 5. Fuelled by David Miller 's maiden ton , the hosts had posted 262 to challenge the Caribbean team but Marlon Samuels and Darren Sammy added 93 before allrounder Andre Russell scored 64 not out off 40 balls to stun the Proteas with nine deliveries and a wicket in hand . South Africa captain AB de Villiers played down the defeat by saying it was not a wake-up call. " We were n't complacent or anything like that. It 's a painful affair , but we move on and we will try to finish on a high in Centurion , " he said. But such a defeat ahead of such an important tournament was not ideal for South Africa . It was n't the first time the hosts were taken aback on the tour. Not long ago , in the second T20I at Johannesburg , they failed to defend a mammoth 231 for 7 after the onslaught of Chris Gayle who made a 41-ball 90 . West Indies , on the contrary , would take a lot of heart from the Port Elizabeth win and another victory could push the disappointments of the first three ODIs to the background. If Russell can keep performing like that , West Indies may not feel the absence of Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard , controversially left out of the World Cup squad . On the back of such a thumping win , the Caribbean team is unlikely to make any changes to its team but South Africa might want to bring back the experienced quartet of Hashim Amla , Imran Tahir , Vernon Philander and Dale Steyn , all of whom were rested for the Port Elizabeth game . Teams : West Indies ( From ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Leon Johnson , Marlon Samuels , Jonathan Carter , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Carlos Brathwaite , Sheldon Cottrell , Lendl Simmons , Narsingh Deonarine , Jerome Taylor , Sulieman Benn South Africa ( From ) : Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Hashim Amla ( c ) , Rilee Rossouw , Faf du Plessis , David Miller , Jean-Paul Duminy , Farhaan Behardien , Vernon Philander , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Morne Morkel , Kyle Abbott , Imran Tahir , Morne van Wyk , Dale Steyn Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
