Graphs That 's all from here. Join us for the second Test match being played at Abu Dhabi on Thursday. Till then , take care . For now , Pakistan can rejoice this win. After all , they have outperformed the Aussies in every department of the game. Australia have to find a way to counter the spin. Otherwise , Pakistani spinners will continue their onslaught . With this , the first Test match comes to a close. After the pounding in the ODI series , Pakistan have done really well to go 1-0 in the Test series. However , their real test will be in Abu Dhabi , where they need to back this performance with another good one. With Clarke upbeat about his team 's chances in the second Test , do not count the Aussies out. They showed a glimpse of how well they can play with Smith and Johnson putting up a brave front against the Pakistani bowlers . Misbah : This was a much required win for us. We were really struggling in the last few series. We also lost the ODI series to them. It is a big win for us and for the youngsters who are around. Everybody was determined and we were playing well before as well but we did really well in every department in this Test match. These bowlers are young at the international level but they have a lot of first-class cricket experience. They knew how to bowl longer spells and they bowled really well. A few of them played the Australians in the practice match and it gave them confidence. We would go to Abu Dhabi and look to consolidate. We would like to win the series. We will try and put in a disciplined performance again . Younis Khan : First of all , I would like to thank all my support staff for everything. They have worked really hard with me. Be it Grant Flower or the others , everyone has helped me out. There is nothing better than my team winning because of me. It feels really good. I worked really hard with Grant Flower. There was a situation when I did n't want to play , but my family motivated me to come back. I got time to watch how the Australians play and we tried a few new things. I got hit on the shoulder and the ribs. But , I was ready for the stiff task of facing Johnson. We are a very young team and Australia is a top ranked team. If you see the overall team performance , everyone has played really well . Younis Khan spoke about his performance in Urdu. I am paraphrasing what he said . Younis Khan is the Man of the Match for his centuries in both innings Michael Clarke : There 's no doubt that they deserve credit. They outplayed us in all the three departments. We did n't play as we would have liked but we will try to turn things around in time for the second Test. We would probably like to keep our bats in front ( referring to so many lbw decisions ) . Steven Smith and Mitchell Johnson played really well and deserve the credit. Younis certainly showed the example. He showed us how to play spin and how to play reverse swing. We got outplayed in all three facets of the game and we will look to turn it around in the second Test. We can definitely turn things around in the next Test. The boys will work hard over the next few days and we will definitely perform well in the next match. I am sure you will see a different team in the next game . Time for the presentation ceremony.. . Chasing a daunting total of 438 , Australia never got going. The openers were fine till they reached 44. Warner got stumped and that opened the floodgates. Australia were 59/4 going into Day 5 and a Pakistani win looked inevitable. However , Smith and Johnson played well but could only delay the Pakistani-win. At the end , Pakistan won the game by 221 runs and they go 1-0 up in this 2-match Test series . Batting second , Pakistan was again on the money. With Hafeez out due to an injury , Azhar Ali had to open with Ahmed Shehzad , who left his poor dismissal in the first innings behind and went on to score a brilliant hundred. Younis provided him great support , notching up his 26th hundred in the process . Younis Khan was brilliant with the bat , scoring centuries in both the innings and while doing so , he became the 12th man in the history of cricket to have scored a century against all Test playing nations. The real key to this win was the first innings batting performance. After the openers departed early , the middle order did extremely well to post 454 on the board. Three fifties and two centuries did the trick for them there. When Australia came out to bat , they looked very good. The first wicket stand of more than a 100 runs was probably the only real partnership they had in the first innings. Wickets fell away quickly after that and Pakistan took a lead of 151 runs . Pakistan deserved this win. They have batted extremely well and their bowlers also deserve credit for keeping Australian batsmen at bay. Apart from David Warner 's century in the first innings , Australia have nothing really to show for. They have been comprehensively beaten here. Being 7/2 at one stage , Pakistan has surely scripted one of their best wins in a long time . Zulfiqar Babar is holding the match ball. He finishes with 5/74 in the second innings. Babar has taken 7 wickets in the match . Misbah becomes the oldest captain to win a Test against Australia. Pakistani players are hugging one another. The support staff and their coach Waqar Younis are very happy. There are handshakes and hugs all around . 91.1 Babar to Siddle , out Caught by Azhar Ali ! ! Finally , Pakistan have won it. Pakistani players are jubilant as this is only the second time since 1995 that Pakistan have beaten Australia in a Test. It was floated on off , Siddle went for the defensive push after coming down the track and the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad , loops for Azhar Ali , who moves forward to take the catch at silly point. Siddle thought he had n't hit it and went for the review. However , replays showed that there was a clear inside edge. Siddle c Azhar Ali b Babar 15 ( 48 ) [ 4s-1 ] Babar to Siddle , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! There is some confusion on whether Siddle is out or not. Umpire Erasmus gives it 'Out ' but Siddle has reviewed it. It looks like Siddle did get an inside edge and the onfield decision has been upheld . 90.6 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , goes on the front foot and defends it 90.5 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , floated outside off and O'Keefe pads it , there was half an appeal from the close-in fielders but it can never be given out 90.4 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , a little flatter outside off and spins further away from the batsman , O'Keefe leaves 90.3 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , pushed through on off and middle , O'Keefe leans forward and blocks 90.2 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , floated on off , O'Keefe presses forward and blocks it to silly point 90.1 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , lunges forward in defence 89.6 Babar to Siddle , no run , went back in the crease and blocks 89.6 Babar to Siddle , no ball , Babar oversteps this time , Siddle comes forward and dead-bats it 89.5 Babar to Siddle , no run , goes on the back foot and blocks it to the right of the bowler 89.4 Babar to Siddle , 2 runs , push drives a flighted delivery outside off towards deep extra cover 89.3 Babar to Siddle , no run , drives this tossed up delivery to short cover 89.2 Babar to Siddle , no run , arm ball from Babar , Siddle misses the defensive push and is hit on the pads , a huge appeal from the Pakistani players but the onfield umpire adjudged it 'Not Out' Pakistan have decided to review another lbw decision. The onfield umpire Erasmus gave it 'Not Out'. There is no problem with Babar 's front foot. Replays show that there was no inside edge on that. Pakistani players look very confident that they have got their man. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball will clip the leg stump and so , the onfield decision will be upheld . 89.1 Babar to Siddle , no run , drives this fuller delivery towards point Zulfiqar Babar [ 30.0-7-71-4 ] is back into the attack Steve O'Keefe , right handed bat , comes to the crease 88.6 Yasir Shah to Johnson , out Stumped ! ! It was pushed through outside off , Johnson looked to push at it , the ball goes past the outside edge as Johnson puts a big stride in , he is a little late to drag his foot back and Sarfraz takes the bails off in a flash. A brave innings from Johnson comes to an end. Pakistan are extremely happy with the decision. Johnson st Sarfraz Ahmed b Yasir Shah 61 ( 127 ) [ 4s-6 6s-1 ] Yasir Shah to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! There is a huge stumping appeal from Sarfraz , who is confident that he has got his man here. This looks very close. Johnson probably did n't drag his foot back in time. The foot appears to be on the line. Replays show that there is probably nothing behind the line. Will the third umpire rule this in favour of Pakistan ? It 's a very tough one for the third umpire. And he has adjudged Johnson out. Pakistani players are ecstatic. They are just one wicket away from winning this one . 88.5 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , steps out of the crease and defends it 88.4 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , goes back in the crease and blocks 88.3 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , flatter and turns back in towards Johnson , who does n't offer a shot , the Pakistani players appealed as the ball hit him on the pads , but it was a little too high Pakistan have gone for a review for a lbw decision. The onfield decision was 'Not Out'. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was just clipping the top of the stumps and hence , the onfield decision stays 88.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 2 runs , bounces a little extra , Johnson pushes and gets a thick outside edge just wide of slip , the ball runs away towards third man 88.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , great amount of turn from the rough outside off , Johnson is hit on the thigh pad as he looks to clip it into the leg-side , even Johnson is suprised at the bounce and the turn 87.6 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , another short of length delivery from Rahat coming from over the wicket , Siddle stays rooted to the crease and blocks solidly 87.5 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , bowls a bumper that does n't rise as much as Siddle expected , he still ducks under it 87.5 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no ball , 2 runs , oversteps and bowls this one on the legs again , Siddle goes on the back foot and works it towards square leg , the batsmen had ample time to take two Rahat comes round the wicket . 87.4 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Siddle clips it to short mid-wicket 87.3 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Siddle tucks it towards short mid-wicket and sets off for a single , Johnson shouts 'No ' to send him back as the fielder was quickly onto the ball 87.2 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , bowls a bumper down the leg side , Siddle ducks 87.1 Rahat Ali to Johnson , 1 run , almost a yorker from Rahat , Johnson stays back and clips it on the full , the ball goes towards deep backward square leg 86.6 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Johnson knocks it towards cover and keeps the strike Shah comes round the wicket to Johnson 86.5 Yasir Shah to Siddle , 1 run , pushed through on leg , Siddle rocks back in the crease and turns it to backward square leg 86.4 Yasir Shah to Siddle , no run , came down the track and defends it into the off-side 86.3 Yasir Shah to Siddle , no run , another peach that goes past the outside edge as Siddle looks to defend , there was some good turn on that one 86.2 Yasir Shah to Siddle , no run , edged and it falls just short of YK at slip , it was floated just outside off , Siddle pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and does not carry to the slip fielder 86.1 Yasir Shah to Siddle , FOUR , short and outside off , Siddle goes on the back foot and punches it to the deep extra cover fence Yasir Shah [ 22.0-5-42-3 ] is back into the attack 85.6 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Johnson looks to pull but the ball goes under his bat and through to the keeper 85.5 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , good short ball from Rahat , Johnson has to sway away at the last moment and allows it to go 85.4 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , bouncer from Rahat this time , Johnson ducks under it 85.3 Rahat Ali to Johnson , 2 runs , fullish and on the off stump , Johnson looks to work it on the on-side , he closes the face of the bat a little early , the ball rolls away into the off-side after taking a leading edge , the batsmen run for a brace 85.2 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Johnson opens the face of the bat and dabs it to point 85.1 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , splays this one down leg , Johnson lets it go through to the keeper Rahat Ali will continue from the other end. There are three slips and a gully in place 84.6 Imran Khan to Siddle , no run , on a good length and on off , Siddle defends it towards point 84.5 Imran Khan to Siddle , 2 runs , that 's well played by Siddle , it was full and on middle and leg , Siddle works it wide of mid-on for a couple 84.4 Imran Khan to Siddle , no run , fullish and on off , Siddle leans forward and blocks There are three slips , a gully and a FSL in position for Siddle 84.3 Imran Khan to Johnson , 1 run , short of length delivery on the hips , Johnson goes on the back foot and half pulls/paddles to fine leg 84.2 Imran Khan to Johnson , no run , full and just outside off , Johnson shoulders arms 84.1 Imran Khan to Johnson , no run , fullish and on middle , Johnson blocks There are two slips and a gully in place . Imran Khan will start off the proceedings after Tea . Johnson and Siddle are walking out to the centre . Welcome back to the final session. Pakistan just need two wickets for a historic win. Can Johnson reach his second Test hundred and save the game ? We will find out soon . That 's Tea on the final day. Just one wicket from the session , you should feel it is Australia 's session , but Pakistan are still in the box seat. Smith , Johnson and Siddle fought hard to take this match into the final session. Pakistan did n't help themselves by missing several chances. Babar has four wickets but he has bore the brunt of all missed chances. Can Pakistan finish off Australia or will the visitors hold off for a stunning draw ? Join us in a while. . 83.6 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , defended towards mid-off 83.5 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , full and way outside off , Siddle does n't need to poke at those , left alone 83.4 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , Rahat bangs one short , but the line is well outside leg , Siddle sways away from the line and lets it go 83.3 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , Rahat shortens his length on middle , Siddle gets behind the line and defends it 83.2 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , short of a length and just outside off , dabbed away off the backfoot towards point 83.1 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 82.6 Hafeez to Johnson , FOUR , cracking shot , Hafeez gives this one plenty of air , Johnson gets forward and nonchalantly lifts it over mid-off for a boundary 82.5 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , the arm ball once again , Johnson spots it early , gets across and defends it towards the off-side 82.4 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , slower and well outside off , Johnson goes back and pushes it towards cover 82.3 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , blocked towards silly point 82.2 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , skids through after pitching , Johnson just about gets his bat down in time 82.1 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at extra cover Mohammad Hafeez [ 14.0-4-25-0 ] is back into the attack 81.6 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , this is short and well down leg-side , Sarfraz has to tumble across to his left to prevent runs 81.5 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , lovely teasing line from Rahat , this was pushed up further and gets it to shape away slightly , sucked Siddle into playing at that , nearly grazed the outside edge 81.4 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Siddle gets a good stride forward , covers the line and lets it go 81.3 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , the bumper from Rahat , Siddle ducks underneath it 81.2 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Siddle presses forward and defends it towards mid-off 81.1 Rahat Ali to Siddle , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Siddle gets across and defends it towards the off-side Three slips , a gully and a FSL as Rahat steams in Rahat Ali [ 9.0-2-30-0 ] is back into the attack 80.6 Babar to Johnson , FOUR , fifty for Johnson , this has been a fighting knock , 9th Test fifty , Babar gave this one plenty of air , Johnson clears his left leg and heaves it over mid-wicket , a couple of bounces and over the ropes 80.5 Babar to Johnson , no run , Babar drops one short and on Johnson 's pads , flicked straight to the fielder at square leg 80.4 Babar to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery and on middle , Johnson prods forward in defence 80.3 Babar to Johnson , no run , teasing from Babar , he gave this one plenty of air , it was very slow as well , Johnson was looking to slog it out of the ground and missed 80.2 Babar to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Johnson is squared up as he went back , gets a soft edge towards the off-side 80.1 Babar to Siddle , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Siddle chops it down behind point for a single The second new ball is available and Pakistan take it. Babar will continue. 5 men round the bat 79.6 Yasir Shah to Johnson , FOUR , nicely played by Mitch , fraction short from Shah , Johnson is quick to rock back as he pulls it wide of mid-wicket , no need to run for those 79.5 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , the wrong 'un from Shah , Johnson spotted it early , covers the line and lets it go 79.4 Yasir Shah to Siddle , 1 run , this was pushed through quicker by Yasir Shah , Siddle pushes forward and gets an inside edge past FSL 79.3 Yasir Shah to Siddle , no run , tossed up outside off and spinning away a mile , left alone 79.2 Yasir Shah to Siddle , 2 runs , Yasir Shah drops one short and just outside off , Siddle gets across and flicks it in front of square on the on-side. Johnson wanted a third run but is sent back 79.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , Johnson is n't reading Yasir Shah one bit , comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball and drags the slog towards deep mid-wicket 78.6 Babar to Siddle , no run , another round arm delivery from Babar , Siddle lunges forward in defence , gets an inside edge towards the on-side 78.5 Babar to Siddle , no run , tossed up and on off , Siddle gets well forward in defence 78.4 Babar to Siddle , no run , Babar bowled this one with a round arm action , the slider which came back with the angle , Siddle goes back and blocks 78.3 Babar to Siddle , no run , flighted and on middle , Siddle goes back and defends it towards the off-side 78.2 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , pushed through by Babar , Johnson goes back and turns it towards the on-side 78.1 Babar to Johnson , SIX , massive , Johnson was lining up for this , this was tossed up and well outside off , he gets down on his knee and slog sweeps it high and well over wide long on 77.6 Yasir Shah to Siddle , no run , slower and just outside off , Siddle gets a good stride forward as he blocks 77.5 Yasir Shah to Siddle , no run , Shah slows one outside off , Siddle was looking to push it towards the off-side , makes a late call to let it go , the ball rolls off the face of the bat towards gully 77.4 Yasir Shah to Siddle , no run , flatter and well outside off , Siddle looks to cut and mistimes it towards cover 77.3 Yasir Shah to Siddle , no run , very full from Shah , Siddle just about gets his bat down in time as he defends 77.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , Johnson comes down the track to a well flighted delivery , does n't get to the pitch and ends up dragging it down to long on 77.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , tossed up and on off , driven back towards the bowler 76.6 Babar to Siddle , no run , slower and on off , the slider from Babar , Siddle goes back and blocks 76.5 Babar to Siddle , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Siddle presses forward in defence Five men round the bat 76.4 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , clubbed down to long on for a single 76.3 Babar to Johnson , no run , tossed up and on off , Johnson plays with the turn and works it to the left of mid-wicket where Misbah makes a tumbling stop 76.2 Babar to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Johnson gets across and blocks 76.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , loud shout for LBW , Johnson gets across his stumps and is happy to pad it away , the ball was n't doing enough to hit the stumps though Zulfiqar Babar [ 27.0-7-58-4 ] is back into the attack Peter Siddle , right handed bat , comes to the crease 75.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , out Caught by Shafiq ! ! Celebrations in the Pakistan camp. Smith fought hard and a freak dismissal sends him back. This was tossed up invitingly by Yasir Shah , Smith came down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball , attempts to jam it out , the ball goes off the face of the bat and is smartly taken by Shafiq under the helmet at FSL. No one realized for a moment , Smith was attempting to get back , Shafiq lined up for a run-out chance , Pakistan appealed for a catch. The umpire was n't sure , replays suggest that the ball went straight off the bat. A despondent Smith walks back to the hut. S Smith c Shafiq b Yasir Shah 55 ( 175 ) [ 4s-3 ] Yasir Shah to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Pakistan are claiming a catch at FSL. Is it a bump ball though ? The 3rd umpire will have a look at this. Looks like it went straight off the face of the bat. Smith 's resistance is over 75.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , Yasir Shah drifts one well outside off , Smith stays back and pushes it towards the off-side 75.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , 2 runs , Shah gives this one plenty of air , Smith gets a good stride forward and drives it past cover point for a brace 75.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , flatter and spinning away from well outside off , left alone 75.2 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Smith prods forward as he smothers the spin 75.1 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery outside off and spinning away , left alone 74.6 Imran Khan to Johnson , no run , another bumper from Imran , Johnson ducks underneath it 74.5 Imran Khan to Johnson , no run , full and angling back into Johnson , driven firmly but straight to mid-on 74.4 Imran Khan to Johnson , FOUR , that 's nicely done by Mitch , this was banged in short and on the stumps , the cross seam delivery from Imran , Johnson rolls his wrists as he swivelled across and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a boundary 74.3 Imran Khan to Johnson , no run , full and slanting down leg-side , Johnson looks to flick and misses 74.2 Imran Khan to S Smith , 1 run , tad fuller and a hint of shape back into Smith , nudged away in front of mid-wicket for a single 74.1 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Smith shuffles across as he defends it towards mid-on Two slips and a gully as the pacer is back Imran Khan [ 5.0-2-14-1 ] is back into the attack 73.6 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , extra bounce for Shah , but Johnson deals with it well , plays it with his bottom hands and nudges it softly towards the on-side 73.5 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , Johnson shimmies down the track , closes the face of the bat as he looked to whip it towards the on-side , gets a soft leading edge past the bowler 73.4 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , this one is given plenty of air , Johnson gets half forward as he blocks 73.3 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , Shah gives this one more air , Johnson goes back and blocks it back at the bowler 73.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , tossed up and on off , Johnson stays back and works it towards the on-side 73.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery and on off , the length is quite short though , allows Johnson to go back and push it towards mid-on 72.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , slightly shorter and on the stumps , Smith goes back and defends it with a straight bat 72.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , slower outside off and drifting away after pitching , left alone 72.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , tossed up and on off , Smith gets a big stride forward as he smothers the spin Now , switching to round the wicket , Babar 72.3 Babar to S Smith , no run , Babar gives this one plenty of air , Smith gets a big stride forward as he blocks 72.2 Babar to S Smith , no run , tossed up and on off , S Smith goes deep inside the crease as he dead bats it 72.1 Babar to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery and well outside leg , Smith pads it away 71.6 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , nicely played by Johnson , this was pushed through flatter and on off , Johnson gets across a long way and turns it towards the on-side 71.5 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery and spinning back in , Johnson shuffles across , allows the ball to spin and turns it with soft hands towards the on-side 71.4 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , Johnson comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch and ends up turning it towards FSL , almost carried to the man under the helmet , actually , it hit the fielder on his legs 71.3 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , this one kicked viciously off the surface , surprised Johnson with the extra bounce , he does well to play with soft hands as the ball drops down by his feet 71.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , just short of leg slip , this was pushed through quicker and spun back into Johnson , he turned it off the face of the bat , nearly went straight to leg slip 71.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , muted appeal for LBW , but Johnson was struck well outside off. Yasir Shah had Johnson reaching out for this , pitched on the rough and spun back in 70.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , Smith comes well forward as he defends it 70.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery and pitched well outside leg , Smith comes down the track and pads it away Babar changes to over the wicket 70.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , very full and just outside off , Smith prods forward on the half-volley , the ball rolls back towards the bowler 70.3 Babar to S Smith , no run , slower and just outside off , Smith goes right back as he blocks 70.2 Babar to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Smith gets a good stride forward as he smothers the spin 70.1 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , tossed up and on off , Johnson bunts it down towards long on for a run 69.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , pushed through on off , Smith goes right back as he defends it with a straight bat 69.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , Yasir flights one on off , Smith lunges forward and smothers the spin 69.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , tossed up outside off and spinning away , left alone 69.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , FOUR , lovely use of the feet from Smith , shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it with the spin , beats mid-on to his left and races away to the fence , brings up his 7th Test fifty 69.2 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , Yasir Shah tosses one outside off , Smith gets well forward as he blocks 69.1 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery outside off and spinning away , left alone 68.6 Babar to Johnson , 2 runs , another chance goes abegging , Babar has been denied yet again. This was flighted and dipped into Johnson , he was looking for the sweep , gets the top-edge that flies towards short fine. Yasir back-pedalled , he seemed to have misjudged the flight completely , in the end , he has to arch back one-handed , ca n't hold onto the catch 68.5 Babar to Johnson , no run , Babar drifts one outside off and gets it to hold its line , left alone Back to over the wicket 68.4 Babar to Johnson , no run , Babar tosses one on the middle stump line , flicked straight to Misbah at short mid-wicket 68.3 Babar to Johnson , no run , pushed through quicker and going away with the angle , left alone 68.2 Babar to Johnson , no run , tossed up and on off , Johnson goes back and blocks Four men round the bat for Johnson. A slip , leg slip , FSL and silly point in place 68.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , flighted and just outside off , Johnson gets across in defence Drinks are on the field now. Australia have managed to keep the spinners out in the first hour after lunch. But , in the morning session as well , they lost the three wickets in the second hour. Can Pakistan strike soon ? 67.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , FOUR , floated just outside off , Smith leans into the drive and times it beautifully past cover , the ball runs away to the deep extra cover fence 67.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , leans forward and blocks towards the bowler 67.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , good turn on that one from Shah , it was pitched around off and just as Smith looked to push at it , the ball turns away and goes past the outside edge 67.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , tossed up outside off , Smith drives to cover off the front foot 67.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , steps out of the crease and works it to mid-wicket 67.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , stays on the back foot and blocks 66.6 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , dropped ! , Shehzad drops this one at deep square leg , it ca n't get easier than this , Johnson ca n't connect with the slog sweep properly , Shehzad at deep square leg moved forward and ends up dropping a sitter , another chance goes begging 66.5 Babar to Johnson , no run , goes deep in the crease and knocks this shortish delivery towards FSL 66.4 Babar to Johnson , no run , splays this one down leg , Johnson flicks it to backward square leg 66.3 Babar to Johnson , no run , leans forward and blocks , the ball hit the inside half of the bat there 66.2 Babar to Johnson , no run , pushed through on off , Johnson plants his front foot across and sweeps it to backward square leg 66.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , turns this delivery into the leg-side for no run 65.6 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , goes back in the crease and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 65.5 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , tucks this one into the leg-side 65.4 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , pushes to silly point 65.3 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , shortens the length a little , Johnson looks to tuck it into the leg-side , the ball ricochets off the pad and hits the back of the bat after Johnson completes the shot , it falls right in front of the keeper , that was a chance but luck is not favouring Pakistan for now 65.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , sweeps but ca n't connect properly , the ball goes towards the short mid-wicket fielder 65.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , blocks this one back towards the bowler There is a slip , a leg-slip , a FSL and a silly point in place for Yasir Shah . Yasir Shah [ 14.0-3-21-2 ] is back into the attack 64.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , tossed up delivery around off and middle , Smith defends it to the right of the bowler 64.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , lunges forward in defence 64.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , leaves this delivery outside off alone 64.3 Babar to S Smith , no run , stays back in the crease and blocks 64.2 Babar to S Smith , no run , did this carry to Misbah at short cover ? Yes , it is dropped but it was a very tough chance , Smith comes down the track and drives it uppishly , Misbah tried to take it but it was too fast and too hard for him 64.1 Babar to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on off , Smith presses forward and blocks 63.6 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , bowls this one outside off and the ball does n't turn much , Johnson is happy to leave it alone 63.5 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , lunges forward in defence , the ball goes towards FSL after taking the inside half of the bat 63.4 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , shorter and just outside off , Johnson goes on the back foot and defends 63.3 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , tossed up on off , Johnson presses forward and pushes it to the left of point 63.2 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , leans forward and blocks to silly point 63.1 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , almost a yorker from Hafeez , Johnson blocks 62.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , a little shorter and spinning away , Smith blocks with the full face of the bat 62.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , presses forward and blocks 62.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , defends this flighted delivery back to the bowler 62.3 Babar to S Smith , no run , flatter and just outside off , Smith stays back and blocks 62.2 Babar to S Smith , no run , lunges forward in defence 62.1 Babar to S Smith , FOUR , that 's a great shot from Smith , it was tossed up just outside off , Smith comes down the track and drives it through the cover region , the ball races away to the fence 61.6 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , stays on the back foot and blocks 61.5 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , lbw appeal from the Pakistani players as Johnson is hit on the pads , the ball was going down leg , Misbah and Hafeez pondered over a review but decide against it after the keeper told them that he thought it was going down leg 61.4 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , shortens his length and on middle and leg , Johnson blocks after going back in the crease 61.3 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , too full from Hafeez on off , Johnson leans forward and drives to mid-off 61.2 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , floated outside off and spinnin away from Johnson , who lets it go 61.1 Hafeez to S Smith , 1 run , pushed through on leg , Smith turns it to short fine leg , the batsmen pinch a quick single 60.6 Babar to Johnson , no run , comes over the wicket and bowls another peach , it goes straight on and Johnson was playing for the spin , the ball goes past the outside edge again 60.5 Babar to S Smith , 1 run , a little flatter on middle and leg , Smith goes on the back foot and works it to backward square leg 60.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery outside off and turns away , Smith leaves 60.3 Babar to S Smith , no run , full and on the stumps , Smith dead-bats it back to the bowler 60.2 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , a little full from Babar , Johnson drives it to long-on 60.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , floated outside off and turns back in , Johnson stays back and looks to push , the ball goes past the outside edge 59.6 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , steps out of the crease and works it towards square leg 59.5 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , flatter delivery from Hafeez , Smith blocks off the back foot 59.4 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , leans forward in defence 59.3 Hafeez to Johnson , 1 run , pushed through on leg , Johnson turns it around the corner on the on-side 59.2 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , a little flatter that goes straight on with the angle , Johnson goes back in the crease and blocks 59.1 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , leaves this one alone outside off 58.6 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , rocks back and gently guides the ball towards the backward point region , the batsmen run through for a single 58.5 Babar to Johnson , FOUR , that 's well timed from Johnson , it was floated just outside off , Johnson employs the sweep and the ball races away to the deep square leg fence 58.4 Babar to Johnson , no run , flatter around off and middle , Johnson goes on the back foot and turns it to FSL 58.3 Babar to S Smith , 1 run , goes deep in the crease and works it towards backward square leg 58.2 Babar to S Smith , no run , lunges forward in defence 58.1 Babar to S Smith , no run , stumping chance goes begging , Smith charges down the track and fails to connect as the ball spins away from him , Sarfraz ca n't take it properly , otherwise it would have been curtains for Smith Change of end for Zulfiqar Babar. There is a slip , a gully , a FSL and a silly point in place for him . Zulfiqar Babar [ 19.0-5-42-4 ] is back into the attack 57.6 Hafeez to S Smith , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Smith jumps out of the crease and tucks it to mid-wicket for a single , Smith keeps the strike 57.5 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , floats this one wide of off , Smith is happy to let it go 57.4 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , leans forward and blocks 57.3 Hafeez to Johnson , 1 run , floated on middle and leg , Johnson goes back and works it to square leg There is a slip , a gully , a FSL and a silly point for Hafeez 57.2 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , bowls this one down leg , Johnson leaves 57.1 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , floats this one just around off , Johnson looks to smash it but ends up dragging it down to mid-on Mohammad Hafeez [ 10.0-3-21-0 ] is back into the attack 56.6 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , a touch fuller from Rahat , Smith looks to block from the crease , the ball shapes away a touch and dribbles away into the off-side after hitting the outside half of the bat 56.5 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , that must be painful for Smith , it was banged in short from Rahat , Smith looks to pull and misses , the ball hits him in the chest , he sits it out after taking the blow 56.4 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , stays back in the crease and blocks this length delivery just outside off 56.3 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , short of a good length around off , Smith blocks it towards mid-off 56.2 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , fuller and just outside off , Smith moves forward and pushes it back to the bowler 56.1 Rahat Ali to S Smith , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith knocks it wide of gully Rahat Ali comes from round the wicket . The Australian physio is running out to the field as Johnson has some problem with his left palm . 55.6 Babar to Johnson , no run , beautiful delivery from Babar to end the over , it was the straighter one that carried on with the angle , Johnson pushes at it outside off , the ball goes to the keeper after going past the edge 55.5 Babar to Johnson , 2 runs , bowls this one outside off , Johnson sweeps it to backward square leg 55.4 Babar to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Johnson lunges forward in defence 55.3 Babar to Johnson , no run , slower outside off , Johnson goes back in the crease and punches it towards mid-on 55.2 Babar to Johnson , no run , goes on the back foot and blocks 55.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Johnson puts his front pad across and sweeps to square leg 54.6 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , back of a length delivery at Smith , he stays rooted in the crease and pushes it into the leg-side 54.5 Rahat Ali to Johnson , 1 run , another one that shapes in towards Johnson 's pads , he turns it towards mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 54.4 Rahat Ali to Johnson , byes , FOUR , poor delivery from Rahat , splays this one way down leg , the keeper could n't reach the ball as it was very wide and it races away to the fine leg fence 54.3 Rahat Ali to Johnson , FOUR , finally a boundary for the Australians after 273 balls , it was very full and shaping back in towards the batsman , Johnson whips it off his legs to the deep mid-wicket fence 54.2 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , another bouncer just outside off , Johnson ducks under it 54.1 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , bowls a bumper outside off , the ball moves away after pitching , Johnson sways away and the ball goes through to the keeper 53.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery from Babar , Smith comes down the wicket and defends 53.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , steps out again and works it towards the on-side , FSL gets a hand on the ball and prevents a single 53.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , lunges forward in defence to a tossed up delivery on middle and leg 53.3 Babar to S Smith , no run , comes out of the crease and pushes it to the left of FSL 53.2 Babar to S Smith , 2 runs , drifts this one on the legs , Smith goes back in the crease and works it towards backward square leg There is a slip , a gully , a FSL and a silly point in place for Babar 53.1 Babar to S Smith , no run , steps out and blocks this back to the bowler 52.6 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , just short of a good length , Johnson goes on the back foot and turns it to FSL 52.5 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , on a good length and around off and middle , Johnson turns it towards short mid-wicket with soft hands 52.4 Rahat Ali to Johnson , no run , a little fuller , the ball shapes back in towards Johnson from off and middle , Johnson looks to push but misses , the ball hits the pads and rolls away into the leg-side 52.3 Rahat Ali to S Smith , 1 run , Smith takes the single this time around. It was back of a length delivery on the hips , Smith goes on the back foot and nurdles it to fine leg 52.2 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , good length delivery around off , Smith knocks it into the off-side , does n't take the single that was on offer 52.1 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , fullish delivery on middle , Smith defends it back towards the bowler There are two slips and a gully in place . Smith and Johnson are walking out to the centre. Misbah is putting his field in place. Smith is currently marking his guard with the help of a bail. Rahat Ali will start off the proceedings after lunch . Welcome back. Pakistan will look to wrap things up as quickly as possible. Smith has held one end up but it 's the other batsmen Pakistan will target. Johnson has looked a little edgy but can he curb his natural instinct to take on the bowlers ? Let 's find out . Lunch on day 5. Pakistan all the way. After the first hour when they did n't take a wicket , they have nipped out three in the second. Imran Khan reversed out Rogers and then Babar took over , getting Marsh and Haddin quickly. Smith has looked very assured , but he is only delaying the inevitable ? Should be a quick wrap after lunch for Pakistan , or do Australia have other plans ? Do join us soon to find out. We 'll be back shortly . 51.6 Babar to Johnson , no run , that is another easy leave for Johnson as it is well outside off 51.5 Babar to Johnson , no run , floaty and tossed up outside off , left alone Now Babar round the wicket 51.4 Babar to Johnson , 2 runs , gets outside off and then forces a sweep past leg slip. Another couple 51.3 Babar to Johnson , 2 runs , tossed up outside off , driven into the gap at cover for a couple 51.2 Babar to Johnson , no run , now paddles and finds leg slip 51.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , Johnson defends off the back foot and the outside edge dies down , well stopped by Younis at slip Last over before lunch 50.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , driven straight to the fielder at cover 50.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , floated outside off , defended 50.4 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , uses his feet and works it into the gap at mid-wicket 50.3 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , Pakistan pondered about a review. But they do n't take it. Rightly so. Straight off the forearm as Johnson swept and missed. Caught at leg slip and Kettleborough got it right 50.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , goes back and whips it to square leg 50.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , iffy shot. Pre-meditated paddle sweep attempted and Johnson misses , is hit on the arm 49.6 Babar to S Smith , 2 runs , Smith is n't happy with just two. He wanted three to keep strike , turned it wide of short leg and even though Hafeez was slow , they could only take two 49.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on off , defended back to Babar 49.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , and again 49.3 Babar to S Smith , no run , again too close to the pitch as he advances , blocked to the bowler 49.2 Babar to S Smith , no run , pushed off the back foot to mid-on 49.1 Babar to S Smith , 2 runs , is down the track and drives it down to long-on for a couple of runs 48.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , 1 run , Smith will keep strike with that single as he works one to short mid-wicket 48.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , that is the quicker delivery and Smith picked it , went back to keep it out 48.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , uses his feet and defends it back to Yasir Shah 48.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , lunges on the front foot and blocks 48.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , worked with the spin to deep backward square leg 48.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , whipped straight to the fielder at square leg 47.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , prefers to go back and block the straighter one 47.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , ooh ! Superb delivery and almost the outside edge. Tossed up outside off , lured Smith into the front foot to defend and then it turned away past the edge , lovely bowling. Sarfraz had the bails off , but Smith was always in 47.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , use of the feet , but too close to the pitch was Smith , so he can only find mid-off 47.3 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , turned past short leg and that allows Johnson to get off the mark 47.2 Babar to Johnson , no run , that is a close shave ! Johnson left that alone and it spun out of the rough , almost clipped off. Oohs and aahs from the Pakistanis Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 47.1 Babar to Haddin , out Bowled ! ! How did Haddin miss that ? It was a floaty looped up delivery on middle and leg , there was a slight gap between Haddin 's bat and pad , the ball found its way and brushed the back leg before hitting leg. That is poor batting from such an experienced campaigner. Needs to be more tight , does Haddin. Haddin b Babar 0 ( 10 ) Babar to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 46.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , ripping leggie to end , as Smith watches it through into the keeper 's gloves 46.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , looked like the googly , yes it is , but too short and punched to cover 46.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , calmly defended off the front foot 46.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , comes on the front foot and defends 46.2 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , sharp turn away for Yasir Shah , but the line is outside off , so left alone 46.1 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , uses his feet and tries to drive , but the bat turns and a thick outside half is found , dribbles wide of cover Yasir Shah [ 11.0-2-18-2 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Babar to Haddin , no run , very full on the stumps , Haddin is content to defend once again 45.5 Babar to Haddin , no run , sliding onto middle and leg , Haddin defends it back to Babar 45.4 Babar to Haddin , no run , goes back to block 45.3 Babar to Haddin , no run , defended in front of Azhar at silly point 45.2 Babar to Haddin , no run , floated on off , Haddin gets forward and defends 45.1 Babar to Haddin , no run , Haddin prefers to defend off the back foot to that one 44.6 Imran Khan to S Smith , 2 runs , low full toss , eased wide of Hafeez at mid-off , who allows the couple 44.5 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , wicket-to-wicket stuff , Smith defends 44.4 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , dead-batted after coming forward 44.3 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , short of length on the stumps , defended off the back foot 44.2 Imran Khan to S Smith , 2 runs , almost yorker length outside off , Smith opens the face of the bat and squeezes it wide of gully for a couple of runs 44.1 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , bouncer , easily dealt with as Smith lets it go Azhar is standing very close at silly point and is anticipating really well. He is almost expecting a catch every ball , moving forward with the batsman 's stroke. A one-handed take to remove Marsh as he caught it with the left-hand and then threw it away. Super stuff from Azhar . 43.6 Babar to Haddin , no run , blocked back to the bowler 43.5 Babar to Haddin , no run , once again played with hard hands and almost another one for Azhar at silly point , in the air for a while but safely back to the bowler 43.4 Babar to Haddin , no run , pushes forward and defends it back to Babar Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.3 Babar to M Marsh , out Caught by Azhar Ali ! ! Fine catch at silly point. Dad Geoff is disappointed. Double failure for the debutant. He played forward with hard hands and it went straight off the face of the bat , sharp reflex catch by Azhar who clutched it onto his chest. Once again a bowling change has worked for Pakistan. M Marsh c Azhar Ali b Babar 3 ( 8 ) Babar to M Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Marsh is gone 43.2 Babar to M Marsh , no run , defended to short leg Four men around the bat 43.1 Babar to M Marsh , no run , punched off the back foot to mid-on Zulfiqar Babar [ 12.0-3-29-2 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , onto the front foot and defended to mid-off. Solidly done 42.5 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , a little shuffle across and then defended to mid-on 42.4 Imran Khan to M Marsh , 3 runs , high full toss as Imran Khan looks for the yorker , Marsh forces it wide of mid-wicket , the ball plugs in the outfield , so it 's a three 42.3 Imran Khan to S Smith , 1 run , goes for the yorker , but the line is on middle and leg , so tapped to the short mid-wicket region 42.2 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , short of length outside off , left alone 42.1 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , full on off , blocked confidently 41.6 Hafeez to M Marsh , no run , gets back to block 41.5 Hafeez to S Smith , 3 runs , there is no-one at cover , so Smith 's drive finds the gap and it 's good enough for three runs 41.4 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , forward and blocked to the short mid-wicket fielder 41.3 Hafeez to S Smith , 2 runs , shortish outside off and punched into the gap at cover for a couple of runs 41.2 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , right forward and defending 41.1 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , defended off the back foot to short leg Replays for that Rogers ' dismissal show that after he completed the stroke , the bat face closed , meaning he was looking to play it to leg 40.6 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , fine effort from Hafeez at mid-off , saved a certain boundary , it was driven to his right and at speed , but he pulled out a dive to keep it to a dot 40.5 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , short of length and that gives Marsh an easier task , defended off the back foot 40.4 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , full and reversing in , driven back to the bowler Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.3 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , out Bowled ! ! That 's a ripper. Superb delivery from Imran Khan to get Chris Rogers. He came round the wicket for this delivery and definite reverse for the bowler , who fired it in , Rogers looked to push it through mid-off , but the ball sneaked through the gap to land on the stumps. Imran Khan celebrates and that is a big wicket , for Rogers could 've grinded out the Pakistani attack. Game over ? Chris Rogers b Imran Khan 43 ( 131 ) [ 4s-1 ] Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 40.2 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Chris Rogers is on the walk as he defends to mid-off 40.1 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up on off , Rogers eases it to short cover 39.6 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , Smith charges out and then realises he is n't to the pitch , so pads it away. Polite query from Hafeez , nothing doing from Erasmus 39.5 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , tossed up outside off and turning in , Smith defends off the back foot 39.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 1 run , there is a gap at short mid-wicket , so Chris Rogers ' work gets him a single 39.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , full toss , Rogers comes down the track and whips it straight to the fielder at mid-on 39.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , skids on , but Rogers prefers to defend off the back foot and does so 39.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish outside off , punched to point Mohammad Hafeez [ 8.0-3-15-0 ] is back into the attack That will be drinks. So that 's one hour chalked off out of the 6 that Australia have to bat out to save the Test. Nothing much happened in that hour for the Pakistanis. Both batsmen were patient and saw off the odd good ball. Only Rahat got some reverse and posed a few problems for Rogers. Let 's see if the second hour is any different . 38.6 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , very full on off and middle , blocked to the short mid-wicket fielder 38.5 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , tight defensive stroke by Smith as he blocks it dead 38.4 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , this one angles in towards off and middle , Smith shows the full face of the bat and defends to mid-on 38.3 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , Smith lets it go 38.2 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , short of length and seaming away , left alone Two slips and a gully in 38.1 Imran Khan to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , softly driven to short cover Imran Khan [ 1.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Rahat Ali to S Smith , 1 run , too full on the pads once more , tapped to the deep backward square leg fielder 37.5 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , overpitched on middle and leg , easy pickings for Chris Rogers , who flicks past short mid-wicket. Misbah has to chase and he ca n't prevent the third 37.4 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , well played. Gets on top of the bounce and punches it into the gap at cover. For a couple of runs 37.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , opens the face of the bat and guides to the point fielder 37.2 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , looked for the yorker , but turned out to be a full toss , nudged into the deep backward square leg area for a couple of runs 37.1 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , worked to the left of Misbah at short mid-wicket 36.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 1 run , slightly short outside off , chopped wide of Yasir at point , only a single as the fielder charges after it 36.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , smothered off the front foot 36.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , half-forward and then defends it back to Hafeez 36.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , uses his feet and pushes it past Hafeez 36.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , played with soft hands and that ensured that it did n't go to the 2nd slip fielder 36.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , floated outside off , turning away , left alone 35.6 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 1 run , an impressive over from Rahat Ali comes to an end after Chris Rogers drives wide of mid-off 35.5 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , full outside off , a front foot drive to mid-off Now a leg slip is brought in 35.4 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , this is very good bowling. Chris Rogers is unsure about which ones are coming in and which ones are n't. He fiddles with one outside off and is lucky not to have edged it. Very iffy batting Reverse happening for Rahat Ali now. He is getting late tail 35.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , that was missing leg. There is an appeal for lbw after Chris Rogers is pinged on the pad , but Erasmus got it right 35.2 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , is on the front foot this time and a nice punchy drive past the right-hand of Rahat Ali 35.1 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , beaten and even Chris Rogers is impressed by that delivery. Back of a length outside off and straightening , Rogers is playing for the indipper and the straightening beats him as he looked to defend 34.6 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , for this one he prefers to go back , once again kept out 34.5 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , very full and negotiated by Smith on the front foot 34.4 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , uses his feet and then blocks it back to Hafeez 34.3 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , conventional offie , easily defended off the back foot 34.2 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , goes straight on outside off , Smith defends to silly point 34.1 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , turned to short leg 33.6 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , that reversed definitely and Chris Rogers ' leave was a dangerous one. It did n't come back in enough to hit off , but was mighty close to doing so 33.5 Rahat Ali to S Smith , 1 run , too straight and Smith gets inside the line to tuck it to deep backward square leg 33.4 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , slanted across Smith , who shoulders arms 33.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Rahat Ali is looking for the yorker , hint of reverse happening , but this time he overpitches on leg stump , glanced down to fine leg 33.2 Rahat Ali to S Smith , 1 run , very full on middle and leg , worked away into the mid-wicket region 33.1 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , Smith shuffles across to cover off stump his defensive shot produces an inside edge onto the pads. Luckily for him it did n't go back onto the stumps 32.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , lunges forward to defend it back to Hafeez 32.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , that was close. He decided to play that off the back foot and it almost sneaked through , it skidded on very quickly , but Rogers somehow got his bat down in time 32.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , very full on off , defended to silly point 32.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , wrong line , down leg , whipped past Babar at backward square leg for a couple of runs 32.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , right forward and defends it back to Hafeez Three men around the bat for Hafeez 32.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , uses his feet and then softly taps it to the short mid-wicket region Mohammad Hafeez [ 5.0-2-12-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , on the pads , gently nudged to the square leg region 31.5 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , slanted across the right-hander , some movement away , but Smith once again leaves 31.4 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , tempter , full outside off , Smith lets it go 31.3 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , that was a good leave , it was close to off stump , but Smith knew about the whereabouts of his off stump and then left it alone 31.2 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , back of a length on the stumps , easily defended. The length has to be much fuller to trouble Smith 31.1 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , shuffles across to off and defends it back to Rahat Ali 30.6 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , very short and on the stumps , probably the googly , Chris Rogers adjusts and then finds short mid-wicket 30.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , 3 runs , good fielding by Shehzad. That was heading to the fence , but he ran all the way and then put in the dive to pull it back in. Saved a run for his side. That was nicely punched by Smith off the back foot 30.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , Smith gets forward to smother the spin 30.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , leggie , bounces too , Smith watches it and lets it go as it is outside off 30.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , uses his feet and then works it into the gap at mid-wicket 30.1 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , that was well played by Rogers , kept low and was turning in , he brought the bat down in time and kept it out 29.6 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , straight off the pad as Smith tried to get inside the line of that delivery to flick , Sarfraz once more gets down low to his left to collect 29.5 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , short of length on the hips , softly nudged to leg 29.4 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , he is shuffling across to cover his off stump and then brings the bat down to keep that full one out 29.3 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , very full outside off , Smith easily defends off the front foot Two slips and a gully in place 29.2 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , short of length outside off , Smith defends off the back foot to short cover 29.1 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , back of a length and angling across Smith , who leaves Rahat Ali [ 1.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , worked to short mid-wicket again 28.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , 1 run , well played , right to the pitch of the delivery and worked wide of mid-on , good use of the wrists there 28.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , that should have been put away , shortish outside off , Smith 's punch finds Hafeez at point 28.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , leggie and Smith picks it easily , defended to silly point 28.2 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , uses his feet and blocks to mid-on 28.1 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , nudged wide of backward square leg for a comfortable single 27.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , very full and easily kept out by Smith 27.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , uses his feet and blocks to silly point 27.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , defended to silly point 27.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , full on the pads , flicked to the deep mid-wicket man again 27.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , full toss on the stumps , that 's a gift , Chris Rogers flicks it to deep mid-wicket , Yasir Shah runs around and slides to cut off the boundary Now Babar is coming round the wicket 27.1 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , turned to short leg 26.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , bat in front of the pad and defended to FSL 26.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , watches it carefully and defends to silly point 26.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , gets forward to block 26.3 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , flicked past Misbah at short mid-wicket , a single to the deep 26.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers takes it on the full , but toe-ends the drive back to Yasir Shah 26.1 Yasir Shah to S Smith , 3 runs , edged , but went to ground quickly , wide of the diving Younis at first slip , three taken by the time the ball is pulled back 25.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , very full on off , Chris Rogers lunges out to defend it back to Babar 25.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , steps out and works it to Misbah at short mid-wicket 25.4 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , quicker and coming in , Chris Rogers dabs towards short cover 25.3 Babar to S Smith , 1 run , well played by Smith. That skidded through and kept low , Smith had to get his bat down in time , which he did , nudging it to backward square 25.2 Babar to S Smith , no run , very full and outside off , Smith blocks well 25.1 Babar to S Smith , no run , uses his feet and drives it to mid-off 24.6 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , lovely bowling from Yasir Shah and equally well played by Chris Rogers. He lunged right out to the pitch of the ball and smothered it , dead-batted the ball 24.5 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , turns back in from round the wicket , but Chris Rogers has got it covered , nudged towards mid-on 24.4 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , turned past short leg 24.3 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , what a take by Sarfraz , down leg. That turned a mile across Chris Rogers and it needed great acrobatics from the keeper to haul it back in. Probably hit the footholes. Huge puff of dust as the ball exploded off the deck 24.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , comes down the track and looks to flick , misses and it is straight off the pad to FSL Four men around the bat 24.1 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed back to the bowler 23.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , well floated and looped up outside off , it turns away slowly and Smith lets it go 23.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , comes down the track and pad-bats it away , only Babar was appealing , thinking it hit the pad first , that was a very optimistic appeal one must say 23.4 Babar to S Smith , 2 runs , gently nudged down to deep backward square leg , easy couple of runs 23.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , nice use of the feet and driven wide of mid-off , where a tumbling stop is made , yet the single is taken Three men around the bat for Babar. Meanwhile Hafeez is doing some stretching , which means he will operate from the other end . 23.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , takes a step out and flicks it to short mid-wicket 23.1 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , slightly shortish , Chris Rogers gets back and punches it to point The Aussie batsmen are walking out to the middle. The Pakistanis are out there too. Bright and sunny as always in Dubai. Babar will start off proceedings. Rogers is scratching out his guard. He will take the first ball. All set to go. Should be a good day . Pitch report : 'This is still a very good pitch , it needs application and concentration to get through this ' reckons Dean Jones. He doubts Australia surviving the day . Chris Rogers : 'Credit to the Pakistani players that they have played an amazing game. We will try to hang in there. It 's a challenge to bat on this wicket with some balls turning and some not. It is tough work to bat out there. Without a doubt , we have to believe that anything can happen ( on salvaging a draw ) . We will have to keep trying hard.' Hello and welcome to the final day of the first Test between Australia and Pakistan. Right now , a win for Pakistan looks the most likely result we will get out of this game. But , can Australia show their mettle and survive the day ? Or will Pakistan run through their batting line-up ? We will find out soon. Stay tuned.. . Pakistan , on the other hand , will be looking to wrap things up as quickly as possible. Both Zulfiqar Babar and debutant Yasir Shah have been exceptional in this game. They have been far better than the Australian spinners - Lyon and O'Keefe. Babar and Shah have been well supported by Hafeez with his off-spin. The pacers - Rahat Ali and Imran Khan have only bowled one over each in the second innings. Even today , spinners will probably do the bulk of the bowling . Currently , Australia are in distress. They are 379 runs behind and are staring at another Test defeat. Remember , the last time these two sides played in a Test , Pakistan emerged as the winner at Leeds in 2010. The remaining Australian batsmen will have to face the wrath of the Pakistani spinners , who were phenomenal in the last few overs yesterday. Michael Clarke , the best player of spin in the Australian ranks is also back in the pavillion. With Rogers and Smith on the crease , and with Marsh , Haddin and the bowlers to come , it will be a humongous task for Australia to keep the Pakistani spinners out . Tomorrow promises to be another important day for both the sides. Pakistan will look to dismantle the Australian batting line-up as quickly as possible. On the other hand , the situation looks very bleak for Australia , who would have to bat 90 overs on a turning wicket on Day 5. Will Pakistan cruise to a much deserved win ? Or will Australia manage to save some grace ? Join us tomorrow to find out. Till then , take care and enjoy . Pakistan must be extremely happy with what they have achieved going into the final day. They are 6 wickets away from a famous win. Earlier , Shehzad and Younis batted brilliantly to take Pakistan 's lead past 400. Both of them completed their centuries with Younis Khan , getting to his second hundred in the same match. This feat of scoring two hundreds in the same match against Australia was last done 40 years back , by Glenn Turner of New Zealand in 1974. Pakistani spinners have impressed so far. Both Zulfiqar Babar and Yasir Shah have accounted for two wickets each in the second Australian innings so far . So , Day 4 comes to an end after a thrilling post-tea session. Warner and Rogers looked all set to emulate their first innings partnership until a moment of madness from Warner , who got stumped in trying to hit one over the infield. After his departure , the floodgates opened and Australia lost 4 wickets in a space of 5 runs ( 44/0 to 49/4 ) . After Warner , Doolan , Clarke and night watchman Lyon could n't do much and departed in quick succession. Clarke 's wicket was a difficult one as replays showed that he might have got an inside edge. However , Clarke himself did n't go for the review and as it stands Australia are 59/4 . 22.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , straighter one outside off that keeps a little low , Smith lets it go Last ball of the day coming up.. . 22.5 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , too full from Shah this time around , Rogers goes forward and opens the face of the bat , the ball goes to backward point and Rogers takes a single 22.4 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , leans forward and looks to block , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and dribbles away into the off-side 22.3 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish delivery that spins back in a great deal , Rogers looks to pull of the back foot , he fails to connect and the ball clips the thigh pad on its way to the leg slip 22.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , goes on the back foot and turns it towards square leg 22.1 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , big spin on this one , the leg-spinner from Shah spins from around off and the keeper had to take it down the leg side 21.6 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , lunges forward in defence 21.5 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , defended from the crease 21.4 Hafeez to S Smith , no run , that was extremely close ! Smith is lucky there. It was flighted around off , Smith gave him the charge and could only push it towards silly point , who was quick to react and threw the ball back at the stumps , had he hit , it would have been curtains for Smith , who tried to dive back into the crease. That was very close 21.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 1 run , almost squared him up there , Rogers was looking to defend and the ball spins away a little , taking a thick outside edge that dribbles away towards backward point 21.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , goes on the back foot and turns this towards FSL , who moves to his left to make the stop 21.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Rogers lunges forward in defence , the ball rolls away to the left of the bowler after taking the inside edge Mohammad Hafeez [ 4.0-2-11-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , Smith walks out of the crease and defends this delivery on off and middle with the full face of the bat 20.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , goes forward and blocks 20.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , keeps a little low and Smith can only defend it after going back in the crease 20.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , beautiful delivery from Shah , it was bowled on middle and leg and spun away from the batsman very sharply , Smith gets beaten as he looks to defend 20.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , pitched on middle and leg , Rogers works it towards short mid-wicket and a misfield allows the batsman to take a single 20.1 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , spins back in towards the batsman , Rogers turns it to square leg 19.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , flighted delivery around off and carries on with the angle , Rogers goes on the back foot , opens the face of the bat and pushes it square of the wicket 19.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , floated outside off and Rogers lets it go through to the keeper 19.4 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , flatter and on middle and leg , Rogers can only turn it towards the leg slip 19.3 Babar to S Smith , 1 run , comes down the track and works this flighted delivery towards short mid-wicket 19.2 Babar to S Smith , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , the ball keeps a touch low , Smith manages to get his bat down in time , the ball rolls away into the leg-side 19.1 Babar to S Smith , no run , comes down the track and almost yorks himself , Smith can only squeeze it towards short mid-wicket 18.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , 1 run , floated on middle and leg , Smith comes down the track and eases it down towards long-on 18.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith leans forward and defends 18.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , loopy delivery just outside off , Smith goes forward and looks to drive , he misses and the ball goes through towards the keeper , the ball richocets onto the stumps after hitting Sarfraz 's pad , the umpires have gone to third umpire to check whether Smith was back in the crease after the ball deflected onto the stumps after hitting the pad , the big screen shows 'Not Out ' and Smith stays 18.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , slower delivery outside off , Smith blocks 18.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , leg byes , 1 run , flatter delivery straying on the pads , Rogers stays back and looks to glance , he misses and the ball goes away fine after clipping the pad 18.1 Yasir Shah to S Smith , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Smith steps out of the crease and pushes at the ball , the ball rolls away towards square leg after taking the inside edge , the batsmen run a single 17.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , goes on the back foot and blocks it with the full face of the bat 17.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , floated just outside off and spinning back in , Rogers blocks , the ball rolls away behind off the face of the bat , Rogers puts his pad in the way just to keep the ball away from going towards the stumps 17.4 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery around off and spinning in towards the batsman , Rogers pads it away 17.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , flatter delivery around off , Rogers rocks back and defends 17.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , stays on the back foot and blocks it towards short cover 17.1 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , pushes this one towards point from the crease 16.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , comes down the track to a flatter delivery , can only pad-bat it into the off-side Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.5 Yasir Shah to Lyon , out Lbw ! ! The night watchman bites the dust now. Shah 's second wicket of the over. Lyon is going back to the hut. It was tossed up around middle and leg and the ball hits his pad. Umpire Kettleborough raises his finger and Lyon does n't even think about using the review. Australia are struggling here.Lyon lbw b Yasir Shah 0 ( 3 ) Yasir Shah to Lyon , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 16.4 Yasir Shah to Lyon , no run , leans forward and blocks 16.3 Yasir Shah to Lyon , no run , wide of off , Lyon leaves it alone Nathan Lyon , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.2 Yasir Shah to Clarke , out Lbw ! ! The captain is gone. Clarke is the best player of spin in the team and he is gone. But wait , was there an inside edge there ? Clarke himself does n't think so and that 's why he did n't go for the review. It was floated on off and straightened a little after pitching , Clarke looks to defend but the ball hits the pad ( not sure whether it took the edge on its way to the pad ) , the umpire raised his dreaded finger. Clarke lbw b Yasir Shah 3 ( 9 ) Yasir Shah to Clarke , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 16.1 Yasir Shah to Clarke , no run , wide outside off , Clarke leaves 15.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , leans forward and blocks , the ball takes the inside edge and dribbles away to leg slip 15.5 Babar to Clarke , 3 runs , Was this off the bat ? The umpire thinks so. Babar bowls this one down leg , Clarke comes down the wicket and looks to glance it fine , the ball clips the pad and rolls away fine on the leg-side , the umpire gave it as runs though 15.4 Babar to Clarke , no run , comes down to a flighted delivery on middle and leg , Clarke can only work it towards short mid-wicket 15.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , pitched on middle and leg , Rogers steps out of the crease and turns it to deep square leg 15.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up around off , Rogers lunges forward in defence 15.1 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , steps out and drives it to mid-on 14.6 Yasir Shah to Clarke , no run , short of length delivery outside off from Shah , Clarke goes back and cuts it to backward point 14.5 Yasir Shah to Clarke , no run , goes on the back foot and cuts it to backward point 14.4 Yasir Shah to Clarke , no run , drives this tossed up delivery to mid-on 14.3 Yasir Shah to Clarke , no run , beautiful delivery that spins away a little , Clarke pushes at it but misses , the ball hits the front pad , there was a loud appeal for an lbw but Kettleborough gave it 'Not Out ' and even after a review , the decision was upheld Pakistan has decided to review an lbw decision of Michael Clarke. The onfield decision is 'Not Out'. There is no problem with Shah 's front foot. Replays show that the ball hit the pads first. Hawk-Eye shows that less than half of the ball would crash into off , Clarke survives and Pakistan lose their review 14.2 Yasir Shah to Clarke , no run , flighted delivery around off , Clarke leans forward and drives to mid-off Coming back to Doolan 's wicket , had Doolan reviewed it , the onfield decision would have stayed . 14.1 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , works this delivery on middle and leg towards deep mid-wicket Michael Clarke , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.6 Babar to Doolan , out Lbw ! ! Two wickets in the same over for Babar. This one was flatter but straightened a little , Doolan goes on the back foot and looks to work it away on the leg-side , he misses and the ball raps him on the pad , a loud appeal from the players all around and umpire Erasmus raised his finger immediately. Doolan discusses about the review with Rogers and decides against taking it. Doolan lbw b Babar 0 ( 5 ) Babar to Doolan , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 13.5 Babar to Doolan , no run , goes back and awkwardly defends it towards the leg-side 13.4 Babar to Doolan , no run , blocks this flighted delivery around off 13.3 Babar to Doolan , no run , spun away from the batsman , Doolan looks to play but pulls out at the last moment 13.2 Babar to Doolan , no run , leans forward and blocks Alex Doolan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.1 Babar to Warner , out Stumped ! ! The dangerman is gone. Warner is out and Pakistani players are ecstatic. It was pitched just around off and carried on with the angle away from the batsman , Warner jumps out of the crease and fails to get even close to the ball , Sarfraz whips the bails off in a flash and the umpire raises his finger at square leg. Pakistani players breathe a sigh of relief after taking this important wicket. Warner st Sarfraz Ahmed b Babar 29 ( 27 ) [ 4s-3 ] Babar to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 12.6 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Rogers moves in the crease and gently dabs it into the off-side with an open face of the bat 12.5 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , shortens his length , Rogers rocks back and defends it towards FSL 12.4 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , leans forward and blocks this flighted delivery to FSL 12.3 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up outside off , Rogers plants his front foot across and looks to block , the ball hits the pad but no appeal as the impact was way outside off 12.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , flatter delivery turning back in towards the batsman , Rogers blocks from the crease 12.1 Yasir Shah to Warner , 1 run , Shah comes round the wicket and floats this one outside off , Warner goes on the front foot and drives to long-off 11.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , shortens his length a little , Rogers knocks it into the off-side with soft hands 11.5 Babar to Warner , 1 run , steps out and drives this flighted delivery down the ground to long on 11.4 Babar to Warner , no run , defended off the front foot 11.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , too close to cut , it was short and just outside off , Rogers looks to cut but can only chop it towards short third man 11.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , glances this fine but the leg-slip dives and prevents Rogers from taking a single 11.1 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , beautiful tossed up delivery that carried on with the angle , Rogers pushes at it and the ball goes past the outside edge , the noise that made the umpire believe that he might have edged it came as his bat grazed the pitch. There was a loud appeal but the final decision is not out . The umpire has given Rogers out caught behind. Rogers goes for the review straightaway. Babar 's front foot is fine. Replays show that the ball went past the outside edge and Rogers should stay. The final decision is 'Not Out ' and the onfield decision is overturned . Drinks are on the field now. Australia have managed to keep the spinners out for now. However , a few of the balls have shown that it is not easy to bat out there. Moreover , the rough in front of the batsman will definitely help the spinners. Let 's see if Pakistan can pick a wicket or two 10.6 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , steps out and works this delivery on middle stump to deep mid-wicket 10.5 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , straightens after pitching in the rough , Rogers somehow manages to push it awkwardly into the off-side 10.4 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , leg-spinner that turns from outside off and the keeper collects it down leg , Rogers does n't offer a shot 10.3 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Rogers stays in the crease and blocks 10.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , drives it gently to mid-on There is a slip and a FSL in place for Shah . 10.1 Yasir Shah to Warner , 1 run , Warner moves across and paddles this delivery around off to backward square leg Yasir Shah , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 9.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery around off , Rogers puts his front foot forward and blocks , the ball dribbles away towards FSL after taking the inside half of the bat 9.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , prods forward and dead-bats it 9.4 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched on middle and leg , Rogers works it to short mid-wicket Babar comes round the wicket.. . 9.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , straighter delivery wide of off , Rogers looks to cut but misses , the keeper collects it 9.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , a little flatter outside off , Rogers goes back in the crease and pushes it towards silly point , the ball hits the fielder and rolls away towards the leg-side 9.1 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , slower delivery just outside off , Rogers goes forward and defends 8.6 Hafeez to Warner , FOUR , short delivery from Hafeez , Warner camps on the back foot and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence 8.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 1 run , shortens the length a little , Rogers goes back in the crease and punches it towards the cover region , the batsmen take a single 8.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up delivery , Rogers leans forward and blocks 8.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Rogers blocks 8.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery around off , Rogers stays on the back foot and pushes it into the off-side 8.1 Hafeez to Warner , 3 runs , flatter and a little wide outside off , Warner goes on the back foot and cuts it towards the sweeper cover fence , the fielder from cover-point runs and flicks the ball back in time to save a run 7.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , poor from Rahat at mid-on , he was on his heels as Rogers ran after pushing it straight at him , the return is wild and he ends up conceding another run 7.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , slower and on the stumps , Rogers presses forward in defence 7.4 Babar to Warner , 1 run , pushed through quicker and on Warner 's pads , shovelled away behind square on the on-side for a single 7.3 Babar to Warner , no run , Warner prods back and defends a tossed up ball on middle 7.2 Babar to Warner , no run , beautifully bowled , Warner was beaten comprehensively here , this was tossed up outside off , Warner was lunging forward , he was playing for the spin , but this one skidded straight on after pitching , beats the outside edge , oohs and aahs from the close-in fielders 7.1 Babar to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , nicely played by Rogers , gets well forward , reaches to the pitch of the ball and drives it against the spin , gets it into the gap at cover , runs hard and gets back for the third run 6.6 Hafeez to Warner , no run , Hafeez tosses this one well outside off , Warner gets forward and drives with a straight bat towards cover 6.5 Hafeez to Warner , no run , Hafeez slows this one on off , Warner gets his bat in front of the pads in defence 6.4 Hafeez to Warner , no run , this one slid through after pitching , Warner backs away and punches it straight to point 6.3 Hafeez to Warner , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Warner gets well forward in defence 6.2 Hafeez to Warner , no run , slightly short and just outside off , Warner makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at cover point 6.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , pushed through by Hafeez , Warner goes back and defends it towards the on-side 5.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , Babar drops this one wider outside off , no spin though , Rogers lunges at the ball and pads it away 5.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , Babar drops this one slightly short , Rogers goes back and punches it straight at silly point 5.4 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , excellent comeback from Babar , shortens his length and gets this one to straighten after pushing , Rogers was lunging forward and then has to go back , the ball slides past the outside edge 5.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , FOUR , Rogers has decided to take on the bowler , this was well flighted and the line is well outside off , Rogers gets a big stride forward , gets outside the line and slog sweeps it over square leg for a boundary 5.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , slower and on off , Rogers gets forward and dead bats it back at the bowler 5.1 Babar to Warner , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Warner gets down on his knees and laps it behind square on the on-side , just a single 4.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , the inside edge saved Rogers here , else he was gone for all money. This was the quicker arm ball from Hafeez , slid into Rogers after pitching , he was looking to defend , the ball rushed onto him. Luckily , he manages an inside edge before the ball thuds into his pads 4.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , Hafeez slows one on off , Rogers lunges forward as he blocks 4.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , Hafeez gives this one more air , Rogers gets a good stride forward as he blocks 4.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , slower and on the stumps , Rogers gets half forward and defends it towards the on-side 4.2 Hafeez to Warner , 3 runs , nervous moment for Warner , he was looking to defend a well flighted delivery , gets an inside edge that loops behind square on the on-side , no one close in though and Warner escapes with three runs Warner has opted for his baggy green cap. He reckons there might not be too many overs of pace tonight 4.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , Hafeez gives this one more air , driven back towards the bowler 3.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , nicely played by Rogers , uses his feet , comes down the track , meets the ball on the bounce and defends it towards mid-on 3.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , this one took off from the foot marks outside the line of the off-stump for the left-hander , looked like it hit the edge of those massive holes , Rogers plays inside the line and lets it go 3.4 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , slower and outside off , Rogers goes back and blocks 3.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , Rogers opts for the sweep , goes well outside off as he looked to minimize the LBW chances , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up hitting the fielder at FSL A silly point is in place for Rogers 3.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up and on off , Rogers gets across and defends it towards the on-side 3.1 Babar to Warner , 1 run , Babar drags his first ball short , Warner rocks back and pulls it towards deep mid-wicket for a single The left-arm spinner now , one slip , a FSL , a short mid-wicket in place Zulfiqar Babar , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 2.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up and on off , Rogers lunges forward to smother the spin 2.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , the variation from Hafeez , this is a lot quicker and on off , Rogers watches it all along and brings his bat down in time as he blocks 2.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , this is a lot slower and just outside off , Rogers gets half forward in defence 2.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , slower and on off , Rogers gets well forward in defence 2.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , more turn for Hafeez , this was tossed up on off , lures Rogers forward before spinning away. Rogers does well to hide his bat well away from the line of the ball 2.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , vicious turn for Hafeez , this one pitched outside off and spun away sharply , Rogers covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Mohammad Hafeez , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 1.6 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Warner gets forward and defends it towards mid-off 1.5 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , way too short and wide outside off , Warner has to reach out for the cut , toe-ends it towards cover 1.4 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , much better from Rahat , fuller and shaping away from off , Warner watches it all along and lets it go 1.3 Rahat Ali to Warner , 2 runs , more runs for Warner , short of a length and width outside off , Warner pushes it past cover point for a brace 1.2 Rahat Ali to Warner , FOUR , lovely shot , poor bowling from Rahat , short and wide outside off , Warner cracks it square on the off-side , beats point and races away to the fence 1.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , FOUR , flashy and four , this was short and wide from Rahat , a gentle loosener , Warner threw the kitchen sink at that , gets a thick top-edge that flies over the slip cordon and races away to the fence 0.6 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , too straight from Imran , Chris shuffles across and tucks it straight to square leg 0.5 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller length delivery on middle and a hint of swing back into the left-hander , driven with a straight bat towards mid-on 0.4 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , Imran sprays this one well down leg , Rogers is happy to let it go 0.3 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape away , Rogers is opened up as he looked to defend , ends up getting a soft edge towards gully 0.2 Imran Khan to Warner , 3 runs , Imran has n't got his line right as yet , another length ball on the pads , Warner gets across and whips it in front of square on the on-side , runs hard and gets back for the third run 0.1 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , nice , positive start from Rogers , a gentle loosener from Imran , full and on his pads , he shuffles inside the line and flicks it past short leg , the fielder in the deep gets across , stops the ball with his boot and prevents a run Chris Rogers and Warner are at the crease. Chris Rogers is on strike. Imran Khan will open the attack Three slips , a gully , and a FSL in place as Imran Khan gets ready to steam in. . Welcome back.. the batsmen are out in the middle. We are ready to go once again. . Pakistan have declared with a massive lead of 437 runs. Australia will have to break the World record or bat 113 overs to save this Test match. Join us in a while for the resumption. . 77.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , FOUR , there it is , hundreds in both innings for YK , he raises his bat in delight. He did n't have one before this match against Australia , he now has two from the same match , the first batsman since Glenn Turner in 1974 to score hundreds in both innings against Australia. The balcony is delighted for its senior batsman , Misbah looks chuffed as YK gets a warm hug from his partner. Coming back to the ball , YK swept a well tossed up ball in front of square on the on-side , reaches a satisfying moment. This is his 26th Test hundred , the most by any Pakistan batsman. And.. Misbah has declared 77.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , O'Keefe flights one on middle and leg , Younis turns it into the leg-side but Doolan runs to square leg and prevents the single 77.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , slower and on the stumps , Younis shuffles across and blocks it 77.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , O'Keefe gives this one some air , Younis lunges forward on the defensive push 77.2 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , floated outside off , driven past cover for a single 77.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , the lap sweep , Younis gets down on his knee and nudges it towards short fine for a run 76.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , YK will keep strike with this single in front of square on the on-side. He moves onto 98 76.5 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , Sarfraz keeps the striking rotating with a firm push back past the bowler 76.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , YK is content to work a tossed up ball past mid-wicket for a single 76.3 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , flatter and on the pads , nudged past the keeper for a single 76.2 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , Lyon slows one on off , defended with soft hands 76.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , the lap shot from YK , gets it past the keeper for a run 75.6 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , tossed up and on off , Sarfraz looks to drive and gets a thick edge past short third man for a brace 75.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , O'Keefe drops one short and just outside off , Younis backs away and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 75.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , SIX , massive , YK is showing his class here , O'Keefe gave this one plenty of air , Younis bends down on his knee , connects the slog sweep well and sends it soaring high and over mid-wicket for a maximum 75.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 2 runs , O'Keefe gives this one more air , Younis gets a good stride forward and eases it past extra cover for a couple of runs 75.2 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , pushed through by O'Keefe , nudged behind square on the on-side for a run 75.1 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , tossed up and on off , Sarfraz gets forward and blocks 74.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , 2 runs , Lyon gives this one more air , YK gets a good stride forward , bends his knees and sweeps it past square leg for a couple of runs 74.5 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , Sarfraz comes down the track and whips a tossed up ball past mid-wicket for a single 74.4 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , tossed up and on off , Sarfraz gets across and defends it 74.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , pushed through on off , nudged wide of backward point for a single 74.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , FOUR , nicely done by YK , gets into a great position to play the reverse sweep , uses the pace on the ball , gives it direction and beats short third man to the boundary 74.1 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 73.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , pushed through on off , driven past cover 73.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 2 runs , O'Keefe gives this one plenty of air , Younis gets down on his knees and sweeps it in front of square on the on-side for a brace 73.4 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , driven past cover for a single 73.3 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , Sarfraz nudges a tossed up ball with an open face , ca n't get it past point 73.2 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , the sweep now , Sarfraz gets it very fine and gets back for the second run 73.1 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , O'Keefe drifts one well outside off , Sarfraz looks to drive and gets a thick outside edge past short third man , back for the second run 72.6 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , flighted delivery and on YK 's pads , whipped away in front of square on the on-side 72.5 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , Ahmed looks to tuck a well tossed up ball towards the on-side , closes the face of the bat a bit too early , gets a soft leading edge towards the off-side 72.4 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , driven past cover for a single 72.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , the conventional sweep this time , just a single to deep mid-wicket 72.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , the reverse sweep from YK , he ca n't get the timing behind it , the ball drops in front of Clarke at point 72.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , worked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket , no chance of a run there 71.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , O'Keefe drops one short and on the stumps , pulled away past square leg for a single 71.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , FOUR , O'Keefe tosses one well outside leg , YK gets down on his knees and slog swipes it wide of mid-wicket for a boundary 71.4 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , driven down towards long off for a single Sarfraz Ahmed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 71.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , out Lbw ! ! Shehzad falls in the quest for some quick runs. This was flighted on the off-stump line , Shehzad went for the fancy switch hit , misses and is struck on the pads. The impact was on off and the tracker shows that it was going on to clip the off-stump. The umpire took his time before raising the dreaded finger. Shehzad challenged the call , but it turns out to be in vain. Ahmed Shehzad lbw b O'Keefe 131 ( 233 ) [ 4s-10 6s-4 ] O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Shehzad has been given out LBW , he has asked for a review. On-field call , the decision stays OUT 71.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , O'Keefe gives this one plenty of air and well outside off , called as a wide 71.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , O'Keefe shortens the length as Shehzad came down the track , defended towards the off-side 71.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , O'Keefe gives this one plenty of air , worked away wide of cover with soft hands 70.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , whipped away in front of square on the on-side for a single 70.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , 2 runs , the reverse sweep from YK , gets into a great position and comes back for the second run as the ball rolls away behind point 70.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery and sliding down leg , Younis does n't fiddle with those 70.3 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , comes down the ground and drills it back past the bowler. He slumped onto the ground after completing the single , might be a case of cramps 70.2 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Shehzad was looking to go over cover , goes too hard and ends up missing it completely 70.1 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , fraction short and wide outside off , Shehzad makes room and cuts it behind point for a couple of runs Welcome back.. No declaration at Tea. Pakistan will perhaps bat on for a few more overs. . For Australia , the misery piles on. They are staring at chasing a total over 400 and with the Pakistani spinners coming into the picture , it is going to be difficult for them. However , for Australia to bat , Pakistan has to declare first. In the morning , Waqar Younis pointed out that anything above 400 will be good. So , can we expect a declaration sometime after tea ? We will find out soon. Join us in a short while for the post-tea session.. . Tea , Day 4 : Another session that has belonged to Pakistan comes to an end. Shehzad and Younis have continued their march. Pakistan have amassed 115 runs off this session. Shehzad has batted brilliantly , reaching his second Test century. He has not looked even a little perturbed with the extra spin or the reverse swing. He has cleared the boundary at will and continues to haunt the Australian bowlers. On the other hand , Younis Khan has been a little circumspect with how he bats , he has held one end up , without giving anything away to the Australian bowlers . 69.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flatter delivery on the pads , Shehzad moves across and tucks it away to square leg 69.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , a little flat and just outside off , Shehzad pushes it towards point 69.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , shortish delivery on the off stump , Younis goes back and knocks it to long-off 69.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 2 runs , tossed up around off and middle , Younis looks to sweep and gets a top edge that goes over the keeper 's head , the batsmen take two 69.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , drifting on middle and leg , Shehzad moves across and tickles it fine 69.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , punched off the back foot towards short cover Steve O'Keefe [ 22.0-3-74-1 ] is back into the attack 68.6 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , shortens his length a little , Shehzad flicks it a little uppishly towards short mid-wicket 68.5 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , steps out of the crease and drives it back towards the bowler 68.4 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , goes on the back foot and knocks it to FSL 68.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Younis drags the sweep to backward square leg 68.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up outside off , Khan leans forward and defends 68.1 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , stays back in the crease and tucks it towards square leg 67.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , 2 runs , another short delivery at Younis , Khan moves across and nurdles it to fine leg 67.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , comes down the track to a short delivery and can only push it towards point 67.4 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , low full toss from Siddle , Shehzad eases it down to long on , the partnership between Ahmed Shehzad and Younis Khan is now 150 runs 67.3 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full delivery outside off , Shehzad reaches out and gently drives it to cover 67.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , 1 run , full delivery that shapes back in a touch , Younis moves across and whips it away to deep square leg 67.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Younis goes back in the crease and punches it to short cover 66.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , shortens his length a little , Younis sweeps to deep square leg 66.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up delivery on the off stump , Younis goes on the front foot and defends 66.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , leans forward and blocks this flighted delivery around off 66.3 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , pushed through quicker , Shehzad works it to square leg for a single 66.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , tossed up on middle stump , Younis goes on the back foot and turns it towards backward square leg 66.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , 2 runs , flatter delivery on middle and leg , Younis tucks it away to deep square leg for a brace Nathan Lyon [ 12.0-0-42-0 ] is back into the attack 65.6 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , another short delivery from Siddle , Shehzad back away , looks to lift it over the keeper 's head and fails to connect 65.5 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , SIX , another half volley from Siddle , Shehzad launches this straight down the ground for another six. Shehzad has gone to another gear after reaching his century . 65.5 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , Siddle has lost his line and length , he bangs this very short , the ball sails over Shehzad 's head , the square leg umpire thinks it is too high and the umpire calls it a wide 65.4 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , SIX , this is poor bowling from Siddle , it was right in the slot for Shehzad to get under it and he lifts it over the long-on boundary for a maximum 65.3 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , good length delivery on the off stump , Shehzad smashes it down the ground for another boundary 65.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , 3 runs , nice shot from Younis there , it was full and asking to be hit , Younis goes on the front foot and drives it wide of mid-off , the batsmen take three before the ball is collected just before the rope 65.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , short of a good length and outside off , Younis steers it towards point 64.6 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Shehzad pulls but ca n't connect properly , the ball , however , had enough legs to race away to the deep square leg boundary 64.5 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , another wayward delivery from Johnson , it was full and wide outside off , Shehzad lets it go through to the keeper 64.4 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Shehzad covers the line and blocks 64.3 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and well outside off , Shehzad does n't offer shot 64.2 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Johnson comes round the wicket and bowls a bumper , Shehzad ducks right under it 64.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , 1 run , fullish and outside off , Younis opens the face of the bat and dabs it to backward point 63.6 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , That 's it ! Ahmed Shehzad reaches his second Test century with a boundary straight down the ground. It was a little full just around off , Shehzad drives with the full face of the bat , the ball goes to the right of Siddle who extended his right hand while trying to field the ball , he could n't even get his finger on the ball and it raced away to the fence 63.5 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Shehzad drives a little uppishly back towards the bowler 63.4 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and outside off , Shehzad stays in the crease and blocks it to short cover 63.3 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and around off , Shehzad gently drives it to mid-off 63.2 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , works this wide of mid-on after moving across the stumps 63.1 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Shehzad goes across and gently pushes it towards mid-off Peter Siddle [ 11.0-5-16-0 ] is back into the attack Ahmed Shehzad has another change of gloves. There is a change in bowling as well as Siddle replaces Marsh . 62.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , a little fuller from Johnson , Younis looks to play it on the on-side , the ball shapes away a little and takes the outside half of the bat , rolls away towards mid-off 62.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Younis stays rooted to the crease and blocks it into the off-side 62.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and angled across the batsman outside off , Younis gets drawn in and the ball goes past the outside edge as he looks to drive 62.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , fullish outside off and with a hint of away movement , Younis looks to drive but ca n't connect , the ball goes through 62.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , 2 runs , short delivery at the batsman , Younis turns it towards backward square leg , the batsmen come back for the second run , good running between the wickets Johnson comes round the wicket 62.1 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , just short of a good length outside off , Shehzad goes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover 61.6 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and on the off stump , Younis gets behind the line and blocks carefully 61.5 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , another back of a length delivery around off , Shehzad makes room , clears the front leg and punch-drives it towards deep extra cover , the batsmen take three 61.4 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on middle and leg , Shehzad moves across and turns it towards short mid-wicket 61.3 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bowls this one down leg , Shehzad looks to glance it fine but ca n't connect 61.2 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Shehzad opens the face of the bat and looks to guide it fine on the off-side , he hits it straight to gully 61.1 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , I do n't think Shehzad cares about whether he is in the nineties or not. This one was bowled on a good length and just around off , Shehzad clears the front leg and just smashes it over the infield , the ball runs away to the long-off fence The Pakistani batsmen are taking a water break. There is a change of gloves for Shehzad . 60.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and just outside off , Khan goes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 60.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and outside off , Younis reaches for the ball and drives it towards short cover , who dives while trying to collect the ball 60.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , blocks this one into the leg-side 60.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , FOUR , my colleague says 'Shottt ' , fuller and outside off , Younis does n't move his feet but lifts this beautifully over the infield , the ball races away to the deep extra cover fence 60.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , another short of length delivery around off , Younis goes on the back foot and drags the whip to short mid-wicket 60.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , Johnson bangs this one short , Younis jumps in the crease and knocks it towards short cover 59.6 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shehzad goes on the back foot and pushes it into the off-side 59.5 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Shehzad makes room and dabs it towards point with an open face of the bat 59.4 M Marsh to Younis Khan , 1 run , fuller and around off , Younis taps it towards short cover and the batsmen run through for a single , this single also brings up the 100-run partnership between these two 59.3 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , fullish in length this time around , Younis moves forward and blocks it back to the bowler 59.2 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length delivery down leg , Younis looks to tickle it fine but misses , the ball goes through to the keeper 59.1 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length delivery on middle stump , Younis goes on the back foot and punches it to short mid-wicket Younis Khan , David Warner and Brad Haddin are having a laugh before play resumes. Maybe , they are talking about the declaration . Shehzad is into the nineties. Will he show some restraint before he gets to his century ? Or will he keep going at the bowlers ? Let 's find out . Drinks are on the field now. Pakistan have motored along comfortably after lunch. It 's all about damage limitation for Australia now. When will Pakistan declare ? The lead is already 321 . 58.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , 1 run , full and wide from Mitch , Younis leans into the drive and caresses it to the right of short cover. Rogers dives , gets a hand to it and parries it away from mid-off , the batsmen pinch a single 58.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , this is shorter in length and rears outside off , YK watches it all along and drops it down with soft hands 58.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , this one comes back with the angle , Younis was looking to work it towards the on-side and is struck high on the pads Johnson switches to round the wicket 58.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Younis watches it all along and defends it towards the off-side 58.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and angling away form off , Younis drives well but ca n't beat Rogers at short cover 58.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Younis gets across and defends it with a straight bat Two slips , a gully and a short cover in place Change of bowling. O'Keefe gives way for Mitchell Johnson. Australia are looking to prolong this Pakistan innings as much as they can Mitchell Johnson [ 8.0-2-21-0 ] is back into the attack 57.6 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Shehzad gets behind the line and pushes it towards cover 57.5 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , easy pickings for Shehzad , moves into the nineties now , Marsh went for the yorker and offered a juicy full toss on the pads of Shehzad , whipped away past mid-wicket for a boundary 57.4 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Shehzad gets half forward and drives it towards cover point 57.3 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Shehzad shuffles across and pushes forward defensively 57.2 M Marsh to Younis Khan , 1 run , full and drifting onto Younis ' pads , whipped away behind square for a single 57.1 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Younis stays back and defends it towards mid-on , thinks about a single and wisely decides against it 56.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , pushed through by O'Keefe , Younis will keep strike as he works this one behind square on the on-side , 14 runs from the over 56.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , flighted and on the leg-stump line , Younis goes back and defends it with a straight bat 56.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , O'Keefe drifts one on the leg-stump line , Shehzad nudges it square on the off-side , easy single there 56.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , SIX , Shehzad has suddenly switched gears , comes down the track , makes room as he does so , gets to the pitch of the ball and sends it soaring over long on for a maximum 56.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , pushed through by O'Keefe , Shehzad goes down on his knee and sweeps it behind square for another brace 56.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , nicely done by Shehzad , comes down the track , was n't there to the pitch of the ball , ends up chipping it back over the bowler 's head , races away to the straight boundary 55.6 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , fractionally short from Marsh , Shehzad is quick to swivel back as he pulls it behind square on the on-side , just a single and it brings up Pakistan 's 150 55.5 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Shehzad plays from the crease and pushes it towards the on-side 55.4 M Marsh to Younis Khan , 1 run , full and shaping back into Younis , he lunges into the push and calls for a quick single as the ball rolls away towards mid-on , brings up the 300 lead for Pakistan 55.3 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , YK gets forward and mistimes the drive towards mid-off 55.2 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Younis shuffles across and defends it back at the bowler 55.1 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , low and wide full toss from Marsh , Younis does n't get hold of the shot , hits it right off the base of the bat as the ball dribles towards cover Mitchell Marsh [ 3.0-1-4-0 ] is back into the attack 54.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Younis goes back and works it in front of mid-wicket for a single 54.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , FOUR , nicely played by YK , comes down the track , makes room as he does so , reaches to the pitch of the ball and launches it over mid-off , he did n't get hold of the shot , but just enough as it bounces away over the ropes 54.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Khan nudges it towards short fine 54.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , O'Keefe drops one short and on the stumps , worked off the backfoot towards mid-wicket 54.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slower and on the stumps , Shehzad goes back and punches it back at the bowler 54.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad was beaten in the flight as he came down the track , manages to push it towards cover 53.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , Siddle keeps it full and in that channel outside off , YK gets well forward and drives it crisply towards cover 53.5 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Siddle comes from wide of the crease and angles one back into Shehzad , he was winding up for a big drive , changes his shot and eases it past cover for a single 53.4 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Siddle keeps it full and outside off , Shehzad gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 53.3 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slightly slower in pace , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad gets behind the line and defends it 53.2 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , a hint of some reverse for Siddle in this spell , comes back into the batsman after pitching. Shehzad was shaping for the drive , gets an inside edge towards the on-side 53.1 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Shehzad gets half forward and drives it towards mid-off 52.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Shehzad comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and eases this one down towards long off , just a single 52.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , almost bowled him round the leg ! This was tossed up and well outside leg , spun back into Shehzad as he went for the sweep and missed , makes contact with the ball off his gloves on the follow-through , misses the leg-stump by a whisker 52.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad shimmies down the track to a well flighted delivery and defends it 52.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slower and on middle , Shehzad prods forward and blocks 52.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , turn and bounce for O'Keefe , but the length was way too short , allows Shehzad to adjust and chop it down towards point 52.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , O'Keefe tosses one well outside leg , Shehzad lunges forward in defence 51.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , Younis is beaten on the angle once again , he was looking to turn this one towards the on-side , misses and is struck high on the pads. Another impressive over from Siddle 51.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , this one shapes back after pitching , Younis gets across and defends it with a straight bat 51.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Younis gets across and defends it with an angled bat 51.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , this is a good spell after lunch from Siddle , on a good length and a hint of shape away , Younis was squared up as he looked to defend , does well to play with soft hands as the ball rolls away towards gully. He is n't picking the length at all 51.2 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , tad fuller and coming back with the angle , Shehzad shuffles across and works it past square leg for a single 51.1 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Shehzad prods forward and defends it towards cover 50.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , this one is dropped slightly short , allows Shehzad to go back and work it past mid-wicket for a run 50.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , O'Keefe tosses one on off , Shehzad gets a good stride forward and blocks 50.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad defends a well flighted delivery on middle towards the off-side 50.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , pushed through on middle , Younis works it past mid-wicket for a single 50.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , slower and on off , Shehzad presses forward and eases it down towards long off 50.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , just about clears Mitchell Marsh at deep mid-on , Shehzad gave the charge , gets underneath the ball , does n't get hold of the shot , the ball was in the air forever , Marsh ran back from mid-on but the ball pops over his shoulder 49.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , ths inside edge this time around , Siddle hits the deck around off , Younis pokes with an angled bat , gets an inside edge towards the on-side 49.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , this one did n't come onto the bat , it was short and wide enough for the cut , YK was way too early on the shot , gets a bottom edge that rolls backwards 49.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , Younis shuffles across and defends it with a straight bat 49.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , looked like a desperate call from the Australians , this one shaped back in sharply after pitching well outside off , YK was a long way down the track as he looked to defend , the ball hit the flap of the pad before striking the bat. The impact was still outside off and it would have only gone on to clip the off-stump. Easy call for umpire Erasmus Loud shout for LBW. Clarke has a word with his bowler. They want a review. Was it pad first ? If so , was YK struck outside off ? Replays suggest that the ball clipped the flap of the pad before hitting the bat. The impact is outside off and the ball was just clipping the off-bail. NOT OUT will remain 49.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , YK gets right behind the line as he blocks 49.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of angle back into Younis , driven with a straight bat towards mid-on 48.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , this one is given plenty of air , Shehzad gets a big stride forward as he smothers the spin 48.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , allows YK to go across and work it in front of square on the on-side for a single 48.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , O'Keefe slows this one down , Younis goes back and nudges it towards the on-side 48.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Shehzad shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the tossed up ball and eases it towards long off 48.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , O'Keefe tosses one on the middle stump line , Shehzad was looking to work it towards the on-side , closes the face of the bat early and gets a soft leading edge back towards the bowler 48.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted delivery and on the leg stump line , Shehzad presses forward in defence 47.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Younis gets behind the line and defends it towards cover 47.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Siddle , fraction fuller and wider outside off , straightens after pitching , Younis is lured into playing at that , pokes and is lucky not to have edged it 47.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Younis shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side 47.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Younis hops across and mistimes the cut towards cover A slip and a gully in place 47.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , this is good bowling from Siddle , pitches this one further up and just outside off , Younis was half forward in defence , ends up playing away from his body , gets an inside edge that deflects off his thigh pad 47.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Younis has no room to play the shot , he looks to go hard on the cut shot , plays with an angled bat and gets an inside edge back towards the bowler 46.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , O'Keefe slows this one on middle , Shehzad presses forward , gets his bat in front of the pads and blocks 46.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted and on off , Shehzad prods half forward in defence 46.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , O'Keefe drifts one on Shehzad 's pads , he lunges forward in defence 46.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , slightly shorter and on Younis ' pads , he goes back and nudges it past mid-wicket for a single 46.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 2 runs , excellent running from Younis , this was flighted and on his pads , he played it with soft hands and works it in front of mid-wicket , runs hard and gets back for the second run 46.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , O'Keefe comes from over the wicket and tosses one on off , eased down towards long off for a single 45.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , Siddle shortens his length outside off , Younis stays back and carves it past cover for a single 45.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Younis shuffles across and defends it 45.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , Siddle shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , left alone 45.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , this one kept a tad low , on a good length and on the stumps , Younis moves across and defends it 45.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , FOUR , lovely shot , too straight from Siddle , ends up drifting onto Younis ' pads , flicked away past square leg for a boundary 45.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and on off , Younis prods half forward and defends it Peter Siddle [ 6.0-3-10-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , SIX , immediate sign of aggression from Shehzad , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of a well flighted delivery and heaves it with the turn , sends it soaring over mid-wicket for a maximum 44.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , O'Keefe gives this one more air , Shehzad presses forward and blocks 44.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Younis goes back and works it behind square for a single 44.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , O'Keefe slows one on off , Younis gets well forward in defence 44.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Shehzad comes down the track and drives it to mid-off for a single 44.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and on off , Shehzad comes down the track and defends it towards the off-side Welcome back.. Pakistan have dominated the Test so far.. it 's time to up the ante now.. O'Keefe will begin after lunch . The spinners got the odd ball to grip and asked a few questions. O'Keefe bowled a good spell in which he got Azhar but the seamers have had no joy on this wicket. Expect Pakistan to increase their scoring rate in the next session as they look to a declaration. We 'll bring you all that and much more. Do n't go anywhere. Do stay tuned. Back soon . That 's lunch on day 4. Even though it has been slow progress , Pakistan have inched ahead even more. Only 78 runs has been scored in the 31 overs that have been bowled. Both Shehzad and Azhar Ali were solid against disciplined bowling early on , but they kept the scoreboard ticking with singles off the spinners. Azhar was dismissed by O'Keefe and then Younis Khan has continued the run-scoring along with Shehzad. Shehzad has looked very good today and has deserved his fifty . 43.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , Younis Khan plays a textbook back foot defensive back to the bowler to end the session 43.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , defended without any trouble at all Lyon now round the wicket 43.4 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , rocks back and then turns this past leg slip for a comfortable single 43.3 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , turned to short leg 43.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , now gets back and employs soft hands to dab it in front of point , Ahmed Shehzad responds and they complete the single with ease 43.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , SIX , never mind if this is the last over before lunch , Younis Khan welcomes Lyon with a huge six. Down the track and going with the spin over mid-wicket , superb execution of the lofted hit Nathan Lyon [ 11.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack Last over before lunch 42.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , defended back to the bowler to end the over 42.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , swept from middle stump line to deep backward square leg 42.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , more back foot defence from Younis Khan 42.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , rocks back and punches , but finds point 42.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , right back and defending this time 42.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , gets forward to defend to silly point 41.6 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , wayward delivery to end the over , well outside off and easily left alone 41.5 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short delivery , but does n't trouble Ahmed Shehzad at all , he sits under it 41.4 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , well wide of off , Ahmed Shehzad does n't play at that 41.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , 1 run , too straight on the stumps and that has been picked away past mid-wicket for a single 41.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , 2 runs , good response from Younis Khan. He leans forward and push-drives it into the gap at cover for a couple of runs 41.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , that is a beaut ! Angled in from round the wicket which made Younis Khan play at that and then after pitching it straightened to miss the defensive blade of the batsman. A cracker and it zipped through to Haddin 40.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , now right forward and defending 40.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gets back to block 40.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , on the back foot , before whipping it to deep backward square leg 40.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to long-off 40.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 3 runs , cut away towards the sweeper cover , Warner gives chase and pulls it back , there is almost a collision between the batsmen , but luckily they avoid each other and complete the third 40.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , on the back foot and whipped to deep backward square leg 39.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , dabbed to point , Younis Khan wanted the single , but Ahmed Shehzad said no Back over the wicket to Younis Khan 39.5 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , clipped off the pads , slightly uppishly , but no harm done as there is no fielder at mid-wicket 39.4 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , another attempted short ball , but it does n't rise too high , so Ahmed Shehzad defends with a hop 39.3 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , dug in short , with more oomph , but Ahmed Shehzad has seen it early and gets under that one 39.2 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short and down leg , no trouble for Ahmed Shehzad who ducks under it 39.1 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , shuffles across a tad and defends to cover 38.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , leans forward to block 38.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , tries a short-arm jab , but picks out backward square leg with a tame shot 38.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , tucks this to backward square leg 38.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , out to the pitch and stroked to mid-off for a comfortable single 38.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Hoho ! What happened there ? Younis Khan always wanted to stay where he was. Ahmed Shehzad though was halfway down , surprisingly Warner fired it straight at the batsman who was running back , a better throw and that might have been curtains for the batsman. Shehzad is let-off once more 38.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , floated full on the stumps , swept to deep backward square leg 37.6 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , no ! It is the tempter outside off , full and wide , but Ahmed Shehzad resists Shehzad is back and ready to face Johnson. Another short one coming ? Let 's see 37.5 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , that is a very good short delivery and it has pinged Ahmed Shehzad. He flings his glove away and calls for the physio. Dug in short once more and well-directed at the chest area of the batsman , Shehzad was looking to fend that away , the ball thudded into the ribs/chest area. Hit flush and that would 've stung. A slight break in play as Shehzad sips some water and gets attention 37.4 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , dug in short , but down leg , so Ahmed Shehzad can duck under that and leave Now round the wicket is Johnson 37.3 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , well wide of off and Ahmed Shehzad wo n't play at that 37.2 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length on off , Ahmed Shehzad confidently gets forward to defend Two slips and a gully in place 37.1 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length outside off , left alone Mitchell Johnson [ 5.0-1-17-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , Younis Khan looked to punch that through cover , but he did n't time it at all , the ball rolls to Warner at cover 36.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , gets to fifty with a single to long-off. Raises his bat and soaks in the applause. A well compiled fifty 36.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , since the length is short , he rocks back to block 36.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , leans forward to block 36.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , right back and then opens the face at the last moment to get it into the gap at point. Another single 36.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , uses his feet and drives wide of Warner at cover , a quick single is pinched 35.6 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , Marsh has a look at the pitch after delivering that , Younis Khan turned that to short mid-wicket with no trouble at all 35.5 M Marsh to Younis Khan , leg byes , 2 runs , straight off the thigh pad and Haddin diving to his left , just got a glove on it , could n't prevent the couple of leg byes 35.4 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , down leg , that allows Ahmed Shehzad to clip it down to deep backward square leg 35.3 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Ahmed Shehzad has looked very good today , another sweet drive , but picks out short cover 35.2 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , a nice square drive played by Ahmed Shehzad , on top of the bounce too , but picks out Lyon at point 35.1 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tries to drive through cover , played slightly outside the line of the ball , which meant the ball went off the thick inside half to mid-on 34.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , more defence from Younis Khan 34.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , very full on the stumps , defended 34.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , turned to the backward square leg fielder , loud shout of 'no' 34.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , down the wicket and drives to long-off 34.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full on middle and leg , defended 34.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , long way down the wicket is Ahmed Shehzad and has to pad-bat it back to the bowler as he is n't to the pitch of the ball 33.6 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , on top of the bounce and nicely punched into the gap at cover , not so well-timed to get four , but three runs nonetheless 33.5 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , the length is much fuller this time , Ahmed Shehzad shuffles across and blocks nicely 33.4 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length on the stumps , Ahmed Shehzad defends 33.3 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Marsh is bowling a stump to stump line , defended back to the bowler 33.2 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and on middle , Ahmed Shehzad drives nicely but Siddle is there at mid-on to cut it off 33.1 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , little bit of tail in for Marsh , Ahmed Shehzad defends to short mid-wicket 32.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , prefers to block this off the back foot 32.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , on the back foot and whips it to deep backward square leg 32.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , cracked to Warner at cover and there is no chance of a single 32.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , and again does the same 32.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , uses his feet and pushes it back to the bowler 32.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , takes it from outside off and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 31.6 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , nicely punched back to the bowler , who fields on his followthrough 31.5 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flicked to the first of those two men Two catching short mid-wickets standing close to each other 31.4 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length outside off , punched past Marsh , down to mid-off 31.3 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , opens the face of the bat and square drives , to Lyon at point , Younis Khan took a few steps out for a single , but the striker sent him back and rightly so 31.2 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pitched up outside off , Ahmed Shehzad drives well , but he picks out mid-off 31.1 M Marsh to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Shehzad leans into the drive and hits it to the right of cover point where Lyon makes a tumbling stop Mitchell Marsh is into the attack after drinks. He was wicketless in the first innings. Just one slip and a short cover in place Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Pakistan have made steady progress in that hour of play. The lead is now 234 and with each passing run , the task gets stiffer for Australia. Both the spinners are getting the odd ball to grip and turn and something unusual is happening every now and then. Interesting second hour beckons 30.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , defended back down the track 30.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , once again uses his feet and drives to mid-on , takes the single this time 30.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , is down the wicket , but has to block as he is n't to the pitch 30.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , on the back foot and whipped to deep backward square leg 30.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , gets forward and blocks it back to O'Keefe 30.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , rocks back and then whips it to short mid-wicket 29.6 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , very full and pushed back to the bowler 29.5 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , defended back to the bowler 29.4 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , very full on off , Ahmed Shehzad blocks 29.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , right back and then dabs that through the point region , Ahmed Shehzad declines the second 29.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , comes forward and blocks 29.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , plays with soft hands to short leg 28.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on the back foot and turns this to short leg 28.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , very full on the stumps , defended back to the bowler 28.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed back to the bowler 28.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , if Steven Smith had picked that up at silly point , Ahmed Shehzad would 've been in huge trouble. Luckily for the batsman , the ball eluded the fielder 28.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fraction short outside off , cut straight to the fielder at point 28.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushes forward and blocks it back down the track 27.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , back foot defence to end the over 27.5 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , uses his feet and then finds long-on 27.4 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , turn and bounce for Lyon , Ahmed Shehzad is on the back foot and takes one on the body , unable to deal with that delivery 27.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , 3 runs , low full toss outside off , Younis Khan slices it behind point and good enough for three runs 27.2 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , byes , 1 run , Erasmus has failed to spot the bottom edge. Ahmed Shehzad swept and got a bottom edge that just missed the off stump. Haddin thought it had bowled the batsman and was busy celebrating. A close shave for Shehzad 27.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , whips this past the diving square leg , for a single and then Younis Khan now has a word with Lyon explaining why he pulled out of the first delivery Younis Khan pulls out and with a smile says to Clarke 'there is a guy moving'. A terrific bloke this fella Younis. Always plays with a smile on his face 26.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Ahmed Shehzad leaves that outside off offering alone , the pad was there as a second line of defence though 26.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , rocks back and punches to the left of point , Rogers is there though to field 26.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , swept from the stumps to deep backward square leg 26.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , very full and blocked 26.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up outside off , defended to silly point 26.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , defended to point with an open face 25.6 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , forward and defending is Ahmed Shehzad 25.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , kneels down and then sweeps it to deep backward square for a single that allows Younis Khan to get off the mark 25.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , Younis Khan pushes outside the line of off and is struck on the pad , Haddin flicks the ball back onto the stumps , but YK had n't gone anywhere 25.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , Younis Khan is playing off the back foot early on and even though a soft outside edge is found , it does n't carry to Clarke at slip 25.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , rocks back and finds short fine , no chance of a quick single as Younis Khan is sent back 25.1 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to long-on 24.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , driven to cover , where Warner fields and prevents the quick single 24.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , calmly defended by Younis Khan Younis Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.4 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Now Haddin hangs on. That is a fine catch. Caught in the webbing. Floated up outside off , inviting Azhar Ali to play the expansive drive , it turned away and found the thin edge , Haddin followed the ball and even though he did n't grab it cleanly , the webbing did the job. First breakthrough for Australia. Azhar Ali c Haddin b O'Keefe 30 ( 65 ) [ 4s-4 ] O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 24.3 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , tight and flat on off , Azhar Ali defends off the back foot 24.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , went back and pushed it into the gap at point. Another single pinched 24.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , uses his feet and plays it back to the bowler 23.6 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , rocks back and tucks this past short leg for a single 23.5 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , I think that is a dropped chance , albeit a very difficult one. Haddin the culprit. Ahmed Shehzad pushed forward to defend , got an inside edge onto the pads that went low to Haddin , who got a glove , but could n't hold on. Those ones have to stick , Lyon has his hands on his head. Must say , if I was the batsman and had the keeper caught it , I would be a broken man 23.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , steps out once again and gets it down to long-on 23.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , uses his feet and then finds short mid-wicket 23.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , Azhar Ali pushes forward and blocks Now round the wicket comes Lyon 23.1 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , another sweep , hard and flat , but straight to the fielder at deep backward square leg 22.6 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , rushes out and drills a drive , but ca n't beat extra cover 22.5 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , slightly flatter and that allows Azhar Ali to tuck it to short leg 22.4 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , drifting down leg , defended to the left of FSL 22.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , byes , 1 run , down leg and Haddin ca n't collect cleanly. A bye taken 22.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , and again 22.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , defended to silly point 21.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , a couple of steps out and then turns it to backward square leg , declines the single 21.5 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , now right back and defending. Textbook stuff from Azhar Ali 21.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , FOUR , superb sweep shot. Knelt down and then swept it hard and along the ground past a jumping short leg. The ball raced away , bisecting the two men kept for the top-edged sweep 21.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , good footwork from Azhar Ali , he rocks back and then dabs that to deep backward point for a couple of runs 21.2 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , once again is down the wicket , looked to defend , but went off a thick inside edge past short leg 21.1 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , uses his feet and then defends 20.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , rocks back and then makes room to punch it to mid-off , will take the single and keep strike 20.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , 'catch catch ' was the cry , but Mitchell Johnson pedalling back could n't get there. Ahmed Shehzad down the track and going inside out over mid-off , looked to be in trouble initially , but cleared Mitch 20.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , calmly defended back to O'Keefe 20.3 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , 1 run , use of the feet and driven to mid-on for the third single of the over 20.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , a soft outside edge , but all along the ground , another single 20.1 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , 1 run , shortish and Azhar Ali rocks back to cut into the cover region 19.6 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushes it to cover to end an encouraging starting over for Lyon 19.5 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , is down the pitch , but has n't got to the pitch of the delivery , so blocks with his body 19.4 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , goes on the back foot and blocks 19.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , tries to sweep and top-edges it down to deep backward square leg , just wide of the man at 45 catching A slip , FSL and a short mid-wicket in place 19.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , uses his feet and then turns it to short mid-wicket 19.1 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , that is a good start by Lyon , turn in for him , Azhar Ali pushed his pad out , outside the line of off and padded it away Nathan Lyon [ 5.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fifth consecutive defensive stroke that Ahmed Shehzad has played this over 18.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on the middle and leg line , Ahmed Shehzad is content to defend 18.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , blocks to short cover once more 18.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , leans forward and defends 18.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , down leg , but Ahmed Shehzad defends to short cover A slip and a short leg in place. A short extra cover catching too 18.1 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to mid-off for a quick single Steve O'Keefe [ 2.0-1-6-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , that is a loose stroke , tries to play it through cover again , has to reach out and one hand comes off the bat handle as he punched it , which meant there was no timing and the ball dribbled to mid-on 17.5 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , another punchy shot , on-the-up past the cover region , good enough for a couple of runs 17.4 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , solidly in behind that length delivery is Ahmed Shehzad. His feet are moving nicely 17.3 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slightly wide of the crease and still does n't make Ahmed Shehzad play 17.2 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , just a firm push past the left-hand of Siddle , mid-off is there though 17.1 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length outside off , left alone 16.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , punches to mid-off after standing tall 16.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , Johnson has his hands on his head , he thought that was a risky stroke , Azhar Ali flicking nicely off his pads , well in control too 16.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length outside off , Azhar Ali hops and then defends to point after opening the face of the bat 16.3 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , initially Ahmed Shehzad wanted to pull , then changed his mind and tucked it away past square leg for a single 16.2 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bouncer , but not well-directed , down leg and Ahmed Shehzad will have nothing to do with it 16.1 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length outside off , Ahmed Shehzad defends solidly off the back foot 15.6 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , short of length outside off , nice carry through to Haddin after Azhar Ali left it alone 15.5 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , short delivery now from Siddle , Azhar Ali ducks under it without much fuss 15.4 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , pitched up outside off , driven well , but straight to the fielder at short cover 15.3 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , gets forward and defends solidly Erasmus has just told Siddle to keep off the danger area. Not an official warning , just a mild caution 15.2 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , good length outside off , straightening too , left alone 15.1 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , leans forward and pushes it to mid-off 14.6 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , another good drive , but this time he picks out Rogers at mid-off 14.5 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tried to drive it straight down the ground , but it went off a thick inside half and down to mid-on 14.4 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , sliding across him now , he opts to leave 14.3 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , that is a nice drive. Not a half-volley , but Ahmed Shehzad just leant on it and drove it on-the-up , past the diving short cover , beating Rogers ' chase 14.2 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , turned to that short mid-wicket fielder Only a couple of slips , plus a gully. Short cover catching in as well 14.1 Johnson to Azhar Ali , 1 run , short of length on the hips , Azhar Ali tucks it to deep backward square leg , for a single Mitchell Johnson [ 3.0-1-9-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , shuffle across and then clipped to that short mid-wicket fielder 13.5 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , defended to point. Ahmed Shehzad took his bottom hand out of the way after the ball thudded into the bat , which caused the willow to shake a little 13.4 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tries to drive on-the-up , but the ball takes the thick inside half and rolls back to the bowler 13.3 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , calmly pushed to mid-on from the crease. The bat came down in a nice straight line 13.2 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , straight on middle , Ahmed Shehzad shuffles across a tad and defends to mid-on 13.1 Siddle to Azhar Ali , leg byes , 1 run , sliding down leg , Azhar Ali ca n't lay a bat on that , it runs away down to fine leg for a leg bye The players are out in the middle. Siddle will start off proceedings. Clarke is making a few changes in the field. Here we go then.. . Pitch report : A lot of rough has developed which should make it interesting for the spinners. A few pebbles are found on the pitch as well. 'Overall it is still a good battable pitch ' says Ramiz Raja. What is battable ? Only Ramiz would know. He signs off by saying that Australia will have to bat out of their skins to save this match . Haddin : 'It was n't a great day for us yesterday. Warner was outstanding , but guys who got in did n't go on to make big scores. We have a big fight on our hands on the last two days. We were n't disciplined enough to get a big score. The first hour and a half will be very important. We need early wickets. That will dictate the rest of the passsage of play. They have players who understand Test cricket , they play very well in these conditions.' Speaking to Rameez Raja , Waqar Younis was happy with the way his team has performed so far. He says the team is bonding well under him and his support staff. He is n't setting any targets as of now , preferring to take session by session. However , he feels a target around 400-450 might make it a challenging target for Australia . Currently , Azhar Ali and Ahmed Shehzad are on the crease as Mohammad Hafeez did n't come out to bat after doing some harm to his ankle yesterday. Apart from putting up a big total on the board , Pakistan will have to give themselves enough time to bowl Australia out for the second time. It is going to be an enthralling last two days. Stay tuned for the action.. . This match is poised for an exciting finish. Pakistan hold the upper hand for now but Australia can also save this game as there are only two days left. Pakistan 's first task will be to put this game out of Australia 's reach. Also , they must have an idea as to what total should be enough for Australia in the fourth innings. Hello and Welcome to Day 4 of the First Test at Dubai . It 's going to be a fascinating day tomorrow as Pakistan will look to push on from here. For Australia , they will have to rethink a plan that allows them to save the game at least. It will be a crucial day for both teams tomorrow and maybe a day , where the result of the match is decided. Do join us tomorrow for another great day of Test cricket. Till then , take care. See you . Stumps , Day 3 : Another entertaining day comes to an end. Pakistan will be very happy with how things are at the present moment. They have extended their lead to 189 as they made 38/0 in the 13 overs they batted. Australia are on the back foot now. They really do n't know how to go about things at the present moment. Clarke 's decision to hand out the ball to Lyon after Siddle bowled a maiden shows the indecision in the camp. Pakistan are truly on top here but do n't count Australia out. The Australians have a tendency to bounce back when everyone rules them out. On the other hand , do n't be too sure about Pakistan 's fortunes as well. They tend to collapse when everything is going right for them . The light meters are out and the umpires are taking a reading. They have decided that it 's time to go back in the hut as it is pretty dark out on the ground. Players walk off the field. That 's Stumps on Day 3 . 12.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , lunges forward in defence 12.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , goes on the front foot to a flighted delivery and blocks 12.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , comes down the track and blocks this delivery to silly point , Shehzad has to rush back into the crease after silly point was about to throw the ball 12.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Shehzad gently defends it into the off-side 12.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , a touch slower and on off , Shehzad leans forward and blocks 12.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Shehzad defends from the crease 11.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , shortish and on the pads , Ali turns it towards mid-wicket , the batsmen think about a single but decide against it as the fielder from short mid-wicket was quick to reach the ball 11.5 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , goes on the back foot and defends it into the leg-side 11.4 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , comes down the track and takes this floated delivery on the full , driven to long-on 11.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , steps out of the crease and whips it towards mid-wicket 11.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , pitched outside off , Ali leans forward and defends 11.1 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Ali goes forward and defends 10.6 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , presses forward to this flighted delivery and blocks 10.5 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , lunges forward in defence 10.4 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , comes down the track again and lofts it over the infield , the timing , however , was n't that great , the batsman take two before Johnson gets to the ball 10.3 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , stays back in the crease and guides it towards point 10.2 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , Where did that come from ? It was a flighted delivery just around off , Shehzad came down the track and lofted it over the infield , the ball crashes into the long-off boundary 10.1 O'Keefe to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Shehzad dead-bats it off the front foot Steve O'Keefe , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 9.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , very full and just outside off , Ali comes out of the crease and squuezes it out to the right of the bowler , Lyon moves across quickly and throws the ball back at the striker 's end , Ali also had to rush back in after Lyon was quick to pounce on the ball 9.5 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , another one that 's a little short in length , Shehzad makes room and punches it to deep backward point 9.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , flatter around off , Ali rocks back and dabs it to backward point 9.3 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Shehzad moves his front foot across and sweeps , the ball rolls away to fine leg 9.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Ali moves across and eases it down to long-on 9.1 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , floated on off , Ali steps out and blocks 8.6 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , short delivery from Siddle , Shehzad pulls it and even though the timing was n't that great , the ball slowly dribbles away into the deep mid-wicket boundary 8.5 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a length and around off , Shehzad goes on the front foot and defends 8.4 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bowls a bouncer outside off , Shehzad moved across to hook it but the ball was too quick for him , he misses and the ball goes through to the keeper 8.3 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shehzad goes on the back foot and blocks 8.2 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and outside off , Shehzad defends with the full face of the bat 8.1 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , low full toss from Siddle , Shehzad eases it down to mid-on 7.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Ali lunges forward in defence , he gets an inside edge onto the pad 7.5 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , steps out and drives this back to the bowler , Lyon is quick to throw the ball back at the striker 's end , there was a direct hit but Ali was back in the crease by then 7.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , pushed through quicker and on off and middle , Ali was a little late in getting his bat down but manages to block it at the last moment 7.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , FOUR , pitched just outside off , Ali goes down on one knee and sweeps this powerfully , the ball races away to the deep backward square leg fence 7.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up outside off , Ali presses forward and defends 7.1 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , flatter around off , Ali stays back in the crease and blocks 6.6 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , this is good bowling from Siddle , it was on a good length and outside off , Shehzad gets drawn in trying to drive , he can only get an outside edge that falls between first and second slip , the diving first slip got his right hand and half-stopped the ball 6.5 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length outside off with a hint of movement in towards the batsman , Shehzad pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls away into the off-side 6.4 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , just short of a good length and moving in towards the batsman , Shehzad moves across and clips it to deep square leg 6.3 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , a little fuller and around off , Shehzad pushes it towards mid-off 6.2 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , straighter from Siddle this time , Shehzad turns it towards mid-wicket for a brace 6.1 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and on the off stump , Shehzad defends Peter Siddle [ 1.0-1-0-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , drifts this one on the pads , Ali looks to clip it fine , he is lucky that the ball falls just before the diving leg-slip 5.5 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Ali steps out and blocks 5.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , stays back in the crease and blocks 5.3 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , tossed up delivery around off , Shehzad comes down the track and drives to mid-off 5.2 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , outside off and Shehzad leaves 5.1 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , defended off the front foot 4.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , almost a wicket there ! Ali almost chopped this one back onto the stumps , he pushed at the ball and the ball takes the inside edge and goes towards the wicket , Ali waves the bat trying to put the ball away , however , the ball was going away from the stumps anyway 4.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , FOUR , successive boundaries for Ali , it was full and outside off , Ali waits for the ball to arrive , he opens the face of the bat and dabs it past backward point for another boundary 4.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , FOUR , that 's a beautiful shot off the front foot , it was full and outside off , Ali moves forward and drives it beautifully to the sweeper cover fence 4.3 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and around off , Ali leans forward and blocks to short cover 4.2 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and jags back in , the ball kept a little low as well , Ali pushes it into the off-side in an awkward manner 4.1 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , just short of a good length and angles in towards the batsman , Ali leaves as the ball was well outside off 3.6 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , a little quicker and on off and middle , Shehzad stays rooted to the crease and blocks 3.5 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , pushed through on off , Ali plants his front foot across and drags the sweep from outside off to fine leg 3.4 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flatter delivery on the legs , Shehzad looks to tickle it fine , the ball takes the inside edge and dribbles away to fine leg 3.3 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated around off , Shehzad steps out and dead-bats it 3.2 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Shehzad stays in the crease and blocks 3.1 Lyon to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter delivery that turns back in towards Shehzad , he misses the glance and the ball hits his pads Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 2.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , banged in short and goes on with the angle towards the batsman , Ali has to jump , he drops his wrists , the ball rolls away into the on-side 2.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery that comes in with the angle , Ali punches it to short cover 2.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Ali defends it into the off-side Johnson comes round the wicket . 2.3 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , another short delivery outside off , Ali does n't offer a shot 2.2 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Ali hops in the crease and pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and falls just before second slip 2.1 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Shehzad jumps and tries to work it away on the leg-side , the ball just about evades the FSL fielder and the ball rolls away towards mid-wicket Johnson and Siddle have both started with a maiden . 1.6 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Ali lets it go through to the keeper 1.5 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery with a hint of away movement , he pokes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away towards the second slip , who dives to his right to collect the ball 1.4 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Ali turns it towards mid-on 1.3 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish inswinger around off , Ali drives it to short cover 1.2 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length outside off and moving away , Ali opens the face of the bat and pushes it to cover 1.1 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and shapes away from the batsman , Ali leaves Peter Siddle , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and outside the off stump , Shehzad does n't offer a shot 0.5 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Shehzad goes back and taps it towards short cover 0.4 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , very good bouncer from Johnson , it was very quick too , Shehzad ducks under it 0.3 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Shehzad shoulders arms 0.2 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad pushes it towards cover-point 0.1 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and outside off , Shehzad drives it to short cover Ahmed Shehzad and Azhar Ali are at the crease. Ahmed Shehzad is on strike. Johnson will open the attack There are three slips and a gully in place for Johnson . Mitchell Johnson will open the attack for Australia. There 's a little delay as the roller is being taken off the ground . Pakistani openers are out in the centre. Azhar Ali will open the innings along with Ahmed Shehzad as Hafeez is injured. Hafeez twisted his ankle while fielding off his own bowling . Pakistan will now look to build on their first innings lead and they will try and put Australia out of the game. For Australia , things look very difficult. They will have to bowl extremely well and will have to bat out of their skins to save the game. Stay tuned for the second Pakistani innings that 's coming your way in a short while.. . Pakistan have taken a big lead of 151 runs. Australian batsmen were n't just up for handling the spinners. Apart from David Warner , no other batsmen could handle the Pakistani bowling. Both Smith and Marsh got starts but they could n't transform it into a big score. For Pakistan , the spinners did a very good job. Debutant Yasir Shah picked up 3 wickets while Babar picked two. All the others also chipped in with a wicket at least . 103.1 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , out Caught by Misbah ! ! That 's it. Australia are all-out. It was floated around middle-stump , O'Keefe looked to heave it over deep mid-wicket , he can only get a top edge that balloons high , Misbah runs towards backward square leg and takes a good catch. O'Keefe c Misbah b Yasir Shah 6 ( 47 ) Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 102.6 Rahat Ali to Lyon , no run , on a good length and outside off , Lyon pokes at it , the ball goes past the edge and on the bounce to the keeper 102.5 Rahat Ali to Lyon , no run , short delivery aimed at Lyon , who drops his wrists at the last moment , allowing the ball to go through to the keeper 102.4 Rahat Ali to Lyon , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Lyon stays back and defends it into the off-side 102.3 Rahat Ali to Lyon , no run , short and straight from Rahat , Lyon hops back in the crease and blocks 102.2 Rahat Ali to Lyon , FOUR , fuller and outside off , Lyon looks to drive and gets a thick outside edge , the ball rolls away fine towards the third man boundary after beating the diving gully Nathan Lyon , right handed bat , comes to the crease 102.1 Rahat Ali to Johnson , out Caught by ( sub ) Masood ! ! Johnson 's stay at the crease comes to an end. Rahat bangs this one short as well. Johnson looks to pull it but ca n't keep it on the ground , he hits it straight down the throat of Masood at deep backward square leg. Australia are staring at giving away a big lead to Pakistan. Johnson c ( sub ) Masood b Rahat Ali 37 ( 62 ) [ 4s-3 ] Rahat Ali to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 101.6 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , straighter and quicker from Shah , O'Keefe goes back in the crease and defends it into the off-side 101.5 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , tossed up just outside off , O'Keefe lunges forward in defence 101.4 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , a little flatter this time around , O'Keefe cuts it to backward point off the back foot 101.3 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , O'Keefe leans forward and defends 101.2 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , tossed up around off , O'Keefe blocks off the front foot 101.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , floats this one on off , Johnson jumps out of the crease and works it to deep mid-wicket 100.6 Rahat Ali to O'Keefe , no run , short at the batsman , O'Keefe pull it to the right of the short mid-wicket fielder , who moves across to collect the ball , he throws the ball at the non-striker 's end very quickly and that does n't allow the batsman to even think about a single 100.5 Rahat Ali to O'Keefe , no run , short delivery angled across the batsman , O'Keefe miscues the pull to short mid-wicket 100.4 Rahat Ali to O'Keefe , no run , just short of a good length and on off , O'Keefe blocks solidly 100.3 Rahat Ali to O'Keefe , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , O'Keefe goes on the back foot and pushes it to short cover 100.2 Rahat Ali to O'Keefe , no run , short of a good length just outside off , O'Keefe gently punches it towards short cover 100.1 Rahat Ali to Johnson , 1 run , short ball from Rahat first up , Johnson goes on the back foot and pulls it to backward square leg Rahat Ali [ 17.0-0-50-1 ] is back into the attack 99.6 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , straighter one from Shah outside off , O'Keefe lets it go 99.5 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , another one that 's short in length , Johnson stays back in the crease and cuts it to cover-point 99.4 Yasir Shah to Johnson , FOUR , goes deep in the crease and cuts this flatter delivery to deep extra cover 99.3 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 2 runs , floated delivery outside off , Johnson steps out of the crease and drives it to mid-off , Asad Shafiq fumbles and had he collected it cleanly , there would have been a chance of a run-out with a direct-hit , however , the throw was way off target and the overthrow allowed the batsmen to come back for the second run 99.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Johnson rocks back and blocks 99.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , spins back in from outside off , Johnson stays back in the crease and defends , the ball leaves a mark on Johnson 's bat 98.6 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , tossed up delivery and O'Keefe drives it back towards the bowler , who makes a stop with his left foot 98.5 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , flighted delivery on off , O'Keefe goes on the front foot and blocks 98.4 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , another one that 's a little short and around off , O'Keefe goes on the back foot and punches it into the off-side 98.3 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , flighted delivery on off , O'Keefe lunges forward in defence 98.2 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , flatter outside off , O'Keefe goes back in the crease and knocks it to short cover 98.1 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Johnson steps out of the crease and drags the whip to deep square leg 97.6 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , strays on middle and leg this time , Johnson moves across in the crease and nurdles it to backward square leg 97.5 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , tossed up around off , Johnson pushes forward in defence 97.4 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , 1 run , floated on middle and leg , O'Keefe looks to work it towards the leg-side , the ball takes the outside half of the bat and rolls away towards mid-off , the batsmen scamper through for a quick single , the fielder at mid-off collects the ball and has a shy at the non-striker 's end but the batsman was comfortably in 97.3 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , Shah comes over the wicket and tosses this one just around off , O'Keefe presses forward and blocks 97.2 Yasir Shah to Johnson , 1 run , loopy full toss on off , Johnson moves across and eases it down to long-on 97.1 Yasir Shah to Johnson , no run , spins back sharply from outside off , Johnson goes deep in the crease and blocks 96.6 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , defends this flighted delivery with the full face of the bat 96.5 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , flighted delivery outside off , O'Keefe reaches out and looks to hit it over the infield , the ball spins away and beats him 96.4 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , pushed through quicker and on off , O'Keefe blocks it into the on-side 96.3 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , floated around off , O'Keefe lunges forward in defence 96.2 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , flighted delivery on middle stump , O'Keefe goes on the front foot and blocks 96.1 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Johnson leans forward and gently pushes it towards the vacant short cover region , the batsmen pinch a quick single 95.6 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , flighted on middle , O'Keefe presses forward and knocks it towards short mid-wicket 95.5 Yasir Shah to O'Keefe , no run , tossed up on off and middle , blocked off the front foot Yasir Shah [ 13.0-1-55-2 ] is back into the attack Yasir Shah will complete his over . Hafeez looks in a lot of discomfort. Has he twisted his ankle ? The physio is out and tending to him. Hafeez is going off for now as he definitely needs some treatment done on that ankle. The good thing is that he is walking out of the field all by himself. However , he looks in some pain . 95.4 Hafeez to O'Keefe , no run , flighted on off , O'Keefe goes forward and drives it to the right of the bowler , Hafeez goes to collect the ball and trips over very awkwardly after stepping on Johnson 's shoes at the non-striker 's end 95.3 Hafeez to O'Keefe , no run , tossed up on off , O'Keefe drives to the right of the bowler 95.2 Hafeez to O'Keefe , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , O'Keefe presses forward and blocks it into the off-side 95.1 Hafeez to O'Keefe , no run , loopy delivery on off , O'Keefe lunges forward in defence 94.6 Babar to Johnson , no run , shortish in length and just around off , Johnson pushes at it , the ball rolls away towards the keeper off the face of the bat 94.5 Babar to O'Keefe , 1 run , flatter and on middle , O'Keefe goes back in the crease and punches it towards mid-wicket for a single 94.4 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , tossed up on off , O'Keefe goes on the front foot and blocks to FSL 94.3 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , flighted delivery that turns back in towards the batsman , Johnson moves across and flicks it to backward square leg 94.2 Babar to Johnson , no run , tossed up around off , defended from the crease 94.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , flatter around off , Johnson looks to defend and gets beaten 93.6 Hafeez to Johnson , 1 run , full and on middle and leg , Johnson works it towards mid-wicket 93.5 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Johnson puts his front foot across and shoulders arms 93.4 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , tossed up on off and middle , defended off the front foot 93.3 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Johnson goes on the front foot and pushes to short cover 93.2 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , flighted outside off , Johnson lets it go 93.1 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , tossed up around off , Johnson leans forward and drives it to short cover Welcome back to the post-tea session. Pakistan will look to take the final two wickets quickly. On the other hand , Johnson and O'Keefe will look to bat as many overs as possible . The shadows are lengthening and it wo n't be easy to bat in artifical light in the final session. Australia 's task is cut out. Do join us soon for the final session of play. See you soon . Waqar Younis is on his feet and clapping that effort from his team who have won that session too. 4 wickets in that session once again and it all started off when Warner was out in the first over after lunch. The new ball was taken and it struck immediately as Imran Khan dismissed Brad Haddin. Then Marsh and Siddle fell lbw in quick succession to deepen the misery for the visitors. Pakistan would be looking to wrap this up and then bat well to put Australia under pressure in the fourth innings . 92.6 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , bat in front of the pad and defended to short mid-wicket. That will be tea on day 3 92.5 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , hint of turn away , O'Keefe watches it and then adjusts to dab it late down to point 92.4 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , drifting down leg , O'Keefe ca n't put it away 92.3 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , gets down the pitch and ekes out a little inside edge onto the pads , but just wide of short leg 92.2 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , uses his feet , but is n't to the pitch of the ball , yet goes through with the hoick , off the toe end and it rolls to deep mid-wicket 92.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , leans forward to block Last over before tea 91.6 Hafeez to O'Keefe , no run , defends to the right of Hafeez , still no run there 91.5 Hafeez to O'Keefe , no run , turns this to short mid-wicket 91.4 Hafeez to O'Keefe , no run , gets forward to defend to short cover 91.3 Hafeez to O'Keefe , no run , is on the back foot and defending 91.2 Hafeez to Johnson , 1 run , short and wide of off , Johnson reaches out and smashes the cut to sweeper cover 91.1 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , punched back to Hafeez 90.6 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , pitches in line and then goes away from the bat to strike O'Keefe high on the thigh. Would 've gone over , that 's why there was no real appeal from the Pakistanis 90.5 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , lunges forward to block 90.4 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , whipped in the air to deep mid-wicket , they thought about the second , but two fielders converged on the ball which forced the batsmen to retreat 90.3 Babar to O'Keefe , 3 runs , uses his feet and flicks it into the gap at mid-wicket , it was timed well enough for three runs 90.2 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and plays it in the gap at point , takes the single too 90.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , punched back to Babar 89.6 Hafeez to O'Keefe , no run , well floated outside off , driven softly to mid-off 89.5 Hafeez to Johnson , 1 run , short-arm pulled to long-on 89.4 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , comes half-forward and pushes it to the off-side 89.3 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , flatter and on the stumps , defended off the back foot 89.2 Hafeez to O'Keefe , 1 run , comes down the track and pushes it to mid-on , gets off the mark with that single 89.1 Hafeez to Johnson , 1 run , short and outside off , flashed away to deep extra cover 88.6 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , sliding on from round the wicket , O'Keefe is caught on the forward push without bat on ball , but luckily for him , he got outside the line of off which saved him Another review for an lbw call. Not out is the call. Did O'Keefe get outside the line of off ? That could save him. Very similar to Marsh 's. Pitched in line and no inside edge onto the pads. Impact outside off and that saves O'Keefe. Not out is the call. So Pakistan have exhausted their quota of reviews too 88.5 Babar to O'Keefe , no run , gets forward and pushes it back to Babar 88.4 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , low full toss and it has been bunted wide of long-on. Two was the call , but the fielder was quick to get across 88.3 Babar to Johnson , no run , steps out , but the length is much shorter , Johnson defends 88.2 Babar to Johnson , no run , the straighter one beats Johnson on the forward defensive 88.1 Babar to Johnson , FOUR , now Johnson will take it on. Down on one knee and slog-swept wide of deep mid-wicket for a one-bounce four Steve O'Keefe , right handed bat , comes to the crease 87.6 Hafeez to Siddle , out Lbw ! ! That was a poor stroke. It was fired in flatter on off , Siddle missed a sweep and was struck right in front. He did n't get outside the line of off too. So a pretty straightforward decision for Kettleborough. No more reviews left for Australia. Siddle lbw b Hafeez 0 ( 4 ) Hafeez to Siddle , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! This has been given out lbw ! But Johnson and Siddle take the review. Looked pretty adjacent. Did he get outside the line of off ? Does n't look like it. OUT is the call. Pak celebrate again 87.5 Hafeez to Siddle , no run , once again Misbah and Hafeez ponder about a review and decide against it. It turned in sharply and missed the inside edge , struck Siddle on the back leg , was it spinning too much ? Need a replay to confirm all the doubts 87.4 Hafeez to Johnson , 1 run , punches it to long-on 87.3 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , pushes it to short cover 87.2 Hafeez to Johnson , FOUR , Hafeez is a disappointed man. Rahat Ali the culprit at long-on. He was halfway in and could n't pedal back to get under the lofted hit. Rahat went with one hand , but it was never going to be enough. In the end , he did n't even get a finger on it. If he was right back , it would 've been straight down his throat 87.1 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , defends it back to Hafeez 86.6 Babar to Siddle , no run , another forward defensive 86.5 Babar to Siddle , no run , lunges forward and defends to short cover Peter Siddle , right handed bat , comes to the crease 86.4 Babar to M Marsh , out Lbw ! ! Good review that. It pitched in line and went past the inside edge of Marsh who was lunging forward to defend , he missed and that would 've crashed into middle of middle. Erasmus thought about it and said no but then had to change his call. Pakistan get another one. M Marsh lbw b Babar 27 ( 61 ) [ 4s-2 ] Babar to M Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Babar and Misbah have a chat and they decide to take the review against Marsh. It was for an lbw call. Not out is the original decision. Dad Geoff looks very nervous as the third ump is called for. OUT is the call as all three reds pop up on the tracker. Erasmus changes his decision and Geoff is a frustrated man. He made a gesture with his hand suggesting that his son should 've pushed forward and played with the bat , more with an intention to play 86.3 Babar to Johnson , 1 run , comes down the track and drives it hard to long-on Silly point moves into a leg slip now 86.2 Babar to Johnson , 2 runs , what was the need for that ? It was paddle-swept to fine leg and for some reason Johnson wants two. They hare back and it needed a full length dive from Johnson to make it in. The throw was n't direct on the stumps , which would 've sent the batsman back Three men around the bat for Babar 86.1 Babar to Johnson , no run , sharp turn in for Babar , Johnson misses the nudge to leg , straight off the pad and caught at short leg Zulfiqar Babar [ 20.0-2-63-1 ] is back into the attack 85.6 Hafeez to Johnson , 1 run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Johnson moves a little across and drives it to long-on 85.5 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , pitched on middle and leg , Johnson blocks 85.4 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , tossed up around off , Johnson looks to drive but a hint of turn beats him , the ball goes through and the keeper half-stops it , the ball goes towards Younis Khan at slip 85.3 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , flighted delivery that spins away from outside off , Johnson leaves 85.2 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , very full from Hafeez , Johnson squeezes it out back to the bowler 85.1 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , tossed up on middle , Johnson leans forward and defends 84.6 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , fullish delivery that jags back in a touch towards the batsman , Marsh gets behind the line and defends it into the off-side 84.5 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , short of a good length on middle , Marsh defends 84.4 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , fullish delivery around off , Marsh leans forward and drives it to mid-off , who has to dive to his left to collect the ball 84.3 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , a little fuller this time from Imran , Marsh leans forward and drives it to short cover 84.2 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , on a good length and on off , Marsh blocks with the full face of the bat 84.1 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , Marsh goes forward and softly drives it to mid-on 83.6 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , floated up on off , Johnson goes on the front foot and gently pushes it to short cover 83.5 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , drives this flighted delivery towards short cover 83.4 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , tossed up around off , Johnson leans forward and blocks it back to the bowler 83.3 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , another one that skids on with the angle , Johnson gets some part of the bat on it , the ball rolls away into the leg-side 83.2 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , leans forward and pushes it towards short cover 83.1 Hafeez to Johnson , no run , fullish delivery that skids on , Johnson misses to lay any bat onto it , the ball hits the front pad and the umpire gave it not out Pakistan has decided to review a lbw decision of Johnson. The onfield umpire gave it 'Not Out'. There is no problem with the front foot. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was just clipping the leg stump. So , the onfield decision stays . Mohammad Hafeez [ 19.0-4-43-0 ] is back into the attack 82.6 Imran Khan to Johnson , 1 run , straying on the pads of the batsman , Johnson flicks it to deep square leg off his pads 82.5 Imran Khan to M Marsh , 1 run , short delivery from Imran , Marsh goes on the back foot and pulls it fine , he rolls his wrists over the ball , the ball goes to fine leg 82.4 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , bowls this one outside off , Marsh lets it go through 82.3 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Marsh fails to clip this fine , the ball rolls away into the leg-side after hitting the pad , Johnson starts off from the non-striker 's end in search of a run but is sent back by Marsh , who shouts 'No' 82.2 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , fullish with a hint of shape in towards the batsman , Marsh drives it towards mid-on 82.1 Imran Khan to Johnson , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Johnson knocks it towards cover and sets off for a single 81.6 Rahat Ali to M Marsh , no run , on a good length and on the off stump , Marsh covers the line and defends 81.5 Rahat Ali to M Marsh , no run , on a good length and outside off , Marsh shoulders arms 81.4 Rahat Ali to M Marsh , no run , fullish delivery just around off , Marsh looks to drive and misses , he hits the pad with his bat and that 's the source of noise because of which the umpire gave him out Mitchell Marsh has been given out caught behind. He has decided to review the decision. There are no problems with the front foot. The onfield decision has been changed and Marsh survives . 81.3 Rahat Ali to M Marsh , no run , waste of a delivery. This one was full but was bowled down leg , Sarfraz moves to his left to collect it 81.2 Rahat Ali to M Marsh , FOUR , that was beautiful from Marsh , he reaches forward and drives this good length delivery through the cover-region. With this boundary , Australia have also avoided any chance of a follow-on 81.1 Rahat Ali to M Marsh , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the pads , Marsh moves across and flicks it towards mid-wicket Rahat Ali [ 16.0-0-44-1 ] is back into the attack 80.6 Imran Khan to Johnson , no run , yorker just outside off , Johnson jams it out to point 80.5 Imran Khan to Johnson , no run , fuller and good shape on the that one , the ball shapes back in towards Johnson , who pushes at it with a full face of the bat Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now . 80.4 Imran Khan to Haddin , out Bowled ! ! That 's the first wicket for Imran Khan in Test cricket. Pakistan get the breakthrough with the new ball. It was fuller in length and pitched just outside off , Haddin went a little too hard at it , the ball shapes in a little , takes the inside edge and crashes into the off stump. Australia are in trouble now. Imran Khan was jubilant after taking this wicket. Haddin b Imran Khan 22 ( 46 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Imran Khan to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 80.3 Imran Khan to M Marsh , 1 run , on a good length and this time the ball shapes back in towards the batsman , Marsh works it to backward square leg There are three slips and a gully in place . 80.2 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , on a length and outside off , the ball shapes away as well , Marsh leaves it alone 80.1 Imran Khan to M Marsh , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Marsh allows it to go through to the keeper Imran Khan [ 12.0-2-37-0 ] is back into the attack The second new ball has been taken by Pakistan . 79.6 Babar to Haddin , no run , stays back in the crease and pushes it towards the mid-wicket region 79.5 Babar to Haddin , no run , Haddin tries to sweep this delivery on the leg-stump , he misses and the ball hits his pads , there was a half-appeal from the Pakistani players but the ball pitched outside leg 79.4 Babar to Haddin , no run , pads this one that turns back in from outside the leg-stump 79.3 Babar to Haddin , no run , shortish delivery on the stumps , Haddin turns it into the leg-side 79.2 Babar to M Marsh , 1 run , flatter and turns back in from outside leg , Marsh goes back in the crease and works it towards square leg 79.1 Babar to M Marsh , no run , flighted delivery on middle-stump , Marsh leans forward and blocks 78.6 Hafeez to Haddin , no run , lunges forward in defence 78.5 Hafeez to Haddin , no run , another one that 's a little short in length , Haddin goes on the back foot and punches it to mid-off 78.4 Hafeez to Haddin , no run , flattish and outside off , Haddin rocks back and defends 78.3 Hafeez to Haddin , no run , tossed up just outside off , Haddin leans forward and blocks 78.2 Hafeez to Haddin , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Haddin defends 78.1 Hafeez to Haddin , no run , shortish and on middle , Haddin stays on the back foot and turns it into the leg-side Mohammad Hafeez [ 18.0-3-43-0 ] is back into the attack 77.6 Babar to M Marsh , no run , works this flighted delivery towards short mid-wicket 77.5 Babar to M Marsh , no run , spins back in towards the batsman from outside leg , Marsh taps it gently into the leg-side 77.4 Babar to Haddin , 1 run , short and on the pads , Haddin clips it towards deep square leg 77.3 Babar to M Marsh , 1 run , tossed up on off , Marsh gently drives to mid-off 77.2 Babar to M Marsh , no run , another one that 's on leg , Marsh blocks 77.1 Babar to M Marsh , no run , bowls this one on leg from over the wicket , Marsh defends 76.6 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , 1 run , tossed up on off , Marsh drives it to mid-off for a single 76.5 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , full and down leg , Marsh misses the glance and the keeper collects the ball 76.4 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , flatter and just outside off , Marsh stays on the back foot and knocks it to short cover 76.3 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , pushed through around off , Marsh blocks 76.2 Yasir Shah to Haddin , 1 run , loopy full toss from Shah , Haddin works it to long-on 76.1 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , flighted on off , Haddin presses forward in defence 75.6 Babar to M Marsh , no run , loopy delivery on off , Marsh leans forward and defends 75.5 Babar to M Marsh , no run , Babar bowls this one from over the wicket , Marsh goes on the front foot and blocks 75.4 Babar to M Marsh , no run , flighted outside off and spinning away from Marsh , Marsh moves across and pushes at it , the ball takes the outside half and dribbles away into the off-side 75.3 Babar to M Marsh , 2 runs , a little shorter and Marsh punches it back towards the bowler with some force , Babar does n't field the ball as he moved away and the ball goes straight down the ground , the batsmen take two 75.2 Babar to M Marsh , no run , defends it into the off-side 75.1 Babar to M Marsh , FOUR , great shot from Marsh. Marsh comes down the ground to a flighted delivery around off , he lofts it over the infield and the ball rolls away towards the long-on fence 74.6 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Haddin drives it a little uppishly towards the bowler , the ball bounces before Shah 74.5 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , similar to the last delivery and Haddin offers another defensive stroke with a full face of the bat 74.4 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , shortens his length a little , Haddin goes back and defends 74.3 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , 1 run , tossed up on off , Marsh drives it to long-off 74.2 Yasir Shah to Haddin , 1 run , drifts this full toss on the legs , Haddin eases it to long-on for a single 74.1 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , floated on the stumps , Haddin leans forward and dead-bats it 73.6 Babar to M Marsh , no run , pitching on middle and leg , Marsh just knocks it towards short mid-wicket 73.5 Babar to M Marsh , no run , leans forward and blocks 73.4 Babar to M Marsh , no run , flighted around off , Marsh drives it straight to short-cover 73.3 Babar to M Marsh , 2 runs , another shortish delivery on the pads , Marsh goes back in the crease and tucks it away towards deep backward square leg for a couple 73.2 Babar to M Marsh , 2 runs , shortish and on the legs , Marsh goes on the back foot and flicks it to deep square leg for a brace 73.1 Babar to M Marsh , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Marsh pushes it towards mid-off 72.6 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , flatter from Shah but this time Haddin did n't have enough room to cut it , he rocks back and dabs it towards backward point after opening the face of the bat 72.5 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , loopy delivery on the off-stump , Haddin goes forward and dead-bats it 72.4 Yasir Shah to Haddin , FOUR , another boundary from Haddin , Shah is not learning his lessons , it was short and outside off , Haddin goes on the back foot and cuts it past point for another boundary 72.3 Yasir Shah to Haddin , FOUR , poor delivery from Shah as he bowls this very short , Haddin has ample time to go back in the crease and cut it to the sweeper cover fence 72.2 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , tossed up on off , Haddin pushes it towards point 72.1 Yasir Shah to Haddin , SIX , good shot ! This one was floated around off and Haddin was quick to get under it , he slog sweeps it beautifully over the deep mid-wicket fence for a six 71.6 Babar to M Marsh , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Marsh lunges forward in defence , the ball rolls away into the off-side after taking the outside half of the bat 71.5 Babar to M Marsh , no run , pushed through on off , Marsh presses forward and blocks 71.4 Babar to Haddin , 1 run , a touch straighter from Babar , Haddin goes back in the crease and turns it towards square leg 71.3 Babar to Haddin , no run , another fullish delivery , Haddin leans forward and defends 71.2 Babar to Haddin , no run , tossed up on off , Haddin drives it hard back at the bowler , who half-stops it with his left hand , the ball rolls away towards the umpire 71.1 Babar to Haddin , no run , flighted delivery on middle and off , Haddin blocks Zulfiqar Babar [ 15.0-2-49-1 ] is back into the attack 70.6 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , slower delivery outside off , Marsh goes on the back foot and pushes it to cover 70.5 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , 2 runs , straying on the pads this time , Marsh was quick to go back and work it away towards the vacant mid-wicket region , the batsmen take two 70.4 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , poor delivery from Shah , short and a little wide of off , Marsh goes on the back foot and drives it to cover 70.3 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , shortens his length this time , Marsh goes back in the crease and punches it to cover 70.2 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Marsh lunges forward in defence 70.1 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , tossed up outside off , Marsh pushes it back to the bowler Gully has been removed and a silly mid-off is in place now . 69.6 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Haddin goes on the back foot and blocks it back to the bowler 69.5 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , on a good length and outside off , Haddin goes on the front foot and knocks it towards cover 69.4 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , another short of length delivery around off , Haddin stays back and pushes it into the off-side 69.3 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Haddin goes on the back foot and blocks Haddin is standing out of his crease to counter the movement . 69.2 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , fullish and angling in towards the batsman , Haddin drives it back at the bowler , who stops the ball in his followthrough with his right hand 69.1 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Haddin goes back in the crease and punches it towards cover 68.6 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , 2 runs , straying on the pads this time , Marsh tickles it fine and comes back for a couple , Babar from fine leg ran and collected the ball but his throw was way off target 68.5 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , shortish and on the stumps , Marsh punches it to cover off the back foot 68.4 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , no run , straighter one from Yasir Shah , Marsh puts his front foot forward in defence , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls away into the leg-side 68.3 Yasir Shah to Haddin , 1 run , flatter this time from Shah , Haddin goes back in the crease and punches it to mid-off 68.2 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , tossed up just outside off , Haddin leans forward and defends 68.1 Yasir Shah to M Marsh , 1 run , loopy delivery on middle and leg , Marsh drives it to mid-on and gets off the mark with a single 67.6 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , shapes back in again and this time Haddin pushes it to short mid-wicket 67.5 Imran Khan to Haddin , 2 runs , fuller around off and shaped back in towards the batsman , Haddin drives it towards mid-wicket for a brace 67.4 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Haddin clips it to short mid-wicket 67.3 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Haddin moves across and knocks it to short mid-wicket 67.2 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , fullish in length and on off , Haddin moves forward and gently pushes it to mid-off 67.1 Imran Khan to Haddin , no run , on a good length and on off , the ball kept a little low and Haddin defends with the full face of the bat Imran Khan [ 10.0-1-35-0 ] is back into the attack 66.6 Yasir Shah to Haddin , 1 run , fuller in length this time , Haddin drives it down the ground and takes a single 66.5 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , Haddin puts the front foot forward and blocks into the off-side 66.4 Yasir Shah to Haddin , no run , flighted around off , pushed to short cover Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 66.3 Yasir Shah to Warner , out Bowled ! ! A wicket first up for Pakistan. The centurion Warner is gone. The ball was pitched outside off and spun back sharply towards Warner , who was looking to push at it. He fails to connect and the ball crashes into the stumps. Australia are in trouble now. The dangerman is gone. Yasir Shah is ecstatic with this wicket. Warner b Yasir Shah 133 ( 174 ) [ 4s-11 6s-2 ] Yasir Shah to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 66.2 Yasir Shah to Warner , no run , pitched outside off and spins back in towards Warner , Warner defends from the crease 66.1 Yasir Shah to Warner , no run , tossed up around off , blocked back towards the bowler Yasir Shah will start off after lunch. He has a slip and a leg gully in place . Welcome back. The players are out in the middle . Amidst all this , Warner has batted through without putting a foot wrong. He has looked in no trouble at all and has taken the sensible approach to Test match batting curbing his natural instincts and treating the bowling on merit. Three consecutive tons in a row for him and he looks set for a big one. He is the one that his side would look to to get closer to the Pakistani total. The bowling has been good and the pitch is offering some assistance. Since the Friday prayers are scheduled , lunch break will be for an hour. Do join us then for some more engrossing long-form cricket. We will be back then and do enjoy whatever you are having ( food I meant ) . See you soon . So that 's two-and-a-half-hours of Test match cricket that one has witnessed. Must say Pakistan have made steady inroads into the Aussie batting line-up. They began the day with Rahat and Hafeez who built up the pressure and that paid dividends with Rogers ' wicket. Doolan got himself into a shell and then ran himself out. Clarke fell cheaply and just before lunch , Smith who was batting beautifully against the spinners found point with a cut shot. So four wickets in that session for Pakistan and that leaves the Test fascinatingly poised . 65.6 Babar to M Marsh , no run , turned to short leg and Marsh has seen that tricky over off. His dad Geoff lets out a huge grin who is a relieved man. It will be lunch on day 3 65.5 Babar to M Marsh , no run , that should relieve some pressure on Marsh , outside off , left alone 65.4 Babar to M Marsh , no run , almost carried back to the bowler. Marsh was looking to play slightly across the line , the soft leading edge though did n't carry to Babar 65.3 Babar to M Marsh , no run , pushed back to the bowler 65.2 Babar to M Marsh , no run , first ball that Marsh faces in Tests and he is back and across to defend Four men crowd the debutant Marsh. Good captaincy from Misbah. Babar to continue from round the wicket 65.1 Babar to Warner , 1 run , gets forward and drives to long-on for a comfortable single Zulfiqar Babar [ 14.0-2-48-1 ] is back into the attack Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 64.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , out Caught by Hafeez ! ! Yasir Shah has his first Test wicket and he is running around in delight. That was n't a wicket-taking ball at all - short and wide , but the bounce did Smith there , who could n't keep his cut down , good catch by Hafeez at point. So a pretty soft dismissal in the end , but Pakistan will take it any day. S Smith c Hafeez b Yasir Shah 22 ( 44 ) [ 4s-3 ] Yasir Shah to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 64.5 Yasir Shah to Warner , 1 run , a short-arm whip into the gap at mid-wicket. Easy single that A leg gully in place for Warner. Yasir Shah is coming from round the wicket now 64.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , 3 runs , shortens the length outside off , Smith is onto it quickly and punches it into the gap at point. They run hard and come back for the third 64.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , uses his feet and defends to silly point , where Azhar Ali is sharp 64.2 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , edged but never looked like it will carry to YK at slip. Rolled to him in fact. Good bowling though from Yasir Shah for he got some turn on that delivery 64.1 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , gets forward to defend even though he is n't to the pitch of it 63.6 Hafeez to Warner , no run , turns across Warner who gets back to defend 63.5 Hafeez to Warner , no run , defended to the left of Hafeez 63.4 Hafeez to Warner , no run , driven to short cover 63.3 Hafeez to Warner , FOUR , back to back fours for Warner. This was short and allowed Warner to rock back to cut it wide of point. Smashed away. Poor bowling from the professor . 63.2 Hafeez to Warner , FOUR , fine punch off the back foot. Threaded the gap and the ball raced away. It was n't all that short , but Warner made his own room and put it away 63.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , Warner decides to play that off the back foot and pushes it to short cover 62.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , a maiden over from Yasir Shah as Smith blocks one back to the bowler 62.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , shortish and that allows Smith to go on the back foot to block 62.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , opens the face of the bat to guide it to point 62.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , nearly chipped to short cover. Smith into the drive early and is lucky that it did n't carry 62.2 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , Smith is down the wicket , but the length is much shorter , so he has to block 62.1 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , floated up on the stumps , Smith defends Yasir Shah [ 5.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 61.6 Hafeez to Warner , no run , another defensive shot , this time the ball rolls to point 61.5 Hafeez to Warner , no run , blocked back to the bowler 61.4 Hafeez to Warner , SIX , now Warner gets a boundary six. Is down the wicket and whipped powerfully over mid-on , it kept sailing and sailing and landed over the ropes at long-on. Went all the way. Hinto of aggression there from Warner 61.3 Hafeez to Warner , no run , that was in the air as Warner came forward to defend , but there is no silly point , so Warner gets away 61.2 Hafeez to Warner , no run , floated on the middle and leg , Warner blocks 61.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , shortish on the stumps , Warner makes room and punches , but ca n't find the gap on the off-side Mohammad Hafeez [ 16.0-3-29-0 ] is back into the attack 60.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , Babar is plugging away on a length , Smith is content to defend once more 60.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , very full on the stumps , blocked to mid-on 60.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , lunges out to defend it back to the bowler 60.3 Babar to S Smith , FOUR , Smith is batting superbly against the spinners. Down the track and flicked over mid-wicket. Nicely done 60.2 Babar to Warner , 1 run , Warner opens the face of the bat and plays it into the gap at point. Turns the strike over 60.1 Babar to S Smith , 1 run , almost too close to the pitch of that delivery that time , yet Smith digs it out to long-off 59.6 Yasir Shah to Warner , no run , head over the ball and blocked back to the bowler 59.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to long-off 'Another one before lunch guys ' is the call from Sarfraz behind the stumps 59.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , Smith now goes on the back foot to block that 59.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , driven to the left of Yasir Shah , who makes a half-stop , Misbah is there to cover up from short cover 59.2 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , leans forward to defend 59.1 Yasir Shah to Warner , 1 run , tries to manufacture a short-arm pull , but completely mistimes it , yet gets in the gap and gets to the other end 58.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , defended back to the bowler 58.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , back to more forward defensive practice for Smith 58.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , beautiful bowling from Babar. Does Smith with one that is bowled slower , loopier and beats the groping bat of the Aussie. Smith knows he has been comprehensively done there and acknowledges the delivery by nodding his head 58.3 Babar to Warner , 1 run , whipped wide of Misbah at short mid-wicket 58.2 Babar to Warner , no run , gets forward to block to the right of the bowler 58.1 Babar to Warner , 2 runs , worked off the back foot to deep backward square leg , Sarfraz is n't happy with the fielder for allowing the second. He tells him in Urdu to be a little forward from where he is standing 57.6 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , gets forward and flicks , to find short mid-wicket 57.5 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , blocked for the third time in a row 57.4 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , once again defended back to the bowler 57.3 Yasir Shah to S Smith , no run , leans forward to defend 57.2 Yasir Shah to S Smith , FOUR , that is a fine cricketing shot. Is down the pitch and onto the whip against the spin in a flash. The fast uncorking of the wrists sends the ball purring wide of mid-on Smith is now batting with the baggy green on. Good to see that . 57.1 Yasir Shah to Warner , 1 run , floated up from round the wicket , defended wide of point for a single Yasir Shah [ 3.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 56.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , leans forward to block 56.5 Babar to Warner , 1 run , swept from the stumps to deep square leg , for a single 56.4 Babar to Warner , no run , pushed to the cover region 56.3 Babar to Warner , no run , good fielding from Younis at slip. Anticipates the reverse sweep and gets down low to his left to field. Gets the throw back in quickly too 56.2 Babar to Warner , no run , inside edge onto the pads as Warner looked to drive , no silly point so Warner gets away. It turned in sharply too 56.1 Babar to Warner , no run , flighted delivery outside off , defended back to Babar 55.6 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , full and outside off , Smith defends 55.5 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , worked to the right of short mid-wicket 55.4 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , on a length and outside off , angling away , left alone 55.3 Rahat Ali to Warner , 1 run , short of length outside off , punched to sweeper cover , takes another single 55.2 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , tight line on off , Warner blocks solidly 55.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , short and wide outside off , third time today that Warner has failed to nail the cut off Rahat Ali 54.6 Babar to S Smith , no run , very short and on the stumps , Smith gets back to defend 54.5 Babar to S Smith , no run , steps out , but is n't to the pitch , so blocks 54.4 Babar to S Smith , no run , immediately the next one is short , which allows Smith to go back to block 54.3 Babar to S Smith , FOUR , Smith looks to take the attack to the spinners. He once again uses his feet and drives wide of cover , got to the pitch and drove it well 54.2 Babar to S Smith , no run , Smith goes on the back foot to block 54.1 Babar to Warner , 1 run , floated outside off , Warner plays a soft drive wide of cover for an easy single Drinks once again. Pakistan have prised out a couple more wickets and have Australia in some sort of a pickle. Still Warner is there and he needs company from the rest. Good tight old-fashioned Test match bowling from Pakistan - nothing fancy and that is allowing the pressure to build . 53.6 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , pitched up and angled away from Smith , who lifts his bat and lets it go 53.5 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , whipped off the pads , wide of square leg , but no chance of a quick single as the fielder gets there 53.4 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , back to blocking is Smith 53.3 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , pitched well outside leg and that rules out the lbw. Smith shouldered arms to that and was hit on the thigh pad 53.2 Rahat Ali to S Smith , 2 runs , full and on the pads , flicked to deep square leg , for a couple of runs 53.1 Rahat Ali to S Smith , no run , swings back in into the right-hander , Smith covers the line to block 52.6 Babar to Warner , no run , forces Warner to go on the back foot to block 52.5 Babar to Warner , no run , uses his feet and blocks it back to Babar 52.4 Babar to Warner , 2 runs , takes it from middle and plays a pre-meditated paddle down to fine leg 52.3 Babar to Warner , no run , sharp turn in for Babar once more , has Warner in some strife as the batsman pushed forward to block. Hit on the body 52.2 Babar to S Smith , 3 runs , Smith uses his feet to his first delivery and whips this wide of mid-on. Rahat almost messes it up , but manages to keep it to a three Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 52.1 Babar to Clarke , out Caught by Azhar Ali ! ! What a wicket that is for Pakistan. Nothing great about the delivery , it angled in towards leg stump , but Clarke got a big inside edge onto the pads as he looked to block , looped to Azhar at FSL. Easy catch and that 's the third one down. Clarke c Azhar Ali b Babar 2 ( 13 ) Babar to Clarke , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 51.6 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , down leg and Warner ca n't connect with the glance 51.5 Rahat Ali to Clarke , 1 run , a very risky single that. Even a direct hit would n't have got Warner. He would 've just made it. It was Clarke 's call and Warner had to put on his skates to beat that throw from square leg 51.4 Rahat Ali to Clarke , no run , now the away swinger , Clarke watches it and lets it go 51.3 Rahat Ali to Clarke , no run , moved in late , but Clarke has covered it well and defends to mid-on 51.2 Rahat Ali to Warner , 1 run , pitched up outside off , a free flowing drive to sweeper cover 51.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , short of length on off , solidly blocked by Warner 50.6 Babar to Clarke , no run , ooh - that turned from a length. On the middle and leg stump , turned across Clarke who went back to block 50.5 Babar to Clarke , no run , they thought about the review for an instant , then decided against it. Good move too. For Clarke was a long way out of his crease as he got struck on the pads. Erasmus made the right call 50.4 Babar to Clarke , no run , floated on off , defended back to the bowler 50.3 Babar to Clarke , no run , uses his feet and drives to mid-on 50.2 Babar to Clarke , no run , slightly quicker from Babar , Clarke blocks 50.1 Babar to Clarke , no run , works this to mid-on Three men around the bat for Clarke 49.6 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone 49.5 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , presses forward and blocks it to mid-on with a full face of the bat 49.4 Rahat Ali to Warner , FOUR , poor delivery from Rahat Ali , he knows it and lets out a grunt. Down leg and that 's easily glanced away by Warner to the fine leg fence 49.3 Rahat Ali to Clarke , 1 run , late tail in for Rahat Ali , Clarke 's bat comes down late and that is enough for the inside edge to run away wide of square leg. He is off the mark with a streaky shot 49.2 Rahat Ali to Clarke , no run , short of length on the stumps , confidently blocked 49.1 Rahat Ali to Clarke , no run , oohs and aahs from the Pakistanis after Clarke inside-edges a drive onto the front pad Rahat Ali [ 12.0-0-34-1 ] is back into the attack Michael Clarke , right handed bat , comes to the crease 48.6 Babar to Doolan , out Doolan Run Out ! ! Block , block , block and finally a run-out. Miserable end to a pretty miserable innings from Doolan. He was feeling the pressure and has committed suicide. Tried to take on mid-on after playing it straight to the fielder , Warner was n't sure about the single , he even stopped for an instant , but Doolan ran through , could n't beat the direct hit by inches. The bat was on the line and the third ump sends Doolan on his way. A gift for Pakistan that. Doolan run out ( Rahat Ali ) 5 ( 34 ) Babar to Doolan , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Has Doolan run himself out ? Looks like it. Misbah is all smiles. Third ump called for. Direct hit from Rahat. A very tight call. The bat looks to be on the line. OUT is the call and fair enough. The line belongs to the fielding side. What a waste of a wicket . 48.5 Babar to Doolan , no run , on the stumps , no room to work with , defended to Babar 48.4 Babar to Doolan , no run , uses his feet , but blocks again 48.3 Babar to Doolan , no run , takes a step out , but defends it back to Babar 48.2 Babar to Doolan , no run , angling in , worked to short leg once more 48.1 Babar to Doolan , no run , turned to short leg The ball has been put into those two large hoops , it passes the test and for now they are continuing with it 47.6 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , edged and does n't carry to slip. Unlucky for Imran Khan , produced the edge , but on this slow wicket it never looked like carrying 47.5 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , pitched up on off , driven firmly , but ca n't beat mid-off 47.4 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , Imran Khan comes round the wicket to this delivery and it nearly pays off. Warner flicks and almost finds short mid-wicket. Did n't carry though 47.3 Imran Khan to Warner , FOUR , there it is ! Third consecutive ton for Warner in Tests. Superb off-drive , wide of mid-off , he runs hard , but the ball has crossed the ropes. Off comes the helmet and a big grin on his face , followed by a huge leap. Trademark Warner celebration - seen it so many times before. Rod Marsh and the Australian contigent are all up on their feet to applaud the pocket rocket. Even does the baby cradle with his bat - that 's for the baby. Superb stuff ! 47.2 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , almost yorker length on the stumps , dug out to short cover 47.1 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , pitched up on off , Warner gets forward and pushes it softly to mid-off 46.6 Babar to Doolan , no run , worked to short mid-wicket From round the wicket now 46.5 Babar to Warner , 1 run , dragged down and drifting down leg , a half-pull/half-jab down to backward square leg , just the single though 46.4 Babar to Warner , no run , only Sarfraz appealed there. Not sure for what. Warner shuffled across to play a paddle sweep and missed , missed leg stump and nestled into the gloves of the keeper. Warner uncharacteristically is a bit iffy out there. Wants to get that hundred and is eager to do it quickly 46.3 Babar to Warner , no run , floated up on the stumps , flicked to short mid-wicket 46.2 Babar to Warner , no run , punched back to Babar as the bowler drags it a bit short 46.1 Babar to Warner , no run , that is a nervy shot. Wanted to manufacture a short-arm jab from outside off , but only gets an inside edge onto the pads 45.6 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , on a length and outside off , left alone 45.5 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , good delivery that , nearly opened up Doolan , who was looking to close the face on it , did n't do it and eventually plays it back to the bowler 45.4 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , he is timing them sweetly , but finding the fielders. Straight to short cover 45.3 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , pitched up on the stumps , nicely driven , but straight to the fielder at mid-on Two slips and a gully in for Doolan 45.2 Imran Khan to Doolan , 2 runs , the boundary riders are very slack. Once again the fielder was slow and by the time Babar fires in the return , Doolan has made it back for the second 45.1 Imran Khan to Warner , 1 run , shortish and outside off , cracked away , but there is a sweeper in place 44.6 Babar to Doolan , no run , now defended to the short mid-wicket fielder 44.5 Babar to Doolan , no run , floated outside off , Doolan blocks 44.4 Babar to Doolan , 2 runs , beautifully bowled by Babar , drifted in and took the soft outside edge , never looked like it would carry to slip , runs wide of YK and they take a couple of runs 44.3 Babar to Doolan , no run , tossed up around off , Doolan steps out of the crease and eases it towards mid-wicket 44.2 Babar to Doolan , no run , fullish on leg , Doolan pushes it into the leg-side 44.1 Babar to Doolan , no run , flatter around off , Doolan goes on the back foot and punches it to mid-on Zulfiqar Babar [ 5.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack That will be drinks on day 3. A very slow half session of play that. No boundaries scored so far today and even the normally aggressive Warner has been kept quiet by disciplined bowling from Pakistan. Rahat and Hafeez kept it tight and now Imran Khan is doing the same. Expect more of the same in the next half session too , unless Warner decides to go berserk . 43.6 Imran Khan to Warner , 2 runs , was a risky two , but the batsmen make it. It was pulled to the left of deep square , Warner always wanted two , Doolan was n't so sure , yet they take the fielder on , the throw is at the bowler 's end - on the bounce , by the time it is brought down onto the stumps , Doolan has made it easily. A sharp flat throw right above the bails would 've had Doolan in some strife 43.5 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , pushed off the front foot to cover 43.4 Imran Khan to Doolan , 1 run , that is very sloppy from Yasir Shah. He allows Doolan to get off the mark. It was a straightforward stop , but he takes his eyes off the ball at mid-off and fumbles , Doolan spots the chance and scampers across. Finally off the mark off his 16th delivery 43.3 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , makes him come forward , Doolan plays an open-faced drive to point 43.2 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , back of a length outside off , Doolan defends off the back foot to short cover 43.1 Imran Khan to Warner , 1 run , push-driven wide of mid-off , for a quick single 42.6 Hafeez to Doolan , no run , Doolan is still on 0 as he blocks once again 42.5 Hafeez to Doolan , no run , uses his feet , but can only defend it back to Hafeez 42.4 Hafeez to Doolan , no run , flicked to short mid-wicket 42.3 Hafeez to Warner , 3 runs , every now and then , Hafeez has been guilty of dragging it down , Warner lashes a cut through cover for three more runs 42.2 Hafeez to Warner , no run , now goes back to block as the length is short 42.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , pushed to short cover 41.6 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , ca n't find the gap , even though he has timed the drive well , finds short cover 41.5 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , much better from Doolan. Gets a nice stride forward and blocks to the off-side 41.4 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , pitched up outside off , a soft drive to cover 41.3 Imran Khan to Doolan , no run , Doolan is tentative. Beaten by Imran Khan now. Hint of away movement , Doolan could 've left it alone , but pushed out at it and is beaten 41.2 Imran Khan to Warner , 1 run , was there bat or glove on it ? The ump thought so and gave it as runs. Warner gets to the other end This fella - Imran Khan - reminds me a lot of Umar Gul. Those wrist bands , the little hop at the beginning of his run-up , before running in to bowl. Even the action looks similar to Gul 's. Similarly built too - lanky and wiry. Lots of similarities between the two . 41.1 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , fullish and on the stumps , defended to mid-on Imran Khan [ 6.0-1-23-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Hafeez to Warner , 1 run , now uses his feet and drives to long-off 40.5 Hafeez to Warner , no run , Hafeez is probing away , Warner is content to be patient and blocks 40.4 Hafeez to Warner , no run , now defended off the back foot as the length is short 40.3 Hafeez to Warner , no run , floated on middle and leg , defended back to the bowler 40.2 Hafeez to Warner , no run , cut straight to the fielder at cover , should 've been put away 40.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , bat in front of the pad and defended to the left of the bowler 39.6 Rahat Ali to Doolan , no run , much better from Doolan. Sees the full length and the angle away , lifts his bat and lets it go 39.5 Rahat Ali to Doolan , no run , beaten ! On the angle. Pitches middle and tails away past the defensive stroke of the batsman. Doolan tried to cover the line , but the movement beat him 39.4 Rahat Ali to Warner , 1 run , looked like it came straight off the thigh pad , but Kettleborough reckons there was some glove on it , he gives it as runs. Replays prove him wrong 39.3 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , pitched up on off , Warner plays a sweet drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 39.2 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , definite reverse for Rahat Ali , tailed in late , but Warner plays a solid block back to him 39.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , 2 runs , full and down leg , flicked down to backward square leg , for a quick couple of runs 38.6 Hafeez to Doolan , no run , turned past short leg Now three men around the bat for Doolan 38.5 Hafeez to Warner , 1 run , uses his feet and flicks wide of short leg , gets off strike 38.4 Hafeez to Warner , no run , pitched on middle and spun past the back foot defensive of Warner , hit the pad , but it would 've gone down leg. So a good call not to take the review , even though the bowler and Misbah pondered about it Are Pakistan going for the review ? No ! They decide against it 38.3 Hafeez to Warner , no run , much fuller on the stumps , Warner defends it back to Hafeez 38.2 Hafeez to Warner , no run , lovely bowling from Hafeez , floated on middle and off , spinning away too , Warner opens the face of the bat to play to the off-side. Lots of oohs and aahs from the Pakistanis 38.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , drifted in late from round the wicket , Warner pushes and gets a thick inside edge onto the pads 37.6 Rahat Ali to Doolan , no run , the tempter - full and wide outside off , Doolan leaves that 37.5 Rahat Ali to Doolan , no run , angling away from the right-hander , left alone Now two slips in place for the new batsman. Hint of reverse for Rahat Ali now 37.4 Rahat Ali to Doolan , no run , defended to short mid-wicket Alex Doolan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , out Bowled ! ! Rahat Ali breaks through. Relief for Pakistan. Rahat Ali roars in delight after bowling Chris Rogers. It nipped back in and cramped the batsman for room who was looking to play an ambitious cut - the inside edge clattered into the stumps. Chris Rogers put his head back in disappointment after the ball hit the stumps. Chris Rogers b Rahat Ali 38 ( 130 ) [ 4s-1 ] Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Now only a slip and a gully. The second slip has been moved to a short mid-wicket 37.2 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , slashes and finds gully. Good stop as the ball was travelling 37.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , 1 run , short of length outside off , Warner taps it wide of cover and sets off 36.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish and that allows Chris Rogers to play an open-faced bunt to point 36.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , is n't sure whether to come forward or go back , eventually he finds point with a tame shot 36.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , pushes forward and then defends 36.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , uses his feet this time and drives wide of mid-on , played against the spin - so a pretty good shot that 36.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , fraction short outside off , Chris Rogers comes down on it late and gets it wide of slip , for a couple of runs 36.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , floated up , driven softly to mid-on 35.6 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , full on off and a hint of away movement , Warner watches it well and pushes to cover 35.5 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 1 run , punched wide of cover and the single is taken 35.4 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , full and wide outside off , Chris Rogers plays a nice square drive , but finds point 35.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , another defensive shot to mid-on , nice and straight lines from Rahat Ali 35.2 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on the stumps , Chris Rogers plays a solid-looking defensive shot to mid-on 35.1 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , on the pads and Chris Rogers ' flick finds mid-wicket 34.6 Hafeez to Warner , no run , Warner must be kicking himself for finding mid-wicket there , it was a rank bad ball - very short and he has pulled it to the diving fielder 34.5 Hafeez to Warner , no run , uses his feet and drives firmly , but straight to the fielder at mid-on 34.4 Hafeez to Warner , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Warner reads it and goes back to defend 34.3 Hafeez to Warner , no run , punched back to Hafeez 34.2 Hafeez to Warner , no run , the line is on the middle and leg stump , Warner defends it back to Hafeez 34.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 1 run , comes down the track and eases it wide of mid-on where Yasir Shah is caught napping , they take the single with ease 33.6 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 1 run , a toe-end on the attempted cut , second slip dives to his left and takes the sting off the shot , allowing only the single in the process 33.5 Rahat Ali to Warner , 3 runs , fraction short and that 's enough for Warner to latch on - he plays a short-arm jab wide of mid-on and takes an easy three 33.4 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , second time in as many overs that Warner has been beaten on the half-hearted cut , the away movement beat him 33.3 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , 'wait on ' is the shout from Warner after he plays a on-the-up drive to short cover 33.2 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Warner plays a soft-looking drive to mid-off Two slips and a gully in place 33.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , full and on the stumps , Warner presents the full face of the bat and defends to mid-on Since today is a Friday , the first session will be for two-and-a-half-hours. The lunch break will be for an hour - to allow for the afternoon prayers. So that 's the revised playing conditions for today . 32.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers uses his feet , realises he is n't to the pitch of that delivery , so defends wide of FSL 32.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , once again flighted by Hafeez , Chris Rogers is half-forward and defends it back to Hafeez 32.4 Hafeez to Warner , 1 run , very short outside off , Warner rocks back to play a powerful cut , wide of Yasir Shah at cover , they take a single as the ball is placed into the gap 32.3 Hafeez to Warner , no run , punched wide of short cover , but ca n't thread the tightly packed off-side field 32.2 Hafeez to Warner , no run , flattish and on the stumps , Warner goes back and pushes it to short cover A slip and a FSL in place 32.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , nicely flighted delivery from round the wicket , Warner presses forward and pushes it to mid-on Mohammad Hafeez [ 10.0-3-18-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , in the corridor of uncertainty , Chris Rogers has nothing to do with it , lifts his bat and lets it go 31.5 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , now Chris Rogers is beaten. On the inside edge. Wanted to play a cover drive - a flamboyant attempt that and he does n't lay a bat on the ball 31.4 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , on a length and outside off , left alone 31.3 Rahat Ali to Warner , 3 runs , he wanted to play this stroke to the last delivery , this time he connects and finds the gap at cover. Misbah gives chase and pulls it back , ca n't prevent the three though 31.2 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , that is a loose stroke from Warner. The width was there for the cut , but he failed to connect. Taken near his bootlaces is Sarfraz 31.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , short of length outside off , Warner defends off the back foot to cover. Hint of away movement in that delivery from Rahat Ali The Aussie openers stride out to the middle , followed by the Pakistanis. Warner is shadow-practicing his forward defensive. Not sure whether we will see any of those from the pocket rocket. Bang bang is the way to go from him. Rahat Ali will begin proceedings for Pakistan . Pitch report : There is a bit of rough and 'there is some hope for the spinners on this pitch ' says Mushy. More about the discussion of what line and length to bowl on this pitch rather than talking about the pitch are Rameez Raja and Mushtaq Ahmed . Will Australia be able to score big in their first innings ? Or will Pakistan strike to dismantle the Australian batting line up ? All answers coming up in a short while. Stay tuned.. . Pakistan 's batting finally clicked yesterday. After two centuries and three well-compiled fifties from their batsmen , it was the bowlers ' chance to turn on the heat on the Australian batsmen. However , when Australia came out to bat in the final session , Warner was belligerent in his display of strokeplay. For most part of his innings of 75 , Warner had more runs than balls. If Warner goes on to complete his century , this will be his third Test century on the trot. On the other hand , Chris Rogers has occupied one end and is not giving anything away to the Pakistani bowlers. Pakistan had only one real chance of taking a wicket and that was when Younis Khan dropped Rogers at first slip. With the sun beating down , Pakistan will look to cash in on a pitch that 's offering enough turn to keep the spinners interested. Hello and Welcome to Day 3 of the first Test between Pakistan and Australia . Overall , it has been an entertaining day. Pakistan , however , will require early wickets tomorrow to not let the game fizzle into a tame draw. That 's all we have from here. Join us tomorrow for all the action on Day 3. Till then , have a nice day ahead.. . Day 2 , Stumps : Good job by Australia , they have done well to end the day on a high. Pakistan were brilliant in the first two sessions , comfortably dominating the bowlers. They put up 454 , a competitive total on this wicket but have not been able to back their batting performance with effective bowling. Australia began on a cautious note , taking their own time to get in the groove. They survived a few close calls but once the first hour of the session was done , Warner turned on the heat. He scored his 13th Test fifty and is looking good to score a big one . 30.6 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , slides a full one down leg , Rogers leans forward to flick , misses as the ball goes through to the keeper , muted appeal for a catch but there was no bat involved 30.5 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , fullish one this time , draws Rogers forward as he drives this gently to sweeper cover 30.4 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers gets forward and defends it into the off-side 30.3 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish again on middle and leg , Rogers defends it to the on-side 30.2 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish around off , Rogers punches it towards cover 30.1 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length and sliding down leg , Rogers misses the glance 29.6 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , shortish and outside off , does not tempt Warner into offering a shot 29.5 Rahat Ali to Warner , 2 runs , back of a length just outside off , Warner punches it to sweeper cover for a brace 29.4 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , back of a length around off , Warner defends it back to the bowler 29.3 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , banged short this time , Warner gets in position to pull but then just lets it go through as the ball goes well over him 29.2 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , back of a length around off , Warner blocks it off the back foot 29.1 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 1 run , short of length on middle , Rogers turns it through backward square leg 28.6 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , 1 run , fullish around off , Rogers pushes it to backward point 28.5 Imran Khan to Warner , 1 run , shortish on leg , Warner gets back and whips it through backward square leg 28.4 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , touch fullish on off , Warner drills it towards mid-off 28.3 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , length delivery on off , Warner defends solidly 28.2 Imran Khan to Warner , FOUR , length ball moving in on leg , Warner leans forward and flicks it well off the pads to the fine leg fence 28.1 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , good length ball on middle and off , Warner leans forward and works it towards short mid-wicket Imran Khan [ 4.0-1-15-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Rahat Ali to Warner , 1 run , full on leg , Warner tucks it to mid-wicket 27.5 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , leg byes , 1 run , yorker ball on leg , Rogers looks to flick , misses and the ball goes off the pad to fine leg 27.4 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers defends it off the back foot 27.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , angled this one on the pads , Rogers leans forward and looks to clip it to the leg-side , muted shout for lbw as Rahat thought that it went off the pads , however , that would have slid down leg 27.2 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Rogers turns it towards FSL 27.1 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length and outside off , Rogers chops it towards point 26.6 Yasir Shah to Warner , FOUR , gets down on one knee and sweeps this elegantly to the fine leg fence , the fielder gives a fine chase but the ball easily beats him to the fence. 100 up for Australia ! 26.5 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Rogers uses his feet here and works it to mid-on for a quick single 26.4 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , defends it to the off-side 26.3 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , slides down leg after pitching , Rogers gets back in the crease and lets it go through 26.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , lunges forward and defends with an angled bat towards point Yasir coming round the wicket 26.1 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , presses on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 25.6 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , short of length and outside off , Warner chops it to point 25.5 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Warner blocks it with the full face of the bat 25.4 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 1 run , good length delivery on leg , Rogers works it off the pads to deep backward square leg 25.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , Rogers stays back in the crease and looks to flay this short of length delivery into the off-side , ends up chopping it towards point 25.2 Rahat Ali to Warner , 1 run , length ball outside off , Warner carefully guides it to deep backward point 25.1 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Rogers stays back and dabs it towards backward point , slight misfield allows the batsmen to run a quick single , Hafeez was not able to stop the ball there 24.6 Yasir Shah to Warner , no run , makes plenty of room and cuts it straight towards the man at cover 24.5 Yasir Shah to Warner , no run , goes inside the crease and blocks it towards the leg-side 24.4 Yasir Shah to Warner , no run , turns it towards short-leg fielder , who dives to his right and stops the ball 24.3 Yasir Shah to Warner , SIX , fantastic shot by Warner , he is batting amazingly here , skips forward and lofts it elegantly over the long-off fence for a maximum , excellent timing 24.2 Yasir Shah to Warner , no run , goes on the back foot and blocks it solidly with a straight bat 24.1 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it through backward square leg 23.6 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , length delivery on off , Warner pushes it into the off-side 23.5 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , clears the front leg and attempts to thump this back of a length delivery over mid-wicket , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls towards mid-on 23.4 Rahat Ali to Warner , 2 runs , fuller length delivery outside off , Warner drives it to deep extra cover 23.3 Rahat Ali to Warner , 2 runs , beautiful shot but the slow outfield does not allow the ball to go through to the long-on fence , Warner just got forward and whips it powerfully 23.2 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , touch back of a length on middle and off , Warner works it towards the on-side 23.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , length delivery around off , Warner defends it towards short cover Rahat Ali [ 3.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Yasir Shah to Warner , 1 run , gets down and sweeps it this time to fine leg 22.6 Yasir Shah to Warner , no ball , FOUR , Yasir has over-stepped. Warner employs the reverse sweep , rolls his wrists and powerfully smashes it to the third man fence to get his 13th Test fifty. It is also his sixth consecutive fifty plus score in Tests 22.5 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , 1 run , steps out of the crease and sweeps it through backward square leg 22.4 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , lunges forward in defence and pads it behind point 22.3 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , elects to stay inside the crease and turns it to the leg-side 22.2 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , goes back in the crease and works it towards mid-wicket 22.1 Yasir Shah to Chris Rogers , no run , nicely done by Yasir ! Rogers lunges forward to defend and misses,the ball turns in and hits him on the the glove , deflects onto the thigh pad , and rolls towards the keeper Yasir Shah , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 21.6 Babar to Warner , no run , pushed slower through the air , Warner gets back and blocks it with the full face of the bat 21.5 Babar to Warner , FOUR , fantastic shot that ! Warner skips down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and caresses it to the long-off fence 21.4 Babar to Warner , no run , tossed up on middle and off , Warner defends it after pressing forward 21.3 Babar to Warner , no run , goes on the back foot this time and blocks 21.2 Babar to Warner , no run , defends it back towards the bowler 21.1 Babar to Warner , no run , beautiful delivery by Babar ! Nicely flighted by him , straightens after pitching , Warner had got forward to defend , the ball just about misses the outside edge of the bat and goes through to the keeper 20.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , goes on the back foot this time and blocks it comfortably 20.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up on off , Rogers steps out and defends it back to the bowler 20.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , gets inside the crease again and works it to fine leg , Babar fields it with one hand as his right one is bandaged 20.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , stays back and dabs it towards point 20.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , defends it off the front foot 20.1 Hafeez to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , drifting on leg , Warner goes back in the crease to tuck it fine , the ball goes off the thigh pad through backward square leg 19.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted around off , Rogers is solid with this front foot defence 19.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , comes on the front foot and blocks 19.4 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , does well to get on one knee and drags the sweep from outside off , the ball hits Azhar Ali on the knee at short-leg , he looks in some pain there 19.3 Babar to Warner , 1 run , steps out of the crease and drives it towards mid-off , the batsmen run a quick single 19.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , tossed up on middle and off , Rogers drives it to the left of the bowler , who moves across but is unable to stop the ball from going towards mid-on , that allows the batsmen to run a brisk single. The fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end but Rogers was well in 19.1 Babar to Warner , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it nicley to deep square leg for a comfortable single 18.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it down the track towards the bowler 18.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , presses forward and defends it with an angled bat towards cover point 18.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , stays back and blocks it solidly 18.3 Hafeez to Warner , 1 run , gets forward this time and looks to defend , gets a thick inside edge to short mid-wicket , the batsmen run for a quick single , fantastic running between the wickets 18.2 Hafeez to Warner , no run , stays inside the crease and punches it towards point 18.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , camps on the back foot and blocks this flighted ball with a straight bat 17.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , skips forward and works it to the leg-side towards short mid-wicket 17.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , waits for the ball in the crease and dabs it to the off-side 17.4 Babar to Warner , 3 runs , flighted around off , Warner comes on the front foot and drives it nicely to long-off , Imran Khan gives it a chase from mid-off and is able to stop the ball just before it crosses the rope 17.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it through backward square leg 17.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , leans forward and defends with an angled bat , quite near to the fielder at short-leg 17.1 Babar to Warner , 3 runs , makes room and punches it off the back foot to sweeper cover , fantastic adjustment from Warner , he played it well against the spin , the ball slows down near the rope and the batsmen comfortably run three 16.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , waits inside the crease and knocks it towards point 16.5 Hafeez to Warner , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Warner punches it towards mid-off 16.4 Hafeez to Warner , no run , blocks it solidly off the back foot 16.3 Hafeez to Warner , no run , slider from Hafeez this time , it cramps up Warner and he manages to squeeze it into the off-side 16.2 Hafeez to Warner , FOUR , powerful hit ! He slogs this one nicely right into the gap towards the deep mid-wicket fence 16.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 1 run , leans on the front foot and drives it to mid-on , scampers through for a brisk single 15.6 Babar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , gets down on one knee quite quickly and sweeps it through backward square leg , 50 up for Australia 15.5 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , presses forward and defends 15.4 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , fair bit of turn for Babar here , Rogers comes on the front foot and lets it go through 15.3 Babar to Warner , 1 run , leans on the front foot and turns it past the short-leg fielder towards deep square leg , that was pretty close because it was in the air for some time but the fielder could not reach out to it 15.2 Babar to Warner , no run , skips down the track and works it towards the leg-side 15.1 Babar to Warner , 2 runs , flighted delivery around off , Warner reaches forward and drives it to deep extra cover Drinks are on the field now 14.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flatter delivery from Hafeez , Rogers opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards point 14.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up delivery on the stumps , Rogers steps out of the crease and drives a little uppishly to the left of the bowler 14.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , loopy delivery on the pads , Rogers goes forward and turns it to FSL 14.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , pushed through on leg , Rogers comes down the track and works it away towards deep mid-wicket for a couple 14.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Rogers lunges forward in defence 14.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted on off , Rogers leans forward and dead-bats it Mohammad Hafeez [ 6.0-3-7-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Babar to Warner , no run , blocks this one solidly off the front foot 13.5 Babar to Warner , FOUR , nice improvisation from Warner , it was flighted on off , Warner reverse sweeps it past backward point , the ball races away to the third man boundary 13.4 Babar to Warner , 2 runs , goes down on one knee and sweeps it to fine leg 13.3 Babar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , dropped ! Younis Khan is the culprit. It was a beautiful flighted delivery that drew Roger to play at it , he comes down the track and pushes , the ball takes the outside edge and goes right through the hands of Younis Khan at the first slip , the batsmen take a run as the ball rolls away towards the third man region 13.2 Babar to Chris Rogers , no run , defends this tossed up delivery 13.1 Babar to Chris Rogers , byes , FOUR , beautiful delivery first up from Babar , it was tossed up outside off , Rogers look to drive , the ball carries on with the arm and misses everything , it runs away fine and crashes into the fence Zulfiqar Babar , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 12.6 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , on a good length and on middle and leg , Warner moves across and knocks it back towards the bowler 12.5 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , fullish and on the off-stump , Warner goes on the front foot and pushes it towards mid-off 12.4 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , very full outside off , Rogers opens the face of the bat and drives it towards the backward point boundary , Ahmed Shehzad gives chase and pulls the ball back in just in time , saves a run for his team 12.3 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and around off , Rogers drives it straight to the fielder at cover 12.2 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , fuller delivery on the pads , Rogers moves a little across and works it nicely towards deep mid-wicket for a brace 12.1 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery on the off-stump , Rogers stays on the back foot and punches it towards point 11.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 1 run , comes down the track and knocks it to mid-on , the batsmen run for a quick single 11.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Rogers pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and bounces just before going towards the FSL fielder The umpires are checking for a clean catch. Did Azhar Ali take the catch cleanly or was it a bump ball ? The ball seems to have bounced before going to Ali at FSL. The third umpire has ruled it 'Not Out ' and Rogers stays . 11.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Rogers dabs it into the off-side 11.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery on off , Rogers plants his front foot across and blocks 11.2 Hafeez to Warner , 1 run , tossed up delivery on leg , Warner comes forward and works it to backward square leg 11.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , shortish delivery that skids on , Warner stays back in the crease and punches it into the off-side 10.6 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish and just outside leg , the ball shapes back in towards Rogers , who looked to clip it fine , he misses and the ball hits the pad , there was a brief appeal but the ball pitched outside leg 10.5 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length around off , Rogers covers the line and defends solidly 10.4 Imran Khan to Warner , 1 run , short delivery on the leg , Warner jumps back in the crease and clips it to backward square leg 10.3 Imran Khan to Warner , FOUR , smashed ! It was fuller and around off , Warner puts his front foot forward and smashes it down the ground for a boundary , Rogers was ducking for cover at the non-striker 's end 10.2 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , a touch fuller and Warner blocks with an angled bat , the ball takes an outside edge and rolls away into the off-side 10.1 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , on a good length and nips back in a touch from leg , Warner moves across and eases it into the leg-side 9.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , leans forward and gently pushes the flighted delivery around off towards cover-point 9.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , shortens his length this time around , Rogers moves across and works it towards square leg 9.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , steps out and squeezes this fullish delivery into the on-side 9.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed through on off , Rogers plants his front foot across and blocks into the off-side 9.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up around off , Rogers comes down the wicket and works it towards mid-wicket , he thinks about taking a single but decides against it 9.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery on middle-stump , Rogers turns it to FSL 8.6 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Warner goes on the back foot and looks to pull , the ball takes the bottom part of the bat and rolls away on the wicket 8.5 Imran Khan to Warner , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off , Warner drives it on the up square of the wicket , the batsmen take a couple before the ball is fielded 8.4 Imran Khan to Warner , 2 runs , short delivery from Imran , Warner swivels across and pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 8.3 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , short of a good length and on the off-stump , Warner pushes it into the off-side 8.2 Imran Khan to Warner , no run , Warner looks to drive this delivery around off , he can only manage an inside edge and the ball dribbles away into the on-side 8.1 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , 1 run , shortish delivery on the leg , Rogers works it towards deep mid-wicket off the back foot 7.6 Hafeez to Warner , no run , shortens his length this time , Warner punches it into the off-side 7.5 Hafeez to Warner , no run , gets on the front foot and blocks it with the full face of the bat 7.4 Hafeez to Warner , no run , flatter delivery that skids on , Warner stays in the crease and pushes it into the off-side rather awkwardly 7.3 Hafeez to Warner , no run , lunges forward in defence to a tossed up delivery on off and middle 7.2 Hafeez to Warner , no run , leans forward and blocks solidly this time 7.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , slider that does n't turn , Warner looks to defend from the crease , the wicket-keeper appeals as the ball was close to the pad as well but the umpire turns it down , Pakistani players think about reviewing it but do n't go with it , replays showed that the ball had striked the pad first 6.6 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and around off , Rogers mistimes the drive towards mid-off 6.5 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , a touch fuller this time from Imran , Rogers does n't offer a shot and allows the ball to go through 6.4 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , good length delivery outside off , Rogers lets it go through to the keeper 6.3 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , just short of a good length and carrying on with the angle , Rogers leaves as the ball pitched outside off 6.2 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and off , Rogers hops in the crease and knocks it towards the on-side 6.1 Imran Khan to Chris Rogers , no run , on a good length and on the off-stump , Rogers drives it towards mid-off Imran Khan , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 5.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , 1 run , steps out of the crease and drives this towards mid-on 5.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed through on leg , Rogers looks to pull but ca n't connect , the ball rolls away into the on-side after a deflection off the pad 5.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , beautiful delivery from Hafeez , the ball drifted in towards the batsman and spun away sharply , Rogers was looking to push at it and is lucky to not have edged it 5.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery on middle-stump , Rogers lunges forward in defence 5.2 Hafeez to Warner , 1 run , tossed up on off , Warner drives it down the ground to mid-off 5.1 Hafeez to Warner , no run , drifting on middle and leg , Warner leans forward and blocks 4.6 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rogers looks to push it through the cover region but can only manage an inside-edge that rolls away into the on-side 4.5 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , on a good length and around off , Rogers moves across and knocks it into the off-side Rahat Ali has been given an official warning for running on the pitch . 4.4 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery wide of off , Rogers gets on top of the bounce and cuts it to point 4.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish and outside off , Rogers opens the face of the bat and drives it towards point , Shehzad dives to his right to save runs for his team 4.2 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , bumper from Ali , Rogers ducks under it 4.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , 3 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Warner punches it to sweeper cover and the batsmen run three 3.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , goes on the front foot and blocks 3.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , pushes this tossed up delivery into the off-side 3.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , short delivery , Rogers goes on the back foot and cuts it to backward point 3.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , bowls a slider that was very full , Rogers steps out of the crease and yorks himself , the ball hits his toes on the full , there was a loud appeal but the umpire turned it down , Hafeez and Misbah pondered over the review but decide against it , Hawk-Eye showed that the ball was clipping the leg-stump so the onfield decision would have been upheld 3.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , goes back in the crease and defends solidly 3.1 Hafeez to Warner , 3 runs , comes down the the track and looks to slog , the ball dribbles away towards the deep mid-wicket fence after hitting the inside of the bat 2.6 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , FOUR , good timing from Rogers on this one , it was fuller in length and on middle-stump , Rogers looks to drive it down the ground , the ball rolls away towards the long-on fence after taking the inside half of the bat 2.5 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Rogers covers the line and blocks into the off-side 2.4 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Rogers moves across and looks to play it into the off-side , he can only manage an inside-edge , the ball rolls away into the on-side 2.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery outside off that shapes in a little after pitching , Rogers shoulders arms 2.2 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , on a good length and on off , Rogers comes on the front foot and knocks it back towards the bowler 2.1 Rahat Ali to Warner , 3 runs , short of a good length and outside off , Warner stays in the crease and plays a punchy drive to sweeper cover off the back foot 1.6 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , shortens his length this time , Rogers goes back in the crease and punches it into the off-side 1.5 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , comes on the front foot and blocks 1.4 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , good delivery from Hafeez , pushed through on off and middle , Rogers pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away towards FSL 1.3 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery around off , Rogers leans forward and gently pushes it into the on-side 1.2 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller delivery and Rogers steps out of the crease , squeezes it out into the off-side 1.1 Hafeez to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery around the middle-stump , Rogers blocks Mohammad Hafeez , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 0.6 Rahat Ali to Warner , no run , fullish delivery around off and middle , Warner moves across and clips it to mid-on 0.5 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Rogers pushes it towards mid-on , a misfield by Hafeez at short mid-on allows the batsman to take a single 0.4 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length delivery on off , Rogers blocks it into the off-side 0.3 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , another back of a length delivery wide of off , the ball keeps a little low as Rogers chases the ball while trying to cut , he misses and the ball goes through to the keeper 0.2 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , another short delivery on off , Rogers moves across and defends towards FSL 0.1 Rahat Ali to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Rogers covers the stumps and blocks Chris Rogers and Warner are at the crease. Chris Rogers is on strike. Rahat Ali will open the attack The Australian openers are out in the middle. Rahat Ali will open the bowling. There are three slips , a gully and a FSL in place . Australia have their task cut-out as the pitch will definitely provide some assistance for the Pakistani spinners. Stay tuned for Australia 's reply . Pakistan have done a good job here. After being 7/2 at one point of time , posting 454 on the board is commendable. Younis Khan and Sarfraz Ahmed were brilliant with the bat. Both of them played contrasting innings as Younis ' innings was a hard fought one , where he had to battle it out against the Australian bowlers. On the other hand , Sarfraz took the attack to the opposition with a belligerent display of hitting. They were well supported by Azhar Ali , Misbah and Shafiq , who all chipped away with fifties as well . 144.6 Lyon to Rahat Ali , out Caught by Chris Rogers ! ! With this wicket , the Pakistani innings comes to an end since Babar is injured and will not come out to bat. Lyon drops this one short on middle and leg , Rahat stays in the crease and top-edges the heave , the ball goes high in the air and Rogers at deep square leg takes a comfortable catch. Rahat Ali c Chris Rogers b Lyon 0 ( 2 ) Lyon to Rahat Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 144.5 Lyon to Rahat Ali , no run , blocks this flatter delivery towards FSL Welcome back. The players are out in the middle. Zulfiqar Babar has retired hurt and Imran Khan has come out to the middle . Day 2 , Tea : What a performance by Pakistan ! They have scored 126/3 in the session. Most of it was dominated by the partnership between Shafiq and Sarfraz. They put up a fantastic 124-run stand for the sixth wicket. The duo took Pakistan past 400 , first time against Australia since 1998. Sarfraz was looking very good as he scored his second Test ton but he was dismissed just at the stroke of tea. Australia have a good opportunity now to clean up the tail. Join us back in a short while for the post-tea action.. . 144.4 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , out Stumped ! ! A wicket right at the stroke of tea ! A wonderful innings by Sarfraz comes to an end , people have stood up to applaud him as he walks back. He looks to sweep and misses it completely. Haddin is quick behind the stumps and whips off the bails in an instant. Sarfraz was well out of the crease and could not get back in time. Sarfraz Ahmed st Haddin b Lyon 109 ( 105 ) [ 4s-14 ] Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! Third umpire has been called for a stumping chance. No problem with the front foot there. Replays show that Sarfraz was out of the crease and could not ground his bat in time. He has to go ! 144.3 Lyon to Babar , 1 run , gets back in the crease and dabs it with the open face of the bat to short third man 144.2 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it nicely to deep mid-wicket 144.1 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , charges down the track and whips it powerfully towards wide long-on Nathan Lyon [ 36.0-4-144-0 ] is back into the attack 143.6 O'Keefe to Babar , no run , leans forward and turns this low full toss in front of square 143.5 O'Keefe to Babar , no run , defends it towards the on-side 143.4 O'Keefe to Babar , FOUR , beautiful shot , effortlessly lofts this flighted ball from O'Keefe to the long-off fence. Well , looks like those pain-killers have definitely worked ! Babar still looks in pain. He has called for the physio again. He is taking some pain-killer for it 143.3 O'Keefe to Babar , no run , leans forward and blocks again , silly point moves forward and fields it 143.2 O'Keefe to Babar , no run , defends it towards silly point 143.1 O'Keefe to Babar , no run , tossed up on leg , Babar leans forward and looks to defend , misses and the ball hits the thigh pad 142.6 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , slower ball around off , Sarfraz defends it into the off-side 142.5 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish and slides it down leg , Sarfraz looks to glance and is not able to connect 142.4 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish on off , Sarfraz defends it off the front foot 142.3 Johnson to Babar , 1 run , short again , Babar looks to pull off the back foot , gets a thick inside edge that rolls towards mid-wicket 142.2 Johnson to Babar , no run , banged in short by Johnson , the ball goes on with the angle and Babar is hit flush on the glove as he looks to fend it off. Babar looks in a lot of pain there , he has cut his middle finger of the right hand and it is bleeding , the physio has rushed out and is tending to him. Thankfully , that is not his bowling arm 142.1 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , Sarfraz gets back in the crease and guides it to deep backward point 141.6 O'Keefe to Babar , no run , leans half forward and defends it with a straight bat 141.5 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , Sarfraz jumps inside the crease and pushes it to cover 141.4 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , turns it to square leg 141.3 O'Keefe to Babar , 1 run , gets a thick inside-edge on the arm-ball to short mid-wicket , runs for a quick single 141.2 O'Keefe to Babar , no run , gets back in the crease and taps it to the off-side 141.1 O'Keefe to Babar , no run , tossed up on off , Babar pushes it back to the bowler 140.6 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and outside off , Sarfraz confidently knocks it point 140.5 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish and angles it away from the right-hander , the ball beats the outside edge of Sarfraz 's bat as he looks to drive and goes through to the keeper 140.4 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and outside off , Sarfraz nicely steers it towards point 140.3 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , yorker , was a bit wide as well , Sarfraz reaches to it looking to squeeze it out into the off-side , but the ball goes through to the keeper 140.2 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , keeps it full and outside off , does not interest Sarfraz into playing at it 140.1 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and around off , Sarfraz taps it to point 139.6 O'Keefe to Babar , no run , looks to defend , the ball goes off the thigh pad towards the leg-side Zulfiqar Babar , right handed bat , comes to the crease 139.5 O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , out Caught by Chris Rogers ! ! Yasir has perished ! The umpires are checking for the front foot no-ball but O'Keefe is fine with it. Yasir has to go ! He looks to slog but ends up getting a thick outside edge that loops backwards , offers a simple catch to Rogers at backward point. He was looking to play against the turn and paid for the mistake. Yasir Shah c Chris Rogers b O'Keefe 2 ( 15 ) O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 139.4 O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , no run , flighted on off , Yasir presses forward to defend , gets an inside edge onto the pad that rolls towards silly point 139.3 O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , no run , gets back in the crease and cuts it to backward point 139.2 O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , no run , flighted on off , Yasir defends it off the front foot 139.1 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , gently drives this flatter ball to mid-on 138.6 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , stays solid in the crease and cuts this short of length ball outside off square of the wicket 138.5 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and well outside off , does not tempt Sarfraz into offering a shot 138.4 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , length ball and angled in on off , Sarfraz defends it solidly 138.3 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , banged short on middle and legthis time , Sarfraz bends down and lets it go through 138.2 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of length and outside off , Sarfraz stays in the crease and punches it towards point 138.1 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish and outside off , comfortably left alone Mitchell Johnson [ 28.0-17-36-3 ] is back into the attack Sarfraz is the second Pakistan wicket-keeper in Test history to get successive tons. His ton was also the second-fastest by a Pakistani 137.6 O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , no run , tossed up around off , Yasir taps it towards point 137.5 O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , no run , defends it towards the on-side 137.4 O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , 2 runs , flighted on off , Yasir gets forward and mistimes the loft to long-off to get his first runs in Test cricket 137.3 O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , no run , presses on the front foot and pushes it back to the bowler 137.2 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , leans forward and works it to mid-on 137.1 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , drifted in on middle and leg , Sarfraz whips it towards mid-wicket 136.6 M Marsh to Yasir Shah , no run , length delivery moving in on middle , Yasir works it to mid-wicket 136.5 M Marsh to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , short of length and angled in on the pads , Sarfraz clips it to deep square leg 136.4 M Marsh to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , shortish and outside off , Sarfraz has got to his second Test ton in style. He waits for this ball and cleverly upper cuts it to the third man fence. Uses the bowler 's pace well. He charges down the ground , absolutely ecstatic , removes his helmet , screams and points his bat at the dressing room. What a brilliant knock it has been ! 136.3 M Marsh to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish on off , Sarfraz drives it towards cover 136.2 M Marsh to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off , Sarfraz stays back and steers it to third man for a brace 136.1 M Marsh to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , Sarfraz seems to be racing towards his ton. He is well out of his crease this time , gets down on one knee and looks to sweep powerfully , the ball takes the edge and runs down to fine leg 135.6 O'Keefe to Yasir Shah , no run , defends it off the front foot 135.5 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 runs , what 's up with Sarfraz and the sweep shot ! Employs it for the fourth time in this over but miscues , gets a thick top-edge that flies over the keeper 's head and runs very fine , Clarke gives it a chase and stops it just before the rope 135.4 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , finally gets the shot right this time , connects the sweep well and smashes it powerfully to the deep mid-wicket fence 135.3 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it again towards square leg 135.2 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , shortish and outside off , Sarfraz goes on the back foot and cuts it nicely to deep backward point 135.1 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , gets down on one knee to this fullish ball and sweeps it to square leg 134.6 M Marsh to Yasir Shah , no run , short of a good length on leg , Yasir looks to push at it , the ball takes the inside-edge and rolls into the leg-side 134.5 M Marsh to Yasir Shah , no run , back of a length on middle , Yasir defends it down the track with a straight bat 134.4 M Marsh to Yasir Shah , no run , back of a length and sliding down leg , Yasir looks to tuck it fine and misses 134.3 M Marsh to Yasir Shah , no run , back of a length with a hint of inswing , Yasir does well to cover the line and lets it go through 134.2 M Marsh to Yasir Shah , no run , full and angled in , Yasir leans forward and turns it to the on-side 134.1 M Marsh to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle , Sarfraz works it to deep mid-wicket 133.6 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , goes on the back foot and pushes it to cover 133.5 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it behind square 133.4 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Sarfraz defends it back Yasir Shah , right handed bat , comes to the crease 133.3 O'Keefe to Shafiq , out Caught by M Marsh ! ! Maiden Test wicket for O'Keefe and good catch for the debutant Mitch Marsh as well. Shafiq gets down on one knee and slog sweeps this flighted ball , ends up mishitting it as he gets a thick top-edge that flies fine. Mitch Marsh runs back from square leg and takes a well-judged catch. Shafiq c M Marsh b O'Keefe 89 ( 151 ) [ 4s-5 6s-2 ] O'Keefe to Shafiq , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 133.2 O'Keefe to Shafiq , SIX , brilliant shot , Shafiq dances down the track and lofts this tossed up ball straight down the ground for his second maximum 133.1 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , flighted on off , Shafiq presses forward and pads it to silly point , muted appeal for lbw but that was sliding down Steve O'Keefe [ 24.0-3-81-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. This is the first time that Pakistan have scored 400 plus against Australia since 1998 . 132.6 M Marsh to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , beautiful shot ! It was a back of a length delivery wide of off , Sarfraz waits in the crease and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side , the ball races away to the square third man fence 132.5 M Marsh to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish and around off , Sarfraz drives it back towards the bowler , who gets his foot in the way , the ball rolls away into the leg-side 132.4 M Marsh to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and on the off-stump , Sarfraz leans forward and drives it to cover , the fielder moves to his right to collect the ball 132.3 M Marsh to Shafiq , 1 run , full and straying on the pads , Shafiq goes across and flicks it to deep square leg 132.2 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Shafiq punches it towards mid-on 132.1 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , on a good length and the ball shapes back in from outside off , Shafiq gently drives towards mid-off Mitchell Marsh [ 14.0-4-27-0 ] is back into the attack 131.6 S Smith to Shafiq , 1 run , this is poor bowling from Smith , he bowls another short one and Shafiq pulls it towards deep mid-wicket , there is protection and the batsmen can only take a single 131.5 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , goes back in the crease and steers it towards backward point 131.4 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , another bad one from Smith , bowls a full toss around off , Sarfraz drags the sweep towards the deep square leg fence 131.3 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , Smith is not learning his lesson , it was short and Sarfraz pulls it to the backward square leg fence 131.2 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , another poor delivery from Smith , Sarfraz pulls it towards deep mid-wicket 131.1 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , too short from Smith and Sarfraz goes on the back foot , pulls it towards the deep mid-wicket fence , this shot also brings up the 100-run partnership between Sarfraz Ahmed and Shafiq Steven Smith [ 5.0-0-34-1 ] is back into the attack 130.6 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , puts his front foot forward and defends this flighted delivery on middle-stump 130.5 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , fullish delivery and Shafiq came down the wicket to this one , he can only drive it back towards the bowler 130.4 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , backs away and dabs it towards point , the batsmen steal a quick single 130.3 O'Keefe to Shafiq , 1 run , gently drives this tossed up delivery to mid off 130.2 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , leans forward and defends it into the off-side 130.1 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , tossed up around off , Shafiq drives it uppishly towards mid-off , it was in the air for quite some time This is the highest total batting first in Dubai. Previously , it was held by South Africa when they scored 380 against Pakistan in 2010 . 129.6 Lyon to Shafiq , 3 runs , shortens his length , Shafiq goes on the back foot and cuts it to deep backward point 129.5 Lyon to Shafiq , 2 runs , poor delivery from Lyon , straying on the legs , Shafiq clips it fine on the leg-side for a brace 129.4 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , blocks it into the leg-side 129.3 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , gets the ball to turn , Shafiq misses the clip and is hit on the thigh pad 129.2 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , flighted around off , Sarfraz pushes it to the right of the bowler and takes a single 129.1 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , tossed up around off , Shafiq comes down the track and drives it down the ground to long-on 128.6 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , flatter in trajectory , Sarfraz waits in the crease and steers it to point , the batsmen think about taking a run but decide against it 128.5 O'Keefe to Shafiq , 1 run , steps out of the crease and drives it to mid-off O'Keefe comes over the wicket. There is a slip and a FSL in place . 128.4 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , tossed up around off , Sarfraz pushes it gently towards cover , the batsmen pinch a quick single 128.3 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , leans forward and defends solidly 128.2 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , waits for the ball and steers it fine on the off-side for a couple 128.1 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , shortish and straying on the leg , Sarfraz looked to pull but can only play it back onto the pads , the ball falls back on the wicket 127.6 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , steps out of the crease and eases it wide of mid-on for a single 127.5 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , goes forward and defends it off the front foot 127.4 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , works this delivery on middle and leg towards mid-on 127.3 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , tossed up around off , Shafiq goes on the front foot and defends 127.2 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , full from Lyon , Shafiq leans forward and blocks 127.1 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , moves across and sweeps it to backward square leg 126.6 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , lunges forward in defence 126.5 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , flighted around off , Shafiq pushes it into the off-side 126.4 O'Keefe to Shafiq , 2 runs , pushes at a tossed up delivery on the off-stump , the ball rolls away towards squarish third man after taking the outside edge 126.3 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , blocks this flighted delivery off the front foot 126.2 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , leans forward and defends 126.1 O'Keefe to Shafiq , SIX , great use of the feet on this one , it was tossed up around off , Shafiq came down the track and lofted it beautifully over the long-off fence 125.6 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , lunges forward and blocks solidly 125.5 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , comes down the wicket and works it to mid-on 125.4 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , slower and flatter from Lyon , Sarfraz waits in the crease and dabs it towards short third man 125.3 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , leans forward and drives this flighted delivery to extra cover 125.2 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , tossed up delivery outside off , Sarfraz goes on the front foot and drives it to cover 125.1 Lyon to Shafiq , 3 runs , shortish and outside off , Shafiq goes back in the crease and cuts it to deep extra cover for three runs Nathan Lyon [ 33.0-4-127-0 ] is back into the attack 124.6 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , rocks back and blocks this one 124.5 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , tossed up , Sarfraz goes on the back foot and pushes it into the off-side 124.4 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , leans forwards and mistimes the drive off a flighted delivery around off to cover 124.3 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , sweeps this tossed up delivery to backward square leg , the batsmen come back for the second run and Sarfraz brings up his 5th Test fifty with this shot , this is also his 5th consecutive 50-plus score in Tests 124.2 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , flighted delivery around off , Sarfraz blocks it into the off-side 124.1 O'Keefe to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , flighted on middle and leg , Sarfraz goes down on one knee and sweeps it to backward square leg Steve O'Keefe [ 20.0-3-63-0 ] is back into the attack 123.6 Siddle to Shafiq , no run , fullish and just outside off , Shafiq leans forward and drives it to mid-off 123.5 Siddle to Shafiq , leg byes , 2 runs , straying on leg , Shafiq looks to glance it fine but ca n't connect , the ball dribbles away fine on the leg-side after clipping the pad 123.4 Siddle to Shafiq , FOUR , back of a length delivery around off , Shafiq steers it fine towards the third-man boundary and collects four 123.3 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 runs , fullish and around that off-stump , Sarfraz looks to drive and gets an outside edge that runs down towards third man , O'Keefe ran and threw the ball towards the striker 's end , if Haddin had collected the ball on top of the stumps , it could have been curtains for Shafiq 123.2 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on a good length and around off , Sarfraz blocks 123.1 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Sarfraz covers the line and defends 122.6 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 3 runs , full delivery outside the off-stump , Sarfraz leans forward and plays a punchy-drive towards deep extra cover , the batsmen run three Johnson comes round the wicket.. . 122.5 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , bouncer from Johnson that does n't rise much , Sarfraz ducks under it 122.4 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish and outside off , Sarfraz does n't offer a shot 122.3 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length delivery directed at the batsman , Sarfraz looks to block it towards the leg-side , the ball takes a thick leading edge and dribbles away towards point 122.2 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sarfraz opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards point 122.1 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and outside off , Sarfraz lets it go 121.6 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , fullish and on middle and leg , Sarfraz works it to deep square leg 121.5 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of length delivery , Sarfraz walks across and looks to work it into the leg-side but ca n't connect , the ball hit his glove and deflected onto the chest and rolls away into the off-side , Siddle had banged the ball in short after watching Sarfraz walk across 121.4 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , bouncer from Siddle , Sarfraz ducks under it 121.3 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Sarfraz blocks 121.2 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , successive fours for Sarfraz , another good length ball on the off-stump , Sarfraz plays inside the line and opens the face a little , the ball rolls away towards the third man fence after taking the outside part of the bat 121.1 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , on a good length and outside off , Sarfraz waits for the ball and steers it fine , the ball rolls away into the third-man fence 120.6 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , back of a length delivery on the off-stump , Shafiq covers the line and defends 120.5 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , a good bumper from Johnson , Shafiq ducks under it 120.4 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , on a good length and around off and middle , Shafiq stays in the crease and pushes it into the on-side 120.3 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , another back of a length delivery angling in towards the batsman , Shafiq blocks solidly 120.2 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , short delivery directed at the batsman , Shafiq hops in the crease and drops his wrists , the ball rolls away into the off-side 120.1 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , back of a length delivery just wide of off , Shafiq lets it go 119.6 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , on a good length and on the off-stump , Sarfraz leans forward and blocks 119.5 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and straight , Sarfraz moves across and clips it to short mid-wicket 119.4 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and shapes back in towards the batsman from around off , Sarfraz knocks it back to the bowler 119.3 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , very full from Siddle this time , Sarfraz pushes it towards mid-off 119.2 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , full and shaping in towards the batsman , Sarfraz gently drives it into the off-side 119.1 Siddle to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , full and straying on the pads , Sarfraz clips it beautifully to the deep mid-wicket fence Peter Siddle [ 21.0-11-30-1 ] is back into the attack 118.6 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , fullish and on off , Shafiq leans forward and defends it into the off-side 118.5 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shafiq lets it go through to the keeper 118.4 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shafiq leaves it 118.3 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , full and just wide of off , Shafiq lets this one go as well 118.2 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , on a good length and carrying on with the angle outside off , Shafiq does n't offer a shot 118.1 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , fullish and outside off , Shafiq shoulders arms and lets it go Johnson comes round the wicket. There are two slips in place . Welcome back.. . A session that has belonged to Pakistan. Misbah and Shafiq started the session being positive , they were not afraid to take the aerial route against the spinners , especially the Pakistan skipper , who was looking well set for a big one before mishitting Steven Smith. Shafiq has looked rock-solid and has mixed caution with aggression to reach his 10th Test fifty. Sarfraz has joined him and has counter-attacked his way to 27. Australia need wickets and need them quickly to stay alive in the match. Join us back for the post-lunch session in a few minutes... . 117.6 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , Shafiq paddles it to long leg and that will be lunch 117.5 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , floated up on off , Sarfraz chips down the wicket and works it to mid-on , he called Shafiq as soon as he played it 117.4 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , slows it up considerably , Sarfraz looks to block , gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls into the off-side 117.3 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , slower and just outside off , Sarfraz presses forward and defends 117.2 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , tossed up outside off , Sarfraz comes down the track , does not get to the pitch hence blocks it back to Lyon 117.1 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , Lyon sees Sarfraz advancing and darts it on leg-stump , Sarfraz still manages to squeeze it to deep mid wicket for a couple 116.6 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , back of a length just outside off , Shafiq shoulders arms 116.5 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , on a length just outside off , left alone 116.4 Johnson to Shafiq , FOUR , edged and four ! Johnson changes to round the wicket , angles it in and gets it to straighten , Shafiq pushes at it with soft hands , the ball goes between the first slip and gully fielder 116.3 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , back of a length close to off , Shafiq stays in the crease and bunts it to cover 116.2 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , fullish and on the fourth stump line , Shafiq has no interest in playing that 116.1 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , slanted across the right-hander , who lifts his bat and lets it go 115.6 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , slower and on off , Shafiq comes down the track and works it down the ground to long-on 115.5 Lyon to Shafiq , 2 runs , Shafiq now reaches his 10th Test fifty , Lyon drops it short and outside off , Shafiq has ample time to go back and cut it to sweeper cover 115.4 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , pulls the length back , Shafiq goes back and blocks 115.3 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , slower and close to off , Shafiq presses forward to defend , ekes out an inside edge to FSL 115.2 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , again , Sarfraz comes down the track and looks to drive it through the off-side , gets a thickish inside edge to mid-on 115.1 Lyon to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , Sarfraz continuing to play in a positive manner , shimmies down the wicket , gets to the pitch of the ball and whips it wide of mid-on , that was hit really hard as the ball rocketed to the fence 114.6 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , tad short and around off , Sarfraz walks across his stumps and drops it in front of backward point 114.5 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , good length angled outside off , Sarfraz lifts his bat and lets it go 114.4 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , what a shot ! Back of a length just outside off , Sarfraz was looking to leave it , but decides to play it at the last instant , back-cuts it to deep backward point , Rogers ca n't get around in time to stop it 114.3 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , dug in half way down the pitch , Sarfraz jumps up and pats it to the off-side 114.2 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short of length around off , Sarfraz stands up and glides it to gully 114.1 Johnson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fires this well wide of off , Sarfraz goes chasing after it and fails to make contact Mitchell Johnson [ 23.0-15-24-3 ] is back into the attack 113.6 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , slower and around off , Shafiq works it to the right of Lyon 113.5 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , floated just outside off , Shafiq comes on the front foot and taps it to cover 113.4 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , drags the length back , Shafiq stays in the crease and punches to cover 113.3 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , tosses it up outside off , Shafiq reaches for it and knocks it to cover 113.2 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , floated outside off , Shafiq comes down the track and pushes it back to Lyon 113.1 Lyon to Shafiq , 2 runs , spins back in sharply , Shafiq rides the bounce and cuts it to backward point for a brace Nathan Lyon [ 30.0-4-113-0 ] is back into the attack 112.6 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , another full toss , Sarfraz leans forward and flicks it wide of mid-on , Johnson does well to dive and save a couple of runs 112.5 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , short and turning away , Sarfraz throws his bat at it , gets a thickish edge and the ball runs away to the third man fence , Rogers gave chase in vain 112.4 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , " catch " was the shout from Smith , Sarfraz goes for the sweep once again , gets a top-edge onto the helmet and the ball pops wide of Clarke at slip 112.3 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , flighted on the stumps , Sarfraz kneels down and sweeps it to deep mid wicket for a couple 112.2 S Smith to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , Smith gifts a friendly full toss for Sarfraz , who accepts it gleefully and drives it straight down the ground for a boundary Sarfraz Ahmed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 112.1 S Smith to Misbah , out Caught by Johnson ! ! Smith strikes ! He gets the big wicket of Misbah , who plays a poor shot. It was a tossed up delivery on middle and leg , Misbah tries to repeat the shot from the previous over , ca n't get hold of it and offers a simple catch to Johnson , who is half way at mid-on. Misbah c Johnson b S Smith 69 ( 182 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] S Smith to Misbah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 111.6 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , the straight roller outside off , Shafiq lifts his bat and lets it go 111.5 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , slightly quicker and on the stumps , Shafiq knocks it to the right of O'Keefe 111.4 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , slower and just outside off , Shafiq defends with the bat away from the body 111.3 O'Keefe to Shafiq , 2 runs , throws this up well wide of off , Shafiq reaches for it and drives it to sweeper cover for a brace 111.2 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , flighted on middle , blocked down the wicket 111.1 O'Keefe to Shafiq , 2 runs , tossed up on off , Shafiq advances down the wicket , takes the aerial route and hits it to wide of long on , Johnson pulls the ball in just before the rope 110.6 S Smith to Misbah , no run , flatter and around off , Misbah under-edges the cut to Haddin , he almost dragged it back onto his stumps 110.5 S Smith to Misbah , SIX , fabulous shot ! Flighted delivery on leg-stump , it was right in the slot for the batsman , Misbah gets underneath it and launches it over long on for a maximum 110.4 S Smith to Shafiq , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , Shafiq cuts it to sweeper cover 110.3 S Smith to Shafiq , no run , bit quicker and turns away , Shafiq was in a dilemma whether to leave or play , in the end shoulders arms 110.2 S Smith to Shafiq , no run , tosses it up and lands it close to off , Shafiq leans forward and blocks 110.1 S Smith to Shafiq , 2 runs , starts with a half tracker outside off , Shafiq goes back and crunches it to deep extra cover , Marsh does well to keep the duo down to two Steven Smith [ 3.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 109.6 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , floated up close to off , Misbah drives to cover-point , thinks about the single but Shafiq sends him back 109.5 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , arm-ball that skids on , keeps a bit low as well , Misbah brings his bat down and jams it to the off-side 109.4 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , flighted on off , Misbah lunges forward and blocks it to cover 109.3 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , gives this plenty of air , Misbah presses forward and knocks it to point 109.2 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , tossed up around off , Misbah pushes it to backward point 109.1 O'Keefe to Misbah , 2 runs , touch slower and on off , Misbah shuffles across and plays the lap sweep to long leg 108.6 M Marsh to Misbah , 1 run , fullish on middle and leg , Misbah works it to the vacant mid-wicket region 108.5 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Misbah bends down and lets it go through to Haddin 108.4 M Marsh to Misbah , 2 runs , well directed short delivery , it rises up sharply , Misbah decides to play it at the last moment , he opens the face and places it wide of the keeper , the man at slip was wide 108.3 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , back of a length on off , Misbah goes back and defends to mid-on 108.2 M Marsh to Shafiq , 1 run , dug in short and just outside off , Shafiq fetches it from there and pulls it to deep mid wicket , he did n't get it off the middle 108.1 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , good length close to off , Shafiq comes on the front foot and defends 107.6 O'Keefe to Shafiq , 1 run , pushed through on off and middle , Shafiq inside-edges the whip to deep square leg 107.5 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , quicker through the air , Shafiq rocks back and cuts , finds the man at backward point 107.4 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , another compact forward defence from Shafiq 107.3 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , too full and on off , Shafiq brings his bat and pad close together and blocks it solidly 107.2 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , goes on with the arm , Shafiq defends with the bat away from the body 107.1 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Shafiq pushes it to short cover 106.6 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , Marsh goes back over the wicket , keeps it back of a length , Misbah goes back and knocks it to cover 106.5 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , bouncer well wide of off , that line is not going to trouble Misbah as he lets it go through to Haddin 106.4 M Marsh to Misbah , FOUR , cracking shot ! Marsh provides just a bit of width , Misbah latches onto it , goes back and cuts it to deep backward point , the ball raced away to the fence 106.3 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , short of length on off , Misbah stands up and punches it without much timing to mid-off 106.2 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , looks like the ploy is to bounce him out , another bumper on middle , Misbah sits down and lets it pass 106.1 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , dug in short and on the stumps , Misbah ducks under and evades it easily Marsh starts from round the sticks 105.6 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , floated on middle and leg , Shafiq stays leg-side and knocks it to the left of O'Keefe 105.5 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , touch quicker and around off , Shafiq push-drives it to cover 105.4 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , arm-ball on off , Shafiq ekes out an inside edge , the ball lobs and drops into the off-side 105.3 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Shafiq turns it gently to the on-side 105.2 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , flighted on off , Shafiq lunges forward and blocks it in front of cover 105.1 O'Keefe to Shafiq , no run , slower and outside off , Shafiq shoulders arms Drinks are on the field now ! 104.6 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , short of length on off , Misbah stands up and pats it to the off-side 104.5 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Misbah once again takes his eyes off the ball and gets it hit on the shoulder , it is the umpteenth time that he has been hit 104.4 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , on a length close to off , Misbah moves forward and dead-bats it into the off-side 104.3 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , fullish and close to off , Misbah gently drives it back to Marsh 104.2 M Marsh to Shafiq , 1 run , strays onto the pads , Shafiq hangs back and glances it to deep backward square leg 104.1 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , low full toss on off , Shafiq toe-ends the drive to mid-off Mitchell Marsh [ 11.0-4-18-0 ] is back into the attack 103.6 O'Keefe to Shafiq , 3 runs , drops it short outside off , Shafiq goes on the back foot and cuts it to sweeper cover for three runs , the timing was not good enough to take the ball to the fence 103.5 O'Keefe to Misbah , 1 run , goes on with the angle , Misbah goes back and nurdles it behind square on the leg-side 103.4 O'Keefe to Shafiq , 1 run , floated on off , Shafiq drives it back to the bowler , O'Keefe makes a half stop and allows the batsmen to take the single 103.3 O'Keefe to Misbah , 1 run , tosses it up outside off , Misbah pushes it to cover-point and sets off for a quick single 103.2 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , goes on with the arm from round the wicket , the line is outside off and Misbah offers no shot 103.1 O'Keefe to Shafiq , 1 run , flighted around off , Shafiq drives it wide of mid-off , the fielder was slightly deep Steve O'Keefe [ 15.0-2-49-0 ] is back into the attack 102.6 Siddle to Misbah , no run , too full , almost yorker length , Misbah digs out in front of mid-on 102.5 Siddle to Shafiq , 3 runs , Siddle goes wide and bowls it too straight , Shafiq stays back and clips it off the pads to deep mid wicket 102.4 Siddle to Shafiq , no run , back of a length close to off , Shafiq hangs back and bunts it to cover 102.3 Siddle to Shafiq , no run , on a length and outside off , Shafiq lifts his bat and lets it go 102.2 Siddle to Shafiq , no run , goes wide of the crease and angles it in , the ball straightens a touch , Shafiq watches it carefully and shoulders arms 102.1 Siddle to Shafiq , no run , good length around off , Shafiq presses it to cover off the front foot 101.6 Lyon to Misbah , no run , flighted on middle and leg , Misbah paddles and picks out the fielder at backward square 101.5 Lyon to Misbah , no run , slows it up considerably , Misbah turns it gently to FSL 101.4 Lyon to Misbah , no run , floated outside off , Misbah under-edges the paddle sweep to FSL 101.3 Lyon to Shafiq , 3 runs , fraction short and outside off , Shafiq is onto in a flash , he goes back and cuts it to sweeper cover for a comfortable three 101.2 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , bit more air and outside off , Shafiq lunges forward and blocks it to the right of Lyon 101.1 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , tossed up on off , Shafiq gets a good stride forward and defends it back to the bowler 100.6 Siddle to Misbah , no run , another one in the channel around off , Misbah presents the full face of the bat and defends to cover 100.5 Siddle to Misbah , no run , on a length close to off , Misbah presses half forward and blocks it solidly 100.4 Siddle to Misbah , no run , good length ball on off , Misbah dead-bats it into the off-side 100.3 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length and hint of away movement , Misbah shows no interest in playing that 100.2 Siddle to Misbah , no run , short of length outside off , left alone 100.1 Siddle to Misbah , no run , bumper aimed at the batsman , Misbah goes on his hunches and leaves it alone 99.6 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , once again uses his feet , drives it past Lyon , but there is mid-on backing up 99.5 Lyon to Shafiq , FOUR , " catch " were the shouts from the Australian fielders , but the ball was well wide of the mid-on fielder , it was not the most convincing of shots , shimmies down the wicket and looks to go over mid-on , the bat turns in his hand and hits mishits it to the wide long-on fence 99.4 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , Lyon sees Misbah giving the charge and fires it in , Misbah adjusts well and knocks it past mid-wicket 99.3 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , skids on after pitching , Shafiq goes back and drops it in front of the vacant cover region 99.2 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , floated on off and middle , Misbah bends his back leg and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 99.1 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , slower and just outside off , Shafiq comes down the track and works it wide of mid-on 98.6 Siddle to Misbah , no run , again , Siddle goes wide and slants it in , the line is not close enough to make Misbah play 98.5 Siddle to Misbah , no run , angled in from wide of the crease , the length is short , Misbah decides not to play at it 98.4 Siddle to Misbah , no run , good length around off , Misbah bunts it off the front foot to cover 98.3 Siddle to Misbah , no run , a beauty by Siddle , keeps probing away in the channel around off , Misbah loses his patience and goes fishing for it , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 98.2 Siddle to Misbah , no run , fraction short and outside off , Misbah offers no short to that 98.1 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length and close to the off-stump line , Misbah hoists his bat up and lets it pass 97.6 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , slower and on off , Shafiq prefers to hang back and block 97.5 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , flat and on the stumps , Shafiq punches to the right of the bowler , Lyon gets across and stops the ball 97.4 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , huge shout for lbw , umpire Kettleborough is not interested. Australia do n't take the review. Shafiq decides to offer no shot to this floated delivery , is struck around off and the ball was doing too much , would have gone over the stumps 97.3 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , again , skips out of the crease , does n't get to the pitch of the ball , ekes out an inside edge onto the pads and the ball drops on the pitch 97.2 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , flighted delivery on off , Shafiq comes down the track and push-drives it back to Lyon 97.1 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , nicely tossed up around off , Shafiq lunges forward in defence 96.6 Siddle to Misbah , no run , tad short and on off , Misbah plays a solid back foot defence 96.5 Siddle to Misbah , no run , well directed short delivery , Misbah expected that to bounce bit more , it did n't and hit him on the shoulder , he shows no sign of pain and just smiles back at the staring Siddle 96.4 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length outside off , Misbah is happy to let it pass 96.3 Siddle to Misbah , no run , on a length close to off , Misbah presses forward and defends towards point 96.2 Siddle to Misbah , no run , short of length close to off , Misbah gets up on his toes and knocks it to the off-side 96.1 Siddle to Misbah , no run , good length ball on off , Misbah dead-bats it towards backward point Peter Siddle [ 17.0-8-27-1 ] is back into the attack 95.6 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , Misbah brings up his 26th Test fifty , gets to the landmark with the most productive shot of the innings , the sweep to deep backward square leg 95.5 Lyon to Misbah , no run , excellent delivery , that might have pitched in the rough , it took off and beat Misbah 's back foot defence , hit him on the thigh , luckily he did n't get any glove or bat on that 95.4 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , floated up around off , Shafiq chips down the wicket and nudges it to mid-wicket , the fielder makes a half stop and allows the single to be taken 95.3 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , too full and on the stumps , Misbah gets across and paddles it to long leg , the batsmen do n't take on Johnson 's arm 95.2 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , slower and outside off , Shafiq comes down the track and works it to mid-on 95.1 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , edged and short , this one goes straight on , Shafiq plays for the turn , the ball takes the edge and drops in front of Clarke at slip 94.6 Johnson to Misbah , no run , shortish and outside off , Misbah lifts his bat and lets it go 94.5 Johnson to Misbah , no run , touch fuller and outside off , Misbah covers the line and shoulders arms 94.4 Johnson to Misbah , 2 runs , shortish and around off , no venom on that , Misbah stands tall and steers it to third man for a couple 94.3 Johnson to Misbah , no run , banged in half way down the wicket , it climbed up steeply , Misbah did well to 94.2 Johnson to Misbah , no run , short of length on off , Misbah goes back and bunts it in front of point 94.1 Johnson to Misbah , no run , fires this full and wide of off , Misbah has no intentions of playing that 93.6 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , floated up outside off , Misbah plays the conventional sweep to fine leg 93.5 Lyon to Misbah , no run , nice loopy delivery , Misbah presses forward and blocks with a straight bat 93.4 Lyon to Misbah , 2 runs , too full and just outside off , Misbah plays a neat little paddle sweep to fine leg and hares back for the second 93.3 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , once again Shafiq advances down the track , converts it into a full toss and works it to mid-on, 93.2 Lyon to Shafiq , 2 runs , tossed up around off , Shafiq kneels down and paddles it to long leg , Johnson tidies up near the rope 93.1 Lyon to Shafiq , FOUR , both Pakistani batsmen are taking on Lyon , Shafiq dances down the wicket , takes it on the full and whips it in the gap between mid-wicket and mid-on 92.6 Johnson to Misbah , no run , on length close to off , Misbah stays in the crease and guides it to gully A man has been placed right under Misbah 's nose at leg gully 92.5 Johnson to Misbah , no run , pitched up outside off , Misbah bends his back leg and drives it towards point , Rogers throws himself to the right and makes a fine stop 92.4 Johnson to Misbah , no run , back of a length on off , Misbah is happy to hang back and knock it to point Johnson switches to round the wicket 92.3 Johnson to Misbah , no run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Misbah sits down and evades it comfortably 92.2 Johnson to Misbah , no run , short of length just outside off , Misbah hoists his arms up and lets it go 92.1 Johnson to Misbah , no run , good length on off and middle , Misbah plays a compact forward defence back to Johnson 91.6 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , takes it on the full and sweeps it to deep square leg 91.5 Lyon to Misbah , SIX , fantastic shot ! Lyon gives this bit more air , Misbah eyes lit up as he winds up for a big one , connects it as well and sends it sailing over the wide long-on fence 91.4 Lyon to Misbah , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Misbah paddles it fine for another brace 91.3 Lyon to Misbah , no run , tosses it up outside off , driven straight to cover 91.2 Lyon to Misbah , 2 runs , flighted ball around off , Misbah makes his intentions clear , goes for the mighty heave over mid-wicket , mishits and just gets it over the fielder for a couple 91.1 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , was that a chance ? Turn straight away for Lyon , pitches outside off and spins back in , Shafiq looks to defend , the ball takes the inside-edge and goes through Doolan 's legs at short leg , it fell just short of the fielder 90.6 Johnson to Misbah , no run , on a length close to off , Misbah gets behind it and blocks it down the wicket , Johnson under-arms a throw that hits Misbah 's pads 90.5 Johnson to Misbah , no run , slanted across the right-hander , Misbah lifts his bat and lets it go 90.4 Johnson to Misbah , no run , good length around off , Misbah moves forward and guides it towards gully with an angled bat 90.3 Johnson to Misbah , no run , length ball on off , Misbah defends it into the off-side 90.2 Johnson to Misbah , no run , length delivery swinging away from the batsman , Misbah defends it towards backward point 90.1 Johnson to Misbah , no run , banged in short by Johnson right on the stumps , Misbah easily ducks under it and lets it go through Australia , though , bowled well too. All their bowlers chipped in with crucial wickets. Mitchell Johnson was getting some fantastic swing and Pakistan toiled a lot during the first hour. It promises to be interesting today as well. Join us in a short while for all the action.. . Welcome to Day 2 of the first Test between Pakistan and Australia being played at Dubai. Yesterday both teams shared honours at the end of day one. While Australia began in a fantastic fashion to leave Pakistan struggling at 7/2 ; an inspired performance from Younis Khan stabilized the Pakistani innings. The good news for the hosts is that Misbah is still out there. He can be very resilient and if he decides to stay out there , we could be in for a very long day . Will Pakistani batsmen continue to fight and be able to post a respectable total ? Or will Australian bowlers bring about their downfall ? Join us tomorrow for Day 2. Till then , take care . Australia will be a little disappointed with how things are at the moment. They would have hoped for more wickets after Pakistan were struggling in the first session. Mitchell Johnson was the pick of the bowlers , picking up three wickets. He was well supported by all the other bowlers , who kept a lid on the batsmen. The last over of the day from Lyon showed us how spin will play a very important role tomorrow onwards . So , Pakistan end Day 1 on 219/4. They would be happy with this score after they were left reeling at 7/2 in the first session. Younis Khan was the star batsman today , becoming only the 12th batsman in Test history to score a century against all the Test playing nations. He was well supported by Azhar Ali , who chipped in with a hard fought 53. Ali and Younis combined for a crucial 108-run third wicket stand and helped Pakistan recover to a certain extent . 89.6 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , another huge appeal from Lyon and the close-in fielders. The umpire ruled it 'Not Out'. Clarke and Haddin are pondering over a review but they decide against it. It was a flighted delivery outside off that turned back sharply towards the batsman , Shafiq did n't offer a shot and that 's why there was a loud appeal. Replays showed that the ball was just about going to clip the off-stump. This meant that the on-field decision would not have been over-ruled and Australia did the right thing to not review it 89.5 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , charges down the track and pushes it in front of the bowler 89.4 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , good spin on this delivery , it was turning back in towards Shafiq as he leaned forward , the ball hits the pad but the impact was outside off , Australia lose their first review Australia have decided to review a lbw decision. Shafiq was given 'Not Out ' by the onfield umpire. There are no problems with Lyon 's front foot. The impact appears to be outside off and since the batsman was trying to play a shot , he ca n't be given out. Third Umpire upholds the onfield decision . 89.3 Lyon to Shafiq , 2 runs , goes on the back foot and cuts it to sweeper cover for a brace 89.2 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , leans forward and drives it into the off-side 89.1 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , How did that miss the off-stump ? It was a beautiful delivery from Lyon that spun back very sharply , Shafiq left the ball but is lucky that the ball did n't go on to hit his stumps , Shafiq survives by a whisker Last over of the day coming up.. . 88.6 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery around off and middle , Misbah shuffles across and knocks it to mid-wicket 88.5 M Marsh to Misbah , 2 runs , fullish delivery on middle and leg , Misbah works it away to deep square leg 88.4 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , bumper outside off from Marsh , Misbah ducks even though the ball was far away from him 88.3 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery on middle-stump , Misbah moves across and pushes it towards mid-wicket 88.2 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , length ball outside off , Misbah leaves it alone 88.1 M Marsh to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Misbah defends it into the off-side 87.6 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , goes on the back foot and tucks it away to backward square leg 87.5 Lyon to Misbah , no run , leans forward and the ball hits him on the glove , Lyon appeals as he thought it hit pad first but the umpire says ' Not Out' 87.4 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , turns this shortish delivery towards backward square leg 87.3 Lyon to Shafiq , FOUR , great wrist work from Shafiq , it was flatter and around off and middle , Shafiq shuffled acorss and whipped it to the deep mid-wicket fence 87.2 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , moves across and tucks this flighted delivery to fine leg 87.1 Lyon to Misbah , no run , tossed up around off , Misbah lunges forward and misses the defensive push , the ball raps the pad but the impact was outside off , the onfield umpire turns down the appeal There are four men around the bat , including a leg-slip and silly-point . 86.6 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , full and on off and middle , Shafiq goes half forward and drives it to mid-on 86.5 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , back of a length delivery on middle-stump , Shafiq hops in the crease and defends 86.4 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , full outside off with a hint of away movement , Shafiq shoulders arms 86.3 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , fullish delivery on off , Shafiq drives it back to the bowler 86.2 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , on a good length and outside off , Shafiq lets it go 86.1 M Marsh to Shafiq , no run , fullish and on off and middle , defended back in direction of the bowler Mitchell Marsh [ 9.0-3-16-0 ] is back into the attack 85.6 Lyon to Misbah , byes , 2 runs , slides this one down leg , Misbah looked to sweep but the ball missed everything , the batsmen run for two byes as the ball rolled away to fine leg 85.5 Lyon to Shafiq , 1 run , almost a catch at FSL , Shafiq moved a little too across and tries to flick it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and just about manages to evade the fielder , the ball rolls away to backward square leg and the batsmen run through 85.4 Lyon to Shafiq , no run , tossed up delivery on off and middle , Shafiq lunges forward and misses the defensive push , the ball hits the pad and there was a loud appeal , the umpire says 'No ' as the ball appeared to be doing too much and missing leg 85.3 Lyon to Misbah , leg byes , 3 runs , poor delivery from Lyon , sprays this one down leg , Misbah misses the glance but the ball still goes fine after hitting the pad , the batsmen run for three leg byes 85.2 Lyon to Misbah , 2 runs , drags the sweep from outside off to fine leg , the batsmen run for a brace 85.1 Lyon to Misbah , no run , short in length and the ball turns back in , Misbah goes back in the crease and pushes it into the off-side Nathan Lyon [ 21.0-3-66-0 ] is back into the attack 84.6 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , on a good length and coming in towards the batsman with the angle , Shafiq leans forward and blocks 84.5 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Shafiq taps it into the off-side 84.4 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , on a good length and outside off , the ball shapes back in but the movement is not enough to force the batsman to play a shot 84.3 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , fullish delivery angled in across the batsman , Shafiq stands tall in the crease and blocks Johnson comes round the wicket.. . 84.2 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , full and outside off from Johnson , Shafiq leaves 84.1 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , short of a good length and wide of off , Shafiq shoulders arms 83.6 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Misbah lets it go 83.5 Siddle to Misbah , no run , good delivery from Siddle. It was pitched on a good length and moved away a touch after pitching , Misbah pushed at it with soft hands and that probably saved him , the ball takes the outside edge and drops in front of Clarke at first slip 83.4 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery that jags back in from outside off towards the batsman , Misbah shoulders arms 83.3 Siddle to Misbah , no run , on a good length and on middle-stump , Misbah blocks with a full face of the bat 83.2 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Misbah thinks about playing at it but pulls out at the last moment , the ball goes to the keeper 83.1 Siddle to Misbah , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Misbah knocks it into the off-side 82.6 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , no swing on this occasion from Johnson , full and very wide outside off , Shafiq does n't offer a shot and lets it go through to the keeper 82.5 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , fast and full from Johnson , Shafiq shoulders arms as the ball pitched outside off 82.4 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Shafiq defends it into the off-side 82.3 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , bumper around off from Johnson , Shafiq ducks under it 82.2 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , fullish delivery on off and middle shaping in towards the batsman , Shafiq drives it towards mid-on 82.1 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , fullers and outside off , Shafiq leaves it alone 81.6 Siddle to Misbah , no run , Siddle bowls a bumper that fails to rise as much as Misbah expected , Misbah ducks , the ball hits him on the back and goes to Haddin , Siddle appealed but clearly , the ball was going over 81.5 Siddle to Shafiq , 1 run , great delivery from Siddle , the ball had a hint of away swing , Shafiq pushes at it , the ball takes the outside half of the bat and rolls away towards third man 81.4 Siddle to Shafiq , no run , back of a length on off and middle , Shafiq defends it back to the bowler 81.3 Siddle to Shafiq , no run , fullish delivery around middle and leg , Shafiq works it away on the leg-side 81.2 Siddle to Shafiq , no run , just short of Michael Clarke at second slip , it was fullish in length and outside off , Shafiq pokes at it and gets an outside edge , the ball just bounces in front of Clarke 81.1 Siddle to Misbah , 1 run , fuller delivery on off and middle , Misbah pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away to backward square leg Peter Siddle [ 15.0-7-25-1 ] is back into the attack 80.6 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , length delivery outside off , Shafiq leaves it alone 80.5 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Shafiq judges the length to perfection as the ball goes over the stumps 80.4 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , back of a length delivery that swings back in after pitching , Shafiq shoulders arms as the ball was pitched outside off , it was n't too far away from the stumps though 80.3 Johnson to Shafiq , no run , very full and outside off , Shafiq shoulders arms Asad Shafiq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 80.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , out Lbw ! ! The centurion departs. It was a back of a length delivery that swings back sharply. Younis was looking to clip it into the leg-side but fails to connect , the ball goes on to hit the pad in line with off and middle stump. Earlier , it looked that it might miss the stumps but replays showed that the ball was going to hit the off-stump. Younis Khan lbw b Johnson 106 ( 223 ) [ 4s-10 6s-1 ] Johnson to Younis Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! The umpire has given Younis Khan out lbw. He has decided to review the onfield decision. The front foot is fine. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball will go on to crash into the off-stump. Good decision by the umpire. A great knock from Younis Khan comes to an end . 80.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , very full and outside off from Johnson , Younis lets it go through to the keeper Mitchell Johnson [ 17.0-10-22-2 ] is back into the attack New ball has been taken. The umpire is also taking a reading of the light with his light meter . With this century , Younis Khan becomes the 12th man to have scored a century against all Test playing nations . 79.6 Lyon to Misbah , 2 runs , flatter delivery around off , Misbah goes back in the crease and punches it to sweeper cover 79.5 Lyon to Misbah , no run , blocks solidly off the front foot 79.4 Lyon to Misbah , no run , leans forward and defends 79.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , goes on one knee and sweeps it towards deep square leg 79.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , SIX , Beautiful shot from Younis Khan. He brings up his 25th Test ton with this six. This is also his 1st Test century against Australia. It was flighted on off and middle , Younis came down the track and launched it over deep mid-wicket 79.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , leans forward and blocks it towards the on-side 78.6 S Smith to Misbah , no run , full toss from Smith , Misbah eases it down to mid-on 78.5 S Smith to Misbah , no run , tossed up around off and middle , Misbah leans forward and looks to defend , the ball takes the outside part of the bat and rolls away into the off-side 78.4 S Smith to Misbah , no run , another flatter delivery from Smith that turns further away from the batsman , Misbah mistimes the drive to cover 78.3 S Smith to Misbah , no run , shortens his length this time , Misbah goes on the back foot and cuts it to backward point 78.2 S Smith to Misbah , no run , pitches outside off and spinning away , Misbah lets it go 78.1 S Smith to Younis Khan , 1 run , poor delivery first up from Smith , it was short and wide , Younis can only smash it straight to the fielder at sweeper cover Steven Smith [ 2.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 77.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , lunges forward and pushes it into the off-side , the batsmen pinch a quick single before the fielder gets to the ball 77.5 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , goes down on one knee and sweeps this to backward square leg 77.4 Lyon to Misbah , no run , flatter from Lyon , Misbah goes back in the crease and cuts it towards backward point 77.3 Lyon to Misbah , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Misbah steps out and drives it to mid-on 77.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , drags the sweep from outside off to backward square leg 77.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , blocks this tossed up delivery into the off-side 76.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , smart batting by Younis , elects to stay inside the crease and trickles it to deep backward square leg 76.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 2 runs , gets deep in the crease and tucks it through backward square leg for a brace 76.4 O'Keefe to Misbah , 1 run , tossed up on off , punches it to extra cover off the back foot 76.3 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , presses forward and blocks it solidly 76.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps the full toss to backward square leg 76.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , FOUR , Younis comes charging down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it handsomely to the long-on fence , good use of the feet by him 75.6 Lyon to Misbah , no run , goes back in the crease and pushes it into the off-side 75.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , sweeps this flighted delivery from outside off , the ball rolls away to backward square leg 75.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , lunges forward in defence to a flighted delivery on off 75.3 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , fullish in length , Misbah drives it down the ground to mid-on 75.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Khan goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep square leg 75.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , good turn for Lyon this time , Younis makes room and cuts it to backward point 74.6 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , flatter from O'Keefe , Misbah goes back in the crease and punches it to cover 74.5 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , tossed up around off , Misbah comes on the front foot and blocks 74.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , tucks this flighted delivery to backward square leg 74.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , leans forward and defends solidly 74.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 2 runs , drags the slog sweep from outside off to deep mid-wicket , the batsmen run for a couple 74.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 2 runs , shortish in length and Younis goes back in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover Steve O'Keefe [ 13.0-2-35-0 ] is back into the attack 73.6 Lyon to Misbah , no run , stays in the crease and blocks solidly 73.5 Lyon to Misbah , no run , gets back in the crease and cuts it to backward point 73.4 Lyon to Misbah , no run , pushes it back to the bowler , who dives to his right and stops it 73.3 Lyon to Misbah , no run , gets down on one knee and looks to sweep , he fails to connect as the ball goes off his forearm , looped up into the safe hands of the keeper , it had narrowly missed the thumb of the glove. Lucky break for Misbah Loud appeal for a catch. The umpire has not given it out. Clarke discusses it with Lyon and has asked for a review. No problems with Lyon 's front foot. Was that off the glove ? Do n't think so. Misbah is safe 73.2 Lyon to Misbah , no run , lunges forward to defend , the ball goes off the pad towards silly point 73.1 Lyon to Misbah , no run , presses forward to this flighted ball and blocks 72.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , short of length on off , Younis stays on the back foot and awkwardly blocks it to the off-side 72.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , FOUR , full toss outside off , Younis opens the face of the bat , uses the bowler 's pace very well and guides it to deep backward point , excellent placement. The 50-run partnership between Younis and Misbah has come up 72.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , sharp bumper on the stumps , Younis gets under it and leaves it alone 72.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , full and outside off , does not interest Younis into playing at it 72.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , shortish on middle this time , Younis jumps in the air , almost loses his balance , knocks it towards mid-off 72.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , shortish around off , Younis goes back and punches it hard towards mid-off 71.6 Lyon to Misbah , no run , lunges forward and blocks solidly 71.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it to square leg , the ball deflected off the short leg fielder and rolled ahead 71.4 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , taps it to long-on for a comfortable single 71.3 Lyon to Misbah , no run , comes on the front foot to defend , misses and is struck on the pad , the impact was well outside off 71.2 Lyon to Misbah , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it towards mid-on again , Lyon moves to his right , dives and sticks his left hand out to stop the ball , which conviniently evades him 71.1 Lyon to Misbah , no run , flatter around off , Misbah gets back in the crease and punches it towards mid-on 70.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Younis blocks it off the back foot 70.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , banged short on leg , Younis ducks under it and lets it go 70.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and angled across off , Younis blocks it off the back foot 70.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and outside off , left alone 70.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , full toss around off , Younis looks to drive , the ball takes the edge , hits the ground before flying into the hands of Clarke at first slip. Initially , it looked like the ball went straight into Clarke 's hands. The umpires wanted to have a look at it. Replays show that the ball had indeed bounced. Younis is safe. Easy decision for the third ump Clarke has caught Younis at first slip. But looks like it is a bump ball 70.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , short of length around off , Younis jumps in the crease and punches it towards short cover Mitchell Johnson [ 15.0-9-18-2 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. The umpires are having a look at the ball. Some threads have come out of the seam. Haddin seems to be discussing with the umpires , he wants it changed. They have changed it 69.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , Younis gets forward and drives it to mid-off for a comfortable single 69.5 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , Misbah gets forward and looks to launch this over mid-on , gets a leading edge that flies straight down the ground , Mitch Marsh slides near the rope and does well to stop the ball from going any further , he almost twisted his ankle there and looked in some discomfort , seems well now 69.4 Lyon to Misbah , no run , full outside off , Misbah drives it to point 69.3 Lyon to Misbah , no run , gets back in the crease and pushes it softly towards point 69.2 Lyon to Misbah , 2 runs , full and outside off , Misbah steers it to deep backward point for a brace 69.1 Lyon to Misbah , no run , lunges forward and blocks this full ball to the off-side 68.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , gets forward and presents the full face of the bat to defend 68.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , presses forward and defends it off the front foot 68.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , full on midle , Younis turns it towards short-leg 68.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 2 runs , shortish and outside off , Younis cuts it off the back foot to sweeper cover 68.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , gives it more flight this time , Younis gets down and sweeps it behind square , where Clarke stops it 68.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , full on middle and off , Younis blocks it solidly 67.6 Lyon to Misbah , no run , tossed up around off , Misbah presses forward and pushes it into the off-side 67.5 Lyon to Misbah , no run , gets back in the crease and dabs it towards point 67.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , flighted on middle and off , Younis gets down and sweeps it through backward square leg 67.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , lunges forward to defend , the ball hits him high on the pad and rolls towards silly point 67.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , full around off , Younis defends it off the front foot 67.1 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , stays in the crease and works it to long-on 66.6 O'Keefe to Misbah , 1 run , comfortably turns it to deep backward square leg off the pad 66.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , leans forward and works it through backward square leg 66.4 O'Keefe to Misbah , 1 run , gets down on one knee yet again and reverse sweeps , the ball hits him on the glove , rolls along the bat and runs down to short third man 66.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , stays in the crease and clips it to backward square leg 66.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , FOUR , nicely done by Younis , he is quick to get down on one knee and sweeps this flatter delivery to deep square leg , Lyon struggles to stop the ball near the rope and is unsuccessful 66.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , turning in on middle and leg , Younis gets forward and blocks 65.6 Lyon to Misbah , no run , goes on the back foot to this flighted ball and pushes it back to the bowler 65.5 Lyon to Misbah , no run , tossed up around off , Misbah drives it towards point 65.4 Lyon to Misbah , no run , elects to stay on the back foot and defends 65.3 Lyon to Misbah , no run , flights it again , gets a bit of turn as well , Misbah goes on the back foot and punches it sofly towards the off-side 65.2 Lyon to Misbah , no run , flighted on off , Misbah gets forward and blocks 65.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , goes back in the crease and tucks it to deep square leg 64.6 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , comes on the front foot and drives it towards mid-off 64.5 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , touch short and outside off , Misbah cuts it towards point , the fielder moves to his right and dives to stop the ball 64.4 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , presses forward to this full ball and blocks 64.3 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , gets back into the crease and pushes it towards the off-side 64.2 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , full and turning away a touch , left alone 64.1 O'Keefe to Misbah , no run , tossed up on off , Misbah defends off the front foot Steve O'Keefe [ 10.0-1-25-0 ] is back into the attack 63.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , leans on the front foot and blocks solidly 63.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , 2 runs , shortish and outside off , Younis cuts it to sweeper cover 63.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , gets back in the crease and works it to the short-leg 63.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , gets back deep into the crease and dead-bats it down the track 63.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , presses forward and defends comfortably 63.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , FOUR , excellent shot ! Younis comes down the pitch , gets to the pitch of the flighted ball and launches it to the long-on fence Nathan Lyon [ 12.0-2-36-0 ] is back into the attack 62.6 Siddle to Misbah , no run , short around off , Misbah ducks and lets it go through , he puts his bat down at the very last moment , could have got a big edge if he had n't done so 62.5 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length and moving in a touch , Misbah blocks it back towards the bowler 62.4 Siddle to Misbah , no run , short of a good length around off , Misbah presses forward and defends 62.3 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length and outside off , Misbah lets it go through 62.2 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length around off , Misbah stays in the crease and punches it towards point 62.1 Siddle to Misbah , no run , short of length around off , Misbah stays back and punches it towards short cover 61.6 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length on off , Younis blocks it back to the bowler off the back foot 61.5 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , fullish outside off , Younis defends it to the off-side Haddin is upto the stumps 61.4 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , full length delivery on middle and leg , Younis moved forward and pushes it towards silly mid-on 61.3 M Marsh to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length on off , Misbah punches it to cover for a quick single , the throw comes in at the non-striker 's end towards Steve Smith , who takes the bails off but the batsmen are comfortably in 61.2 M Marsh to Misbah , 2 runs , touch fullish and shaping back in , Misbah looks to clip , the ball swung in late and rolls towards deep square leg after taking the inside half of the bat 61.1 M Marsh to Younis Khan , 1 run , bowls this fuller delivery on the pads , Younis clips it through backward square leg 60.6 Siddle to Misbah , no run , fullish and shaping away outside off , left alone 60.5 Siddle to Misbah , no run , banged in short , rises sharply onto Misbah , who takes his eyes off the ball , it hits him on the shoulder and flies towards the slip cordon 60.4 Siddle to Misbah , no run , back of a length and moving away a touch , Misbah defends it with an angled bat to the off-side 60.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , 1 run , touch back of length delivery outside off , Younis taps it to point for a quick single 60.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fuller and moving in on middle and leg , Younis flicks it towards short mid-wicket , the ball was in the air for some time but just fell short of Steve Smith there 60.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , 2 runs , back of a length on middle and leg , Younis stays back and works it to deep square leg 59.6 M Marsh to Younis Khan , 1 run , short of length on middle , Younis stays back in the crease to block , gets a thickish inside edge and the ball rolls towards backward square leg 59.5 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Younis defends it back 59.4 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , sliding down leg , Younis misses the glance , Haddin dives to his left and stops the ball 59.3 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , shortish around off , Younis jumps inside the crease and blocks it off the back foot 59.2 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , length delivery on off , Younis mistimes the drive back to the bowler 59.1 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length on off , Younis presses forward and defends 58.6 Siddle to Misbah , no run , short of length on leg , Misbah looks to tuck it off the hips , muted cries for catch it but not sure whether the bat was involved there , the ball rolls to the right of the man at short leg 58.5 Siddle to Misbah , no run , banged short outside off , Misbah ducks under it and lets it go through 58.4 Siddle to Misbah , no run , touch full and moving into the batman , Misbah works it to short mid-wicket 58.3 Siddle to Misbah , no run , fullish on off , Misbah presses forward to defend , the ball goes off the inside edge towards short leg 58.2 Siddle to Misbah , 2 runs , full on middle and leg , Misbah leans forward and works it to deep backward square leg 58.1 Siddle to Misbah , 2 runs , fuller and drifting on the pads , Misbah flicks it through backward square leg for a brace Peter Siddle [ 12.0-6-18-1 ] is back into the attack 57.6 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , short of length around off , Younis stays in the crease and pushes it towards short cover 57.5 M Marsh to Younis Khan , 2 runs , full on middle and leg , Younis clips it to fine leg 57.4 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , good length ball that jags back in sharply , Younis is in two minds on that one , in the end decides to let it go through , the ball whistles dangerously close to the off-stump , terrific stuff from Marsh 57.3 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , fuller on middle and off , Younis leans forward and works it to the on-side 57.2 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , touch fullish and moving into the batsman , Younis inside-edges it onto the pad as he looks to defend off the front foot 57.1 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , attempted yorker on off , Younis manages to squeeze it out to the off-side Welcome back for the final session . Pakistan would probably be happy going into Tea. They scored 75 runs for the loss of Azhar Ali 's wicket in the second session. After being 7/2 at the beginning and 50/2 at lunch , 125/3 does n't sound that bad. However , Pakistan will have to bat well against the likes of Johnson and Siddle , who are getting some reverse-swing at the moment. For Pakistan , Younis Khan has batted well to reach his 29th Test fifty. He will be looking to build a solid partnership now with his captain Misbah once they come out to bat. Join us for the Post-Tea session in a short while.. . 56.6 Johnson to Misbah , no run , good length delivery outside off , Misbah leaves it alone 56.5 Johnson to Misbah , no run , Johnson comes round the wicket and bowls a leg-cutter , Misbah goes down and looked to block , the ball takes the outside edge and rolls away towards the slip cordon , first slip got a hand on the ball , preventing batsmen from taking the single 56.4 Johnson to Misbah , 2 runs , another thickish outside edge from Misbah , this one was fuller and shaped away as Misbah looked to defend , the ball rolls away fine to the right of the gully fielder 56.3 Johnson to Misbah , no run , another try at the bouncer from Johnson , the ball , however , failed to rise as much as Johnson expected , Misbah ducks under it 56.2 Johnson to Misbah , no run , good bumper directed at the batsman , Misbah ducks under it 56.1 Johnson to Misbah , no run , on a good length and around off , there was a hint of away movement as Misbah pushed at it , the ball takes the outside-edge and rolls away towards gully 55.6 Lyon to Misbah , 1 run , goes on the back foot and dabs this delivery in front of point , the batsmen run through for a single 55.5 Lyon to Misbah , FOUR , Misbah clears the mid-on fielder quite comfortably here. It was tossed up on off and middle , Misbah got underneath the ball and lofted it towards the long-on boundary 55.4 Lyon to Misbah , no run , comes on the front foot and gently punches it into the off-side 55.3 Lyon to Misbah , no run , flatter and on off and middle , Misbah goes across and turns it towards FSL 55.2 Lyon to Misbah , no run , a little flatter , Younis pushes it into the off-side 55.1 Lyon to Misbah , no run , tossed up around off and spinning in towards the batsman , Misbah was a little late to get the bat down in defence 54.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and around off , Younis defends into the off-side 54.5 Johnson to Misbah , 1 run , fullish and just outside off , Misbah pushes it gently towards mid-off for a single 54.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , 1 run , just short of a good length , Younis steers it towards point , he takes off for a single but his partner was n't sure , the batsmen complete the run comfortably at the end 54.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , short of length delivery outside off and going away with the angle , Younis shoulders arms 54.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length delivery angled across the batsman , Younis hops in the crease and punches it towards mid-off 54.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , bowls a bumper down leg , Younis looked to duck under it but realizes that the ball was going down leg anyway 53.6 Lyon to Misbah , no run , flighted delivery on off , Misbah moves across and defends into the on-side 53.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , flatter this time from Lyon , Younis goes back in the crease and dabs it towards cover point for a quick single 53.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , turns this fullish delivery towards mid-wicket 53.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery around off , Younis lunges forward in defence 53.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery around off , Younis goes back in the crease and blocks it into the leg-side 53.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up just outside off , Younis leans forward and dead-bats it 52.6 Johnson to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Misbah stays in the crease and pushes at it,the ball takes a thickish outside edge and runs away to gully Misbah-ul-Haq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 52.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , out Caught by Doolan ! ! The partnership is broken. Australia finally have a breakthrough. It was fullish and on off , Ali checks his drive at the last moment , ends up hitting it uppishly and straight to the short-cover fielder , who takes a good catch as the ball was travelling towards him. Azhar Ali c Doolan b Johnson 53 ( 167 ) [ 4s-6 ] Johnson to Azhar Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 52.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , a little fuller in length from Johnson , Ali leaves as the ball was well outside off 52.3 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Ali hops in the crease and drops his wrists , the ball falls right in front of the batsman 52.2 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , good short delivery from Johnson , the ball bounced a little more than Ali expected , Ali tried to fend it away but could only manage to get his glove in the way , the ball rolls away into the leg-side 52.1 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Ali stands tall in the crease and defends it into the off-side 51.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , flatter delivery on off , Younis goes back in the crease and defends into the off-side 51.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery around off , Younis leans forward and blocks 51.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , defends back to the bowler 51.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Ali comes down the track and works it towards mid-on 51.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up around off , Ali steps out and eases it to mid-wicket 51.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , Younis brings up his 29th Test fifty with this single. It was a loopy and full delivery outside off , Younis drives it to mid-off and takes off for a single 50.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Ali dabs it towards point with an angled bat , takes off but decides that the single was n't on 50.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , bowls a bumper that carries on with the angle , Ali ducks under it 50.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Ali goes half forward and pushes it into the on-side 50.3 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and very wide outside off , Ali does n't offer a shot , ump Erasmus does n't call it a wide Johnson comes round the wicket.. . 50.2 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and moving away from the batsman , Ali shoulders arms as the ball pitched well outside off 50.1 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Ali knocks it towards point with an angled bat Mitchell Johnson [ 11.0-7-14-1 ] is back into the attack 49.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , goes back in the crease and steers it to point after the shortish ball spun back in from outside off 49.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , turns this to mid-wicket 49.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , Ali goes down on one knee and sweeps this delivery to backward square leg 49.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , that was uppish from Ali , Lyon bowls this one around off , Ali moved across and drove it uppishly towards mid-on 49.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , flatter from Lyon , Ali stays back in the crease and blocks 49.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Younis puts his front foot across and knocks the ball gently into the off-side , the batsmen steal a quick single 48.6 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , this was slower from Siddle , the ball also shaped back in from off , defended into the off-side with a straight bat 48.5 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , pitched on off and middle and was fuller in length , Ali plays a punchy-drive into the off-side 48.4 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and around off , Ali drives it to mid-off 48.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , 1 run , fullish and around off , Younis stays back in the crease , opens the face of the bat and taps it towards point , the batsmen run through for a quick single 48.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , defends this back of a length delivery on the off-stump 48.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and around off and middle , Younis moves across and tucks it into the leg-side 47.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , comes down the track and pushes at the ball , the ball takes the inside-edge onto the pad and rolls away into the off-side 47.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , Lyon shortens his length this time , Younis goes on the back foot and pulls it to backward square leg 47.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , stays back in the crease and blocks 47.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , FOUR , the partnership between Younis Khan and Azhar Ali is now 102 runs , Younis has another go at Lyon. It was tossed up nicely around middle and off , Younis came down the track and lofted it beautifully over mid-on 47.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , FOUR , flighted delivery just outside off , Younis comes down the wicket and smashes it past mid-off for a boundary 47.1 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , tossed up on off from round the wicket , Ali moves across and drives it to mid on 46.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , full and straight from Siddle , Younis moves forward and drives it towards silly mid-on , the fielder gets his right hand onto the ball and the batsmen decide to not take the single 46.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Younis shuffled across to punch it into the leg-side , the ball rolls away to mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 46.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , short of a good length and outside off , Younis leaves it alone 46.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , 2 runs , fullish on middle and leg , Younis shuffles across and whips it towards backward square leg , the timing was n't that good but the placement earns him a couple 46.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , short of a good length and outside off , Younis moves across and blocks it into the off-side , thinks about a single but decides against it 46.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fullish delivery with a hint of away movement , Younis goes on the front foot and drives it into the off-side 45.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , stays back in the crease and turns this flatter delivery to FSL 45.5 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up on off and middle , driven to mid-on 45.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , steps out and drives it towards cover 45.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , pushes this flighted delivery towards mid-off 45.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , clips this tossed up delivery to mid-wicket 45.1 Lyon to Azhar Ali , FOUR , Azhar Ali brings up his 16th Test fifty with this paddle sweep. It was very full around off and middle , Ali went down on one knee and looked to sweep it fine , gets an under-edge that runs away to the fine leg fence Nathan Lyon [ 6.0-2-12-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and outside off , Younis covers the line and blocks the ball into the off-side 44.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , 2 runs , full and on off and middle , Younis moves across the stumps and clips it between mid-on and mid-wicket for a brace 44.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and around off , Younis defends it into the off-side 44.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and outside off , Younis lets it go through to the keeper 44.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , full and jagging back in towards the batsman , Younis moves across and pushes it towards mid-wicket 44.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fullish delivery on the off-stump , Younis takes a little stride forward and defends , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls away into the on-side Peter Siddle [ 9.0-6-13-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now 43.6 S Smith to Younis Khan , 1 run , Smith floats one on Younis ' pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 43.5 S Smith to Azhar Ali , 1 run , full and on the stumps , eased in front of mid-on for a quick single 43.4 S Smith to Younis Khan , 1 run , this one is given plenty of air , worked wide of mid-on for a single 43.3 S Smith to Younis Khan , no run , Smith drifts one well outside off , Younis lunges forward and blocks it 43.2 S Smith to Younis Khan , no run , Smith tosses one outside off , Younis presses half forward , plays with low hands and smothers the spin 43.1 S Smith to Younis Khan , 2 runs , Smith drops one horridly short and wide outside off , Younis makes room and carves it square on the off-side for a brace 42.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , Lyon drifts one on off , Azhar gets well forward and smothers the spin 42.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , shorter and on Younis ' pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a run 42.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , Azhar comes down the track to a well tossed up ball and drives it towards Warner at mid-on. He calls for a quick single and Younis Khan is quick to respond , makes his end with ease 42.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , slower and just outside off , Azhar gets well forward and defends it 42.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , Azhar comes down the track to a well tossed up ball and drives it back at the bowler 42.1 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Azhar moves across and defends it back towards the bowler 41.6 S Smith to Younis Khan , no run , marginally short and wide from Smith , Younis rocks back and cuts it straight to the fielder at cover point 41.5 S Smith to Azhar Ali , 1 run , this time he drops it short and wide outside off , Azhar makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 41.4 S Smith to Azhar Ali , no run , Smith finally lands one on the pitch , Azhar gets a good stride forward in defence 41.3 S Smith to Azhar Ali , no run , third straight full toss from Smith , driven straight to the fielder at mid-on 41.2 S Smith to Azhar Ali , FOUR , another full toss and this time Azhar gets it away , spanks it past extra cover for a boundary , poor bowling from Smith 41.1 S Smith to Azhar Ali , no run , a gentle loosener from Smith , and almost got him a wicket , this was a friendly full toss , Azhar drilled it towards short cover , looked like it did n't go to Warner on the full Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 40.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , pushed through by Lyon , the ball skids after pitching , stays a tad low as well , Younis goes back and blocks it with a straight bat 40.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , Lyon gives this one more air , Younis gets well forward in defence 40.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Younis gets well forward and defends it 40.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , 2 runs , Lyon drops this one slightly short and well outside off , Younis makes room and cuts it square past cover for a brace 40.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , Lyon tosses one on the stumps , Younis goes back and blocks 40.1 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 1 run , Lyon drifts one well outside off , worked in front of mid-on for a single Nathan Lyon [ 4.0-2-7-0 ] is back into the attack 39.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , Younis has enough time to go back and turn it towards the on-side 39.5 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , 1 run , O'Keefe drops one short and on the stumps , allows Azhar to go back and clip it past mid-wicket 39.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Younis goes back and works it in front of mid-wicket for a single 39.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , flighted and on the stumps , Younis goes back and defends it 39.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , low full toss from O'Keefe , Younis goes down on his knee and sweeps it straight to the fielder at short fine 39.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Younis gets across and defends it 38.6 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , full and on Azhar 's pads , he gets across and clips it past square leg for a couple of runs 38.5 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , on a length and curving back into Azhar , he prods across and defends it 38.4 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , full and wide from Marsh , Azhar gets down on his knee and drives it in front of cover , the fielder gives chase and keeps them down to a brace 38.3 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , tad fuller and on off , defended back at the bowler 38.2 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length outside off and shaping away , left alone 38.1 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a length and on off , Azhar gets across and defends it 37.6 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , 1 run , pushed through flatter and on Azhar 's pads , nudged behind square for a single 37.5 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Azhar goes back in defence 37.4 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , FOUR , signs of aggression from Azhar , he comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball but still goes through with the lofted on-drive , clears mid-on with ease 37.3 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , slower and on the stumps , Azhar gets his bat in front of the pads in defence 37.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , O'Keefe floats one well outside off , mistimed drive wide of Warner at cover for a run 37.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , O'Keefe tosses one wider outside off , driven straight to the fielder at extra cover 36.6 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a length and on off , defended with a straight bat 36.5 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , driven towards silly mid-on 36.4 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and on off , defended back at the bowler 36.3 M Marsh to Younis Khan , 1 run , this one tailed back in sharply from off , Younis was surprised but just about get his bat down in time , the inside edge takes the ball towards fine leg 36.2 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , short of a length and angling away from off , left alone 36.1 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , Marsh drifts one well outside leg , Younis looks to flick and misses Mitchell Marsh [ 4.0-3-4-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , pushed through by O'Keefe , Azhar gets his bat in front of the pads as he blocks 35.5 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , slower and on off , Azhar lunges forward in defence 35.4 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Azhar presses forward and defends it towards cover 35.3 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , O'Keefe gives this one more air , driven towards mid-on 35.2 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted and on off , Azhar goes back and defends it towards the off-side FSL and a short cover in place 35.1 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up and on off , driven back towards the bowler Steve O'Keefe [ 7.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 34.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , tad fuller and on off , Younis presses forward and defends it towards the off-side 34.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed towards point 34.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and on off , Younis gets across and defends it 34.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , full and wide from Johnson , Younis bends down on his knees and slices it towards backward point 34.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , the bumper now from Johnson , Younis easily ducks underneath it 34.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , this is excellent bowling from Johnson , teasing Younis on that probing line outside off , this one pitched on off and shapes away a tad , Younis was late as he he looked to cover for the movement , nearly edged it through to the keeper 33.6 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a length and angling away from off , left alone 33.5 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , the bumper from Siddle , Ali watches it all along and ducks underneath it 33.4 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and angling back into Azhar , he closes the face of the bat and defends it towards silly mid-on 33.3 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from off , defended with an open face towards gully 33.2 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Azhar gets well forward and defends it Two men close in at mid-wicket , a silly mid-on , a slip and a gully in place 33.1 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and angling back into Azhar , he prods forward and defends it back at the bowler 32.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Younis goes back and defends it close to his body , excellent probing over from Johnson , unlucky not to have snaffled Younis 32.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , another play and a miss , very loose from Younis , this was full and slanted away from the right-hander , Younis went for the extravagant drive and missed 32.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , loose from Younis , this was full and wide outside off , the sucker ball , Younis went chasing after that and is lucky not to have edged it 32.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , FOUR , wrong line from Johnson , full and on Younis ' pads , he gets inside the line and flicks it very fine , the ball races away to the fence 32.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , tad fuller and angling across the right-hander , Younis plays with soft hands and dabs it towards gully 32.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , the bouncer from Johnson , back to over the wicket , Younis sways inside the line and avoids it 31.6 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , Siddle keeps it on a length outside off , Azhar watches it all along and offers a dead bat 31.5 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Azhar plays with an angled bat and defends it towards backward point 31.4 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , full and shaping back into the right-hander , Azhar shuffles across and drives it towards mid-on 31.3 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball on the stunmps , Azhar gets across and turns it towards the on-side 31.2 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Azhar steers it down towards point 31.1 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and shaping away from off , left alone 30.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , 1 run , full and tailing back in from a length , Azhar presents a straight bat and pushes it past the bowler for a single 30.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , Johnson keeps it full and in that channel outside off , Azhar gets well forward and drives it towards cover 30.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a length and angling into Azhar , he was in two minds , makes a late call to let it go , just about drops his gloves and gets his bat away from the lurking danger 30.3 Johnson to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , that 's much better from Azhar , presents the full face of the bat to a full ball and pushes it past the bowler , the fielder gives chase and keeps the batsmen down to a brace 30.2 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , very full and wide outside off , Azhar reaches out and pushes it towards cover 30.1 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , Johnson comes from round the wicket and bangs one short and on the stumps , Azhar watches it all along and ducks underneath it 29.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , 2 runs , Siddle gets this one to tail back late into Younis , more hint of reverse swing on offer , Younis does well to adjust and nudges it behind square on the on-side , runs hard and gets back for the second run 29.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , FOUR , nicely done by Younis , back of a length and holding its line outside off , Younis waits on it , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and steers it in the gap between 1st slip and gully , expertly done 29.4 Siddle to Azhar Ali , 1 run , too straight from Siddle , ends up drifting onto Azhar 's pads , tickled down towards long leg for a single 29.3 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Azhar moves across and defends it with soft hands 29.2 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , hint of reverse swing for Siddle , full and angling back into Azhar , he shuffles across and clips it towards mid-wicket A slip , gully , a silly mid-on and a short mid-wicket in place 29.1 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Azhar gets a good stride forward and defends it Welcome back.. Siddle will resume proceedings. . Lunch on Day 1. Both teams will be pleased with the proceedings. Pakistan lost both openers early and since then have been very cautious. Mitchell Johnson 's yorker trapped Hafeez right in front. Siddle got rid of the other opener , Ahmed Shehzad , bowled after shuffling across a long way. Since then , Azhar Ali and Younis Khan have batted with a lot of patience and determination. Azhar was dropped just before lunch on 22 , Johnson was the unlucky bowler. The Aussies have been disciplined and have given nothing much away. Join us at 12 : 40 local time for the resumption . 28.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Younis gets behind the line and defends it Last ball before lunch. Rogers comes into a short cover position 28.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , yorker length delivery and well outside off , driven softly towards cover point 28.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , full and wide from Johnson , Younis leans into the drive but ca n't get it past cover A short mid-wicket is in place now 28.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , Johnson keeps it full and well outside off , Younis is not tempted at playing those , not with lunch approaching 28.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , Johnson keeps it full and well outside off , Younis looks to drive and mistimes it back at the bowler. Johnson is getting a bit of reverse swing now 28.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , on a length and angling back into Younis , defended towards the off-side 27.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , Lyon tosses one on off , Azhar lunges forward as he plays it defensively 27.5 Lyon to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , that 's nicely done by Azhar , slower and just outside off , spins back in a shade , Azhar waits on it and dabs it very late , gets it past the lone slip for a brace 27.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Azhar goes back and defends it 27.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , turn for Lyon , pitches on middle and spins down leg , Azhar looks to flick and misses 27.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up and on off , Azhar prods forward in defence 27.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , 1 run , Lyon drifts one on Younis ' pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 26.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , dropped by Rogers ? This was full and wide from Johnson , tempted Azhar to have a go at that , he had to reach out for the drive , does n't get hold of the shot , ends up spooning it towards cover. Rogers dived forward , got his fingers underneath but ca n't hold on. A life for Azhar 26.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Azhar gets a good stride forward and drives it towards cover Johnson has changed to round the wicket Two slips , a FSL , a gully and a man in the deep for the short ball 26.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , Johnson keeps it full and gets it to shape away from off , left alone 26.3 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 26.2 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , another bouncer from Johnson , this is even shorter and higher , Azhar bends down and lets it go through 26.1 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , sharp bouncer from Johnson , Azhar watches it all along and ducks underneath 25.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Younis lunges forward in defence 25.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , Younis goes back and turns it towards the on-side 25.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , slightly shorter and on the leg-stump line , Younis goes back and turns it towards the on-side 25.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , slower and on the off-stump channel , Younis prods forward in defence 25.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , Lyon drifts one on Younis ' pads , he gets well forward in defence 25.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , flatter and well outside leg , Younis looks to flick and misses , the ball lobs off the pads and rolls behind square 24.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a length and in that channel outside off , Azhar gets behind the line and defends it 24.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , much better from Azhar , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , he is happy to let it go by 24.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , the yorker has Azhar in trouble ! This was full and just outside off , Azhar was looking to squeeze it out , ends up jamming at that , gets an inside edge that rolls past the off-stump 24.3 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length and on off , Azhar gets behind the line and defends it Johnson had spoken about bowling in short spells before the Test series . 24.2 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , defended with a straight bat Johnson is into his third spell already. He has two slips and a gully in place 24.1 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and shaping away from off , Azhar covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Mitchell Johnson [ 5.0-3-7-1 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , Lyon slows one on off , Younis gets well forward and drives it towards cover 23.5 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , Lyon slows this one on middle , Younis uses the depth of the crease to good effect as he dead bats it with soft hands 23.4 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , flighted and on Younis ' pads , he gets back and defends it with a straight bat 23.3 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up and on off , Younis goes back and defends it with a straight bat 23.2 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , Lyon flights one well outside off , Younis gets a good stride forward as he smothers the ball 23.1 Lyon to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up and breaking back into Khan , he moves across and defends it towards the on-side 22.6 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , slower and just outside off , Azhar gets a big stride forward and defends it towards the off-side 22.5 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , Azhar comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and defends it towards the on-side 22.4 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , FOUR , nicely done by Azhar , shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and drills it past extra cover , no need to chase those 22.3 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , O'Keefe tosses one on Azhar 's pads , defended towards the on-side 22.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , O'Keefe drifts one on Younis ' pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a run 22.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Younis makes room and punches it towards mid-off 21.6 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , Lyon drops one flatter and gets it to angle across Azhar as he came down the track , he does well to get his pads in the way as he defensively prods forward Lyon changes to round the wicket 21.5 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted and on off , Azhar prods forward and defends it towards the on-side 21.4 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , Lyon slows one outside off , Azhar Ali gets a good stride forward in defence 21.3 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , Azhar shimmies down the track to a well flighted delivery and blocks 21.2 Lyon to Azhar Ali , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Azhar , Lyon tossed this one well outside off , Azhar gets well forward , rolled his wrists over and sweeps it in front of square on the on-side 21.1 Lyon to Azhar Ali , no run , Lyon starts with a well flighted delivery outside off , Azhar lunges forward in defence Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Spin from both ends now. Nathan Lyon comes into the attack. A slip , leg-slip and FSL in place 20.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , pushed through quicker and on Younis ' pads , he gets across and defends it towards the on-side 20.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , O'Keefe floats one around off , Younis presses forward in defence The silly mid-on moves across to FSL 20.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , O'Keefe drifts one on middle , Younis goes back and turns it towards the on-side 20.3 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , 1 run , this one is dropped shorter and on the stumps , worked past mid-wicket for a single 20.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , O'Keefe tosses one on Younis ' pads , worked in front of mid-wicket for a single 20.1 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 19.6 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Younis presses half-forward and defends it 19.5 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and on off , Younis goes back and defends it 19.4 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , that 's a good leave from Younis ? This was full and nips back in late , Younis does n't read the line , opts to let it go , the ball missed the stumps by a whisker , so close to Marsh 's 1st Test wicket. Not a good leave , a brave leave 19.3 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , short of a length and on the off-stump channel , Younis gets behind the line as he blocks 19.2 M Marsh to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , extra bounce for Marsh , Younis does well to play with soft hands as he dabs it towards the off-side 19.1 M Marsh to Younis Khan , leg byes , FOUR , Marsh loses his line and angles one on Younis ' pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball clips the pads and beats the diving keeper on the way to the fence 18.6 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , O'Keefe slows one on the off-stump channel , Azhar gets a big stride forward in defence 18.5 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , O'Keefe gives this one more air , Azhar gets forward and drives it to the right of cover where Warner makes a tumbling stop 18.4 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted delivery and on middle , Azhar gets a good stride forward in defence 18.3 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , slightly slower and shorter from O'Keefe , Azhar goes back and pushes it towards the off-side 18.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , O'Keefe tosses one Younis ' pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 18.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , flighted delivery and holding its line after pitching outside off , Younis gets well forward and kicks it away 17.6 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a length outside off and shaping away , left alone 17.5 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length and angling into Azhar 's hips , he is hurried onto the flick , does well to keep it down , the ball goes to the fielder at mid-wicket on the bounce 17.4 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller and on Azhar 's pads , nudged towards mid-wicket 17.3 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Azhar closes the face of the bat as he defends it back at the bowler A slip , gully and a silly mid-on in place 17.2 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , tad fuller and shaping back into Azhar , defended with a straight bat as he plays forward 17.1 M Marsh to Younis Khan , leg byes , 1 run , too straight from Marsh , ends up drifting onto Younis ' pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards the on-side Mitchell Marsh [ 2.0-1-4-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Azhar looks to defend and gets an inside edge behind square on the on-side 16.5 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , O'Keefe drifts one on the off-stump line , Azhar lunges forward in defence 16.4 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , O'Keefe tosses one on middle , Azhar gets a big stride forward as he offers a dead bat 16.3 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , O'Keefe floats one on middle , Azhar goes back and blocks it towards the on-side 16.2 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , pushed through by O'Keefe , defended back at the bowler 16.1 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , FOUR , that 's sloppy from Warner ! This was dropped short and just outside off , Azhar makes room and cuts it square past point , Warner got across but does n't bend down low to stop the ball 15.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , short of a length and angling away from the right-hander , left alone 15.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and on middle , Younis gets forward and drives it towards silly mid-on. A hint of reverse already for the bowlers 15.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , FOUR , cracking shot , that should release some pressure off Younis , this was right in the slot for the drive , Younis leans into the shot and caresses it past extra cover , the ball races away to the fence 15.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , tad fuller and shaping back into Younis , he prods across and defends it with a straight bat 15.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Younis gets behind the line and defends it A slip and a silly mid-on in place 15.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Younis stands tall and punches it towards backward point 14.6 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , leg byes , 2 runs , O'Keefe is causing plenty of problems here , he drifts this one well outside leg , Azhar was looking to sweep , misses and the ball lobs off the wrists , goes over the keeper and the batsmen scamper back for the second run 14.5 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , that 's nicely bowled by O'Keefe , saw Azhar coming down the track , drops his length shorter and wider outside off , Azhar manages to reach out and pushes it towards the off-side 14.4 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , O'Keefe flights one on off , Azhar lunges forward in defence 14.3 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , pushed through on off , Azhar goes back and defends it towards the off-side 14.2 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , O'Keefe drops one short and on Younis ' pads , he goes back and nudges it behind square for a single A FSL and 2 men in short cover position 14.1 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up and on off , Younis Khan gets well forward as he defends it Steve O'Keefe [ 2.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Ali gets half forward as he defends it with a straight bat 13.5 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , Siddle comes from wider off the stumps and angles one back into Azhar , he prods across and defends it towards the off-side 13.4 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel around off , driven back at the bowler with a straight bat 13.3 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , Siddle keeps it on a good length outside off and gets it to shape away slightly , Azhar covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 13.2 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , Siddle shortens his length a tad and gets this one to angle back in towards Azhar , defended with an angled bat towards cover point 13.1 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Azhar presents the full face of the bat as he drives it towards mid-on Peter Siddle [ 4.0-3-2-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now 12.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , FOUR , short one this time now , bounces sharply on Younis on leg , he moves deep into the crease in an attempt to flick , the ball trickles from the edge and rolls to fine leg , first boundary for Pakistan , finally at the end of the first hour ! 12.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and angled away from Younis this time , the batsman watches it closely and then decides to let it go through in the end 12.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , short of length around off , Younis jumps in the crease and taps it towards point Short leg comes in place 12.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , short and just outside leg this time , rises steeply as Younis looks to tuck , he is hit on the body , somewhere around the ribs and the ball rolls towards the on-side 12.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , shortish on middle and off , Younis stays back and awkwardly punches it towards the off-side 12.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , sharp bouncer on middle and leg , Younis gets under it and lets it go through 11.6 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , length delivery outside off , Azhar Ali stays back and dabs it behind point 11.5 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , inswinging fuller length ball on middle , Azhar Ali taps it back towards the bowler 11.4 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , back of length ball shaping away , left alone 11.3 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , fullish around off , Azhar Ali drives it firmly towards sweeper cover , the cover fielder gives a short chase and fields it comfortably 11.2 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , back of a length and moving in on leg , Azhar Ali flicks it off the pads to deep square leg for a brace 11.1 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and moving away , Azhar Ali lets it go through 10.6 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , right in the block-hole this time by Johnson , length ball that curls back in , Younis does well to move his feet and jam it back to the bowler 10.5 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , keeps it full and away from the batsman , left alone 10.4 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , banged short on the stumps , Younis looks to duck under it , the ball does not bounce as much as he expected and it hits him high on the arm and rolls to the leg-side. Ouch , that must have hurt a bit. Younis will have a nice purple bruise to show-off by tomorrow , probably 10.3 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , very full and outside off , does not interest Younis into playing at it 10.2 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , good length delivery shaping away a touch , Younis covers the line and shoulders arms to it 10.1 Johnson to Younis Khan , no run , fuller and moving away from the batsman , Younis lifts his bat and lets it go Mitchell Johnson [ 3.0-2-3-1 ] is back into the attack 9.6 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length ball around off , Azhar Ali comes on the front foot and defends 9.5 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , touch fullish on off , Azhar Ali presses forward and taps it into off side 9.4 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length and outside off , Azhar Ali punches it towards point 9.3 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , just short of a good length around off , Azhar Ali defends it towards cover point 9.2 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , length and outside off , swinging away , Azhar Ali shoulders arms to it 9.1 M Marsh to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball on middle and off , Azhar Ali gets forward and defends Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 8.6 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , lunges forward and blocks it comfortably towards the off-side 8.5 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , leans on the front foot and defends solidly 8.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , flighted around off , Younis Khan gets forward and drives it towards cover 8.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , presses forward to this full ball and blocks it down the pitch 8.2 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it to backward square leg 8.1 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , presses forward and pushes it to the off-side 7.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , full length delivery moving away from the batsman , Younis Khan reaches out to it , the ball beats the outside edge of his bat 7.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , full length ball on middle , Younis Khan pushes it towards mid-off 7.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , fullish on middle and leg , Younis Khan moves across and flicks it to mid-wicket 7.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , full and moving in on middle and leg , Younis Khan clips it in front of square 7.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and outside off , Khan lets it go through 7.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , loud appeal for lbw. It looked pretty close. It was a back of length delivery that nipped back in and Younis Khan is hit just above the knee roll. Siddle wanted to review that but Clarke decides against it. Hawk-Eye shows that the impact was in line with the middle stump but it was just clipping the stumps. If reviewed , it would have been umpire 's call 6.6 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , comes on the front foot and gently drives it towards cover 6.5 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , elects to stay on the back foot this time and blocks it with a straight bat 6.4 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , 1 run , tossed up , Younis drives it to cover 6.3 O'Keefe to Younis Khan , no run , gets forward and pushes it to the off-side again 6.2 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , 1 run , flights it again , Azhar Ali pushes it off the front foot towards cover point , the fielder from cover ran in and stops it. Meanwhile , the batsmen take a quick single 6.1 O'Keefe to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted ball outside off , Azhar Ali presses forward and drives it to point , where the fielder dives and stops it Steve O'Keefe , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 5.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , full length delivery around off , Younis defends it comfortably 5.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , good length ball on middle and leg , Younis defends it to the right of the bowler 5.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and on the pads , Younis clips it behind square 5.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , shortish and shaping away , Younis is not interested in playing those 5.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , late movment for Siddle there , Younis lets this length ball go through 5.1 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , good length ball on middle and off , Younis defends it back towards the bowler 4.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , keeps it full and in the channel outside off , Azhar Ali shoulders arms 4.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , full and angled across off , Azhar Ali leaves it alone 4.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , full on off , Azhar Ali presses forward a touch and defends it into the off-side 4.3 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and outside off , left alone by Azhar Ali 4.2 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , shortish and moving away , Azhar Ali is forced to sway away from the line and lets it go 4.1 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length and angled across off , Azhar Ali lifts his bat and lets it go 3.6 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , touch fullish and outside off , Younis shoulders arms to it 3.5 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , sharp bouncer on the stumps , Younis ducks under it 3.4 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , good length ball shaping away , Younis Khan lets it go through 3.3 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and moving away this time , Younis gets into an awkward position on the back foot and looks to defend it with a straightish bat , just misses the outside edge of his bat 3.2 Siddle to Younis Khan , no run , short of length moving in , Younis is surprised by the slight bounce , he gets a thick inside edge that rolls down the pitch , he had almost chopped that back on Younis Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.1 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , out Bowled ! ! Pakistan in trouble straightaway ! Both the openers are back into the hut. What a start for Australia. It was a back of a length delivery that jagged back in , Shehzad moved too far across in his crease and looked to work it to the on-side , the ball brushes the thigh pad and crashes into the leg-stump. Siddle is ecstatic and he has every right to be. That was a fantastic ball. Ahmed Shehzad b Siddle 3 ( 9 ) Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 2.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , touch fullish and shaping away , Ali gets a thick outside edge as he pokes at it , that falls just shot of the fielder at second slip 2.5 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball around off , Ali blocks it with an angled bat towards gully 2.4 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , good length delivery swinging away , Ali is not interested in playing those 2.3 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , banged in short on the stumps , Ali is forced to duck under it 2.2 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , fullish on off , Shehzad presses forward and punches it to deep extra cover 2.1 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery shaping away from the batsman , Shehzad looks to drive away from the body but is beaten by the away movement 1.6 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , keeps it full and outside off , c lifts his bat and lets it go 1.5 Siddle to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , length ball moving in on middle and leg , Ali works it to mid-wicket 1.4 Siddle to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and outside off , Ali shoulders arms to it 1.3 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and straying on the pads , Shehzad looks to tuck it to the leg-side , misses and the ball goes off the pad to backward square leg. Muted appeal for lbw but that was very high. It was sliding down leg as well 1.2 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and outside off , Shehzad lets it go through 1.1 Siddle to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery shaping away from the batman , left alone by Shehzad Peter Siddle , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Johnson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length and moving in , Ali presents the full face of the bat and blocks Azhar Ali , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.5 Johnson to Hafeez , out Lbw ! ! Brilliant inswinging yorker by Johnson , that ! Hafeez has absolutely no idea how to play it. He looked to flick it to the on-side , the yorker curled in and struck him right on the boot. He should not have asked for a review. That was as plumb as it could get. Hafeez lbw b Johnson 0 ( 2 ) Johnson to Hafeez , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! The umpire has given Hafeez LBW. He is not convinced and has asked for a review. No problem with Mitch 's no-ball. There is no bat involved either. A waste of review , really. The impact is in line with the middle stump and it is hitting as well. Easy decision for the third ump. Hafeez has to go ! 0.4 Johnson to Hafeez , no run , sharp bouncer on leg , Hafeez gets away from it and lets it go through 0.3 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , leg byes , 1 run , angled on the pads , Shehzad looks to tuck but the ball goes off the thigh pad behind square 0.2 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , angled on off again , Shehzad stays in the crease and blocks it towards the off-side 0.1 Johnson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and moving in a touch , Shehzad defends it down the track with a straight bat Ahmed Shehzad and Hafeez are at the crease. Ahmed Shehzad is on strike. Johnson will open the attack Shehzad and Hafeez have walked out to the middle. Mitchell Johnson will open the bowling for Australia. Three slips , a gully and a FSL in place to assist him . Teams : Australia ( Playing XI ) : Chris Rogers , David Warner , Alex Doolan , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Steven Smith , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Johnson , Peter Siddle , Steve O'Keefe , Nathan Lyon Pakistan ( Playing XI ) : Ahmed Shehzad , Mohammad Hafeez , Azhar Ali , Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Asad Shafiq , Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Zulfiqar Babar , Imran Khan , Yasir Shah , Rahat Ali Michael Clarke : " I think the pitch is very good. Maybe a bit slower than we are used to in Australia but it should be good. UAE has been great for us. We wanted to give some youngsters a chance. Mitch Marsh and Steve O'Keefe make their debuts. Very excited to see how they perform. It is always a special feeling to welcome new people in the team. " Misbah-ul-Haq : " We will bat first. The pitch looks a little bit dry. Maybe later on it will assist spin. Imran Khan and Yasir Shah are making their debut. It is a big series and the boys are ready to show their game. I am feeling confident and I am happy about how our preparations have gone. " Pakistan have won the toss and have opted to bat Pitch Report : " No grass on the pitch. There are a lot of cracks. It is absolutely flat and rock hard. This is a kind of pitch that if you bat first , you will make a lot of runs. The wicket is an absolute belter. Whoever makes more runs in their first innings , is likely to win the match , " reckons Dean Jones . The last time Australia and Pakistan faced each other in Tests was in 2010 , when they played a two-match series in England. Both teams managed to win a Test each. Pakistan would want nothing more than to begin this series on a positive note. Will they be able to turn things around in this format ? Toss and teams coming up in a short while. Stay tuned.. . On the other hand , Australia are on a roll. They held their nerve in the final ODI to effect a 3-0 clean sweep against the struggling Pakistanis. They will be boosted by the return of their skipper Michael Clarke. Most of their batsmen are in terrific form and the bowling looks intimidating , as usual. Steve O'Keefe and Mitchell Marsh are making their Test debuts today. Dean Jones presented O'Keefe with the cap while in Mitch 's case , the honours were done by his father Geoff Marsh . Ten days after a humiliating 3-0 whitewash in the ODI series , Pakistan will now be facing Australia in the first Test being played at Dubai. It is a tricky situation for them. Their fans have lost faith in their ability to bounce back and it will take more than just a one-off win to pacify the critics. Missing the services of Saeed Ajmal , Wahab Riaz , and Junaid Khan ; Pakistan will take solace in the fact that Younis Khan , Mohammad Hafeez , Zulfiqar Babar and Taufiq Umar have returned to the Test squad . Preview by Pradeep Pakistan began life without Saeed Ajmal in the ODI series against Australia and were promptly whitewashed by a 3-0 margin. The two teams have now switched gears , from coloured clothing to whites. The demands of a Test match is even more when compared to that of ODIs. Pakistan has been overly dependent on Ajmal in recent times , and his absence leaves a big hole to fill . On the other hand , Australia have had a great run in Tests and have reclaimed the number one ranking , thanks to their stunning victory against England at home , followed by the 2-1 series win against South Africa away. The challenge against Pakistan is different. They will be up against an attack loaded with spin and on surfaces that are alien to their own. Australia 's last visit to Asia ended in disaster , but under Darren Lehmann , Michael Clarke 's men have ticked all boxes . Pakistan Turmoil is the only word that can best describe Pakistan 's cricket at the moment. Already struggling without Ajmal , Pakistan lost the services of both Junaid Khan and Wahab Riaz to injuries. In a strange move , the selectors left out experienced left-arm spinner , Abdul Rehman , leaving the bowling attack short of experience and class. The Pakistan selectors have re-affirmed their faith in youth , and there has been maiden international call-ups for leg-spinner , Yasir Shah , and pace bowler , Imran Khan . Zulfiqar Babar returns to the Test squad while Mohammad Hafeez is back after passing a fitness test. There are not many changes in the batting line-up , although middle-order batsman , Umar Akmal , continues to remain ignored. Younis Khan is back despite his recent outbursts against the Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) , following his exclusion from the ODI team . Australia If Pakistan have had their share of injury-related worries , the visitors have been buoyed by the prospect of their skipper , Michael Clarke , returning. All-rounder , Mitchell Marsh , who was tipped to make his Test debut , has recovered nicely from his hamstring strain and is likely to take the number six slot. The rest of the batting line-up has settled itself nicely , although Clarke would have been slightly concerned at their toothless display in the four-day practice match against Pakistan 'A' . With spin expected to play a big role , Steve O'Keefe is likely to partner Nathan Lyon as the second spinner. With Mitchell Johnson and Peter Siddle guaranteed selections , the bowling looks settled for the moment. David Warner was rested from the practice game as a precautionary measure and should return at the top of the order. Alex Doolan was impressive in the practice match , making a composed hundred , and should edge Phil Hughes for the final batting spot . Pitch Pakistan coach , Waqar Younis , had insisted on a dry pitch and should be happy with the look of the square. The spinners should come into play early on and there will be reverse swing on offer . Quotes I think that 's our greatest challenge , the fact that the wickets are so much slower than what we 're used to in Australia - Michael Clarke recognizes the challenge lying ahead for his team . It was good to see youngsters doing well there and , yes , it definitely has given us an edge or a boost , because we have seen some weaknesses which can be good for us in the Tests  Waqar Younis says Pakistan 'A ' beating Australia is a good omen for his team . Teams : Pakistan ( From ) : Ahmed Shehzad , Shan Masood , Mohammad Hafeez , Asad Shafiq , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Younis Khan , Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Ehsan Adil , Haris Sohail , Imran Khan , Mohammad Talha , Rahat Ali , Azhar Ali , Taufeeq Umar , Yasir Shah , Zulfiqar Babar Australia ( From ) : David Warner , Chris Rogers , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Alex Doolan , Steven Smith , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Marsh , James Faulkner , Peter Siddle , Mitchell Johnson , Nathan Lyon , Steve O'Keefe , Mitchell Starc , Ben Hilfenhaus , Phillip Hughes , Glenn Maxwell Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
