Graphs New Zealand will have to go back to the drawing board and work out ways of countering Pakistan. The second Test is due to start in four days time. Is it enough for New Zealand to launch a fightback ? Or will Pakistan run away with the series ? Do join us for all the action as the series moves across to Dubai. The second Test starts on the 17th. Do join us then. For now , cheers and bye. . A thumping victory for Pakistan and they go 1-0 ahead in the 3-match series. This is also Misbah 's 15th Test win as captain , and he goes ahead of some illustrious names like Imran Khan , Javed Miandad , Wasim Akram and Inzamam-ul-Haq. That 's some achievement , at the age of 40. Looks like life is turning out for the better even as Misbah nears retirement. A month ago though , his world had turned upside down , Pakistan had lost the ODI series against Australia , questions were asked about his captaincy and there were reports that Misbah 's career was coming towards a close. As he himself said , he had the patience and belief , and his perseverance has now turned into results for Pakistan . Misbah-ul-Haq : 'Great feeling , this is a young team , nice to perform like this against top teams in the world. I am happy with my own form , I have got a lot of support from all people during my bad times , especially , the board members. We should never lose hope , I have plenty of belief in my abilities. I am working hard , but sometimes you need to remain patient. I worked hard during the off-period. But my form was poor , against Australia , in the ODIs. But suddenly everything changed around me. You need someone who can churn things around , I felt the partnership between Younis Khan and Azhar Ali in the first Test against Australia , was the turning point. That gave us belief and I believe , the way the youngsters responded , bowling out the Australians in the first innings , gave us plenty of belief. We are playing well now and will look forward to do the same in the next Test as well.' Rahat Ali : 'This is my first Man of the Match , I am very happy. Thankful to the coaching staff , especially Mushtaq bhai. I bowled according to the plan which was to maintain a good line and length and keep bowling dot balls. I am working hard on my game and hopefully will continue to do so in future.' Rahat Ali is the MoM for his six wickets Brendon McCullum : 'A big learning experience for us , some positives. Tom Latham played very well and the way , Ish Sodhi , batted in the second innings was encouraging , but we were well beaten , plenty to do ahead of the second Test. Their seamers were very good , they got the ball to move in the air , which is something that is excellent , considering these conditions. We did n't play their spinners well , a lot to learn ahead of the second Test , a bit of luck with the toss will be handy as well. We have n't played a lot in these conditions , lost too many wickets in clumps , and it becomes difficult , especially with so many catchers close-in. I do n't think we bowled badly , the wicket was slow on the first two days , it got quicker as the match went on. But no excuses , we need to get better in the next Test. Our batsmen need to put their heads down and get plenty of runs with the bat. I am sure we will get better as the tour goes on.' New Zealand had an onerous task of trying to bat out 144 overs to save the Test. But at 138/8 , defeat on the fourth day itself looked certain. Ish Sodhi fought hard to register a fifty , he found useful allies in Mark Craig and Trent Boult. Together they managed to pull New Zealand past 200. Defeat was certain , but New Zealand at least had something to cheer for as the teams move across to Dubai for the second Test . New Zealand 's first innings never got going. Tom Latham fought hard to score his maiden Test century , he did n't have too much support though. Corey Anderson made a bright 48. Pakistan 's bowlers were right on the money. They ended up bowling out the visitors for just 262 , gaining a massive 304-runs first innings lead in the process. Misbah decided against enforcing the follow-on , and Hafeez made the most of the opportunity , scoring a hundred as they declared at 175/2 , an overall lead of 480 runs . 15th win for Misbah as Pakistan 's captain. He has now gone past Imran Khan and Javed Miandad , who both had 14 wins to their credit. Another excellent performance from Pakistan. They won a crucial toss , decided to bat first and their batsmen made merry on a placid track. All their five batsmen in action made at least 80 or more with Shehzad , Younis and Misbah going past three figures . 70.3 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , out Lbw ! ! Pakistan have won by 248 runs. Sodhi fought hard but is the last man to go. This was pitched around off and angled back into the right-hander , he was looking to work it towards the on-side , fell over as a result and was struck bang in front of middle. Hawk-Eye suggested that the ball was just about clipping the leg-stump. That 's enough for the original call to be vindicated. Ish Sodhi lbw b Imran Khan 63 ( 102 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Sodhi has been given out LBW. He wants a review. Looks like there is no inside edge , is it doing enough to hit the stumps ? Khan came from wide of the crease , looks to have struck Sodhi around middle. Hawk-Eye shows the ball hitting leg , Umpire 's call , Pakistan WIN 70.2 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , the booming inswinger from Imran , pitched up and tailed back in late , Sodhi went for the ambitious drive , gets a thick inside edge onto the pads 70.1 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , full and slanting well down leg , Sodhi looks to flick and misses Drinks are on the field now. New Zealand lost Mark Craig early on but the last pair have frustrated the bowlers with some resolute stroke-making. Sodhi has had some luck but has done well to complete his 2nd Test fifty. Pakistan are still searching for that last wicket. . 69.6 Babar to Boult , no run , slower and on the stumps , Boult gets his bat in front of the pads as he blocks 69.5 Babar to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , pushed through by Babar , Sodhi makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 69.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , the skidder from Babar , Sodhi makes room and chops it towards the off-side 69.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , the arm-ball from Babar , comes back with the angle , Sodhi was looking to chop it down towards point , comes down very late and is lucky to get some bat on that 69.2 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , the slider from Babar , Sodhi prods forward and gets an inside edge towards FSL 69.1 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Sodhi lunges forward as he smothers the spin 68.6 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , Imran finishes the over with an indipper , Boult shuffles across and pushes it uppishly towards mid-wicket , drops well in front of the fielder 68.5 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Boult gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 68.4 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , Boult is slightly squared up as he defends it towards point 68.3 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Boult does n't need to play those , left alone 68.2 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , short of a length outside off and holding its line , left alone 68.1 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , Sodhi dabs it to the left of backward point and set off for a quick single , Boult had to hurry but would have made his ground even if there was a direct hit from Yasir 67.6 Babar to Boult , no run , pushed through by Babar , Boult gets a big stride forward as he defends it 67.5 Babar to Boult , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Boult goes back and defends it 67.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , 3 runs , this one went over Shafiq at 2nd slip , tossed up and well outside off , Sodhi went for the cut , gets a thick top-edge that goes over the fielder 's head , the batsmen get back for the third run 67.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , that 's just missed the leg-stump by a whisker ! This was tossed up and came back with the angle , Sodhi went for the big slog over mid-wicket and missed , the ball goes past the leg-stump 67.2 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , Sodhi goes back and defends it 67.1 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , the slider from Babar , Sodhi lunges forward and gets an inside edge towards FSL 66.6 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Boult is happy to let it go 66.5 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , this one went the other way , Boult covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 66.4 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , full and on Boult 's pads , turned towards mid-wicket 66.3 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone Coming back to the missed chance in the previous over , both Sarfraz and Younis at 1st slip left it for each other , total lack of communication 66.2 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , byes , 1 run , Imran bangs this one short and well down leg-side , the ball bounces in front of the keeper , he ca n't collect it cleanly and allows a bye 66.1 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , on a good length and on off , Sodhi moves across and defends it 65.6 Babar to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Sodhi makes room and nudges it behind point for a single 65.5 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Sodhi prods forward in defence 65.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , that 's ridiculous from Sarfraz , that was a dolly to the keeper , Sodhi was looking to play the paddle sweep , the ball looped off the gloves and went behind the keeper , he ran back and looked like he lost it in the sun , Babar scowls in frustration , he ca n't believe it. The ball dropped just in front of the keeper 65.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , 2 runs , nicely played by Sodhi , Babar drops this one short and just outside off , Sodhi makes room and cuts it late , the fielder at deep backward point gets across and keeps them down to a couple of runs 65.2 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , slower and turning back in from off , Sodhi chops it down towards the slip cordon 65.1 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , very slow and very full from Babar , Sodhi jams his bat down and defends it Zulfiqar Babar [ 21.0-6-41-2 ] is back into the attack 64.6 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , that 's nicely played by Sodhi , shuffles across to one that angled back into him and clips it behind square on the on-side for a run 64.5 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller length delivery and angling back into Sodhi , driven towards mid-on 64.4 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sodhi moves across and defends it towards the on-side 64.3 Imran Khan to Boult , 1 run , too full and too straight from Imran , clipped away in front of square on the on-side for a single 64.2 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , Imran keeps it full and on off , Boult prods forward and defends it towards mid-on 64.1 Imran Khan to Boult , no run , signs of reverse swing from Imran , but the line was on middle and slants well down leg Imran Khan [ 7.0-0-34-1 ] is back into the attack 63.6 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Sodhi makes room and pushes it towards the off-side 63.5 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , SIX , fifty for Sodhi , a good innings from Sodhi , this was tossed up and spinning away from off , Sodhi clears his left leg , heaves it against the turn and sends it sending way over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 63.4 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , 2 runs , pushed through on off , Sodhi makes room and drives it past cover for a couple of runs 63.3 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , loopy full toss from Yasir , Sodhi takes it on the full and slugs it over square leg , did n't get hold of the shot but the ball rolls away to the fence. This is now the highest score by a New Zealand No. 10 batsman against Pakistan 63.2 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , Sodhi makes room and defends it with soft hands , the ball rolls away towards the off-side 63.1 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , the leg-break from Yasir , Sodhi spots it early , covers the line and lets it go 62.6 Babar to Boult , 2 runs , tossed up and on the stumps , Boult gets down on his knees and laps it very fine for a couple of runs 62.5 Babar to Boult , no run , Babar fires this one flatter and quicker , Boult was late in bringing his bat down , nearly jams it back onto his stumps , missed it by a whisker 62.4 Babar to Boult , FOUR , the slog sweep from Boult , flatter and quicker from Babar , drifts this one well outside leg , Boult frees his arms and sweeps it past square leg for a boundary 62.3 Babar to Boult , no run , tossed up and on the leg-stump line , Boult goes back and defends it Babar changes to over the wicket 62.2 Babar to Boult , no run , Babar gives this one plenty of air , Boult lunges forward and smothers the spin 62.1 Babar to Boult , no run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , Boult goes back and defends it 61.6 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , this was tossed up and on off , Sodhi goes back and defends it back at the bowler 61.5 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , 2 runs , the wrong 'un from Shah , stays a tad low after pitching , Sodhi picks up the length early and pulls it past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 61.4 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , skids through after pitching , Sodhi looks to cut and misses 61.3 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , tossed up and spinning away from off , Sodhi makes room for the cut and misses 61.2 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , is it a catch ? Pakistan thought it was all over , but there was no bat on that , this was tossed up and well outside off , Sodhi went for the big slog and missed , the bat hit the ground as the ball went past the outside edge , brushes the keeper 's gloves on the way to Shafiq at 2nd slip 61.1 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , tossed up and on off , Sodhi presses forward and blocks 60.6 Babar to Boult , no run , Babar drifts this one well outside off , Boult lunges forward , gets to the pitch of the ball and defends it with an open face 60.5 Babar to Boult , no run , pushed through by Babar , Boult goes back and turns it towards the on-side 60.4 Babar to Boult , no run , flighted and on off , Boult was looking to come down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball but manages to defend it 60.3 Babar to Boult , FOUR , lovely shot from Boult , a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it back over the bowler 's head , poses for the cameras after completing the shot 60.2 Babar to Boult , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Boult prods forward in defence 60.1 Babar to Boult , no run , pushed through by Babar , Boult was coming down the track , he adjusts to the trajectory and looks to defend , misses and is struck high on the pads 59.6 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , that was close ! This was the flipper from Shah , skids through after pitching , stayed a tad low as well , Sodhi was making room for the cut , just about gets his bat down in time 59.5 Yasir Shah to Boult , 1 run , the reverse sweep now , he picked up the length early , gets down on his knees and sweeps it towards point , Rahat fumbles and allows a single 59.4 Yasir Shah to Boult , no run , the googly from Shah , Boult reads it early , goes back and defends it with a straight bat 59.3 Yasir Shah to Boult , no run , slower and just outside off , Boult gets a good stride forward and defends it with soft hands 59.2 Yasir Shah to Boult , FOUR , a half sweep , half slog from Boult , this was given plenty of air , Boult gets forward , does n't bend completely and whips it past mid-wicket for a boundary 59.1 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Sodhi gets a good stride forward and drives it to deep cover for a single 58.6 Babar to Boult , no run , Babar gives this one more air , Boult gets a big stride forward in defence , keeps it just in front of silly point , who was coming forward to grab it with one-hand 58.5 Babar to Boult , no run , tossed up and on off , Boult goes back as he blocks 58.4 Babar to Boult , no run , edged and short , Babar slows down the pace , gives this one more air , Boult was half forward in defence , gets the outside edge , but the ball drops well in front of gully 58.3 Babar to Boult , no run , slower and on the stumps , Boult prods forward and blocks it 58.2 Babar to Boult , no run , pushed through by Babar , Boult gets his bat in front of the pads in defence 58.1 Babar to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , the arm ball from Babar , came with the angle , Sodhi prods forward and gets an inside edge behind square Zulfiqar Babar [ 18.0-6-30-2 ] is back into the attack 57.6 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , 3 runs , nicely done by Sodhi , Yasir gave this one plenty of air , Sodhi was down on his knees and laps it past the keeper , runs hard and gets back for the third run 57.5 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , pushed through slower and flatter , Sodhi watches it all along and dabs it towards slips 57.4 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , Shah slows this one on off , Sodhi is lured by the flight , looks to slog across the line and is hit on his body 57.3 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Sodhi presses forward and defends it 57.2 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , the leg-break from Yasir , gives this one plenty of air , Sodhi clears his left leg and looks to slog it over mid-wicket , misses it completely 57.1 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , Shah drops this one short and wider outside off , Sodhi makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at backward point 56.6 Rahat Ali to Boult , no run , that was full and straight from Rahat , Boult was well back in his crease , gets his bat down in time and blocks 56.5 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , too straight from Rahat , he has n't got his line right today , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 56.4 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , lovely shot , swing for Rahat but he overdoes this one and swings into Sodhi 's pads , whipped away past square leg for a boundary 56.3 Rahat Ali to Boult , 1 run , full and on Boult 's pads , he backs away slightly and nudges it past FSL for a single 56.2 Rahat Ali to Boult , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Boult shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side Two slips , a FSL , a gully and a short mid-wicket in place 56.1 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , fuller length delivery and angling away from off , driven wide of mid-off for a single 55.6 Yasir Shah to Boult , no run , Yasir slows one on off , Boult watches it all along and defends it with soft hands 55.5 Yasir Shah to Boult , 2 runs , flighted delivery and on off , Boult prods forward hopefully , gets an inside edge behind square for a couple of runs 55.4 Yasir Shah to Boult , no run , the leg-break from Shah , drifts this one on middle , drags Boult forward before spinning past the outside edge. Sarfraz Ahmed was confident , so was the cordon , but the umpire 's finger did n't go up Loud shout for a caught behind. Sarfraz Ahmed was adamant but Pakistan decide against a review. . 55.3 Yasir Shah to Boult , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , no spin on this one , Boult prods forward in defence Trent Boult , right handed bat , comes to the crease 55.2 Yasir Shah to Craig , out Bowled ! ! Just one more to go. The leg-break from Yasir , loops this one well outside off , lures Craig forward before spinning back in , the gap is created between bat and pad , goes through the gate and the stumps are pegged back. Pakistan are finishing this one early. Third wicket for Yasir , delight for the sparse crowd at Abu Dhabi. Craig b Yasir Shah 28 ( 70 ) [ 4s-3 ] Yasir Shah to Craig , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Four men round the bat for Craig 55.1 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , spin for Yasir , drifts one on middle and gets it to spin down leg 54.6 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , Rahat keeps it full and gets it to shape away from off , Sodhi covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 54.5 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Sodhi covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 54.4 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , 2 runs , too full and too straight from Rahat , ends up drifting onto Sodhi 's pads , clipped away past square leg for a couple of runs 54.3 Rahat Ali to Craig , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , Craig stays back and punches it wide of cover for a single 54.2 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , Rahat keeps it full and in that channel outside off , Craig gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 54.1 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , full and a hint of swing back into Craig , he shuffles across and drives it towards mid-on The players are out in the middle.. How long can New Zealand defy Pakistan today ? Rahat Ali will open the bowling. Two slips in place Pitch Report : 'The pitch has n't changed a lot. There are some marks from the spikes of the bowlers. It continues to be docile and flat. Nothing much for the bowlers and New Zealand will be very disappointed at their batting performance in this Test ' , reckons Danny Morrison . With plenty of runs to play with , the bowlers have come to the fore. Left-arm orthodox spinner , Zulfiqar Babar , has been outstanding and has received excellent support from leg-spinner , Yasir Shah. The two opening bowlers have n't been left behind either , chipping in with wickets at crucial moments. After having thrashed Australia by a 2-0 margin , Pakistan are now just 2 wickets away from going 1-0 up against New Zealand. For the record , New Zealand need to score another 306 runs to pull off a miracle. Day 5 should be short and sweet for Pakistan. Action begins in a while. . Pakistan are on a roll. In their makeshift home venue ( UAE ) , they have played the sort of cricket that would make their supporters proud. For a team that was n't considered a great batting unit , all the jigsaw puzzles has been set right over the last three Tests. The batsmen have got hundreds , and big ones at those. Younis Khan has hit four hundreds in his last six visits to the crease , skipper , Misbah-ul-Haq and number three batsman , Azhar Ali have n't been too far either , accounting for three each . Craig and Sodhi have showed some stomach for a fight. How long can New Zealand keep fighting ? If Pakistan 's current form is anything to go by , it will not be long before they go 1-0 up. Cheers for your company today. Do join us back tomorrow to find out how long this Test lasts . Stumps , Day 4 : Ideally Pakistan would have liked to wrap things up today , but it does not take much sheen off their brilliant all-round effort. After Hafeez 's ton propelled Pakistan 's lead , the spinners came into the action , striking at regular junctures. Rahat Ali 's reverse swing turned out to be an able foil for the spin trio of Yasir , Babar and Hafeez. The likes of Latham , Baz , Williamson and Anderson , all got starts but failed to kick on . 53.6 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , fullish and on off , Ish Sodhi dead-bats it to force the Test into the final day 53.5 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , spins in as well to rap Ish Sodhi on the pad. The ball had pitched outside leg , negating the lbw appeal 53.4 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , floated up and spins away , Ish Sodhi pokes at it. The outside edge does not carry to Shafiq at gully 53.3 Yasir Shah to Craig , 1 run , skids on with the arm , clipped to square leg off the back foot 53.2 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , spins in sharply , Craig tickles it towards leg gully with soft hands 53.1 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , fuller and close to off , Craig works it to short mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat Yasir Shah [ 12.0-1-48-2 ] is back into the attack 52.6 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , pushed through on middle , scuttles low as well , Ish Sodhi adjuts to his and defends it Babar goes over the stumps. 5 men around the bat 52.5 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , straighter in line , slides on with the arm , blocked to short leg 52.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , looped up on off , blocked to silly point 52.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , pushed through on off , dabbed wide of silly point via an open face 52.2 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , flighted delivery on off , Ish Sodhi inches forward and solidly blocks it 52.1 Babar to Craig , 1 run , straying on the pads , milked backward of square leg Zulfiqar Babar [ 17.0-6-29-2 ] is back into the attack 51.6 Hafeez to Ish Sodhi , no run , back of a length and just outside leg , Ish Sodhi kicks it away with his pad 51.5 Hafeez to Ish Sodhi , no run , floated up on middle , Ish Sodhi comes on the front foot and defends it back to Hafeez 51.4 Hafeez to Ish Sodhi , no run , angled on the fourth stump , bunted to cover 51.3 Hafeez to Craig , 1 run , fuller on middle and leg , clipped towards mid-wicket 51.2 Hafeez to Craig , no run , slower through the air , blocked to silly point 51.1 Hafeez to Craig , no run , worked behind square leg 50.6 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , tossed up and spins in from outside off , forward and smothered. Keeps out the googly 50.5 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , looped up on middle , defended in front of Yasir Shah 50.4 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , flighted and dips in , forward defensive from Ish Sodhi 50.3 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , half tracker on off , Ish Sodhi rocks back and forehands a pull to the deep mid-wicket boundary 50.2 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , flatter and quicker outside off , Ish Sodhi waits on it and back cuts it past slip to the third man fence 50.1 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , fullish and on off , blocked back to Yasir Shah 49.6 Hafeez to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , pushed through outside off , Ish Sodhi goes back and taps it to backward point 49.5 Hafeez to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , dragged shortish and down leg , Ish Sodhi duly helps it away to fine leg with a sweep 49.4 Hafeez to Ish Sodhi , no run , slower through the air , blocked back to Hafeez 49.3 Hafeez to Ish Sodhi , no run , flat and catches Ish Sodhi on the pad as me misses the sweep , the ball had pitched outside leg 49.2 Hafeez to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller and on middle and off , grips in the pitch. Ish Sodhi checks his shot and defends it to the on-side 49.1 Hafeez to Ish Sodhi , no run , blocked back to the bowler Mohammad Hafeez [ 5.0-0-15-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker outside off , Craig prods at it , the ball brushes the pad and settles into the gloves of Sarfraz. On the lbw front , the ball may have missed off. Pakistan 's review amounts to nothing Caught behind check sent upstairs. Yasir looks confident. No sign of bat involved. The ball kisses the back pad and is snaffled by the keeper. Is he out lbw ? Looks close though to the naked eye. The TV says nope , the ball would have missed the off stump as well 48.5 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , full toss on middle and leg , bunted to mid-on 48.4 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller and on middle , defended back to Yasir Shah 48.3 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , straight roller outside off , blocked back to Yasir Shah 48.2 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , quicker and spinning away outside off , Ish Sodhi reads it and dabs it gently towards point 48.1 Yasir Shah to Craig , 1 run , picked from an off stump line and worked to mid-wicket 47.6 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , fullish and on off and middle , dead-batted 47.5 Babar to Craig , 1 run , 102.8kph quick fizzer outside off , Craig flashes at it , gets an outside edge , which ca n't be gloved by the keeper. Younis is beaten at slip as well 47.4 Babar to Craig , no run , on middle again , Craig stays back and dabs it to slip with soft hands 47.3 Babar to Craig , no run , looped up on middle , defended to short mid-wicket 47.2 Babar to Craig , no run , straight roller on middle , poked wide of slip off the outside edge 47.1 Babar to Craig , no run , slower on the leg stump , blocked past short leg 46.6 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , 2 runs , quicker on off , Ish Sodhi closes his bat face and turns it backward of square leg 46.5 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , faster and fuller on off , kept out 46.4 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , dropped short and wide outside off , Ish Sodhi waits on the back foot and cuts it away behind point off the bottom part of the bat. Not middled , but no problem as the ball runs away to the third man fence 46.3 Yasir Shah to Craig , 1 run , drifting on middle and leg , nudged behind square leg 46.2 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , drifts in on middle , Craig pushes at it , the ball catches the pad and pops up to short leg 46.1 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , sliding down leg , Craig looks to tickle it away before withdrawing his bat Yasir Shah [ 9.0-1-31-2 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , a muffled appeal for a catch from the close in catchers , but no harm done for New Zealand. Pushed through quicker , Ish Sodhi misses the flick to the leg-side. The ball loops to leg gully off the pad. No wood involved 45.5 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , angled in on off , Ish Sodhi dead-bats it to silly point 45.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , nice loop and flight on off , Ish Sodhi does not move his feet much but defends it 45.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller on middle and leg again , defended to the right of Babar 45.2 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , tossed up on off , blocked to silly point 45.1 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , fired fuller on the stumps , Ish Sodhi squeezes out a drive to mid-off 44.6 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , dug in shortish and on off , Craig pulls his bottom hand off the bat as he fends it back to Rahat Ali 44.5 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , good length delivery shapes back in from outside off , Craig drives it past mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 44.4 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , back of a length and angled on leg-stump , Craig misses the flick and wears it on his thigh. The ball rolls away to the off-side 44.3 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , pitched further up but wide outside off , left alone 44.2 Rahat Ali to Craig , 2 runs , fuller on middle and leg , Craig clips it past square leg , comes back for the second 44.1 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , shortish and on off , Craig hangs back and defends it back to Rahat Ali Rahat Ali [ 8.0-1-36-2 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Babar to Craig , 1 run , a bit leg stumpish , Craig tickles it wide of leg gully , the ball runs fine 43.5 Babar to Craig , no run , darted down leg , nothing doing from Craig. Sarfraz flings to his right and gloves the ball. Superb take from the keeper 43.4 Babar to Craig , no run , Babar gives this more air on off , gets it to drift as well , blocked back to the bowler 43.3 Babar to Craig , no run , flatter and on off , defended to silly point 43.2 Babar to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , slider on off , Ish Sodhi camps on the back foot. Pushes at it and gets an inside edge towards square leg 43.1 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller and on middle , Ish Sodhi looks to turn it to the leg-side. Gets a leading edge that pops wide of silly point 42.6 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , darted flatter and quicker on off , keeps low as well. But Craig crouches and somehow keeps it out , blocking in front of point 42.5 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , floated up on off , Craig comes forward to smother it 42.4 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , Yasir Shah drags his length back , punched to short mid-wicket , straight to the fielder again 42.3 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , on the leg-stump , defended to short mid-wicket 42.2 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , flighted delivery on off , Craig inches forward and pats it back to Yasir Shah 42.1 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , nice and loopy on middle , dead-batted by Craig 41.6 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , angled in on middle and leg , Ish Sodhi drops it past short leg. Aims for a speedy single but decides against it in the end 41.5 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , quicker and just outside off , Ish Sodhi lifts his bat and lets it go 41.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , pushed through and straightens on middle , defended off the back foot 41.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , flatter and quicker outside off , chopped to point 41.2 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , looped up on middle , forward and defended again 41.1 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , flighted delivery on off , defended to silly point 40.6 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , flatter on a back of a length and just outside off , Craig blocks it to silly point , on the bounce 40.5 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , spins back in again , Craig hangs back and defends it to short leg 40.4 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , turns in on off again , Craig defensively pushes it towards mid-on 40.3 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , spins down leg , Craig ca n't tickle it fine and wears it on his pad 40.2 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , pushed through close to off , Ish Sodhi is cramped for room and ends up chopping this Yasir Shah offering to cover 40.1 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , dropped short and wide outside off , Ish Sodhi sits back and cuts it away behind point for a boundary Yasir Shah [ 7.0-0-26-2 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Babar to Craig , no run , fired flatter and dips in on off , jammed out towards mid-on 39.5 Babar to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , drifts in on middle and turns away , Ish Sodhi pokes at it , the outside edge flies wide of gully. Ish Sodhi gets off the mark 39.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , Babar gives this more air on off , defended to silly-point 39.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller on the stumps , forward and blocked back to the bowler 39.2 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , flat and darted in on off , dead-batted to the off-side Ish Sodhi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.1 Babar to Southee , out Bowled em ! ! Top bowling from Babar. Drifts in and straightens close to off , Southee plays all around it and misses the clip to the leg-side. The ball hits the top of middle , ringing the death knell for Southee. Pakistan 's spinners continue to rule the roost. Southee b Babar 5 ( 18 ) [ 4s-1 ] Babar to Southee , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 38.6 Imran Khan to Craig , FOUR , fuller and angled in on middle , Craig tucks it away past mid-wicket , the ball has enough legs to reach the deep mid wicket fence , rendering Misbah 's chase futile Imran Khan goes round the stumps . 38.5 Imran Khan to Craig , no run , on a length , straighter in line again , tapped back to the bowler 38.4 Imran Khan to Craig , no run , wicket-to-wicket stuff , blocked back to Imran Khan 38.3 Imran Khan to Craig , no run , that 's a real teaser ! Fuller and straightens just outside off , Craig pokes at it and gets beaten. It was not far away from the off pole 38.2 Imran Khan to Craig , no run , pitched up and on the fouth stump , Craig toe ends the drive to mid-off 38.1 Imran Khan to Craig , 2 runs , straying on the pads , whipped away backward of square leg for a brace 37.6 Babar to Southee , no run , skids on with the arm outside off , it was the slider. But Southee let it pass again 37.5 Babar to Southee , no run , Babar gets this to spin across Southee , who shoulders arms 37.4 Babar to Southee , no run , tossed up on off , blocked to the leg-side 37.3 Babar to Craig , 1 run , floated on the stumps , nudged towards mid-on 37.2 Babar to Craig , no run , fuller and around off , defended to silly-point 37.1 Babar to Craig , no run , low full toss , pushed back to the bowler , who makes a half stop and deflects it back onto the stumps at the son-striker 's end. Southee was in though The TV ump has been pressed into service. The bowler has deflected the ball onto the stumps , but Southee 's safe . 36.6 Imran Khan to Southee , no run , shortish and on middle and leg , Southee does not get hold of the pull. Manages another inside edge , which mutes the lbw shout 36.5 Imran Khan to Southee , FOUR , back of a length and outside off , may have stopped on Southee. He checks his punch and sends it straight past the bowler 36.4 Imran Khan to Southee , no run , fullish and comes back in again , keeps low as well. Southee misses the flick , and is rapped on the pads. The ball was heading down leg 36.3 Imran Khan to Southee , no run , full and curls back in on off , Southee ekes out an inside edge onto that , negating the lbw appeal. Ump Tucker shakes his head 36.2 Imran Khan to Southee , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Southee stands tall and punches it back to Imran Khan 36.1 Imran Khan to Craig , 1 run , back of a length and on middle , Craig jerks it to mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 35.6 Babar to Southee , no run , another one that 's flighted just outside offand turns away from the batsman , who looks to drive. It was n't that far away from the off-stump as well 35.5 Babar to Southee , no run , flatter outside off , Southee goes deep in the crease and punches it towards short cover 35.4 Babar to Southee , no run , tossed up on off , Southee blocks off the front foot 35.3 Babar to Southee , no run , good flight on this delivery outside off , Southee looks to drive but the ball again goes past the outside edge 35.2 Babar to Southee , no run , tossed up on off , Southee looks to block , the ball takes the outside edge and bounces short of the gully fielder 35.1 Babar to Southee , no run , beautiful delivery from Babar , flighted delivery around off and spins away from the batsman , who looks to push at it , the ball goes past the outside edge Zulfiqar Babar [ 10.0-3-24-1 ] is back into the attack Coming back to Anderson 's wicket , Hawk-Eye showed that the ball pitched marginally outside leg. It looked out to the naked-eye though. Had Anderson decided to review it , he would have been adjudged 'Not Out' . 34.6 Imran Khan to Craig , FOUR , fullish and tailing back in , Craig waits on the back foot and works it to the deep mid-wicket fence 34.5 Imran Khan to Craig , no run , fullish and on off , Craig drives it towards mid-on 34.4 Imran Khan to Southee , 1 run , fullish outside off , Southee bunts it towards cover-point and sets off for a single 34.3 Imran Khan to Southee , no run , looks to defend this delivery around off , the ball takes a bottom edge and runs away towards gully 34.2 Imran Khan to Southee , no run , yorker length delivery , Southee squeezes it out back to the bowler Tim Southee , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now . 34.1 Imran Khan to Corey Anderson , out Lbw ! ! First over of a new spell and Imran takes a wicket. Anderson is gone. It was short of a good length and jags back in a touch. The batsman does n't offer a shot and is hit on the knee-roll and in line with the middle stump. It does n't get easier than that for the umpire , who raises his finger immediately. 3 wickets to go to complete a memorable win. Corey Anderson lbw b Imran Khan 23 ( 48 ) [ 4s-1 ] Imran Khan to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Imran Khan [ 4.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack There are 20 overs left in the day. Can Pakistan take the final four wickets and finish off the proceedings today ? We will find out . 33.6 Hafeez to Craig , no run , full and on off , Craig drives it to mid-off 33.5 Hafeez to Craig , no run , flighted around middle , Craig goes deep in the crease and defends 33.4 Hafeez to Craig , no run , floated outside off and the ball spins away sharply , Craig gets drawn in the drive but the ball just goes past the outside edge 33.3 Hafeez to Craig , no run , flighted delivery around off , Craig goes on the back foot and punches it to short cover 33.2 Hafeez to Craig , no run , almost a yorker from Hafeez , Craig digs it out into the on-side 33.1 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , 1 run , flatter and a little wide of off , Anderson goes deep in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover 32.6 Rahat Ali to Craig , FOUR , full and tailing in on middle , Craig looks to drive , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and runs away to the long-on fence 32.5 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , bowls a bumper down leg , Craig ducks and the ball bounces before it reaches the keeper There is a leg-slip in place now . 32.4 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , on a good length and on off , Craig blocks it back towards the bowler 32.3 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , 1 run , high full toss at the batsman , Anderson turns it to fine leg for a run , the square leg umpire does n't call it a no-ball even though it was around the waist height 32.2 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , very full and way down leg , Anderson ca n't nurdle it fine and the keeper dives to his right to collect the ball 32.1 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , fullish and on off , Anderson covers the stumps and blocks it into the off-side 31.6 Hafeez to Craig , no run , floated around off and middle , Craig goes half-forward and blocks 31.5 Hafeez to Craig , no run , tossed up on middle , Craig bunts it into the on-side There is a slip , a gully , a silly point and a FSL in place 31.4 Hafeez to Craig , no run , leans forward and blocks off the front foot 31.3 Hafeez to Craig , no run , flatter around off , Craig goes deep and defends 31.2 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , 1 run , pitched on middle and leg , Anderson goes back in the crease and works it behind square on the on-side for a run 31.1 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up on off , Anderson blocks off the front foot An eventful over comes to an end 30.6 Rahat Ali to Craig , 2 runs , full and tailing back in on the pads of the batsman , Craig whips it to backward square leg for a brace 30.5 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Craig pulls out of the defensive push away from the body , the ball goes on the bounce to the keeper 30.4 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , on a good length and shapes back in towards the batsman , Craig looks to block , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls away into the on-side Mark Craig , left handed bat , comes to the crease Rahat Ali is on a hat-trick now . 30.3 Rahat Ali to Watling , out Bowled ! ! What 's going on ? New Zealand are losing wickets on balls that deserve to be put away. It was bowled down leg , Watling looks to tickle it fine , he misses and the ball clips the thigh pad and rolls on to hit the leg-stump. Unlucky dismissal for the wicket-keeper batsman. Watling b Rahat Ali 0 ( 1 ) Rahat Ali to Watling , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! BJ Watling , right handed bat , comes to the crease 30.2 Rahat Ali to Neesham , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! Neesham is out for a duck. Is it the start of the Kiwi collapse ? It was on a good length and jagged back in a touch from outside off , Neesham pokes at it away from his body with laden feet , the ball takes the outside edge and Sarfraz takes an easy catch. Half the side is back in the hut now.Neesham c Sarfraz Ahmed b Rahat Ali 0 ( 2 ) Rahat Ali to Neesham , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 30.1 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , 1 run , almost a yorker on middle from Rahat , Anderson manages to squeeze it out behind square on the on-side , the batsmen take a run 29.6 Hafeez to Neesham , no run , pushed through quicker outside off , Neesham goes deep in the crease and dabs it gently into the off-side via an open face James Neesham , left handed bat , comes to the crease 29.5 Hafeez to Williamson , out Stumped ! ! That 's just some very good bowling from Hafeez. Williamson has perished. It was the straighter one from Hafeez and Williamson stepped out of the crease , he looked to push at it but ca n't connect as the ball does n't spin , the ball goes through to the keeper , who whips the bails off in a flash. That was just too clever from Hafeez. He has outfoxed the Kiwi vice-captain. Williamson st Sarfraz Ahmed b Hafeez 23 ( 45 ) [ 4s-3 ] Hafeez to Williamson , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 29.4 Hafeez to Williamson , no run , flatted on the pads , Williamson goes on the back foot and turns it to FSL 29.3 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Anderson goes down and drags the sweep to backward square leg 29.2 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , floated on off , Anderson presses forward and blocks 29.1 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , tossed up on middle , Anderson sweeps it fine on the on-side , if Anderson had missed that , he would have been plumb in front 28.6 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , short of a good length and on middle stump line , Williamson goes on the back foot and flicks it to short mid-wicket 28.5 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , fullish and around off , Williamson covers the stumps and pushes it into the covers 28.4 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , 1 run , on a good length and tailing back in towards Anderson , who looks to push at it , the ball runs away behind square on the on-side after taking the inside half of the bat 28.3 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , fullish and angling in towards the batsman , Anderson looks to clip it into the on-side , the ball missed the front leg and there was a huge appeal as the ball hit the back leg , the Pakistani players think about a review but they decide against it , it was a good decision as the ball was surely going down leg 28.2 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , poor delivery from Rahat , too full and too far down leg , the keeper puts in the dive and saves 4 byes for his team , good effort from Sarfraz there 28.1 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , fullish and on off and middle , Anderson turns it into the on-side with soft hands 27.6 Hafeez to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery spinning back in towards the batsman from around off , Williamson stays rooted to the crease and eases it to short mid-wicket 27.5 Hafeez to Williamson , 2 runs , fullish outside off , Williamson steps out and drives it to deep extra-cover for a brace 27.4 Hafeez to Williamson , no run , flatter and around off , Williamson defends it off the back foot Comes over the wicket for the right hander 27.3 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , 3 runs , slower delivery on off , Anderson goes down on one knee and sweeps it powerfully towards deep mid-wicket , the batsmen take three before the ball is thrown back Just a slip and a silly point in place for Anderson 27.2 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , floated on middle stump , Anderson is a little late to get down , he still manages to block it into the off-side 27.1 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up just outside off , Anderson drives it back to the bowler 26.6 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , fullish and outside off , Williamson does n't offer a shot 26.5 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , short of a good length and on middle stump line , Williamson works it to short mid-wicket off the back foot 26.4 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , Rahat finally makes Williamson play , it was on a good length and on off , Williamson blocks off the front foot 26.3 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , short of a good length and angling away outside off , Williamson wo n't play at those 26.2 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , on a good length and angling away from the batsman , Williamson shoulders arms 26.1 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , on a good length and outside off , Williamson covers the stumps and lets it go through to the keeper 25.6 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , FOUR , shortish and around off , Anderson waits in the crease and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence , he did n't get time it very well , but the ball had enough legs to reach the fence 25.5 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up on off , Anderson presses forward and dead-bats it 25.4 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , floated on off , Anderson leans forward and turns it into the on-side with soft hands 25.3 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up on off , Anderson blocks off the front foot There is a slip , a gully and a FSL in place for Hafeez 25.2 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , short delivery from Hafeez , Anderson mistimes the pull to mid-on 25.1 Hafeez to Williamson , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Williamson goes on the back foot and whips it to deep backward square leg Mohammad Hafeez , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 24.6 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , touch fuller and on middle , Anderson blocks it into the on-side 24.5 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Anderson looks to block , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and dribbles away towards gully 24.4 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Anderson covers the stumps and blocks , the ball goes off the outside half and rolls away towards point 24.3 Rahat Ali to Williamson , 3 runs , on a good length and angling outside off , Williamson punches it to deep extra-cover , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down just before the boundary by Misbah 24.2 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , short of a good length and going down leg , Williamson pulls out of the glance and allows it to go through to the keeper There are two slips and a gully in place 24.1 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Williamson goes back and flicks it to short mid-wicket Rahat Ali [ 3.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , floated on off , Anderson puts his front foot outside the line of off and blocks 23.5 Babar to Williamson , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Williamson bunts it towards mid-on off the back foot , the batsmen cross over for a quick single 23.4 Babar to Williamson , no run , floated on off , Williamson leans forward and blocks 23.3 Babar to Williamson , FOUR , shortish around off , Williamson rocks back and punches it beautifully wide of mid-off , the ball runs away to the fence 23.2 Babar to Williamson , FOUR , flatter around off and middle , Williamson goes back and punches it past the bowler , the ball runs away to the fence , Babar was slow to get down in his follow-through , otherwise he could have prevented the boundary 23.1 Babar to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off , Williamson drives it to short cover off the front foot 22.6 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , floated on off , Anderson lunges forward in defence 22.5 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , floated just outside off , Anderson defends 22.4 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , Yasir shortens his length after seeing Anderson come down , Anderson blocks 22.3 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , full toss from Yasir , Anderson sweeps it to deep square leg for a brace 22.2 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , wrong 'un from Yasir , Anderson looks to sweep but ca n't connect , the ball hits on the pad and rolls away into the off-side 22.1 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , pushed through quicker , Anderson defends to short leg 21.6 Babar to Williamson , no run , defended to FSL off the front foot 21.5 Babar to Williamson , no run , comes forward and looks to drive it into the off-side , the ball dribbles away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 21.4 Babar to Williamson , no run , defended to FSL off the front foot 21.3 Babar to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off , Williamson leans forward for a defensive push , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and rolls away towards gully 21.2 Babar to Corey Anderson , 1 run , tossed up on off , Anderson looks to clip it into the on-side , Anderson looks to check his shot and gets a leading edge back towards the bowler , Babar ca n't stop the ball and the batsmen run through for a single after the ball ran away towards long-on 21.1 Babar to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , slower and outside off , Anderson goes down on one knee and drags this sweep to deep square leg for a brace 20.6 Yasir Shah to Williamson , no run , pushed through on middle , Williamson goes on the front foot and dead-bats it 20.5 Yasir Shah to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson goes forward and blocks it to silly point 20.4 Yasir Shah to Williamson , no run , flatter and outside off , Williamson goes on the back foot and cuts it towards point 20.3 Yasir Shah to Williamson , no run , floated around off , Williamson presses forward and defends it into the off-side 20.2 Yasir Shah to Williamson , no run , leans forward and blocks this tossed up delivery on off 20.1 Yasir Shah to Williamson , FOUR , shortish and wide of off , Williamson goes deep in the crease and cuts it square of the wicket , Babar ca n't bend down at backward point and the ball runs away to the fence 19.6 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , good turn on that one , it was floated outside off and the ball turned back sharply towards the batsman , Anderson looks to flick it into the on-side , the ball falls just short of the FSL fielder 19.5 Babar to Williamson , 1 run , floated on off , Williamson drives it wide of mid-off , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but the batsman was well home 19.4 Babar to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off , Williamson goes on the front foot and dead-bats it 19.3 Babar to Corey Anderson , 1 run , floated on off , Anderson moves across and turns it towards long-on for a single 19.2 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , pushed through quicker on middle and leg , Anderson blocks 19.1 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up on off , Anderson lunges forward in defence 18.6 Yasir Shah to Williamson , no run , flatter on the stumps , Williamson goes deep in the crease and punches it back towards the bowler 18.5 Yasir Shah to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off , Williamson blocks off the front foot , the ball rolls away into the off-side off the outside half of the bat 18.4 Yasir Shah to Williamson , 2 runs , a little flatter on off , Williamson goes on the back foot and punches it towards deep extra-cover , Misbah runs and slides to collect the ball , he keeps the batsman down to a couple 18.3 Yasir Shah to Williamson , no run , floated on off , Williamson presses forward and dead-bats it 18.2 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , 1 run , full toss around off , Anderson sweeps it to deep square leg Yasir comes round the wicket A gully in place as well for Yasir 18.1 Yasir Shah to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up on off , Williamson pushes it in front of cover with soft hands , the batsmen pinch a quick single before the fielder gets around the ball 17.6 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Anderson hangs back and punches it to mid-off 17.5 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , floated on off , Anderson lunges forward in defence 17.4 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , goes half forward to this tossed up delivery on off and blocks 17.3 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Anderson defends There is a slip , a leg slip , a FSL and a silly point in place 17.2 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up on off , Anderson leans forward and defends it to FSL 17.1 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , floated on off , Anderson blocks off the front foot Babar will come round the wicket 16.6 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , 1 run , flighted delivery spinning towards the pads , Anderson clips it to deep square leg off the back foot 16.5 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , goes deep in the crease and blocks this flatter delivery around off Welcome back for the post-tea session. The question is whether Pakistan can take the final 7 wickets today. Corey Anderson joins Williamson at the crease . Tea , Day 4 : Pakistan inch closer to their third successive Test win. New Zealand started off their innings in a positive manner. Both McCullum and Latham were not afraid of playing their shots. They added the first 50 plus opening stand in 16 innings. However , Babar got one to bounce more and sent back Latham , then Yasir came into action , accounting for McCullum and Taylor. The visitors need someone to fight it out , otherwise this game will be over quickly. Will New Zealand show resistance ? Or will Pakistan bowl them out today itself ? Stay tuned as answers coming up in a short while.. . 16.4 Yasir Shah to Ross Taylor , out Lbw ! ! Yasir has his second ! New Zealand slip further. The flipper on the stumps , Taylor does not pick it , he plays for the leg-break , misses the forward defensive and is struck in front of middle stump. Umpire Tucker was quick to raise his finger. Taylor had a chat with Williamson , who told that it looked out. So he does not review it and walks back to the pavilion. Ross Taylor lbw b Yasir Shah 8 ( 10 ) [ 4s-1 ] Yasir Shah to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 16.3 Yasir Shah to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up around off , Taylor lunges forward and defends to silly point 16.2 Yasir Shah to Ross Taylor , no run , pushed through on off , Taylor goes back and blocks 16.1 Yasir Shah to Ross Taylor , FOUR , nice loopy delivery , it is bit too full , Taylor gets well forward and drives it inside out wide of mid-off , Imran gives chase but the ball wins 15.6 Babar to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off , Williamson presses it into the off-side 15.5 Babar to Ross Taylor , 3 runs , short and outside off , Taylor goes back and cuts it to deep backward point , Yasir gives chase and hauls the ball back in before it could reach the fence 15.4 Babar to Ross Taylor , no run , another shout for lbw , but the umpire shakes his head. The arm-ball that skids on , Taylor misses the forward defensive and is rapped on the pads , but the ball was snaking down leg 15.3 Babar to Ross Taylor , no run , pulls the length back on off , Taylor goes right back and blocks it dead near his feet 15.2 Babar to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted just outside off , Taylor jabs at it and the ball rolls to short cover 15.1 Babar to Ross Taylor , no run , beauty ! Slows it up and holds the length back , Taylor plays down the wrong line , he is beaten neck and crop. Babar ca n't believe that the ball did n't take the edge 14.6 Yasir Shah to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Taylor gets off the pair , that must be a relief. The wrong 'un on off , Taylor leans forward and works it to mid-wicket Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 14.5 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , out Lbw ! ! Trapped ! McCullum walked as soon as he missed. He knew he was a dead duck. The quicker one on the stumps , the ball kept a bit low as well. McCullum goes deep in the crease and ca n't keep it out , the ball hits him well below the knee roll , umpire Tucker had no hesistation in raising the finger. New Zealand in trouble after a good start. Brendon McCullum lbw b Yasir Shah 39 ( 49 ) [ 4s-7 ] Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 14.4 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted just outside off , McCullum stands tall and blocks to the off-side 14.3 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , googly on middle and leg , McCullum misses the sweep and is rapped on the pads , the ball was sneaking down leg 14.2 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , huge shout for the lbw , but umpire Tucker turns it down. The flipper just outside off , McCullum comes forward and misses the defence , is struck outside off. The impact saved him on that occasion 14.1 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , short , wide and four ! McCullum was onto it in a flash , transfers his weight onto the back foot and cuts it past backward point , the power behind it takes it to the fence 13.6 Babar to Williamson , no run , tossed up outside off , Williamson checks his drive , the ball was in the air but does n't carry to short cover 13.5 Babar to Williamson , no run , floated up on off , Williamson lunges forward and blocks it dead on the wicket 13.4 Babar to Williamson , no run , fligthed on middle , Williamson defends it to the on-side 13.3 Babar to Williamson , no run , slower and on off , the ball grips and turns , Williamson is drawn into the forward defensive , he is beaten all ends up. Babar thought he got an edge on that , but the close in fielders did n't react. Misbah still went for the review , the sound was the bat kissing the pad. Pakistan have lost one review Pakistan have taken a review against Williamson. Babar thinks the batsman has nicked one. It is a legal delivery , no issues with the no-ball. It might be the bat hitting the pad. The onfield call remains . 13.2 Babar to Williamson , no run, Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.1 Babar to Latham , out Caught by Yasir Shah ! ! The centurion from the first innings is gone. Babar gets one to spin and bounce more , Latham kneels down and goes for the sweep , the ball gets big on him and takes the top-edge to deep backward square , Yasir runs forward , dives and takes a superb catch. Latham c Yasir Shah b Babar 20 ( 35 ) [ 4s-3 ] Babar to Latham , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.6 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , flatter and around off , McCullum works it to the right of the bowler 12.5 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , quicker and close to off , McCullum stays leg-side of the ball and cuts it to backward point 12.4 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , fraction short outside off , Latham stands tall and punches it through cover 12.3 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , spins back into the left-hander , Latham stays back and works it to mid-wicket Yasir changes to round the stumps 12.2 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , gives it plenty of air outside off , McCullum drives it to the left of mid-off 12.1 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , juicy full toss and Latham does n't take full toll of it , sweeps it to deep backward square leg. He should have driven it through cover 11.6 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , McCullum plunges forward and defends with the full face of the bat 11.5 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , gets a good stride forward and defends solidly 11.4 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , touch quicker and around off , McCullum check-drives it to mid-off 11.3 Babar to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , fabulous shot ! A tough shot to play against the turn. It was full and on middle , Baz gets to the pitch of the ball and whips it to deep mid-wicket , nice wristwork to get the ball where he wanted. Imran Khan gives chase in vain 11.2 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , tossed up on off , McCullum drives without much timing to the bowler 11.1 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted outside off , McCullum plays an extended forward defence to cover 10.6 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , quicker and on off , Latham defends off the back foot 10.5 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , 3 runs , half tracker on off , McCullum rocks back and mistimes the pull to deep mid-wicket , the ball plugs in the outfield and the batsmen run three before it is retrieved 10.4 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , slower and on off , McCullum pushes it off the front foot to short cover 10.3 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , flatter and on off , McCullum goes back and punches it to extra-cover 10.2 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , pushed through close to off , McCullum was late to bring his bat down , the ball takes the outside edge and rolls towards point 10.1 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , starts with a quicker one outside off , left alone Yasir Shah , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 9.6 Babar to Latham , no run , slower and around off , the length is short which allows Latham to go back and knock it to mid-wicket 9.5 Babar to Latham , no run , drags the length back , Latham stays back and turns it to mid-wicket 9.4 Babar to Latham , no run , floated up outside off , Latham presses forward and dead-bats it to silly point 9.3 Babar to Latham , no run , waits for the ball to turn then tickles it to the man at leg slip 9.2 Babar to Latham , no run , flighted on middle , Latham paddles it and hits it to the leg slip fielder 9.1 Babar to Latham , no run , goes back and across , defends it with a straight bat back to Babar Drinks are on the field now 8.6 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length on off , McCullum camps on the back foot and blocks 8.5 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , class written all over it. You just ca n't bowl full to Baz. This was a repeat of the previous boundary , half volley outside off , McCullum frees his arm and hammers the drive past Misbah at mid-off. That ball reached the fence in a hurry 8.4 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller and shapes back in , McCullum inches forward to defend , the ball rolls off the inside part of the bat to mid-on 8.3 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , shortens the length on off , McCullum jumps up and blocks it down the wicket 8.2 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , crunched ! Overpitched outside off , McCullum moves forward and drills the drive to the left of mid-off , not a muscle moved when the ball took off from the bat. Baz stood there and admired it 8.1 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length around off , McCullum comes slightly forward and defends to mid-off 7.6 Babar to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham smothers the spin with a forward defence 7.5 Babar to Latham , no run , again , extra bounce on this occasion , Latham rides it and taps it to FSL 7.4 Babar to Latham , no run , slower and around off , Latham goes back and pats it to the off-side Goes over the wicket for Latham 7.3 Babar to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , McCullum gets inside the line and works it to mid-wicket 7.2 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , pushed through on middle , McCullum hangs back and turns it softly to the on-side 7.1 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted on off , McCullum lunges forward in defence 6.6 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , good length around off , Latham plays a solid forward defence to cover 6.5 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , on a length close to off , Latham comes half forward and knocks it to mid-off 6.4 Imran Khan to Latham , FOUR , half volley outside off , Latham comes on the front foot and caresses the drive past the diving cover fielder. The timing on that was excellent 6.3 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , full and homing in , Latham covers the line and pushes it to mid-on 6.2 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , pitched up outside off , Latham drives crisply but ca n't beat the cover fielder 6.1 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump , Latham presses it to cover after coming forward Imran Khan [ 2.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Babar to Brendon McCullum , leg byes , 2 runs , slider down leg , McCullum does not get bat on the tickle , the ball brushes the pad and goes past Sarfraz 5.5 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , stifled appeal for lbw , arm-ball on middle and leg , McCullum presses forward and misses the defence , the ball strikes the pads , but the angle was taking it down leg 5.4 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , bit of extra bounce on this occasion , McCullum goes deep in the crease and taps it to FSL 5.3 Babar to Latham , 1 run , flatter and turns in , Latham shuffles across and nurdles it through backward square 5.2 Babar to Latham , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Latham gets right behind the line and blocks A slip , leg slip , FSL and silly point in place 5.1 Babar to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , tosses it up on middle , McCullum crouches low and turns it to the vacant mid-wicket region Zulfiqar Babar , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 4.6 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Latham hops in the crease and blocks 4.5 Rahat Ali to Latham , FOUR , fullish and on middle and leg , Latham wo n't miss out on those , he clips it through the mid-wicket region and the ball raced away to the deep mid-wicket fence 4.4 Rahat Ali to Latham , FOUR , that 's a great shot from Latham , it was fullish and around off , Latham moves across a little and punches it down the ground , the ball runs away to the long-on fence 4.3 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , short of a good length and on off , Latham looks to block , the ball rolls away into the leg-side after taking the inside half of the bat 4.2 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , on a good length and outside off , Latham leans forward and defends it into the covers 4.1 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Latham stays back in the crease and blocks 3.6 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery that jags back in , McCullum fails to clip it into the leg-side , the ball takes the inside edge and hits the flap of his front pad , there ws a loud appeal as the umpire gave him out , the decision is overturned as replays showed that he got some part of the bat there McCullum has decided to review an lbw decision. The onfield umpire ruled him out. There 's no issue with Imran 's front foot. There was an inside edge on that ball and the decision is overturned . 3.5 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a good length and on middle , McCullum punches it to short mid-wicket 3.4 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a good length and shapes back in towards off , McCullum shoulders arms as the ball goes past the off stick , that was too close to shoulder arms 3.3 Imran Khan to Latham , 3 runs , short of a good length and on the pads , Latham goes back in the crease and tucks it away towards deep square leg , the batsmen take three before the ball is fielded 3.2 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , on a good length and outside off , Latham does n't offer a shot 3.1 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Latham goes on the back foot and dabs it towards point via an open face of the bat 2.6 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery on off , McCullum gets behind the line and blocks 2.5 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , banged in short and outside off , McCullum looks to pull but he ca n't connect as the ball does n't rise as much as expected , he was a little too early in the shot as well 2.4 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , short of a good length and wide of off , it is a poor ball from Rahat , McCullum goes on the back foot and smashes this one to the sweeper cover fence 2.3 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , that 's a good leave from McCullum , it was on a good length and around off , McCullum lets it go as the ball goes over the stumps and through to the keeper 2.2 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , short of a good length and on leg , McCullum goes on the back foot and flicks it to the deep backward square leg fence , Imran Khan from fine leg runs towards the fence but the ball wins the race 2.1 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish and on the pads , McCullum looks to clip it into the on-side , he misses and the ball rolls away towards FSL off the pad 1.6 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , on a good length and around off , the ball jags in just a touch as McCullum looks to drive , the ball dribbles away wide of mid-on after taking the inside half of the bat 1.5 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish and outside off , McCullum leans forward and punch-drives it to mid-off 1.4 Imran Khan to Latham , 1 run , fullish and around off , Latham goes on the front foot and knocks it into the covers for another single 1.3 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , short of a good length and on off , Latham stands tall and blocks from the crease Three slips and a gully in place for Imran Khan 1.2 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Latham covers the stumps and dabs it into the off-side with soft hands 1.1 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , McCullum jumps in the crease and bunts it down in front of cover , the batsmen run through for a single Imran Khan , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , 3 runs , fullish and around off , McCullum drives it wide of mid-off , Babar moves to his right but fails to stop the ball , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down 0.5 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , that 's a peach from Rahat ! It was not too far away from the stumps , it was a touch fuller and around off , McCullum leaves as the ball goes past above the stumps , do n't think it was a good leave as the ball was n't too far away from the off stick 0.4 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a good length on off and middle , the ball shapes in just a touch as McCullum looks to push at it , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 0.3 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , short of a good length and wide of off , McCullum hangs back and smashes it to the sweeper cover fence , great shot that one 0.2 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , bowls this one down leg , McCullum misses the tickle and the keeper collects it 0.1 Rahat Ali to Latham , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Latham goes on the back foot and pushes it just in front of cover-point , the batsmen take a quick single , Yasir Shah brings down the stumps at the non-striker 's end , but Latham was comfortably in Latham and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Latham is on strike. Rahat Ali will open the attack There are three slips , a gully and a FSL in place for Rahat . Rahat Ali will open the bowling. He picked up 4/22 in the first innings . The umpires are making their way out to the centre. Latham and McCullum are also walking out. Can Latham continue the form from the first innings ? We will find out soon . After lunch , Pakistan were aggressive with both Hafeez and Younis trying to up the ante. Younis , however , departed shortly after missing a sweep off Sodhi. New Zealand have only managed to take 5 wickets in the entire match. The focus now shifts to the Pakistani bowlers , who will try and strangle the Kiwis like they did in the first innings. Stay tuned for New Zealand 's innings . Pakistan have also made the declaration after Hafeez got to his hundred. Now , it is upto their bowlers to win this game for them. The batsmen have done their job . 39.2 Brendon McCullum to Hafeez , 2 runs , Hafeez has done it. He has completed his 6th Test century with this couple. It was a back of a length delivery around off , Hafeez goes on the back foot and punches it towards sweeper cover. Hafeez is ecstatic. He raises his bat to the crowd and his team-mates also applaud his effort . The field is coming in to prevent the single 39.1 Brendon McCullum to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Sarfraz pushes it towards cover point to give Hafeez the strike Brendon McCullum , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 38.6 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 2 runs , full toss from Sodhi , Hafeez slog sweeps it to deep mid-wicket to reach 99 38.5 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , SIX , steps out of the crease and launches this floated delivery on middle stump line over the long-on fence , Hafeez does n't look nervous in the nineties at all 38.4 Ish Sodhi to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , loopy delivery outside off , Sarfraz goes hard at it , the ball goes a little uppishly and to the wide of long-off 38.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , floated on off , Hafeez leans forward and drives it to sweeper cover 38.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Hafeez blocks 38.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , tossed up on off , Hafeez pushes it into the off-side off the front foot 37.6 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , moves forward and slog sweeps it to deep mid-wicket , the timing was n't that great as the batsman was n't upto the pitch of the ball 37.5 Craig to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , full toss from Craig , Sarfraz comes down the track and lofts it to the cow corner for a single 37.4 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , tossed up around off , Hafeez employs the sweep and hits it to backward square leg 37.3 Craig to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , flatter and on middle and leg , Sarfraz goes back and turns it to backward square leg 37.2 Craig to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , driven to the right of the bowler 37.1 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , comes round the wicket and bowls this one on leg , Hafeez was looking to back away but Craig cramps him for room , he could only knock it towards cover 36.6 Ish Sodhi to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , tossed up on off , Sarfraz goes down on one knee and sweeps it to the deep backward square leg fence to collect four 36.5 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , comes down the track but the ball spins away from him , he bunts it towards backward point as he was not close to the pitch of the ball 36.4 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , tossed up around off , Hafeez knocks it back to the bowler off the front foot 36.3 Ish Sodhi to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , straying on the pads this time , Sarfraz moves across a touch and works it to deep square leg 36.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , flatter delivery wide of off , Hafeez waits for it on the back foot , he cuts it late towards the short third man area for another single 36.1 Ish Sodhi to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , shortish and just outside off , Sarfraz goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep square leg 35.6 Craig to Hafeez , no run , flatter and quicker outside off , he tried to steer it down to third man but ca n't connect 35.5 Craig to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , hangs back in the crease and bunts it towards backward point for a single 35.4 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , flicks this flattish delivery to backward square leg 35.3 Craig to Hafeez , 2 runs , stays back and guides this flighted delivery just outside off towards third man , the batsmen run for a brace before Latham gets around the ball 35.2 Craig to Hafeez , FOUR , steps out of the crease to convert this fullish delivery into a full toss , he drives it wide of the mid-off fielder , who puts in the dive but ca n't stop the ball from running away to the boundary 35.1 Craig to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , flatter and wide of off , Sarfraz hangs back and dabs it square of the wicket 34.6 Ish Sodhi to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , flighted delivery on the pads , Sarfraz works it towards backward square leg to keep the strike 34.5 Ish Sodhi to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , short and going down leg , Ahmed backs away to pull it , he ca n't connect and the ball goes through to the keeper 34.4 Ish Sodhi to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Sarfraz goes on the back foot and cuts it to backward point A gully has been put in place as well 34.3 Ish Sodhi to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fullish on off , Sarfraz sweeps it to backward square leg Sarfraz Ahmed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , out Lbw ! ! Younis has to depart. It was a flighted delivery on off , Younis looks to sweep but failed to connect , the ball hits him around the knee roll and in line with off , the umpire raised his finger immediately and since the on-field decision was out , Younis has to go even though the ball was just clipping off. Younis Khan lbw b Ish Sodhi 28 ( 45 ) [ 4s-2 ] Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! The umpire has given Younis out lbw. He has decided to review the decision. There are no problems with the front foot. There is no edge involved even as Younis was a long way forward. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball is just clipping the off stump and the on-field decision stays . There is a slip in place for Sodhi 34.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up on off , Younis goes half forward and blocks it into the off-side 33.6 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , pushed through on off , Younis goes on the back foot and flicks it behind square on the on-side 33.5 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Hafeez sweeps it to deep backward square leg 33.4 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , mistimes the sweep to square leg , the batsmen had ample time to take a single 33.3 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Hafeez drives it behind point for a single 33.2 Craig to Hafeez , byes , FOUR , fullish and outside off , the ball misses everything as Hafeez employs the reverse sweep , the keeper ca n't collect it and the ball raced away very fine 33.1 Craig to Hafeez , FOUR , flatter and outside off , Hafeez goes back in the crease , he dabs it very late and beats the short third man fielder , the ball runs away to the fence Welcome back. The players are out in the centre. Craig will open the bowling after lunch . Lunch , Day 4 : Pakistan have continued to dominate New Zealand. Hafeez and Azhar Ali came out with a positive mindset and scored freely. The former managed to keep going even after losing his partner and has brought up his second fifty of the game. Younis has given him good company and the pair have added 58 runs for the 2nd wicket. New Zealand seem to be waiting for the declaration as they have looked tired in the field. Can Hafeez get to a hundred this time ? When will they declare ? Join us in a few minutes to find out.. . 32.6 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , quicker delivery on the stumps , Younis shuffles across and ekes out an inside edge onto the pads , Sodhi appealed for lbw and the umpire obliged. However , Younis was quick to ask for the review as he knew he had hit it. The replay confirmed that and he stays. The duo were thinking about the single , but Hafeez sends his partner back. The throw comes in at the striker 's end and Younis had to dive to make his ground Younis has reviewed an lbw decision. He asked for it straightaway. It is a legal delivery. There was a big inside edge. He is going to survive . 32.5 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , floated up on off , Younis presses forward and defends 32.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , too full and on off , Younis brings his bat in front of his pad and blocks 32.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , pushed through on off , punched back to the bowler 32.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run 32.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run 31.6 Craig to Hafeez , no run , fraction short and outside off , Hafeez steers it to backward point 31.5 Craig to Hafeez , no run , flatter and close to off , Hafeez guides it to short third man with an angled bat 31.4 Craig to Hafeez , no run , pushed through on leg , Hafeez misses the flick and is hit on the pads , the ball drops down on the wicket 31.3 Craig to Hafeez , no run , touch quicker and outside off , Hafeez does not connect with the reverse sweep 31.2 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , flighted on middle , Younis kneels down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 31.1 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , floated up on off , Younis smothers the spin with a forward defence Mark Craig [ 1.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Younis comes on the front foot and drives to sweeper cover 30.5 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 2 runs , the line is too straight , on middle and leg , Younis paddles it fine and picks up a comfortable two 30.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , slower and gets it to drift and spin , Younis goes for the booming drive , is beaten by the turn 30.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Hafeez dabs it to sweeper cover 30.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , FOUR , rank long hop , Hafeez transfers his weight onto the back foot and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , Southee gets around and tries to stop it , but fails as the ball rolls over. Hafeez seems to be shifting gears 30.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , shortens the length on middle , Younis whips it off the back foot to mid-wicket Ish Sodhi [ 8.0-0-38-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Southee to Hafeez , SIX , clubbed ! Length delivery just outside off , Hafeez plays a T20 shot , gets his front leg out of the way and heaves it over mid-on , he middled it so well that it went the distance 29.5 Southee to Hafeez , FOUR , slower delivery with plenty of width , Hafeez did not try to hit it too hard , moves forward and creams the drive to sweeper cover , the emphasis was on timing and not on power 29.4 Southee to Hafeez , no run , too full and was the attempted yorker , Hafeez manages to get his bat down and jam it to the off-side 29.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length around off , Hafeez bunts it towards backward point 29.2 Southee to Hafeez , no run , on a length and straightens , Hafeez camps back and taps it in front of cover Watling walks upto the stumps 29.1 Southee to Hafeez , 2 runs , short and down leg , Hafeez helps it on its way to fine leg with a pull shot , he did n't get quite off the middle 28.6 Craig to Younis Khan , 2 runs , tossed up outside off , Younis gets a good stride forward and caresses the drive to deep extra cover 28.5 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , slower and well wide of off , Younis pads it away 28.4 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , floated up outside off , Younis push-drives it to short cover 28.3 Craig to Younis Khan , FOUR , nice friendly full toss and Younis puts it away with ease. Goes down on one knee and sweeps it behind square , there was no one protection in the deep 28.2 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , flighted just outside off , Younis presses forward and blocks 28.1 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , gives this plenty of air outside off , Younis drives it hard and straight to short cover , he tried to hit it too hard Mark Craig , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 27.6 Southee to Hafeez , no run , short of length close to off , Hafeez rides the bounce and dabs it towards gully 27.5 Southee to Hafeez , no run , shapes back in from a length , Hafeez stays inside the crease and defends back to Southee 27.4 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length and hint of inward movement , Hafeez goes back and bunts it to mid-on 27.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , goes wide of the crease , keeps it on a length around off , Hafeez gets behind the line and knocks it down the ground 27.2 Southee to Younis Khan , 1 run , full and on the pads again , Younis flicks it past the square leg fielder , there is back up in the deep 27.1 Southee to Younis Khan , 2 runs , starts with a curler on middle and leg , Younis leans forward and flicks it to deep backward square leg Tim Southee [ 7.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , too full and on off , Hafeez brings his bat down and digs it to short cover 26.5 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , Younis paddles it towards long leg 26.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , throws this up outside off , Younis lunges forward and drives it to extra-cover , Baz dives and does n't allow the single to be taken 26.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , floated up on off , Hafeez shimmies down the wicket , gets too close to the ball but still goes through with the loft , hits it wide of deepish mid-on 26.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , pushed through on leg-stump , Younis gets inside the line and nurdles to backward square leg 26.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , low full toss , Hafeez eases the drive down to long-off 25.6 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , 1 run , angling in on middle and leg , Hafeez tucks it to the right of mid-wicket and scampers through for a run 25.5 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , leg byes , 1 run , straying onto the legs , Younis misses the flick and the ball dribbles off the pads to fine leg 25.4 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , pitched up just outside off , Younis drives and picks out the extra-cover fielder Watling is upto the stumps now . 25.3 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , on a length just outside off , Younis push-drives it to mid-off 25.2 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , good length ball , it might have been the off-cutter , Younis presses it to cover after coming forward 25.1 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , full and almost a yorker , Younis squeezes it towards cover The physio is out in the middle. He is tending to Hafeez 's leg. Might be some cramps as he is seen stretching. He seems to alright now , back up and ready to go . 24.6 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , full toss on off , Younis drills the drive back to the bowler , Sodhi gets a hand and makes a half stop , the duo steal a quick single 24.5 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , floats it up close to off , Hafeez prods forward and plays it with hard hands , the ball takes the edge and goes wide of the slip fielder 24.4 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , FOUR , 2nd fifty of the game for Hafeez. It is 11th Test fifty overall. Fraction short and quicker , Hafeez is quick to rock back and pull it over mid-wicket , the ball bounces couple of times before reaching the fence 24.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , slower and on middle , Hafeez clips it uppishly , the ball drops well before the short mid-wicket fielder 24.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , turn and bounce for Sodhi , Hafeez does not show any interest of playing that 24.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn away and then dabs it square of the wicket on the off-side 23.6 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Hafeez prefers to hang back and knock it to the off-side 23.5 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , back of a length just outside off , Hafeez punches it to the left of Anderson , who sticks out his hand and stops the ball 23.4 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , short of length on off , Younis jumps up and fends it in front of mid-wicket 23.3 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , huge shout for lbw , umpire Tucker was unmoved. The nip-backer on a length , Younis presses forward and looks to defend , the ball takes a slight inside edge and raps him on the pads. The New Zealand players thought it was only pad , hence opted for the review. The replays confirmed that ump Tucker had got it right Stand-in skipper Williamson has taken an LBW review against Younis. Anderson is fine with the front foot. Was the impact outside off ? There might be an inside edge. Height is not a factor as it hit him well below the knee roll. Younis survives ! 23.2 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , too full and just outside off , Younis squeezes the drive to mid-off 23.1 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , good length ball angling in , Younis stays back and jams it onto the pads , the ball dribbles to the off-side 22.6 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , nice loopy delivery , gets the ball to dip and turn away , Hafeez plays down the wrong line and is beaten comprehensively 22.5 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , throws this up invitingly outside off , Hafeez drives it and finds the short cover fielder 22.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , shorter and turning away , Younis goes back and whips it to the unmanned mid-wicket region 22.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , straight roller on middle , Hafeez camps on the back foot and nurdles it behind square leg 22.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , tosses it up around off , Younis lunges forward and presses it wide of cover 22.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , FOUR , full toss and Younis gives the deserved treatment , gets a good stride forward and creams the drive to the left of mid-off , Neesham gives chase in vain 21.6 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , ends the over with a slower delivery , Hafeez gently pushes it back to the bowler 21.5 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , again , the length is short , Hafeez is not troubled by that , goes back and knocks it to cover 21.4 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , back of a length on off , Hafeez gets behind the line and pats it to the right of Anderson 21.3 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , pitched up on the fourth stump line , Hafeez drives it to mid-off , straight to the fielder 21.2 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , tad short in length and outside off , Hafeez lets it pass , the ball goes on the bounce to Watling 21.1 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , yorker slanting in around off , Hafeez brings his bat down and jams it to the off-side 20.6 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , gives this plenty of air and invites the batsman to drive , Hafeez takes the bait , drives and gets a thickish outside edge towards short third man , where Criag dives and stops the ball 20.5 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , slider on middle and leg , Hafeez goes deep in the crease and bunts it to cover 20.4 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , Sodhi sees the batsman advance , drags the length back , Hafeez ca n't do much apart from knock it back to the bowler 20.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , shortens the length outside off , Hafeez does n't bother with it 20.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , pushed through on middle , Younis gets inside the line and nurdles it behind square to open his account 20.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , floated up outside off , Younis moves forward , drives away from the body to short cover 19.6 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , fullish and on off , Hafeez drives it back down the wicket , Anderson bends down and fields the ball 19.5 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , full and homing in on middle , Hafeez clips it without much timing to mid-on 19.4 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , pitches it up outside off , Hafeez leans into the drive , but ca n't pierce the packed off-side field 19.3 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , shortens the length around off , Hafeez taps it in front of cover 19.2 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , FOUR , edged and four ! Back of a length ball that straightens enough to take the outside edge , Hafeez poked at it feebly and the ball runs past the vacant slip cordon 19.1 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , fullish and just outside off , Hafeez reaches forward and pushes it to mid-off 18.6 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , slows this up considerably , Younis presses forward and dead-bats it down the wicket 18.5 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , flighted on off , Younis lunges forward and blocks it to the on-side Younis Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 18.4 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , out Lbw ! ! Sodhi has Azhar Ali for the second time in the match. The umpires raises his finger and gives Azhar Ali the marching orders. Spins in on middle , Azhar Ali bends down , but misses the sweep. The ball would have gone on to hit off. Azhar Ali knew it and did not waste a review. Azhar Ali lbw b Ish Sodhi 23 ( 47 ) Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 18.3 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , looped up and turns away past the ill-judged poke of Azhar Ali 18.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 3 runs , quicker through the air outside off , Hafeez waits on it and dabs it behind point. Hafeez exploited the pace of Ish Sodhi to his advantage 18.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker outside off , punched off the back foot to sweeper cover 17.6 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , fullish and just a shade outside off , Hafeez protects his off-stump and shoulders arms 17.5 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , angled in on a length on off , blocked back to the bowler 17.4 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , 1 run , good length ball outside off , Azhar Ali drives it towards sweeper cover 17.3 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , straighter in line , Azhar Ali invests in a wristy push wide of mid-on and comes back for the second 17.2 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , 1 run , fuller and angled in on middle and leg , tucked to mid-wicket region 17.1 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , 1 run , angled close to off from round the stumps , drop-and-run single to cover-point Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 16.6 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , flighted delivery on off , dead-batted by Hafeez 16.5 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , Hafeez comes down the track and drives it ram rod straight past the bowler 's dive and rattles the stump at the bowler 's end. Sodhi did not get his fingertips to it to effect a deflection 16.4 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , Ish Sodhi gives this ample air on the fourth stump , driven to short cover again 16.3 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , tossed up , fuller as well , Azhar Ali drills a drive to deep extra cover 16.2 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , looped up on middle , dabbed in front of point 16.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , pitched up and spins in on off , forward and driven to short cover 15.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , 1 run , another short of length outside off , this time to Azhar Ali , who yanks his bottom hand off the bat as he fends it wide of cover 15.5 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , shortish and widish outside off , Hafeez hops up and steers it towards deep backward point 15.4 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length and down leg , Hafeez has nothing to do with that 15.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , fullish and just outside off , left alone 15.2 Southee to Hafeez , no run , rapped on the pads but Southee 's appeal amounts to nothing. Good length ball shapes back in on middle and leg as Hafeez misses the flick and wears it on the pad. The ball was snaking down leg 15.1 Southee to Hafeez , no run , on a length and outside off , Hafeez protects his off-stump and lets it pass 14.6 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , flighted and full outside off , Hafeez lunges forward and drives it to deep point via an open face 14.5 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , forward and blocked back to the bowler 14.4 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , good response from Ish Sodhi ! Pitched on off and spins away past the iffy forward prod of Hafeez. BJ Watling whips the bails off and calls for a stumping. But Hafeez had his back foot grounded 14.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , FOUR , Hafeez comes down the track , takes it on the full and drives it past the covers for another four 14.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , fired fuller on off , Hafeez pushes it to mid-off. There is a brief communication breakdown , but no harm done. Hafeez almost sold Ali a dummy there. A direct hit from the fielder could have tightened things up 14.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , FOUR , floaty full toss outside off , Hafeez says thank you very much as he drives it sweetly to the deep extra cover boundary Ish Sodhi [ 1.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack Time for some spin . 13.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , angled across off , Azhar Ali will ignore those all day 13.5 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , dug in short and rises on off , Hafeez miscues the pull over square leg. I guess he was hurried onto the pull on that occasion 13.4 Southee to Hafeez , no run , full and outside off , scuttles through to the keeper. Left alone 13.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , wayward delivery - dragged short and down leg - nothing doing from Hafeez 13.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , 1 run , full and on off , Azhar Ali clips it to mid-on and takes off for a brisk single 13.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , good length ball on the fifth stump line , draws Azhar Ali forward into a defensive push back to the bowler 12.6 Boult to Hafeez , no run , Boult completes the over with a fuller delivery just a shade outside off , shouldered arms 12.6 Boult to Hafeez , wide , Boult digs another bouncer outside off , ducked under. Another wide 12.5 Boult to Hafeez , 2 runs , width on offer outside off , Hafeez waits on it and cuts it behind point , Neesham slides in the deep and keeps it to a couple 12.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller and fired on off , Hafeez just abouts digs it out to the off-side Boult goes round the stumps now . 12.4 Boult to Hafeez , wide , slower ball bouncer from Boult , ducked under safely. Wided by the umpire for height 12.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , 1 run , shortish and on off , Azhar Ali shuffles across and works it backward of square leg 12.2 Boult to Hafeez , 1 run , dab-and-run to mid-off for a quick single. The fielder has a shy at the stumps but misses. Good call from Hafeez , his partner responded in kind as well 12.1 Boult to Hafeez , FOUR , fuller and outside off , Hafeez leans forward and creams the drive past the covers , the rich timing carries it away to the fence 11.6 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , angled in fuller on middle , Hafeez twirls his wrists and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 11.5 Southee to Hafeez , no run , sucker ball - slower and fuller outside off - ignored. This was the off cutter from Southee 11.4 Southee to Hafeez , no run , lifter - sails through to the keeper - after Hafeez sits under that 11.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , on a fuller length and jagging in , Hafeez taps it towards mid-on 11.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , 3 runs , hurled in fuller on middle and leg , Azhar Ali whips it away past mid-wicket. The fielder chases the ball , dives and cuts it down to three 11.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , on a length and outside off , Azhar Ali flows forward and eases a drive to deep extra-cover 10.6 Boult to Hafeez , no run , good length ball outside off , Hafeez lifts his bat and lets it go 10.5 Boult to Hafeez , no run , overpitched on off , Hafeez comes forward and drives it to extra-cover 10.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fullish and around off , forward and driven to mid-off 10.3 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller and curling away , Hafeez pushes at it with laden feet and ekes out an inside edge onto his pad. He was lucky that the ball did not roll back onto the stumps 10.2 Boult to Hafeez , FOUR , on a length and outside off , Hafeez plays away from the body and pokes it down to third man. Boult wo n't mind that 10.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , shortish and outside off , Hafeez punches it in front of point 9.6 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , angled outside off from wide of the crease , Hafeez leans forward and drives it wide of mid-off 9.5 Southee to Hafeez , no run , short of length and climbs over the leg-stump , Hafeez sinks under it and evades it 9.4 Southee to Hafeez , 2 runs , fuller and on off , Hafeez leans forward and check-punches it straight down the ground , past the bowler. Southee looks to stop the ball with his boot in vain 9.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , fuller and in the corridor of uncertainty , Hafeez though is certain about leaving it 9.2 Southee to Hafeez , byes , 2 runs , this boinged off the surface ! Banged in short , Hafeez goes for the hook before bailing out. The keeper leaps up , gets a glove to it , but ca n't stop it cleanly 9.1 Southee to Hafeez , no run , fullish and nipping in on off , Hafeez comes forward , covers for the movement and blocks it 8.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , pitched further up and outside off , Azhar Ali push-drives it straight to the fielder at cover 8.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Azhar Ali stands tall and punches it tamely towards mid-on 8.4 Boult to Hafeez , 1 run , fraction back of a length and on off , stops on the batsman , who check-pushes it in front of short cover , who dives to his right and deflects the ball towards mid-off. Meanwhile , the duo pinch a single 8.3 Boult to Hafeez , no run , pitched up and outside off , Hafeez drives it on the up , but mistimes it to cover 8.2 Boult to Hafeez , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Hafeez cuts it in the air over backward point. It sat up to be punished and Hafeez obliged 8.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , very full and slanted across off , Hafeez lets it pass 7.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , good length delivery on off , Azhar Ali props forward and taps it to mid-on 7.5 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , Southee bangs this bouncer , sails over a ducking Azhar Ali to the keeper 7.4 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , fuller on middle and leg , Hafeez leans across and flicks it deep mid-wicket 7.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , effort ball from Southee. But Hafeez safely ducks under this bouncer 7.2 Southee to Hafeez , no run , fullish and on the fourth stump , Hafeez comes forward and defends it to short cover A couple of slips in place for Southee as well . 7.1 Southee to Hafeez , no run , good length ball homing in on off , Hafeez comes forward and presses it down the track Tim Southee [ 2.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack 6.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller again , teasing Azhar Ali outside off , but the latter does not catch the bait , ignoring it 6.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and on off and middle , forward and blocked to the left of Boult 6.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller and wide outside off , Azhar Ali displays his lack of interest 6.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , pitched up and tailing in , Azhar Ali jerkily pushes it towards mid-wicket 6.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller and attacking the off-stump now , Azhar Ali inches forward and blocks it towards mid-off 6.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , full and angled across , Azhar Ali lifts his bat and lets it go Hafeez and Ali make their way out to the middle . Pitch report : " The 22 yards has not changed that much. Pakistan spinners will look to exploit the rough areas. Trial by spin and more of it for New Zealand. It will get drier. All in all , it is a good surface " reckons Danny Morrison Pakistan have already fattened their lead to 319. Can New Zealand rise from the dead and halt the hosts ' charge ? Let us find out. Greetings and welcome to day 4 . Pakistan hold all the aces at Abu Dhabi. After batting big , Rahat Ali generated good reverse swing to skittle New Zealand out for 262 , despite a solid century from Tom Latham. Rahat was ably assisted by Babar before the openers went unscathed in a 6-over period before the close of play on day 3 . Day 3 , Stumps : A dominating performance by the hosts. They did well to bowl out New Zealand for 262. Pakistan played out the last six overs of the day without any damage , fattening the lead to 319. Azhar Ali opened the innings along with Mohammad Hafeez and both the openers safely negotiated the final 30 minutes of play. They will look to add a few more runs and set the Kiwis a mammoth score to chase. With two full days to go , the hosts will be fancying their chances to start the series on a winning note. Join us tomorrow for all the action on day 4. Till then , goodbye and cheers ! 5.6 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 3 runs , shortish delivery , Azhar goes on the back foot and whips it towards backward square leg for a comfortable three , the fielder in the deep stops the ball near the rope and saves the extra run Short leg and silly point come in as well. Last ball of the day coming up... . 5.5 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up outside off , Azhar lifts his bat and lets it go 5.4 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , full on middle and off , Azhar drives it softly to the right of the bowler Two slips and a leg slip in place 5.3 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , outside the off stump line again , Azhar watches it closely and lets that go 5.2 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted outside off , left alone by Azhar 5.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Hafeez punches it square of the wicket Ish Sodhi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack This will be the last over of the day 4.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , stays inside the crease to this back of a length delivery around leg and looks to tuck , misses , the ball hits him on the thigh pad and rolls into the leg-side 4.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a good length and shaping away , Azhar covers the line and lets it go through 4.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , length delivery on leg , Azhar flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 4.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , outside off this time , does not tempt Azhar into playing at it 4.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , New Zealand have wasted a review here. It was a short of length delivery nipping back into the batsman , he looked to tuck it off the back foot , misses and is struck on the pads. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was pitching outside leg , Azhar stays ! New Zealand players have asked for a review. They think Azhar is out lbw. No problems with Boult 's front foot. No inside edge. Where was the ball pitching ? Yes , it pitched outside leg. Azhar is safe ! 4.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length and outside off , Azhar opens the face of the bat and guides it behind point 3.6 Southee to Hafeez , no run , short of length and outside off , Hafeez stays inside the crease and dabs it towards point 3.5 Southee to Hafeez , no run , fullish and shaping away , Hafeez shoulders arms to it 3.4 Southee to Hafeez , no run , short and on the stumps , Hafeez ducks under it and lets that go 3.3 Southee to Azhar Ali , 1 run , length ball shaping into the batsman this time , Azhar taps it to cover 3.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , full and moving away from Azhar , he comfortably lifts his bat and lets it go 3.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Azhar defends it with a straightish bat towards mid-on The ball seems to have lost shape. The umpires have called for a new ball and they have changed it . 2.6 Boult to Hafeez , FOUR , Hafeez gets off the mark in style , settles nicely on the back foot and cracks this shortish and wide ball to the deep backward point fence 2.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and angled on the pads , Azhar looks to tuck and the ball goes off the thigh pad behind square Boult comes round the wicket 2.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length on leg , Azhar stays back and tucks it to mid-wicket 2.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , outside the off-stump line again , Azhar covers the line and shoulders arms 2.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and shaping away from the batsman , Azhar lets that go through 2.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , bumper down leg , Azhar ducks under it and lets it go through 1.6 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Hafeez goes back and punches it to short cover 1.5 Southee to Hafeez , no run , length delivery which straightens on middle and off , Hafeez defends it to short cover 1.4 Southee to Hafeez , no run , fullish in length on middle and leg , Hafeez flicks it to mid-wicket 1.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , good length delivery outside off and shaping away , Hafeez shoulders arms 1.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , 3 runs , fuller length delivery straying on the pads , Azhar flicks it to deep mid-wicket to get off the mark 1.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , peach of a delivery to start off. This was pitched back of a length and shapes away , Azhar was beaten all ends up as he came forward to defend Tim Southee , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Boult to Hafeez , no run , Boult comes round the wicket , fullish and angled away from the batsman , Hafeez pokes at it and is beaten by the away movement A silly mid-on in place 0.5 Boult to Hafeez , no run , outside off again , Hafeez watches it closely and lets that go through 0.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fullish ball moving away from Hafeez , left alone 0.3 Boult to Hafeez , no run , length delivery around off , Hafeez pushes it towards mid-off 0.2 Boult to Hafeez , no run , full ball on middle and leg , Hafeez turns it to the right of the bowler in the mid-wicket region 0.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , what a delivery to start the over. A yorker moving into the batsman , Hafeez does well to keep his balance and digs it out into the off-side Hafeez and Azhar Ali are at the crease. Hafeez is on strike. Boult will open the attack Azhar Ali and Mohammad Hafeez will be opening for Pakistan. Trent Boult will start proceedings. Two slips and a gully in place.. . Pakistan have decided not to enforce the follow-on. They will be coming out to bat in a short while. A very solid performance by the Pakistani bowlers. They started off the the day well to leave New Zealand struggling on 81/3 after the first session. Latham was the only Kiwi batsman to offer some resistance as he brought up his maiden Test ton. He was supported for a while by Corey Anderson ( 48 ) but the Pakistan bowlers kept chipping at the wickets at regular intervals. Sodhi and Watling played good knocks towards the end but it was not enough to avoid the follow-on. Rahat Ali picked up 4 wickets while Babar picked up 3. Pakistan are 304 runs ahead and would like to add a few more and gain total control of the game . 87.3 Babar to Watling , out Lbw ! ! Watling started walking back as soon as the replays were showed. That was as plumb as you can get. It was the arm-ball that he missed as he looked to sweep. The ball was going on to hit the middle-stump. Easy decision for the third umpire. Watling lbw b Babar 42 ( 96 ) [ 4s-4 ] Babar to Watling , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Watling has been given out lbw. He reviews right away. No problem with Babar 's front foot. The ball missed his bat as well. Hawk-Eye shows three reds - the impact was in line with the middle stump and it was hitting as well. Watling goes and New Zealand have folded on 262 ! 87.2 Babar to Watling , no run , gets forward to defend , the ball goes off the outside edge of his bat and rolls towards second slip 87.1 Babar to Watling , no run , flighted and turns away sharply , Watling gets inside the crease to push at it and is beaten as the ball spins away Trent Boult , right handed bat , comes to the crease 86.6 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , out Bowled ! ! Another inside edge and this time Sodhi has chopped it back onto the stumps. It was a flipper from Yasir , Sodhi looks to cut , but the ball was too close to the body to play that shot and it takes the inside edge of the bat and goes on to crash into middle and leg. Sodhi played a handy innings but his resistance finally ends ! Ish Sodhi b Yasir Shah 25 ( 46 ) [ 4s-5 ] Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 86.5 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , gets inside the line to tuck it into the leg-side , gets an inside edge onto the boot and the ball rolls to the off-side 86.4 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , gets forward to defend , gets an inside edge and the ball lobs off the pads into the off-side 86.3 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , flighted on middle and leg , Sodhi leans forward and pushes it gently to the right of the bowler 86.2 Yasir Shah to Watling , 1 run , full on off , Watling punch-drives it towards long-off A slip , a gully and FSL in place.. . 86.1 Yasir Shah to Watling , no run , tossed up outside off , left alone by Watling Yasir Shah [ 16.0-1-64-0 ] is back into the attack 85.6 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , good bit of turn and bounce for Babar , Sodhi presses forward to block and is beaten 85.5 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , drifting down leg , Sodhi tucks it behind square 85.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , full on middle and off , Sodhi pushes it back to the bowler 85.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , short and wide , Babar gets punished for it , Sodhi does well to cut it past the cover fielder to the deep extra cover fence 85.2 Babar to Watling , 1 run , stays on the back foot and slaps it square of the wicket 85.1 Babar to Watling , no run , flighted outside off , Watling is not interested in playing those 84.6 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Sodhi cuts it nicely along the ground to the deep backward point fence for a boundary 84.5 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , length delivery outside off , Sodhi gets forward and pushes it to mid-off 84.4 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , bumper on middle sliding down the leg-side , Sodhi ducks under it 84.3 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , good length ball just outside off , Sodhi comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 84.2 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller in length down the leg-side , Sodhi does not bother to play at it 84.1 Imran Khan to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling taps it off the back foot to backward point for a single 83.6 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , tossed up outside off , left alone by Sodhi 83.5 Babar to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , nicely done by Sodhi , this was a full ball by Babar , Sodhi gets forward and heaves it to the long-on fence 83.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , gets forward and softly pushes it back to the bowler 83.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , presses forward to defend , the ball takes the inside edge of the bat , goes onto the pads and rolls towards FSL 83.2 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , comes on the front foot to drive this tossed up delivery by Babar , the ball turns away from him and he is beaten 83.1 Babar to Watling , 1 run , pushed slower through the air around off , Watling drives it to sweeper cover 82.6 Imran Khan to Ish Sodhi , no run , fullish on middle and off , Sodhi pushes it down the ground 82.5 Imran Khan to Watling , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Watling plays it with soft hands to short mid-wicket and sets off for a quick single 82.4 Imran Khan to Watling , no run , bouncer down the leg-side , Watling ducks underneath it 82.3 Imran Khan to Watling , no run , length delivery around off , Watling presses forward and blocks it towards cover 82.2 Imran Khan to Watling , no run , length ball outside off , Watling comes forward and pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and falls short of the second slip fielder 82.1 Imran Khan to Watling , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Watling gets forward and defends it to gully Imran Khan [ 9.0-2-23-0 ] is back into the attack 81.6 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , flighted well wide of off , left alone by Sodhi 81.5 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , looks to slog it into the on-side , misses as the ball turns away from him 81.4 Babar to Ish Sodhi , 2 runs , stays on the back foot to this shortish ball and punches it to deep mid-wicket 81.3 Babar to Ish Sodhi , no run , the ball keeps low this time and skids through , Sodhi gets inside the line to push at it , gets a thickish inside edge and the ball rolls past the stumps behind square 81.2 Babar to Watling , 3 runs , Watling stays in the crease , opens the face of the bat and punches it neatly towards deep extra cover , Yasir gives the ball a good chase and stops it in front of the rope Two slips , a silly point and a FSL in place.. . 81.1 Babar to Watling , no run , full around off , Watling gets forward and pushes it towards cover Babar sharing the new ball with Rahat . 80.6 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , length delivery around off , Sodhi gently pushes it towards cover point Three slips and a gully 80.5 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Sodhi gets forward and pushes it into the off-side 80.4 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , straying down leg , Sodhi misses the flick 80.3 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , short of length delivery and moving into the batsman , Sodhi was in a dilemma whether to leave or play at it , the ball just whistles over the stumps into the keeper 's hands 80.2 Rahat Ali to Watling , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and straying on the pads , Watling looks to tuck , misses and the ball goes off the thigh pad behind square Two slips and a gully in place.. . 80.1 Rahat Ali to Watling , no run , back of a length and outside off , Watling opens the face of the bat and dabs it behind point The second new ball is due now and Pakistan have decided to take it immediately . 79.6 Babar to Watling , 1 run , floated on off , Watling drives it to extra-cover , the batsmen pinch a quick single 79.5 Babar to Watling , no run , tossed up on off , Watling presses forward and blocks 79.4 Babar to Watling , no run , floated on middle and leg , Watling lunges forward in defence 79.3 Babar to Watling , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Watling blocks , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat A slip , a gully and a forward short leg ( FSL ) in place . 79.2 Babar to Watling , FOUR , loopy and full on the toes , Watling whips it to the deep mid-wicket fence after going back in the crease , he played this against the spin 79.1 Babar to Watling , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Watling pushes it towards short mid-wicket Zulfiqar Babar [ 23.0-5-59-2 ] is back into the attack 78.6 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , agian fuller in length outside off , Sodhi shoulders arms 78.5 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , fullish outside off , Sodhi lifts his bat and lets it go through to the keeper 78.4 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , fuller length delivery down the leg-side , Sodhi misses the clip and Sarfraz dives to his left and collects it 78.4 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no ball , good length delivery outside off , Sodhi does not offer the shot , Rahat has overstepped 78.3 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sodhi lifts his bat and lets it go 78.2 Rahat Ali to Watling , 1 run , bouncer on middle , Watling swivels and pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg 78.1 Rahat Ali to Watling , no run , length delivery outside off , Watling comes forward and leaves the ball alone 77.6 Yasir Shah to Watling , 1 run , flighted delivery on the pads , Watling stays back and flicks it through the vacant square leg region for a single 77.5 Yasir Shah to Watling , no run , leg-break on the leg stump , Watling eases it down to mid-on 77.4 Yasir Shah to Watling , no run , floated on off , Watling blocks off the front foot 77.3 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , flatter outside off , Sodhi pushes at it , the ball runs away towards the short third man region after taking the outside half of the bat 77.2 Yasir Shah to Watling , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Watling cuts it towards point , who misfields and that allows the batsmen to take a single 77.1 Yasir Shah to Watling , no run , did it hit the pad first ? The umpire does n't think so. It was tossed up on off and middle , Watling blocks The question that pops up is whether Pakistan will enforce the follow-on or not , if they take these two wickets soon . Drinks are on the field now 76.6 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , fuller length delivery outside off , Sodhi goes for a loose drive and gets a thick outisde edge which flies past gully and runs down to the third man fence for a boundary 76.5 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Sodhi sways away from the line and lets it go 76.4 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , length delivery outside off , Sodhi shoulders arms 76.3 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Sodhi pushes it down the ground , Rahat dives to his left , gets a hand on it and parries it away towards mid-off , who stops it 76.2 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , good length delivery on middle and leg , Sodhi defends it to short mid-wicket 76.1 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , no run , on a good length outside off , Sodhi shoulders arms 75.6 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , another one that 's on the pads , Sodhi tucks it away in the vacant mid-wicket region to retain strike 75.5 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , floated on leg , Sodhi moves across a little and turns it towards square leg 75.4 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Sodhi goes on the back foot and blocks 75.3 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , floated on middle , Sodhi looks to work it on the on-side and closes the bat face a little too early , the ball rolls away towards the bowler after taking a soft leading edge 75.2 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , no run , tossed up on middle , Sodhi presses forward and dead-bats it 75.1 Yasir Shah to Ish Sodhi , FOUR , poor delivery from Yasir , short and wide of off , Sodhi goes back and cuts it square of the wicket to collect four runs 74.6 Rahat Ali to Ish Sodhi , 1 run , short of a good length and straying on the pads , Sodhi goes on the back foot and nurdles it behind square on the on-side , Sodhi will keep the strike Ish Sodhi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 74.5 Rahat Ali to Southee , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! An action replay of the last delivery , but this time Sarfraz holds onto the ball. It was fullish and moving away a touch , Southee looks to drive again , the ball takes the outside edge and this time Sarfraz takes it cleanly. He is a relieved man as the dropped catch did n't cost Pakistan anything. Southee c Sarfraz Ahmed b Rahat Ali 0 ( 5 ) Rahat Ali to Southee , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 74.4 Rahat Ali to Southee , no run , dropped ! It was fullish and just outside off , Southee looks to drive , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and Sarfraz moves to his right but ca n't collect the ball cleanly , he parries the ball away towards the slip cordon. It was a relatively easy chance and should have been taken 74.3 Rahat Ali to Southee , no run , short delivery on off that fails to rise much , Southee drops his wrists and lets it go 74.2 Rahat Ali to Southee , no run , on a good length and around off , Southee knocks it to short cover 74.1 Rahat Ali to Southee , no run , fuller on middle , Southee pushes it to mid-on 73.6 Yasir Shah to Watling , no run , tossed up outside off , Watling blocks off the outside half of the bat Tim Southee , right handed bat , comes to the crease 73.5 Yasir Shah to Watling , out Craig Run Out ! ! 2 runs completed. What is going on here ? Watling punches this shortish delivery towards sweeper cover , Rahat from cover-point gives chase and throws it at the striker 's end , the batsmen think about taking a third and Craig was a long way down the pitch before he was sent back , Watling dives in at the striker 's end but Sarfraz was quick to throw the ball towards Yasir Shah , who takes the bails off. Craig was watching whether Watling got in or not and that lead to his fall. Craig run out ( Rahat Ali/Sarfraz Ahmed/Yasir Shah ) 1 ( 5 ) Yasir Shah to Watling , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! The third umpire has been called in to judge a run-out. The batsman is far away from the crease and Craig has to depart . 73.4 Yasir Shah to Craig , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Craig goes back in the crease and pushes it to cover off the back foot 73.3 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , tossed up on off , Craig drives it to mid-off off the front foot 73.2 Yasir Shah to Craig , no run , lunges forward in defence , the ball takes the outside half of the bat and rolls away into the off-side 73.1 Yasir Shah to Watling , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Watling goes back and punches it to sweeper cover 72.6 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , full and angling down leg , Craig misses the clip , the ball goes through to the keeper 72.5 Rahat Ali to Craig , no run , length ball on off , Craig defends it to covers Mark Craig , left handed bat , comes to the crease 72.4 Rahat Ali to Latham , out Lbw ! ! This was a yorker length delivery on middle and leg , Latham comes on the front foot and misses the clip , he is hit full on pad , the ball would have gone onto clip the leg stump. A great innings from Latham comes to an end. The umpire was quick to raise the finger , but Latham still reviewed it. However , the replays showed that the ball was just kissing leg. Latham lbw b Rahat Ali 103 ( 222 ) [ 4s-13 ] Rahat Ali to Latham , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Latham has been given out LBW. He has reviewed straightaway. Rahat 's foot is inside the crease. Hawk-Eye says it 's clipping leg , so that 's enough and the umpires decision stays. Latham has to go 72.3 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Latham gets forward and pushes it to cover 72.2 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , length delivery outside off nipping away a touch , Latham shoulders arms 72.1 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , fullish on off , Latham presses forward and defends it back to the bowler 71.6 Yasir Shah to Watling , no run , leg-break around off , Watling reaches to the pitch of the ball and blocks 71.5 Yasir Shah to Watling , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Watling goes on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket , the ball races away to the fence Yasir comes over the wicket now. There is a slip , a gully and a FSL in place . 71.4 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Latham moves across and eases it down to long-on 71.3 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Latham turns it to FSL 71.2 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , flighted delivery just around off , Latham drags the sweep towards backward square leg , where the fielder puts in the dive and prevents the batsmen from taking a run 71.1 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , flatter and going down leg with the turn , Latham tucks it away towards backward square leg Yasir Shah [ 12.0-1-47-0 ] is back into the attack 70.6 Rahat Ali to Watling , no run , fuller length on middle , Watling punches it down the ground , Rahat gets a hand to it and they decide against a single 70.5 Rahat Ali to Watling , no run , fullish on off , Watling gets on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 70.4 Rahat Ali to Watling , FOUR , bouncer on middle and leg , does not rise much , Watling goes deep in the crease and pulls it nicely along the ground to the deep backward square leg fence for another boundary 70.3 Rahat Ali to Watling , no run , good length ball angling across , Watling defends it to covers 70.2 Rahat Ali to Watling , no run , shortens the length again , Watling goes back and dabs it towards cover-point 70.1 Rahat Ali to Latham , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Latham works it to mid-wicket for a single Rahat Ali [ 11.0-8-10-2 ] is back into the attack 69.6 Babar to Watling , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Watling hangs back and blocks 69.5 Babar to Watling , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Watling goes back and blocks 69.4 Babar to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Watling clips it towards square leg off the inside half of the bat 69.3 Babar to Watling , no run , floated on off , Watling presses forward and blocks 69.2 Babar to Latham , 1 run , too full from Babar , Latham digs it out and the ball goes over the bowler 's head and towards long-on , the batsmen take a single 69.1 Babar to Latham , FOUR , Latham completes his maiden Test hundred with this beautiful boundary straight down the ground. It was tossed up on off , Latham comes down the track and drives it past the bowler . 68.6 Imran Khan to Latham , 1 run , again too full on the pads , Latham clips it to deep square leg 68.5 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , fuller length on off , Latham gets forward and pushes it to off-side 68.5 Imran Khan to Latham , no ball , length delivery outside off , Latham leans forward and defends , Imran has overstepped 68.4 Imran Khan to Latham , FOUR , short delivery outside off , Latham pulls it along the ground to the deep backward square leg fence for a boundary , he rolled his wrists so that the ball goes along the ground 68.3 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , a muted caught behind appeal turned down , another fullish delivery on the leg , Latham misses the flick , the ball kisses the pad on the way to the keeper. The bat also hit the ground , so it was a good decision by the ump 68.2 Imran Khan to Latham , leg byes , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on middle and leg , Latham misses the clip and the ball runs off the pad to fine leg 68.1 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , good length delivery outside off , Latham punches it to mid-off Misbah is asking the umpire to have a look at the ball , the umpire is happy with the it and gives it back 67.6 Babar to Watling , no run , loopy delivery outside off , Watling gets drawn into pushing at it , the ball turns away and goes past the outside edge 67.5 Babar to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on off , Watling hangs back in the crease and defends 67.4 Babar to Watling , no run , floated on off , Watling comes on the front foot and punches it back to the bowler 67.3 Babar to Watling , 2 runs , flatter outside off , Watling goes back in the crease and punches it to sweeper cover A gully is in place now 67.2 Babar to Latham , 1 run , floated around off , Latham goes down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 67.1 Babar to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham leans forward and blocks There is a slip , a FSL and a silly point in place 66.6 Imran Khan to Watling , no run , tad fuller outside off , Watling comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 66.5 Imran Khan to Watling , no run , good length delivery nipping in a touch , Watling gets forward and punches it to covers 66.4 Imran Khan to Watling , no run , fullish outside off , Watling leans forward and punches it to covers 66.3 Imran Khan to Latham , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Latham tucks it to fine leg 66.2 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , fuller in length on middle and leg , Latham blocks it solidly to mid-on 66.1 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Latham comes forward and blocks it to covers 65.6 Babar to Watling , no run , flatter and on middle and leg , Watling goes back and whips it behind square on the on-side 65.5 Babar to Watling , no run , straying on the pads , Watling works it towards backward square leg 65.4 Babar to Watling , no run , tossed up on off , Watling presses forward and defends 65.3 Babar to Watling , no run , flatter around off and middle , Watling stays back and punches it to mid-off 65.2 Babar to Watling , no run , floated around off , Watling goes on the front foot and blocks it into the off-side 65.1 Babar to Latham , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Latham goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep square leg 64.6 Imran Khan to Watling , no run , good length delivery on off , Watling defends it to cover 64.5 Imran Khan to Latham , 1 run , fullish on middle , Latham drives it straight down the ground , Imran gets a foot to it , the ball riochets to mid-on and they take a single 64.4 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , yorker length on off , Latham digs it out to the off-side Comes round the wicket now. . 64.3 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery on leg , Latham works it to mid-wicket 64.2 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , looks to bowl a yorker , turns out to be a low full toss on middle , Latham turns it to mid-on 64.1 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Latham leans forward and defends it to covers Welcome back to the post-tea session. The players are walking out to the centre. Imran Khan will start the proceedings with two slips and a gully in place Tea , Day 3 : Pakistan are bossing this game. They are chipping away at the wickets. Anderson , who was looking comfortable against the spinners dragged one back off Rahat while Neesham 's horrid game continued when he came down and missed one from Hafeez. The visitors still trail by 380 runs and they need someone to support Latham , who has looked solid at one end. Can he bring up his maiden Test hundred ? Join us back in a short while to find out... . 63.6 Babar to Watling , no run , too full and on leg-stump , Watling turns it gently to mid-wicket 63.5 Babar to Watling , no run , nice loopy delivery on off , Watling lunges forward in defence 63.4 Babar to Watling , no run , slows it up on off , Watling presses forward and dead-bats it to the off-side 63.3 Babar to Watling , no run , floated up close to off , Watling pushes it with an open face to point 63.2 Babar to Watling , no run , flighted on off , Watling comes on the front foot and knocks it to cover 63.1 Babar to Latham , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Latham drives it wide of the mid-off fielder and scampers across for a brisk run Zulfiqar Babar [ 19.0-5-49-2 ] is back into the attack 62.6 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , nice loopy delivery bowled from round the wicket , Latham goes on one knee and sweeps it uppishly to deep backward square leg 62.5 Yasir Shah to Latham , 2 runs , googly outside off , Latham hangs back and looks to defend , the ball takes the edge and goes wide of Younis at slip , Latham now has his highest Test score 62.4 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , floated up close to off , Latham goes back and across , defends with a straight bat 62.3 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , slightly quicker and on middle , Latham turns it to FSL 62.2 Yasir Shah to Latham , 2 runs , flighted up outside off , Latham drives it inside out between extra cover and mid-off , gets back comfortably for the second 62.1 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , flighted around off , Latham gets right behind the line and knocks it to the on-side Yasir Shah [ 11.0-1-42-0 ] is back into the attack 61.6 Hafeez to Latham , 1 run , skids on after pitching , Latham plays for the turn , the ball squirts off the inside-edge past FSL 61.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , pushed through close to off , punched straight to cover 61.4 Hafeez to Latham , 2 runs , tossed up on off , Latham plays the paddle sweep this time , picks up an easy two to long leg Hafeez goes round the wicket 61.3 Hafeez to Latham , 2 runs , flighted on middle , Latham bends down and sweeps it to deep mid wicket , Rahat does the tiding up near the fence 61.2 Hafeez to Watling , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Watling gets inside the line and tucks it to backward square leg 61.1 Hafeez to Latham , 3 runs , floated up outside off , Latham fetches it from there and sweeps it in front of square , the ball does not have enough to reach the rope 60.6 Babar to Watling , no run , gets his front pad out of the way and blocks it with a straight bat 60.5 Babar to Watling , no run , slower and on off , Watling smothers the turn with a forward defence 60.4 Babar to Watling , no run , flighted on off , Watling stays in the crease and knocks it to the left of Babar 60.3 Babar to Watling , no run , slider on middle and leg , Watling goes back and turns it towards mid-wicket 60.2 Babar to Watling , FOUR , floated up outside off , Watling gets a good stride forward and drives it with an open face to sweeper cover , Yasir gives chase and takes the ball along with him to the fence 60.1 Babar to Watling , no run , tossed up on off , Watling is neither forward nor back as he bunts it towards silly point 59.6 Hafeez to Latham , no run , floats it up too far across off , Latham is not interested in playing that 59.5 Hafeez to Watling , 1 run , flighted on off , Watling bends his front leg and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 59.4 Hafeez to Watling , no run , still prefers to play Hafeez off the back foot , turns it towards backward square 59.3 Hafeez to Watling , no run , pushed through , targets the stumps , Watling shuffles across and ekes out an inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls wide of the leg-slip , had he missed that , then he would have been plumb in front 59.2 Hafeez to Latham , 1 run , throws this up gently well outside off , Latham reaches for it and drives it along the carpet to sweeper cover 59.1 Hafeez to Watling , 1 run , too straight , drifts onto the pads , Watling clips it behind square leg for a single 58.6 Babar to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham lunges forward and blocks 58.5 Babar to Latham , no run , optimistic appeal for lbw , the umpire is not interested. Floated up outside off , Latham kneels down and misses the sweep , is struck on the back thigh , the impact was well wide of off 58.4 Babar to Latham , no run , waits on the back foot for the ball to turn , works it straight to the man under the helmet at FSL 58.3 Babar to Latham , no run , drops it short and outside off , Latham cuts it to the left of backward point , Imran Khan dives and saves a couple of runs 58.2 Babar to Latham , no run , flighted around off , Latham plays a compact forward defence 58.1 Babar to Watling , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , keeps a tad low , Watling manages to bring his bat down and turn it to mid-wicket 57.6 Hafeez to Latham , no run , this is brilliant batting from Latham , does not commit forward as this was the quicker delivery , stays in the crease and knocks it to silly point The FSL fielder moves to silly point 57.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , goes on with the arm , Latham defends with the bat and pad close together 57.4 Hafeez to Latham , no run , flighted on off , Latham gets right to the pitch of the ball and blocks well 57.3 Hafeez to Latham , no run , slower and close to off , Latham pats it into the off-side after coming forward 57.2 Hafeez to Latham , no run , tosses it up invitingly , Latham drives it crisply to cover 57.1 Hafeez to Latham , no run , Hafeez goes back to round the stumps , Latham goes back and punches it to mid-on 56.6 Babar to Watling , no run , arm-ball that skids on , Watling comes half forward and bunts it to silly point 56.5 Babar to Watling , no run , floated up on off , Watling plunges forward and keeps it out 56.4 Babar to Watling , no run , much better , gets a good stride forward and defends it solidly 56.3 Babar to Watling , no run , excellent delivery , tempts the batsman with a nice loopy delivery , gets it to drift and turn , Watling takes the bait , goes hard at it and is beaten comprehensively 56.2 Babar to Watling , no run , slower and on off , Watling moves forward and pushes it to cover 56.1 Babar to Watling , no run , slider on middle and leg , Watling prods forward and taps it to the on-side 55.6 Hafeez to Latham , no run , gives this bit more air on middle , Latham leans forward and blocks 55.5 Hafeez to Latham , FOUR , fabulous shot ! A very difficult shot to play against the turn , but Latham made it look easy. Tossed up delivery on leg-stump , Latham leans forward and flicks it handsomely to the deep mid-wicket fence 55.4 Hafeez to Watling , 1 run , pushed through on leg-stump , Watling gets inside the line and glances it to fine leg Shehzad has been ruled out for the remainder of the series , he was hit by a Anderson bouncer and suffered a minor fracture on his skull. He is on his way back home for further treatment . 55.3 Hafeez to Latham , 1 run , flighted on middle , Latham paddles it to long leg for a single 55.2 Hafeez to Latham , no run , floated up on middle , Latham keeps it out with a forward defensive 55.1 Hafeez to Latham , no run , flighted on off , Latham knocks it to short cover Hafeez goes over the wicket 54.6 Babar to Watling , no run , tosses it up on off , Watling lunges forward in defence 54.5 Babar to Watling , no run , floated up on middle , Watling brings his bat in front and blocks 54.4 Babar to Watling , 2 runs , arm-ball on middle and leg , Watling goes deep in the crease and whips it past the unmanned mid-wicket region for a couple 54.3 Babar to Watling , no run , flighted on off , Watling push-drives it to cover 54.2 Babar to Watling , no run , Watling comes on the front foot and smothers the spin 54.1 Babar to Watling , no run , slider on off , Watling moves forward and defends it down the wicket 53.6 Hafeez to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham lunges forward and blocks it back 53.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , straighter one outside off , Latham shoulders arms 53.4 Hafeez to Latham , 2 runs , pushed through on leg-stump , Latham tickles it fine and comes back for the second 53.3 Hafeez to Latham , no run , touch quicker , skids on after pitching , Latham presses forward to defend , the ball dribbles off the inside edge to mid-wicket 53.2 Hafeez to Watling , 1 run , flatter delivery on middle and leg , Watling shuffles across and nurdles it behind square leg 53.1 Hafeez to Latham , 1 run , short and turning away , Latham goes back and punches it to sweeper cover 52.6 Babar to Watling , no run , slows it up considerably , Watling inches forward and dabs it towards point with an angled bat 52.5 Babar to Watling , no run , lunges forward and plays a textbook defence to silly point 52.4 Babar to Watling , no run , floated up on off , Watling presses forward and blocks 52.3 Babar to Watling , no run , straight roller outside off , left alone 52.2 Babar to Watling , no run , flighted on off , Watling defends off the inside part of the bat to FSL 52.1 Babar to Watling , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Watling does not offer a shot , lets it pass to Sarfraz 51.6 Hafeez to Watling , 1 run , goes on with the angle from round the wicket , Watling plays for the turn and gets a leading edge towards backward point BJ Watling , right handed bat , comes to the crease 51.5 Hafeez to Neesham , out Stumped ! ! Hafeez gets his 27th left-hander in Tests. A very poor stroke from Neesham to say the least. There was no need to play this shot , shimmies down the wicket and looks to hoick the flighted delivery , misses it completely and Sarfraz does the rest behind the stumps. Even the third umpire was not needed as he was so far down the pitch. That ball drifted in with the arm and Neesham was beaten off the inside edge. Neesham st Sarfraz Ahmed b Hafeez 11 ( 30 ) [ 4s-1 ] Hafeez to Neesham , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 51.4 Hafeez to Neesham , no run , flighted on middle , Neesham prefers to hang back and turn it to FSL , it is dangerous to play off the back foot to Hafeez 51.3 Hafeez to Latham , 1 run , pulls the length back outside off , Latham goes back and punches it to sweeper cover 51.2 Hafeez to Latham , no run , darted down the leg-side , Latham looks to help it on its way , does n't make contact , but Sarfraz goes up for the caught behind appeal , the sound was the bat hitting the turf 51.1 Hafeez to Latham , no run , starts from round the wicket , tossed up on off , Latham presses forward , defends with the bat in front of the pad Mohammad Hafeez [ 9.0-0-36-0 ] is back into the attack 50.6 Babar to Neesham , no run , tosses it up generously , Neesham leans forward and turns it to FSL , where the fielder dives to his right to field the ball 50.5 Babar to Neesham , no run , pushed through on off , Neesham goes right back and dead-bats it on the wicket 50.4 Babar to Neesham , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Neesham lunges forward and bunts it to the off-side 50.3 Babar to Neesham , no run , floated up outside off , Neesham pushes it straight to cover A slip , silly point , leg slip and FSL in place 50.2 Babar to Neesham , no run , tosses it up on off , Neesham leans forward and taps it to mid-wicket 50.1 Babar to Neesham , no run , slider on off , Neesham closes the bat face early , gets a soft leading edge towards point 49.6 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Latham gets inside the line and glances it fine , the man from backward square swoops in and denies the single 49.5 Yasir Shah to Neesham , 1 run , slower and outside off , Neesham opens the bat face and guides it towards backward point 49.4 Yasir Shah to Neesham , FOUR , lovely shot ! Nice use of the feet , comes down the track and converts it into a full toss , caresses the drive to deep extra cover , the emphasis was on timing rather than power 49.3 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , pushed through on leg-stump , Latham whips it off the back foot to deep square leg 49.2 Yasir Shah to Neesham , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Neesham push-drives it in front of mid-off and hares across for a quick single Yasir changes to round the stumps for Neesham 49.1 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn in , nudges it to the right of backward square Drinks are on the field now 48.6 Babar to Latham , 1 run , flatter and outside off , Latham punches it through the vacant cover region for a single 48.5 Babar to Latham , no run , floated up around off , Latham presses forward and blocks it back 48.4 Babar to Neesham , 1 run , too full and attacking the stumps , Neesham stays inside the crease and digs it wide of mid-wicket 48.3 Babar to Neesham , 2 runs , goes straight outside off , Neesham drives away from the body , the ball takes the edge and goes wide of the slip fielder , the batsmen scamper back for the second before the ball is fielded 48.2 Babar to Latham , 1 run , flighted just outside off , Latham kneels down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 48.1 Babar to Latham , no run , pushed through just outside off , Latham moves across and bunts it back to the bowler Zulfiqar Babar [ 12.0-2-37-2 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Yasir Shah to Neesham , no run , Sarfraz goes up for a caught behind , but does not get any support from his team-mates. The straighter one outside off , Neesham plays for the turn and is beaten , the ball did n't take the edge. Anyways Pakistan do n't have any reviews left 47.5 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Latham goes back and whips it past Misbah at mid-wicket 47.4 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , slower and on leg-stump , Latham crouches low and turns it softly to mid-wicket 47.3 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , flighted just outside off , Latham drives it straight to mid-off 47.2 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , spinning into the pads , Latham nurdles it and picks out the fielder at backward square 47.1 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , gives this enough air on off , the length is touch short , Latham goes back and knocks it to the left of the bowler 46.6 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , fuller in length outside off , Neesham comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 46.6 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no ball , bouncer down the leg-side , Neesham ducks under it , Rahat has overstepped 46.5 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , fullish and outside off , Neesham comes forward and blocks it 46.4 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Neesham goes back and pushes it to cover 46.3 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , bumper on middle and off , Neesham ducks under it and lets it go 46.2 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , length delivery outside off , Neesham goes back and punches it to covers 46.1 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , good length delivery on off , Neesham presses forward and defends it back to the bowler 45.6 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , the googly which is slowed up , Latham picks it early , presents the full face of the bat and blocks it back to the bowler 45.5 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , straight roller on off , Latham lunges forward and dead-bats it down the wicket 45.4 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , tossed up on middle , Latham prefers to camp on the back foot and keep it out Yasir switches to over the wicket for Latham 45.3 Yasir Shah to Neesham , 1 run , nice loopy delivery , turns back in sharply , Neesham goes deep in the crease and nudges it behind square leg 45.2 Yasir Shah to Neesham , no run , floated up on off , Neesham presses forward and blocks with a straight bat 45.1 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Latham bends his front leg and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 44.6 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , fullish on middle , Neesham turns it to short mid-wicket. Yet another maiden for Rahat Ali 44.5 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , bumper on middle and leg and aimed at the body , Neesham ducks under it 44.4 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Neesham goes deep inside the crease and pushes it to cover 44.3 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , short of length wide outside off , Neesham looks to cut and misses , the ball did not bounce as much as Neesham expected 44.2 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Neesham goes back and defends it to cover 44.1 Rahat Ali to Neesham , no run , good length delivery coming in a touch , Neesham comes forward and defends it to mid-on 43.6 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , now goes back and defends the tossed up delivery to the on-side 43.5 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , floated up on off , Latham smothers the spin with a forward defence 43.4 Yasir Shah to Neesham , 1 run , goes straight on from round the wicket , Neesham goes hard at the forward defensive , the ball goes off a thickish outside edge wide of point 43.3 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , turning into the pads , Latham shuffles across and milks it behind square on the leg-side 43.2 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , slower and on middle , Latham leans forward and works it to mid-wicket 43.1 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham gets inside the line and punches it to mid-wicket James Neesham , left handed bat , comes to the crease 42.6 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , out Bowled ! ! Rahat Ali has got another wicket. This was a back of a length delivery outside off , Anderson goes for the cut and chops it back onto the stumps. The partnership is broken and Pakistan are on top here. Anderson was looking good , but falls just two runs short of a half-century. Corey Anderson b Rahat Ali 48 ( 70 ) [ 4s-8 ] Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 42.5 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , good length delivery outside off , Anderson lifts his bat and lets it go through to the keeper 42.4 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , FOUR , bouncer on middle and leg , Anderson goes back and pulls it along the ground to backward square leg for a brilliant boundary 42.3 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , yorker on off , Anderson brings his bat down and jams it to mid-on 42.2 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , good length well wide of off , Anderson lifts his bat and lets it go 42.1 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , FOUR , first runs off the bat off Rahat Ali , back of a length and straightens a touch , Anderson looks to force it off the back foot , the ball takes the outside edge and goes through the slip cordon Rahat Ali [ 8.0-7-1-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Yasir Shah to Latham , FOUR , googly that is dragged half way down the pitch , the ball sat up nicely for Latham to put away , he rocks back and pulls it behind square , did well to beat the fielder in the deep 41.5 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , nice loopy delivery around off , Latham presses forward and drops it dead on the wicket 41.4 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , slower and outside off , Latham moves across , bends his knee and sweeps it straight into Azhar Ali at FSL , hits him flush on the shin guard 41.3 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , flighted outside off , Latham reaches forward and blocks Yasir goes round the wicket for Latham 41.2 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , 1 run , flighted around off , Anderson drives it to deepish mid-off 41.1 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , FOUR , poor delivery from the leg-spinner , drops it short and outside off , Anderson goes right back and punches it to deep extra cover , Imran gives chase but the ball wins 40.6 Hafeez to Latham , no run , slower and hint of turn away from the batsman , Latham prods forward , goes searching for the ball , it takes the outside edge and falls short of Younis at slip 40.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , tosses it up generously on off , Latham does not do anything fancy , lunges forward and pushes it back to Hafeez 40.4 Hafeez to Latham , no run , floats it up around off , Latham leans forward and knocks it in front of cover 40.3 Hafeez to Latham , no run , another compact forward defence from Latham 40.2 Hafeez to Latham , no run , flighted on off , Latham presses forward and blocks 40.1 Hafeez to Latham , FOUR , Latham registers his 4th Test fifty , he gets there in style. Half tracker on middle stump , Latham goes deep in the crease and pulls it powerfully to the deep mid-wicket fence 39.6 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , too full and on middle , Anderson squeezes it back to the bowler 39.5 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , the wrong 'un from Yasir , Anderson kneels down and does not make contact with the sweep , the ball strikes the pad and lobs over silly point , who runs back and catches it. Pakistan were confident that there was an inside-edge , hence Misbah took the review. However , the replays showed that it was only pad , the lbw did n't come into the equation as the ball pitched outside leg. Waste of a review and now Pakistan have lost both Pakistan have gone for the review. They think that Anderson got an inside edge while playing the sweep. Yasir is fine with the front foot. The replays suggest that there was no bat involved. The TV ump will now check for the lbw. The ball pitched outside leg. Anderson survives 39.4 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , goes on with the arm from over the wicket , Anderson gets forward and across , blocks it to silly point. Plenty of oohs and aahs from the close in fielders 39.3 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , works it with the turn to the fielder at mid-wicket 39.2 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , cleverly bowled , Yasir sees Anderson coming down the wicket , pulls the length back , Anderson can just dab it to silly point 39.1 Yasir Shah to Latham , 1 run , this time Latham employs the sweep shot , middles the full delivery and hits it to deep mid-wicket 38.6 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , tosses it up on off and middle , Anderson keeps it out with a forward defence 38.5 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , FOUR , superb shot ! Great use of the feet , dances down the wicket , gets right to the pitch of the ball and lofts it handsomely over the bowler 's head for a boundary 38.4 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , skids on after pitching , Anderson hangs back and jams it to the on-side 38.3 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , FOUR , another sweep that fetches him four , flighted on off , Anderson goes down on his knee and sweeps it to behind square leg , that was too full to play the sweep , but he managed to do it with ease 38.2 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , too full and attacking the stumps , Anderson rolls his wrists and turns it gently to the on-side 38.1 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , gives this plenty of air , Anderson defends with the bat in front of his pads 37.6 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , tosses it up outside off , Latham lunges forward in defence 37.5 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , floated up and turns into the left-hander , Latham goes deep in the crease and tries to work it to the on-side , gets an inside edge onto the pads , luckily for him the ball lobs wide of the FSL fielder 37.4 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , 1 run , drags the length back outside off , Anderson stands tall and punches it wide of mid-off 37.3 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , touch quicker and around off , Anderson prods forward and pushes hard at it , the ball takes the inside-edge and goes wide of the FSL fielder 37.2 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , huge shout for lbw , but the umpire is unmoved. Once again Anderson goes for the sweep shot , he does not get anywhere close to the ball , is rapped on the pads , but the impact was outside off. Pakistan discuss about taking the review , but decide against it 37.1 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , FOUR , the sweep seems to be the most profitable shot for Anderson , flighted outside off , Anderson bends one knee and sweeps it powerfully to deep square leg , there was a fielder near the rope but he was just a mere spectator 36.6 Hafeez to Latham , FOUR , fabulous shot ! It was just a gentle push and the ball raced away to the fence. Tosses it up on middle and leg , Latham gets to the pitch of the ball and pushes it to the left of Hafeez , once the ball beat the mid-on fielder it was only heading in one direction , that is the boundary 36.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , flighted close to off , Latham leans forward and dead-bats it to the off-side 36.4 Hafeez to Latham , no run , slider down leg , Latham ca n't get bat on ball , Sarfraz does not glove it cleanly 36.3 Hafeez to Latham , no run , throws this up gently around off , Latham lunges forward and knocks it back to the bowler 36.2 Hafeez to Latham , no run , floated up on off , Latham smothers the spin with a forward defence 36.1 Hafeez to Latham , no run , nice loop on this off-break , Latham watches it carefully and defends to the left of Hafeez 35.6 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , wrong 'un to end the over , Anderson reads it well , lunges forward and blocks it to silly point 35.5 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , FOUR , lovely shot ! Gives this enough air just outside off , Anderson kneels down and sweeps it in front of square , he rolled his wrists nicely to keep the ball along the ground 35.4 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , flighted outside off , Anderson shimmies down the track and heaves it to deep mid-wicket , the ball plugs in the outfield and stops 35.3 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , floated just outside off , Anderson sweeps and finds the backward square fielder 35.2 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , sharp turn into the batsman , Anderson shuffles across and does not offer a shot , the ball brushes the pad and goes past leg slip , the duo take a couple but it is not considered as he was not playing a shot 35.1 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up , the length is slightly short , Anderson has ample time to go back and knock it to the left of the bowler 34.6 Hafeez to Latham , no run , flighted on off , Latham presses forward and pushes it back to the bowler 34.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , slows it up and gets it to turn away , Latham plays it with soft hands , the ball rolls off the outside edge towards point 34.4 Hafeez to Latham , no run , too full and just outside off , Latham squeezes it out to point 34.3 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , 1 run , straight roller on middle and leg , Anderson gets inside the line and nurdles it behind square 34.2 Hafeez to Latham , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , Latham goes back and cuts it to sweeper cover 34.1 Hafeez to Latham , no run , goes on with the arm , Latham brings the bat down in an angle , the ball squirts off the inside-edge towards backward square Welcome back.. . New Zealand have been pushed back. Latham has managed to hold on after Azhar put him down early today. Anderson also looks a little shaky. It was never going to be easy for the Kiwis but they have made it much harder for themselves , losing their key wickets. Pakistan spinners look threatening and they will continue to enjoy the assistance from the pitch. Can New Zealand brave the odds ? Join us for the post-lunch session in a short while to find out . Pakistan are on top here. New Zealand have lost the best three batsmen in their side. McCullum never really looked comfortable at the crease and Williamson was unlucky to get out playing one back on the stumps. Adding fuel to the fire , Taylor departed for a duck in his comeback match . 33.6 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up just outside off , Anderson moves forward and blocks 33.5 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , another one that turns back in from outside off , Anderson goes for the defensive push but ca n't lay bat onto the ball as it turns towards him , the ball hits the pad but the impact again was outside off 33.4 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Anderson puts his front foot across and looks to block , the ball hits the pad but the impact was outside off 33.3 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , pushed through on off , Anderson goes on the front foot and blocks to silly point 33.2 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , flighted delivery around off , Anderson blocks 33.1 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up just outside off , Anderson moves across and looks to block , the ball turns sharply and loops up to slip after hitting the pad , there was an appeal but the ball did n't get any part of the bat 32.6 Hafeez to Latham , FOUR , flatter this time from Hafeez , Latham goes on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket for another boundary 32.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , defended off the front foot 32.4 Hafeez to Latham , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Latham goes back in the crease and looks to clip it into the leg-side , he misses and the ball hits the pad , there was a loud appeal but the ball was snaking down leg 32.3 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , 1 run , skids on middle and leg , Anderson goes for the defensive push , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and loops away to the left of FSL , the batsman take a single 32.2 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up on off , Anderson leans forward and defends 32.1 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Anderson goes back in the crease even though it was very full , he blocks 31.6 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , goes on the front foot and turns this flighted delivery on off and middle into the on-side 31.5 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham leans forward and blocks 31.4 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , beauty ! It was a leg-break that skidded on towards the batsman , who was looking to push at it , the ball goes past the outside edge 31.3 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , floated on off , Latham goes forward and blocks 31.2 Yasir Shah to Latham , FOUR , poor delivery from Yasir , it was a short delivery spinning back in towards the batsman , Latham had enough time to go back in the crease , he punches it to the deep extra-cover fence for a boundary 31.1 Yasir Shah to Corey Anderson , 1 run , pushed through on off , Anderson goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep mid-wicket Yasir Shah [ 1.0-0-1-0 ] is back into the attack Yasir Shah comes round the wicket straightaway 30.6 Hafeez to Latham , no run , flighted delivery around off , Latham leans forward and pushes it into the off-side 30.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , flatter on the stumps , Latham goes back and blocks 30.4 Hafeez to Latham , no run , floated on off , Latham presses forward and blocks 30.3 Hafeez to Latham , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Latham goes back in the crease and blocks 30.2 Hafeez to Latham , no run , very full and just outside off , Latham leans forward and blocks 30.1 Hafeez to Corey Anderson , 1 run , goes deep in the crease and works this flatter delivery towards mid-wicket , the batsman pinch a single 29.6 Babar to Latham , no run , tossed up on middle , defended off the front foot 29.5 Babar to Corey Anderson , 1 run , floated around middle , Anderson clips it towards mid-wicket for a single 29.4 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , flighted delivery on off and spinning in towards the batsman , Anderson looks to push , the ball turns and hits the pad , there was an appeal but ump Tucker is not interested 29.3 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , floated on off , Anderson blocks off the front foot 29.2 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , loopy delivery on middle , Anderson turns it towards short mid-wicket 29.1 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up on off , Anderson leans forward and dead-bats it 28.6 Hafeez to Latham , 2 runs , flatter from Hafeez , Latham goes on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket 28.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , goes deep in the crease and defends 28.4 Hafeez to Latham , no run , dropped ! Flighted delivery around off , Latham goes for the forward defensive push , the ball takes the outside edge and hits the arm of the keeper , the ball drops just short of the gully and Latham survives yet again 28.3 Hafeez to Latham , no run , shortens his length , Latham goes on the back foot and cuts it towards backward point , Yasir dives full length to his right to prevent a boundary there 28.2 Hafeez to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham blocks off the front foot 28.1 Hafeez to Latham , no run , too close to cut , it was flatter just outside off , Latham chops it towards silly point Mohammad Hafeez [ 2.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Babar to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , flatter outside off , Anderson has ample time to go back , he punches it square of the wicket and the batsmen run for a brace 27.5 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , pushed through outside off , Anderson goes back and dabs it behind square on the off-side 27.4 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , puts his front pad out of the line of off and blocks this tossed up delivery 27.3 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , floated on off and middle , Anderson moves across and blocks 27.2 Babar to Latham , 1 run , flatter and spinning back in towards the batsman , Latham goes back in the crease and punches it to extra-cover 27.1 Babar to Latham , no run , tossed up just outside off , Latham leans forward and blocks Zulfiqar Babar [ 10.0-2-33-2 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Imran Khan to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Anderson goes back in the crease and defends 26.5 Imran Khan to Corey Anderson , FOUR , comes round the wicket and bangs this short , Anderson shifts his weight on the back foot and muscles the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence 26.4 Imran Khan to Corey Anderson , no run , short delivery again , Anderson gets behind the line and blocks 26.3 Imran Khan to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery on top of off , Anderson goes on the back foot , opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards point , Anderson shouts a loud 'No ' to send his partner back 26.2 Imran Khan to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Anderson stays rooted to the crease and blocks 26.1 Imran Khan to Corey Anderson , no run , fullish and on off , Anderson leans forward and drives it to mid-off Imran Khan [ 5.0-2-11-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Hafeez to Latham , no run , floated around off , Latham presses forward and blocks 25.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , lunges forward in defence to a tossed up delivery on off There is a slip , a gully , a FSL and a silly point in place 25.4 Hafeez to Latham , 2 runs , pushed through on off and middle , the ball skids on as Latham goes on the back foot and looks to push at it , the ball runs away behind square on the on-side off the inside edge 25.3 Hafeez to Latham , no run , floated just outside off , Latham goes back in the crease and blocks 25.2 Hafeez to Latham , FOUR , flatter delivery outside off , Latham goes on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover , the timing on that one was great , the ball races away to the fence 25.1 Hafeez to Latham , no run , flighted and a little wide of off , Latham misses the cut , the keeper takes it Mohammad Hafeez [ 1.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , short of a good length and outside off , Anderson does n't offer a shot 24.5 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , another short one angling down leg , Anderson thinks about glancing it but pulls out of the shot at the last instance , the keeper collects it 24.4 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Anderson turns it towards short mid-wicket There is a leg-slip in place now 24.3 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , did he get a glove on that ? It does n't matter as Sarfraz immediately points out that the ball did n't carry to him. It was a short delivery down leg , Anderson jumps in the crease and looks to tickle it fine , he gets a glove on that , the keeper dives to his right but the ball just bounced short of him 24.2 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , touch fuller around off , Anderson blocks it to point off the front foot 24.1 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , on a good length and outside off , Anderson shoulders arms 23.6 Babar to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham lunges forward in defence 23.5 Babar to Latham , no run , straying on the pads this time , Latham moves across and tickles it to short fine leg 23.4 Babar to Latham , no run , goes back in the crease and blocks 23.3 Babar to Latham , no run , loopy delivery on off and middle , Latham drives it off the front foot to mid-on 23.2 Babar to Latham , no run , slower delivery around off , Latham goes back in the crease and blocks 23.1 Babar to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham eases it down to mid-on 22.6 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , another bumper outside off , Anderson sways away from the line and lets it go to the keeper 22.5 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , fraction fuller just outside off , Anderson presses forward and defends it to the off-side 22.4 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , left alone 22.3 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , short of length just outside off , Anderson jumps in the crease and fends it to the off-side 22.2 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , no run , length delivery outside off , Anderson defends it to the off-side 22.1 Rahat Ali to Corey Anderson , leg byes , FOUR , back of a length delivery straying on the pads , Anderson looks to clip and misses , the ball takes the top flap of the pad and rolls past the right of the keeper to the fine leg fence 21.6 Babar to Latham , no run , flighted delivery on middle stump , Latham goes on the back foot and turns it to FSL 21.5 Babar to Latham , no run , loopy delivery on off , Latham leans forward and blocks 21.4 Babar to Corey Anderson , 3 runs , tossed up just outside off , Anderson goes for the defensive push , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and runs away towards third man , the batsmen take three 21.3 Babar to Corey Anderson , no run , flighted delivery spinning towards the batsman , Anderson blocks it into the on-side Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 21.2 Babar to Ross Taylor , out Caught by Shafiq ! ! Taylor is gone for a duck. It was a flighted delivery on off , Taylor pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and Shafiq at gully pounces on it. New Zealand are in deep trouble. Their three best batsmen are back in the hut. Ross Taylor c Shafiq b Babar 0 ( 6 ) Babar to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 21.1 Babar to Ross Taylor , no run , moves forward and pushes it to mid-on off the inside half of the bat 20.6 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , fullish down leg , Latham misses the flick , good take by the keeper to his right 20.5 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , a loud appeal for LBW is turned down , back of a length nipping back in a touch , Latham does not offer a shot , the ball flicks the flap of the pad and goes through to the keeper , the impact was just outside off , good call by Misbah for not taking the review as Rahat Ali had overstepped 20.4 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , bumper on middle and leg , Latham ducks under it 20.3 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , fullish just outside off , Latham presses forward and drives it to mid-off 20.2 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Latham leaves it alone 20.1 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , short delivery outside off , Latham sways away and leaves it to the keeper Drinks are on the field now 19.6 Babar to Ross Taylor , no run , gets inside the crease and tucks it into the off-side 19.5 Babar to Latham , 1 run , leans forward and clips it past FSL towards backward square leg 19.4 Babar to Latham , no run , turns it gently towards the FSL fielder 19.3 Babar to Latham , no run , gets inside the crease to this shortish ball and looks to tuck it into the leg-side , misses and is hit high on the pads , there was a loud appeal for lbw but the umpire is not interested , Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was hitting the stumps but the impact was umpire 's call. Good that Pakistan did not review it 19.2 Babar to Latham , FOUR , Latham plays the sweep to perfection again , sends the ball rolling past the short leg fielder through backward square leg 19.1 Babar to Latham , FOUR , Latham is quick to get down on one knee to this ball on middle and off and drags the sweep to the fine leg fence , good placement by Latham 18.6 Rahat Ali to Ross Taylor , no run , fullish and around off , Taylor covers the line and lets it go through 18.5 Rahat Ali to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length on leg , Taylor blocks it off the back foot 18.4 Rahat Ali to Ross Taylor , no run , in the channel outside off , left alone by Taylor Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.3 Rahat Ali to Williamson , out Bowled ! ! Wickets in back-to-back overs for Pakistan ! Rahat Ali is fine with his front foot. It was a yorker length delivery , Williamson stays inside the crease to jam it into the off-side but the ball ends up rolling back onto the stumps. Williamson actually looked to stop it from rolling backwards but the ball hit the toe-end of his bat and carried on to hit the stumps. Williamson b Rahat Ali 3 ( 4 ) Rahat Ali to Williamson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 18.2 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , length delivery on middle , Williamson stays inside the crease and pushes it into the off-side 18.1 Rahat Ali to Williamson , no run , fullish and outside off , Williamson is not interested in playing at those 17.6 Babar to Latham , no run , goes back inside the crease to work it into the on-side , misses as the ball spins back in sharply. Loud appeal for lbw and Pakistan contemplate for a while over it. In the end , decide not to take it. Latham was struck outside the line of off-stump 17.5 Babar to Latham , no run , goes back inside the crease and punches it to the left of the bowler 17.4 Babar to Latham , 2 runs , lunges on the front foot and turns this off the inside half of the bat through backward square leg 17.3 Babar to Williamson , 3 runs , nicely done by Williamson to get off the mark , a gentle push through the off-side to send the ball racing towards deep extra cover , it was stopped just before the rope to save the extra run Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.2 Babar to Brendon McCullum , out Caught by Younis Khan ! ! Babar provides the first breakthrough for Pakistan ! It was a flighted delivery around off , McCullum comes forward and pushes hard at it , the ball goes off the outside edge of his bat and flies low towards Younis at first slip , good reflexes by the veteran as he catches this inches from the ground. He had his fingers wrapped underneath the ball. Brendon McCullum c Younis Khan b Babar 18 ( 45 ) [ 4s-2 ] Babar to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Pakistan are claiming a catch at slip. The umpires are having a discussion about it , they are unsure whether it carried to the fielder or not. There is no problem with Babar 's front foot. Replays show that it has carried to Younis at first slip , it was a low take but he has his fingers underneath it. Yes , McCullum has to go ! 17.1 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , full and flighted on off , McCullum gets forward and pushes it towards mid-off 16.6 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , good length delivery outside off , Latham lets it go through to the keeper 16.5 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , fullish on off , Latham comes forward and drives it to mid-off 16.4 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , a tad fuller in length outside off , Latham pushes it to point 16.3 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , length delivery nipping away a bit , Latham presses forward and defends it to the off-side 16.2 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Latham defends it back to the bowler 16.1 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , full and straying on the pads , Latham misses the clip and the ball rolls off the pads to the right of the keeper Rahat Ali [ 3.0-2-1-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Babar to Latham , 1 run , stays back and works it from outside off past mid-on for a comfortable single 15.5 Babar to Latham , no run , flighted outside off with a bit of turn , Latham gets inside the crease and lets that go through 15.4 Babar to Latham , no run , stays on the back foot and whips it into the on-side once again 15.3 Babar to Latham , no run , gets inside the line this time and tucks it towards short mid-wicket 15.2 Babar to Latham , no run , full on off , Latham gets forward and defends , the ball dribbles off the face of the bat into the on-side 15.1 Babar to Latham , no run , presses forward and defends , the ball rolls past the man at silly point 14.6 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery on off , McCullum goes back and punches it to cover 14.5 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish on middle and off , McCullum drives it powerfully to mid-off , who dives to his right and saves a boundary 14.4 Imran Khan to Latham , 1 run , fuller and straying on the pads , Latham tucks it to deep square leg for a single 14.3 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , good length delivery outside off , Latham leaves it alone 14.2 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , length delivery on off , Latham goes back and defends it to the off-side 14.1 Imran Khan to Latham , no run , fullish around off , Latham drives it to mid-off without any foot movement 13.6 Babar to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , skips forward and punches it to extra cover for a brace 13.5 Babar to Latham , 1 run , full on middle and off , Latham works it to long-on for a single 13.4 Babar to Latham , no run , presses on the front foot and blocks it down the track 13.3 Babar to Latham , no run , gets inside the crease and works it into the on-side 13.2 Babar to Latham , no run , pushes it back to the bowler 13.1 Babar to Latham , FOUR , shortish on leg , Latham stays inside the line and tucks it off the pads towards deep mid-wicket , the fielder Imran Khan stops the ball near the boundary and ends up dragging it on the rope off his boots 12.6 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a length outside off , McCullum lifts his bat and lets it go to the keeper 12.5 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , McCullum comes forward and pushes it to point 12.4 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish just outside off , McCullum comes on the front foot and pushes it to covers 12.3 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish and nipping in again , McCullum comes forwad and looks to drive , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat back to the bowler 12.2 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , short delivery on off , McCullum ducks and sways away from the line 12.1 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , length delivery nipping back in a touch , McCullum comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 11.6 Babar to Latham , no run , comes around the wicket now and bowls this one full around off , Latham presses on the front foot and blocks 11.5 Babar to Latham , 2 runs , stays inside the line and neatly clips it to mid-wicket for a brace 11.4 Babar to Latham , no run , gets forward and defends it 11.3 Babar to Latham , no run , gets down on one knee to sweep , misses it completely and gets rapped on the pads , loud shout for lbw but the umpire is unmoved , the impact was outside off 11.2 Babar to Latham , no run , goes inside the crease and gently turns it towards FSL 11.1 Babar to Latham , no run , gets forward and defends it into the off-side 10.6 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish just outside off , McCullum goes for the drive and gets a thick inside edge to square leg 10.5 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , McCullum goes back and defends it to the off-side 10.4 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , length delivery outside off , McCullum comes forward and defends it to mid-off 10.3 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , length ball outside off , McCullum defends it to the off-side 10.2 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length delivery nipping back into the right-hander , McCullum comes on the front foot and looks to defend , he 's hit on the pad and the ball lobs to the keeper , Misbah and Imran have a long discussion and do n't go for the review. They thought there was an inside edge , but the ball hit the flap of the pad. Good decision not to take the review 10.1 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length delivery just outside off , McCullum comes forward and defends it to the off-side 9.6 Babar to Latham , no run , quicker and close to off , Latham gets behind the line and jams it to the off-side 9.5 Babar to Latham , no run , another solid forward defence from the left-hander 9.4 Babar to Latham , no run , leans well forward and smothers the spin 9.3 Babar to Latham , no run , pushed through on off , Latham prefers to hang back and knock it to mid-on 9.2 Babar to Latham , no run , dropped ! Azhar Ali puts down a tough chance. The flatter delivery on the stumps , Latham goes deep in the crease , rolls his wrists and turns it to FSL , Azhar under the helmet got both hands , but could not latch onto it 9.1 Babar to Latham , no run , tosses it up on off , Latham turns it gently to mid-wicket Zulfiqar Babar [ 2.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , half volley outside off , McCullum drives it to deep extra cover for a boundary 8.5 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length delivery swinging back into the right-hander , McCullum comes forward and looks to defend and is hit on the front pad , the impact was umpire 's call and McCullum remains safe Pakistan review for an LBW appeal on McCullum. Imran has landed his foot well before the crease , Hawk-Eye shows the impact was umpire 's call which means the onfield decision remains. McCullum survives 8.4 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish on off , McCullum comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 8.3 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , fuller length delivery straying on the pads , McCullum flicks it off the pads to backward square leg for a brace Three slips and a gully in place 8.2 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish on middle , McCullum comes forward and drives it to mid-on 8.1 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller and straighter on middle , McCullum drives it to mid-on Imran Khan [ 1.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack 7.6 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , stays inside the crease and knocks it into the off-side , towards point 7.5 Yasir Shah to Latham , no run , full toss , Latham leans forward and drives it gently into the off-side 7.4 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , McCullum leans forward and works it to mid-on for a comfortable single A slip , a silly point and a FSL in place 7.3 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , full again , McCullum gets forward and pushes it back to the bowler 7.2 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted around off , McCullum punch-drives it towards mid-off this time 7.1 Yasir Shah to Brendon McCullum , no run , full on off , McCullum gets forward and punches it towards mid-on The players have walked out to the middle. McCullum on strike. Yasir Shah will start proceedings on day 3.. . Pitch Report : " The pitch will play similar to yesterday. It will be good for batting. It is dry. It is a little on the slow side. So spinners might benefit and it will be tough for New Zealand to handle Babar and Yasir , " reckons Danny Morrison . New Zealand played out 7 overs before the end of play yesterday. Even though they kept all their wickets intact , it is not going to be a walk in the park today. However , from what we saw yesterday , it is not going to be easy for the Kiwis to keep the spinners out as Babar and Co. will look to impose their dominance on the opposition 's batsmen. Will New Zealand put up a fight ? Or will Pakistan continue their run ? Stay tuned for all the action . Hello and welcome to day 3 of the first Test between Pakistan and New Zealand. Pakistan are currently in the driver 's seat after they declared on a mammoth total of 566/3. All their top 5 batsmen managed scores above 80 , a world record in Tests. Now , it is up to their bowlers to bundle the Kiwi batsmen . New Zealand have three tough days ahead of them. Will Pakistan continue to trouble the touring team ? Or will New Zealand put up a fight ? Join us tomorrow to find out. Till then , take care . Stumps , Day 2 : New Zealand have managed to keep the Pakistani bowlers out for 7 overs. However , their real test will be tomorrow when they will be against the full wrath of the Pakistani spinners. Babar has already shown that he will be a handful on this pitch. Yasir did n't get an over tonight but he will definitely be used generously tomorrow , owing to the assistance he got in the two games against Australia . 6.6 Babar to Latham , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Latham goes deep in the crease and blocks 6.5 Babar to Latham , no run , big shout for lbw , it was tossed up just outside off , Latham misses the defensive push , the ball hits him on the back pad and there was a loud appeal , the umpire turns it down as the impact was outside off 6.4 Babar to Latham , no run , lunges forward in defence to a tossed up delivery on off 6.3 Babar to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , McCullum steps out but is not up to the reach of the ball , he pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and lobs up just wide of the FSL 6.2 Babar to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , flatter delivery on the stumps , McCullum goes back and flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 6.1 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , tossed up on off , McCullum blocks off the front foot Zulfiqar Babar [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Hafeez to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham lunges forward in defence 5.5 Hafeez to Latham , no run , floated on off , Latham presses forward and defends 5.4 Hafeez to Latham , no run , pushed through outside off and spinning further away , Latham leaves 5.3 Hafeez to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham leans forward and blocks There is a slip , a leg-slip , a FSL and a silly point in place . 5.2 Hafeez to Latham , no run , straying down leg , Latham misses the tickle and the keeper takes it 5.1 Hafeez to Latham , FOUR , Hafeez starts off with a gentle loosener , short and outside off , Latham goes back and cuts it past the diving backward point , the ball runs away to the third man fence Mohammad Hafeez , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 4.6 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a good length and on off , McCullum gets right behind the line and blocks 4.5 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , short delivery angling away from the batsman , McCullum sways away from the line and lets it go 4.4 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a good length and on middle stump line , McCullum drives it back towards the bowler 4.3 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , almost squared him there. It was on a good length and shapes away a touch from off and middle , McCullum pushes at it , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and rolls away into the off-side 4.2 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish and just outside off , McCullum opens the face of the bat and drives uppishly , the ball just bounces short of Yasir Shah at backward point 4.1 Rahat Ali to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a good length and wide of off , McCullum lets it go 3.6 Babar to Latham , no run , pushed through outside off and draws the batsman into the drive , the ball goes past the outside edge 3.5 Babar to Latham , no run , flighted delivery on off , Latham leans forward and blocks it into the off-side 3.4 Babar to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off and middle , McCullum leans forward and pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away to short mid-wicket , the batsman take a single before the bowler tidies it up 3.3 Babar to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted delivery outside off , McCullum leaves as the ball turned further away from him A slip , a leg-slip , a FSL and a silly point in place 3.2 Babar to Latham , 1 run , straying on the pads , Latham moves across and works it to backward square leg 3.1 Babar to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , straighter one from Babar , McCullum is late onto the shot , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and runs away fine on the on-side , the batsmen take a single Zulfiqar Babar , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 2.6 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , short of a good length and outside off , Latham does n't offer a shot 2.5 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , fullish and outside off , Latham leaves 2.4 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , fullish and angling on the pads , Latham fails to clip it into the on-side and gets an inside edge onto the pad , there was a stifled appeal from the Pakistani players , but the umpire turned it down straightaway 2.3 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , on a good length and on off , Latham blocks it into the off-side off the front foot 2.2 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Latham goes on the back foot and mistimes the punch just wide of mid-off 2.1 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , on a good length and outside off , Latham shoulders arms 1.6 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery going down leg , McCullum misses the glance and the keeper takes it 1.5 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish and straying down leg , McCullum fails to tickle it fine , the keeper collects it 1.4 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery on off , McCullum goes right back in the crease and punches it towards mid-off 1.3 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a good length and just outside off , McCullum shoulders arms 1.2 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , fullish and straying on the pads , McCullum flicks it to the deep mid-wicket fence for a boundary There are three slips , a gully and a FSL in place . 1.1 Imran Khan to Brendon McCullum , no run , touch fullish and on middle , McCullum leans forward and blocks it towards mid-on Imran Khan , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Latham goes back in the crease and blocks it to FSL 0.5 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , just short of a good length and shaping away outside off , Latham lets it go through to the keeper 0.4 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , on a good length and just around off , Latham blocks 0.3 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery outside off that keeps a little low as well , Latham looks to play at it , the ball goes past the bottom of the bat and on the bounce to the keeper 0.2 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , fullish and swinging away from the batsman , Latham shoulders arms There are three slips , a gully and a FSL in place . 0.1 Rahat Ali to Latham , no run , good length delivery shaping away from the batsman a little wide of off , Latham leaves Shan Masood is on the field in place of Ahmed Shehzad 0.1 Rahat Ali to Latham , no ball , Rahat oversteps first up , it was a good length delivery outside off that shaped away a little , Latham leaves Latham and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Latham is on strike. Rahat Ali will open the attack Openers McCullum and Latham are taking a stock of the pitch. Tom Latham will take strike and Rahat Ali will open the bowling . The Pakistani players are walking out to the middle . For New Zealand 's bowlers , it has been a sorry tale. They never looked like troubling the batsmen. The only chances they got were also put down due to poor fielding effort. Ish Sodhi got a few balls to turn but it will be interesting to see how Pakistani bowlers do on this pitch. New Zealand will have to bat 7 overs that are left in the day. Can they go into stumps without losing a wicket ? Stay tuned to find out . Pakistan have truly showed their class. All the top 5 batsmen managed to score more than 80 runs , a world record in Test cricket now. Shehzad and Hafeez started off brilliantly , sharing a 178-run stand before Hafeez fell short of his century. Azhar and Shehzad continued from there on , with Shehzad notching up his highest score in Test cricket. He was unlucky to get out after an Anderson delivery hit him straight near the eye. The news is that Shehzad has suffered a minor fracture on his skull. After Azhar Ali departed 13 short of another hundred , YK and Misbah got together and were amazing to say the least. They continued their good form , hitting centuries before they declared . Pakistan have declared after both the batsmen got to their respective hundreds . 170.5 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , 3 runs , Misbah also completes his 8th Test hundred with this three , it was fullish on off and middle , Misbah drives it to the right of the bowler , the ball runs away towards long-on and the batsmen take three. Both Misbah and YK have been brilliant . 170.4 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , no run , blocks this tossed up delivery 170.3 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , no run , defended off the front foot 170.2 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , Younis Khan has done it again , getting to his 28th Test hundred. It is his 4th hundred in the last 5 innings. He is lucky to be still there as he could have been out on 99. He drove one straight to the silly mid-on fielder , who drops and parries the ball towards mid-on , allowing the batsmen to take a run 170.1 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , no run , slower back of a length delivery around off , Younis punches it to short cover It is YK 's turn to get to yet another hundred. He is also on 99 . 169.6 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , fullish and outside off , Misbah lets it go and stays on 99 169.5 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , full toss outside off , Misbah can only manage a drive straight to the mid-off fielder 169.4 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah defends 169.3 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Misbah gets right behind the line and blocks 169.2 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , fullish on off and middle , Misbah moves across and turns it to mid-wicket 169.1 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Misbah pushes it towards the cover region Corey Anderson [ 18.0-2-68-2 ] is back into the attack Both Misbah and Younis are on 99 . 168.6 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards point with gentle hands 168.5 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , full and around off , Younis moves across and drives it to mid-on , YK is on 99 now 168.4 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , on a good length outside off , Misbah pushes at it , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls away towards mid-wicket 168.3 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Younis cuts it towards cover and the batsmen take a run 168.2 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , a touch fuller , Misbah moves forward and eases it down to long-on off the inside half of the bat 168.1 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Misbah leans forward and blocks 167.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 1 run , flatter and on middle and leg , Misbah stays back in the crease and whips it towards mid-wicket to retain strike 167.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Misbah drives to short cover , who dives and collects the ball 167.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , another one that 's short and at the stumps , Younis goes on the back foot and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fielder this time 167.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , FOUR , short and Younis rocks back in the crease , he pulls it and the ball runs away to the deep mid-wicket fence 167.2 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Misbah goes back in the crease and clips it to square leg 167.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , loopy delivery on off and middle , Younis turns it to mid wicket for a single This is the first time ever in Test history that the top 5 batsmen have scored 80 or more in an innings 166.6 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , no run , another one that 's darted on the pads , Misbah works it to square leg 166.5 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , no run , short of length delivery on the pads , Misbah goes back in the crease and turns it to square leg 166.4 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Misbah goes back in the crease and knocks it into the off-side 166.3 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Younis gently pushes it into the vacant cover region and the batsmen take a single 166.2 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Misbah goes on the back foot and works it to backward square leg 166.1 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , no run , shortish and wide outside off , Misbah leaves 165.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 1 run , full toss just outside off , Misbah pushes it to long-off to keep the strike 165.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , overpitched down leg , Misbah nurdles it to short fine leg 165.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , floated on middle and leg , Younis goes down on one knee and sweeps it to backward square leg 165.3 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle stump , Misbah moves across and turns it to backward square leg 165.2 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , floated around off , Misbah looks to play the reverse sweep but the keeper anticipates it well and saves some runs 165.1 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , tossed up on off , Misbah blocks to short cover Ish Sodhi [ 41.0-6-151-1 ] is back into the attack Ish Sodhi will start the proceedings after tea . Time for a drink 's break ! 164.6 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , no run , full on off , Younis jams it back to the bowler 164.5 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , no run , full toss around off , Younis punches it into the off-side 164.4 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it to the right of the bowler , towards mid-on 164.3 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , full on middle and off , Misbah drills it straight down the ground , a bit of a deflection off McCullum 's hands as he tries to stop it takes pace off the ball 164.2 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , no run , back of a length and angled in on middle and leg , Misbah gets inside the line and tucks it towards square leg 164.1 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , back of a length around off , Younis punches it off the back foot to sweeper cover 163.6 Neesham to Misbah , no run , leans forward and turns it towards short mid-wicket 163.5 Neesham to Misbah , FOUR , Misbah has gone ahead of Younis here , back of a length ball on the pads , Misbah looks to glance it fine , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pads and rolls to the fine leg fence 163.4 Neesham to Misbah , FOUR , Misbah moves to 86 with yet another boundary , rocks on the back foot and pulls this short delivery through backward square leg 163.3 Neesham to Misbah , no run , short of length around off , Misbah gets inside the crease to punch , misses and the ball sneaks in through to the keeper 163.2 Neesham to Misbah , no run , back of a length and outside off , Misbah stays back and guides it behind point 163.1 Neesham to Younis Khan , 1 run , length ball around off , Younis punches it to mid-off for a brisk single 162.6 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , no run , gets inside the crease and tucks it behind square 162.5 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , length delivery around off , Younis taps it to long-off 162.4 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , no run , fullish around off , Younis drives it to cover 162.3 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , gets forward to this full ball angled on leg and works it to long-on 162.2 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , FOUR , gets down on one knee to this slowish delivery and reverse sweeps it to deep backward point , sloppy bit of fielding by Southee in the deep , he misfields and then gives the ball a chase but is unable to stop it from crossing the rope 162.1 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , full ball on middle and leg , Younis flicks it to deep mid-wicket 161.6 Neesham to Younis Khan , 1 run , length ball angled in on middle and off , Younis clips it towards mid-on , the fielder slides but is unable to stop the ball , does not prevent the batsmen from running a single 161.5 Neesham to Misbah , 1 run , makes room to this back of a length delivery outside off and slaps it to sweeper cover 161.4 Neesham to Misbah , FOUR , fullish delivery outside off , draws Misbah onto the front foot , he handsomely drives it to extra cover fence , the partnership between Misbah and Younis Khan has now gone past 150 , excellent timing by Misbah 161.3 Neesham to Misbah , no run , length delivery angled into the batsman , Misbah gently knocks it towards cover point 161.2 Neesham to Misbah , no run , wide delivery , Misbah shuffles across , reaches to it and flays it towards point 161.1 Neesham to Younis Khan , 1 run , full ball on middle and leg , Younis clips it to long-on Third new ball is available 160.6 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , goes on the back foot to this back of a length delivery and punches it to long-on 160.5 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , short on leg , Misbah pulls it to fine leg 160.4 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , full ball around off , Younis whips it hard towards long-on 160.3 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , 2 runs , fullish around off , Younis gets forward and hoicks it to mid-wicket , he has not hit that well as it drops well in front of the rope 160.2 Brendon McCullum to Younis Khan , no run , very full on off , Younis leans forward and jams it back to the bowler , who has moved across to his right 160.1 Brendon McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , short of length around off , Misbah gets back and punches it to long-on Brendon McCullum [ 5.0-1-6-0 ] is back into the attack 159.6 Neesham to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Misbah makes room and cuts it to sweeper cover 159.5 Neesham to Younis Khan , 1 run , stays inside the crease and tucks it neatly through backward square leg 159.4 Neesham to Younis Khan , no run , another fullish delivery around off , Younis gets forward and drives it to the left of the bowler 159.3 Neesham to Misbah , 1 run , gets forward and drives this full ball to extra cover 159.2 Neesham to Younis Khan , 1 run , fullish and wide of off , Younis drives it to sweeper cover 159.1 Neesham to Misbah , 1 run , almost chops this back onto the stumps , Misbah looks to flay this back of a length delivery into the off-side , gets a thick inside edge to short fine leg 158.6 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , Younis lunges forward on one knee and looks to paddle sweep , misses and is struck just above the knee-roll , New Zealand players appeal but the umpire is unmoved. They ask for a review after some deliberation. Hawk-Eye shows that the impact was umpire 's call despite the ball hitting the wickets and Younis stays New Zealand have asked for a lbw review against Younis. Height might be the issue here. Hawk-Eye shows that that the ball was hitting the leg-stump but the impact was umpire 's call. Younis is safe 158.5 Craig to Misbah , 1 run , gets down and reverse sweeps again , gets it off the bat this time to backward point 158.4 Craig to Misbah , no run , gets down on one knee and mistimes the reverse sweep , the ball hits him on the pads and rolls to the right of the keeper 158.3 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , leans forward to this full delivery on off and clips it to mid-on 158.2 Craig to Younis Khan , 2 runs , another full toss by Craig , Younis skips forward and slogs it to deep mid-wicket 158.1 Craig to Misbah , 1 run , full toss outside off , Misbah punches it to extra cover , a slight misfield allows the batsmen to run a single 157.6 Neesham to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length on leg , Misbah tucks it off the pads through backward square leg 157.5 Neesham to Misbah , no run , back of a length and outside off , Misbah stays inside the crease and punches it behind point 157.4 Neesham to Younis Khan , 1 run , full and angled in on the pads , Younis flicks it to fine leg 157.3 Neesham to Misbah , 1 run , makes room to this short of length delivery outside off and cuts it square of the wicket Ahmed Shehzad is back from the hospital after the scan. He looks okay and seems to be chatting merrily with his team-mates . 157.2 Neesham to Misbah , no run , fullish on middle , Misbah drills it back to the bowler off the back foot 157.1 Neesham to Misbah , no run , stays back and knocks it behind point James Neesham [ 12.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 156.6 Craig to Misbah , 1 run , pushed slower through the air around off , Misbah gets forward and taps it towards long-on to bring up Pakistan 's 500 156.5 Craig to Misbah , 2 runs , gets down on one knee and sweeps this full toss comfortably through backward square leg 156.4 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , stays inside the crease and tucks it off the pads to mid-wicket 156.3 Craig to Misbah , 1 run , goes on the back foot and works it gently towards mid-on 156.2 Craig to Misbah , no run , full around off , Misbah gets an inside edge onto the pads 156.1 Craig to Misbah , no run , goes back inside the crease to this shortish ball and blocks it towards short cover 155.6 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , byes , 2 runs , fullish and fired well down leg , Younis gets inside the line looking to tuck and misses , the keeper is not able to collect the ball as well as it rolls towards fine leg allowing the batsmen to run a couple 155.5 Corey Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , fullish on off , Misbah skips forward and mistimes the loft to long-on , does not get the distance as the ball drops well in front of the fielder at long-on 155.4 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , touch fuller and wide of off , no feet movement from Younis as he gently knocks it square of the wicket 155.3 Corey Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , short on off , Misbah rocks back and drags the pull through backward square leg 155.2 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , full and moving into middle and leg , Younis flicks it neatly to deep square leg 155.1 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , length delivery around off , Younis gets forward and pushes at it , the ball goes off the bottom part of the bat towards mid-off 154.6 Craig to Misbah , 2 runs , there 's that sweep shot again , Misbah does well to collect a couple after sweeping it through backward square leg 154.5 Craig to Misbah , no run , leans forward and flicks it off the pads behind square , another good bit of fielding at short fine leg does not allow the batsmen to run a single 154.4 Craig to Misbah , 2 runs , touch shorter and down leg , Misbah sweeps it to deep backward square leg , Anderson tumbles in the deep and makes a fine stop 154.3 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , leans forward and turns it towards mid-on for a quick single 154.2 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , shuffles across and defends this outside off delivery 154.1 Craig to Misbah , 1 run , gets down on one knee and employs the reverse paddle-sweep to backward point 153.6 Corey Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , short on off , Misbah gets back and drags the pull along the ground to deep mid-wicket 153.5 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , yorker length delivery that nips back in sharply , Misbah gets forward and jams it back to the bowler 153.4 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , looks to defend this length delivery , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls towards mid-wicket 153.3 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , stays inside the crease and dabs it behind point Only the fifth time for Pakistan in Tests that the top five batsmen have registered fifty-plus scores 153.2 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , short of length on middle , Misbah goes on the back foot and blocks it back to the bowler 153.1 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , bouncer around off , Misbah ducks under it and lets it go through 152.6 Craig to Misbah , 3 runs , Misbah brings up his 27th Test fifty on this ball drifting on leg with a tickle towards fine leg , the fielder gives it a chase and saves the extra run 152.5 Craig to Misbah , no run , continues to camp on the back foot and clips it behind square 152.4 Craig to Misbah , no run , gets back inside the crease and tucks it behind square 152.3 Craig to Misbah , no run , defends it back 152.2 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , slogs it to deep square leg for a comfortable single 152.1 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , Younis is lucky there ! Stays inside the crease and pokes at the ball , it takes the inside edge and almost rolls back onto the stumps 151.6 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , length delivery and in the channel outside off , does not tempt Misbah into playing at it 151.5 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , touch back of a length around off , Misbah blocks it off the back foot with a straightish bat 151.4 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , stays in the crease , opens the face of the bat and dabs it into the off-side 151.3 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , length delivery angled in , Younis drives it to the right of the bowler , who is unable to stop the ball and it rolls to mid-on , the batsmen scamper for a brisk single 151.2 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , length delivery and wide of off , Younis reaches out and taps it towards point 151.1 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length around off , Younis stays on the back foot and pushes it in front of point 150.6 Craig to Misbah , no run , goes back and defends it to the on-side 150.5 Craig to Misbah , 2 runs , comes on the front foot and comfortably lofts this flighted ball towards long-on , gets the elevation but not the distance as the ball just stops in front of the rope , Misbah on 48 now 150.4 Craig to Misbah , no run , gets inside the line and tucks it behind square 150.3 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it through backward square leg This the 12th century stand between Misbah and Younis in 35 Test innings 150.2 Craig to Misbah , 1 run , gets back inside the crease and tucks it to mid-wicket 150.1 Craig to Misbah , no run , pushed slower through the air around off , Misbah cracks it to point 149.6 Corey Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , shortish again , Misbah goes on the back foot and mistimes the pull to fine leg , the partnership between Misbah and Younis Khan is now 100 149.5 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , short of length and outside off , Misbah opens the face of the bat and runs it down to short third man 149.4 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , shortish and on middle , Younis rocks back and pulls along the ground to deep backward square leg 149.3 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , length delivery outside off , Younis dabs it towards point 149.2 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length around off , Younis stays on the back foot and knocks it towards point 149.1 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , starts off with a bouncer on the stumps , Younis ducks under it Welcome back...How long before Pakistan declare ? Anderson will start proceedings after tea . Tea , Day 2 : New Zealand seem to be going through the motions as Pakistan take control of the game. There was plenty of shoddy work in the field. They dropped Misbah twice and there were plenty of misfields as well. Younis has been at his usual best as he completed yet another Test fifty. These two have started to accelerate , giving an indication that the declaration is round the corner. How soon will they declare ? Join us back in a short while to find out.. . 148.6 Craig to Misbah , no run , gives this plenty of air , Misbah smothers the spin with a forward defence 148.5 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , floated up outside off , Younis sweeps it without much power to deep backward square leg 148.4 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , goes right behind the line and keeps it out with a back foot defence 148.3 Craig to Misbah , 1 run , slower on off and middle , Misbah rolls his wrists and nurdles it to backward square leg 148.2 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , too full and on off , Younis squeezes it past the bowler to long-on 148.1 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up on off , Younis plunges forward and dead-bats it down the wicket 147.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , opens the bat face and guides it to backward point 147.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , slower and attacking the stumps , Misbah presses forward and blocks it to the right of the bowler 147.4 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 2 runs , half tracker on the stumps , Misbah goes back in the crease and pulls it to deep square leg for a brace 147.3 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , flighted on off , Misbah lunges forward and knocks it back to the bowler 147.2 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , floated up well wide of off , Misbah shows no interest of playing that 147.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , tosses it up on off , Younis presses forward to defend , the ball squirts off the outside edge to backward point 146.6 Craig to Misbah , no run , slower and on off , Misbah defends with the bat in front of his pad 146.5 Craig to Misbah , FOUR , throws this up gently outside off , Misbah gets a good stride forward and drills the drive to sweeper cover , there was no fielder protecting the fence in the deep 146.4 Craig to Misbah , no run , slower and on off , Misbah works it with soft hands to the on-side 146.3 Craig to Misbah , no run , flighted on off and middle , Misbah knocks it to mid-wicket 146.2 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn and then nudges it wide of short fine leg 146.1 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up outside off , Younis plunges forward and blocks it into the off-side 145.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , another compact forward defence from Misbah 145.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , tossed up on off , Misbah leans forward and blocks 145.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Younis works it against the turn to the on-side 145.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , goes back and bunts the flighted delivery to the off-side 145.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , appeal for lbw has been turned down. Floated up on leg-stump , gets it to turn away , Younis closes the bat face early and is beaten , the ball hits him on the back thigh , the height was the issue there as well as the ball pitched outside leg 145.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , FOUR , top shot ! Floated up just outside off , Younis stays leg-side of the ball and lofts it inside out over extra-cover , he had middled that superbly 144.6 Craig to Misbah , no run , turns the off-break gently to mid-wicket 144.5 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , pushed through on middle , Younis whips it to deep backward square leg 144.4 Craig to Younis Khan , FOUR , floated up just outside off , Younis fetches it from there and heaves it to deep mid-wicket , there were two men in the deep but he split them to perfection 144.3 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , stifled appeal for a run-out chance , but Misbah was going nowhere. Flighted delivery on off , Younis comes down the track and drills it back to the bowler , who deflects it onto the stumps , Misbah had never left the crease hence the umpire does n't consult the TV umpire 144.2 Craig to Misbah , 1 run , tosses it up generously , Misbah goes for the slog-sweep , he gets it off the inside part of the bat and the ball rolls to deep square leg 144.1 Craig to Misbah , no run , flatter and just outside off , Misbah stands tall and punches it to extra-cover 143.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 1 run , nice loopy delivery , gets a bit of turn as well , Misbah closes the bat face and gets an outside edge to short third man. There was no one at slip this time to catch that 143.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , slower and just outside off , Misbah push-drives it to short cover 143.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , gently tossed up around off , Younis drills the drive to long-off 143.3 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 1 run , flighted outside off , Misbah drives it down to long-off 143.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , business as usual from YK , registers his 29th Test fifty. It is also his 4th against New Zealand , works the flatter delivery wide of mid-wicket and reaches the landmark 143.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , gives this plenty of air outside off , Younis drives and finds the short cover fielder 142.6 Craig to Misbah , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Misbah works it straight to the fielder at square leg 142.5 Craig to Misbah , no run , floated up around off , Misbah prods forward and inside-edges onto the pads , but there is no one at FSL to catch it 142.4 Craig to Misbah , no run , pitched on leg-stump and spinning away further , Misbah does not bother with it 142.3 Craig to Misbah , no run , drags the length back around off , Misbah bunts it into the off-side 142.2 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , flighted just outside off , Younis top-edges the sweep , the ball lands well before the deep backward square fielder 142.1 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up on off , Younis pushes it to the right of the bowler 141.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , FOUR , floated up outside off , Misbah kneels down and plays the reverse sweep to the left of the short third man , Craig dives over the ball and allows it to go to the fence. Seems like New Zealand are going through the motions 141.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , slows it up considerably , Misbah presses forward in defence 141.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , slightly short and outside off , Younis goes deep in the crease and cuts it past backward point 141.3 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 1 run , flighted around off , Misbah punches it to the left of the bowler , who misfields and the ball rolls to mid-off , the batsmen run a quick single 141.2 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , full on off , Misbah pushes it into the off-side off the front foot 141.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to mid-off for a quick single 140.6 Craig to Misbah , no run , slower and on middle , Misbah blocks it with a straight bat into the on-side 140.5 Craig to Misbah , no run , gives this bit more air , Misbah prods forward and taps it to the on-side 140.4 Craig to Misbah , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Misbah works it with soft hands towards mid-wicket 140.3 Craig to Misbah , no run , slower and on off , Misbah closes the bat face and turns it gently to the on-side 140.2 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Younis fetches it from there and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 140.1 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , flighted outside off , Younis drives and picks out extra-cover 139.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , FOUR , attempted googly goes wrong. It ends up being a low full toss outside off , Misbah reaches for it and drills it uppishly to the left of mid-on , the fielder had no chance of stopping that 139.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , FOUR , this is adding salt to the wound , Sodhi drops one half way down the wicket , Misbah goes back and muscles the pull through the mid-wicket region for a boundary 139.4 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , slower and on off , Misbah lunges forward in defence 139.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , tossed up on off , Younis drives it down to long-off 139.2 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 1 run , dropped ! This is just sloppy work in the field. Floated up just outside off , Misbah slices the loft towards extra-cover , Neesham runs forward and spills a dolly. The ball hit his right index finger and goes down. You ca n't get easier catches than those. There was a puff of dust when the ball made contact with the turf 139.1 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Misbah punches it to mid-on 138.6 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , gives this bit more air , Younis leans forward and turns it gently to square leg 138.5 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , nice loopy delivery , Younis drives it back to the bowler 138.4 Craig to Misbah , 1 run , slower and on middle , Misbah had to wait for a long time before playing the reverse sweep , he did n't even middle it 138.3 Craig to Younis Khan , 1 run , drags the length back , Younis has enough time to go back and nurdle it behind square on the leg-side 138.2 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up on off , Younis drives it straight to mid-on 138.1 Craig to Younis Khan , no run , flighted on off , Younis lunges forward and turns it to short fine leg Mark Craig [ 22.0-1-84-0 ] is back into the attack 137.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , tossed up on off , Misbah lunges forward in defence 137.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 2 runs , once again takes the aerial route , does n't get hold of it , but has enough to clear the man at deepish mid-on 137.4 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , pushed through on off , Misbah punches it towards extra-cover 137.3 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , short and well wide of off , Misbah cuts and picks out Baz at short cover 137.2 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , in the airrrr and no one gets a hand to it , floated up outside off , Misbah goes for the lofted shot over the bowler 's head , he ends up slicing it towards cover-point , two fielders converge from sweeper and backward point , both Neesham and Craig do n't get a hand to it. Craig even dived forward , but was unable to reach it. Baz is not impressed with that effort 137.1 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , FOUR , flighted on off and middle , Misbah gets well across his stumps and sweeps it behind square , Latham gives a spirited chase in vain. That would have been close had he missed , because he was right in front of the stumps 136.6 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , pitched up outside off , Younis inches forward and drives it to extra-cover 136.5 Boult to Misbah , leg byes , 1 run , strays onto the legs , Misbah misses to nail the flick , the ball goes to fine leg after clipping the pad 136.4 Boult to Younis Khan , 1 run , off-cutter on middle and leg , Younis ekes out an inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls towards fine leg 136.3 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , slower delivery on off , Younis mistimes the drive , the ball dribbles off the inside section of the bat to mid-wicket 136.2 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , shortens the length around off , Younis punches it back to the bowler 136.1 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length on off , Younis gets inside the line and knocks it down the wicket 135.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , floated up on off , Misbah presses forward and blocks it into the off-side 135.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , SIX , massive hit ! Flighted up on off , Misbah goes down on one knee , gets underneath the ball and slog-sweeps it over the cow corner fence. That is a difficult shot to play against the turn , but Misbah made it look easy 135.4 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , tossed up on off , Misbah plunges forward and pushes it back to Sodhi 135.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , nice loopy delivery , Younis under-edges the paddle to short fine leg 135.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , slower and on off , Younis crouches low and dead-bats down the wicket 135.1 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 1 run , floats it up close to off , Misbah drives it to mid-off and sets off immediately for the single 134.6 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , slower delivery on off , Younis works it gently in front of mid-wicket 134.5 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , shortish and rises up a touch , Younis jumps up and bunts it to the on-side 134.4 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length just outside off , Younis punches it without much timing back to Boult 134.3 Boult to Younis Khan , 2 runs , slanted into the pads , Younis hangs back and nurdles it behind square for a double 134.2 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , pitched up just outside off , Younis drives but ca n't beat the packed off-side field 134.1 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , good length just outside off , Younis presses it to short cover off the front foot 133.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , flatter and on off , Misbah whips it towards mid-wicket , he wanted the single but Younis sends him back as Kane swoops in quickly 133.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 2 runs , long hop on middle , Misbah transfers his weight onto the back foot and pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 133.4 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , slower and around off , Misbah lunges forward in defence 133.3 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , quicker and on off , Misbah under-edges it onto the pads , luckily for him the ball does not roll back onto the stumps 133.2 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , fraction short and on off , Misbah punches it straight to short cover 133.1 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , tosses it up on off , Misbah pushes it softly to short cover Ish Sodhi [ 33.0-6-106-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now ! 132.6 Boult to Younis Khan , FOUR , another poor delivery to end the over , splays it down leg for the second time in the over , Younis wo n't miss out on these freebies , glances it very fine and beats the fielder in the deep 132.5 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , on a length just outside off , Younis comes half forward and bunts it to the off-side 132.4 Boult to Younis Khan , 2 runs , short and outside off , Younis goes back and cuts it in front of square for a brace 132.3 Boult to Younis Khan , FOUR , bad delivery from Boult , off-cutter which he slips down leg , Younis just needed to get some bat on that , he did and the ball runs away to the fine leg fence 132.2 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , angled in on off and middle , Younis turns it gently to mid-wicket A wide slip , deep gully and two short covers in place 132.1 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , starts from the round the wicket , Younis gets right behind the line to the length delivery and defends Trent Boult [ 23.0-7-49-0 ] is back into the attack 131.6 Neesham to Misbah , no run , fuller and just outside off , Misbah drives without much timing to mid-off 131.5 Neesham to Misbah , no run , too full and almost a yorker , Misbah jams it to mid-on 131.4 Neesham to Younis Khan , 1 run , drifts onto the pads , Younis stays back and tickles it to fine leg 131.3 Neesham to Younis Khan , no run , pitched up and holds its line , Younis closes the bat face early , gets a soft leading edge to the left of the bowler 131.2 Neesham to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and outside off , Younis reaches for it , drives it away from the body towards backward point , where the fielder makes a fine stop 131.1 Neesham to Younis Khan , no run , good length ball slanting in , Younis presses forward and turns it softly to the on-side 130.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , too full and on off , Misbah squeezes it to short cover , Baz dives and makes a fine stop 130.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , flatter and on off , Misbah stands up and punches it to short cover 130.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , tosses it up on off , Younis drives it wide of mid-off and scampers across for a sharp run 130.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , floats it up outside off , Younis lunges forward and drives it to extra-cover 130.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , flighted on off , Younis prods forward and defends off the inside part of the bat 130.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , short and turning away , Younis cuts and picks out the fielder at extra-cover , either side and that would have been a four 129.6 Neesham to Misbah , no run , good length just outside off , Misbah covers the line and lets it pass 129.5 Neesham to Misbah , no run , again , tad short and just outside off , Misbah pushes it to short cover off the back foot 129.4 Neesham to Misbah , no run , shortish and angles in , Misbah tries to work it to the on-side , ekes out an inside edge onto the thigh pad , the ball lobs and drops safely into the off-side 129.3 Neesham to Misbah , no run , too straight from Neesham , Misbah tucks it to the on-side , ca n't beat the square leg fielder 129.2 Neesham to Misbah , no run , back of a length on off , Misbah knocks it back to the bowler 129.1 Neesham to Younis Khan , 1 run , strays onto the pads , Younis gets inside the line and glances it to fine leg 128.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , 2 runs , tosses it up invitingly , Misbah goes for it , does not middle the loft , but just about clears Southee at mid-off and picks up two 128.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , drags the length back , Misbah hangs back and punches it to mid-off 128.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , low full toss just outside off , Younis kneels down and sweeps to deep backward square leg 128.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , slower and close to off , Younis comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 128.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , FOUR , fraction short on off and middle , Younis was quick to pick up the length , rocks back and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence 128.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , too full and on off , Younis squeezes the drive to Baz short cover 127.6 Neesham to Misbah , no run , back of a length just outside off , Misbah steers it past gully but ca n't beat backward point 127.5 Neesham to Misbah , no run , short of length close to off , Misbah camps on the back foot and punches it to short cover 127.4 Neesham to Misbah , no run , slightly back of a length and around off , Misbah dabs it to gully 127.3 Neesham to Misbah , no run , on a length too far outside off to make Misbah play a stroke 127.2 Neesham to Misbah , no run , good length just outside off , Misbah shoulders arms 127.1 Neesham to Misbah , 2 runs , gentle full delivery on the pads , Misbah leans forward and clips it through the vacant mid-wicket region for a couple 126.6 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , quicker and around off , Younis hangs back and blocks it dead on the wicket 126.5 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , pushed through on off , Younis goes deep in the crease and blocks 126.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , FOUR , wrong line from Sodhi , slides it down leg , Younis bends his knee , plays the paddle even though there was leg slip fielder , the ball beats the man under the helmet and rolls away to the long leg fence 126.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , flatter and on off , Younis gets right behind the line and blocks 126.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , floated around off , Younis drives it to short cover 126.1 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , FOUR , there goes Younis , it was just a matter of time before he brought the sweep out , kneels down to this flighted delivery and sweeps it in front of square , there was no one protecting the fence in the deep 125.6 Neesham to Misbah , no run , length delivery well wide of off , Misbah lifts his bat and lets it go 125.5 Neesham to Misbah , no run , on a length close to off , Misbah dead-bats it to gully 125.4 Neesham to Misbah , no run , short of length on off , Misbah gets up on his toes and taps it to gully 125.3 Neesham to Misbah , no run , good length ball on off and middle , Misbah bunts it to the on-side 125.2 Neesham to Misbah , no run , fuller and just outside off , Misbah is neither forward nor back as he defends to short cover 125.1 Neesham to Younis Khan , 1 run , too straight , drifts onto Younis ' pads , he tucks it behind square leg for a single 124.6 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , flat and on off , Misbah punches it to the left of the bowler 124.5 Ish Sodhi to Misbah , no run , bowls him a flipper first up , Misbah goes back and knocks it back to Sodhi Misbah-ul-Haq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 124.4 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , out Bowled ! ! Knocked over ! Ali misses out on a third consecutive hundred. That wicket will delight any leg-spinner. Tosses it up on leg-stump , gets the ball to dip and turn away , Ali misjudges the length , goes back to defend , the ball beats the outside edge and hits the top of off-stump. Azhar Ali b Ish Sodhi 87 ( 215 ) [ 4s-5 ] Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 124.3 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted on middle , blocks it off the front foot 124.2 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , flatter and on off , Ali goes back and punches it to extra-cover 124.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , low full toss just outside off , Ali drives and finds mid-off to perfection The news about the Shehzad injury is that , he has been taken to the hospital to take a precautionary X-ray . 123.6 Neesham to Younis Khan , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump , Younis presses forward and bunts it to short cover 123.5 Neesham to Azhar Ali , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Ali hangs back and eases it square of the wicket 123.4 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller just outside off , Ali drives it crisply but straight to mid-off 123.3 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , short of length close to off , Ali stands tall and punches it to short cover 123.2 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , good length around off , Ali comes on the front foot and pushes it to short cover 123.1 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length sliding down leg , Ali fails to get bat on the glance , Watling takes it cleanly and whips the bails off , Ali lost his balance but did not go out of the crease James Neesham [ 7.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack Third umpire called in for a stumping chance. No issues with the front foot of Neesham. Ali 's back foot was always in the crease . 122.6 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , again , plenty of air given on this delivery , Younis drives and this time finds the extra-cover fielder 122.5 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up around off , Younis drives and picks out Baz at short cover 122.4 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , bit of extra bounce on this occasion , Ali reads it well , plays it late wide of the slip fielder 122.3 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , floated up on off , Ali lunges forward in defence 122.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , googly , turns in on middle , Younis gets inside the line and nurdles it to backward square leg 122.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , shortens the length on off , Ali goes back and whips it to mid-on , where the fielder is slightly deep 121.6 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , FOUR , edged and four ! Pitched up outside off , Younis reaches for the drive , plays it away from the body , the ball takes the outside edge and goes past keeper and the wide slip fielder 121.5 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , fuller and targeting the stumps , Younis comes on the front foot and blocks 121.4 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , 1 run , back of a length close to off , Ali stands tall and punches it to sweeper for a single 121.3 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , short of length just outside off , Younis rides the bounce and steers it to deep backward point 121.2 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , 1 run , yorker that tails from the round the wicket angle , Ali jams it in front of mid-on , calls for a quick single and gets the required response from Younis 121.1 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , dug in half way down the wicket , the ball does not rise up , Ali goes back , rolls his wrists and pulls it straight to mid-wicket 120.6 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , throws this up invitingly , Younis is content in blocking it back to the bowler 120.5 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , flighted on off , Younis smothers the spin with a forward defence 120.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , fraction quicker and on off , Younis goes right back , blocks it dead near his feet 120.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , solid forward defence by Younis , he brings his bat in front of his pad to block 120.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , gives this plenty of air outside off , Younis plunges forward and pushes it towards point 120.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , tosses it up on off , the length is bit too full , Ali squeezes the drive to mid-off 119.6 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , 1 run , short and outside off , Ali cuts it to sweeper cover 119.5 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Younis reaches forward and drives it square of the wicket 119.4 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Ali is opened up as he guides it past gully , the ball straightened enough to square up Ali 119.3 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , pitched up close to off , Ali drives with laden feet , the ball was in the air but wide of the short cover fielder , it goes to mid-off 119.2 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Ali punches back to the bowler 119.1 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and just outside off , Ali push-drives it past short cover , but there is protection at mid-off 118.6 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , fired outside off , Younis shoulders arms 118.5 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , floated up outside off , Ali slaps it to short cover , where Baz fumbles and allows the single to be taken 118.4 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , too full and much quicker , Ali gets his pad out of the way and jams it back to the bowler 118.3 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Ali stays back and knocks it to short cover 118.2 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , tosses it up on off , Ali defends it back to the bowler 118.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , Sodhi sees the batsman advance , drags the length back , Ali pads it away as he did not get to the pitch of the ball 117.6 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length around off , Younis gets right behind the line and defends to the off-side 117.5 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , overcompensates , bowls this well wide of off , Younis ignores it 117.4 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , FOUR , easy pickings ! It was another slower one , this time the line was on leg-stump , Younis gets inside the line and tickles it to the fine leg fence 117.3 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , slower delivery , the off-cutter on middle , Younis turns it gently in front of mid-wicket 117.2 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length just outside off , Younis punches it to mid-off Anderson has couple of gullies , short cover and short cover-point 117.1 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , good length just outside off , Younis comes half forward and bunts it to the off-side 116.6 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , FOUR , poor delivery to end the over , half tracker on leg-stump , Ali had ample time to rock back and pull it in front of square , the fielder at backward square had no chance of stopping that 116.5 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , 1 run , pushed through on leg-stump , Younis goes deep in the crease and whips it to the unmanned mid-wicket region 116.4 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , another solid forward defence , the ball dribbles to the on-side 116.3 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , flighted on middle and leg , Younis brings his bat in front of his pads and blocks 116.2 Ish Sodhi to Younis Khan , no run , the wrong 'un , turns back in , Younis prods forward and misses the forward defensive , is hit high on the pads , no appeal for lbw as it was very high 116.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , touch short and on the stumps , Ali backs away and punches it wide of extra-cover Welcome back. . Lunch , Day 2 : Pakistan were cruising along before Shehzad got a nasty bouncer that he could n't keep out. Overall , however , this session has again belonged to the Pakistanis. They had no problems what so ever playing the New Zealand pacers. The spinners did n't look effective either. Currently , YK has joined Azhar Ali at the crease. Both of them will look to carry on the momentum that Pakistan currently have. Can Younis Khan get another ton on this placid track ? Join us in a short while for the post-lunch session . 115.6 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Younis gets right behind the line and defends 115.5 Corey Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Younis blocks solidly Younis Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease The physio is taking him off the field. Shehzad is crying while walking back. He was looking good for his maiden double ton but this is an unlucky way to get out. There is a lot of swelling around the right eye as Shehzad walks off to a standing ovation from the crowd . 115.4 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , out Hit Wkt ! ! Ahmed Shehzad is out but he looks in gruesome pain. A sharp bouncer from Anderson that hits Shehzad between the grille and the helmet as he looked to play the pull , Shehzad looked in a lot of pain straightaway and dropped his bat back onto the stumps. He is still sitting on the pitch as the physio is looking after him. He certainly looks dazed. Ahmed Shehzad hit wkt b Corey Anderson 176 ( 371 ) [ 4s-17 6s-1 ] Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Hit Wkt ! ! 115.3 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , defended off the front foot into the off-side 115.2 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , banged in short and outside off , Shehzad ducks and the keeper , who is standing up to the stumps , collects it well 115.1 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and just outside off , Shehzad leans forward and blocks to short extra cover 114.6 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , shorter and around off , Ali goes back in the crease and cuts it straight to short cover 114.5 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up just outside off , Ali mistimes the drive back to the bowler 114.4 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , Ali comes down the track and Sodhi shortens his length seeing him step out , Ali can only block 114.3 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up around off , blocked back to the bowler A leg-slip is in place now 114.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , tossed up on off , Shehzad goes on the front foot and drives it to extra cover 114.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , to extra cover , floated on off , Ali drives it through the covers 113.6 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , straying down leg , Shehzad misses the clip and the keeper also does n't take it cleanly 113.5 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , on a good length and outside off , Shehzad goes back in the crease and guides it very late after opening the face of the bat , the ball runs away to the third man boundary 113.4 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of a good length and on off , Shehzad gets behind the line and defends 113.3 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Shehzad blocks 113.2 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , slower delivery that was a touch fuller and around off , Shehzad miscues the lofted drive but the ball evaded the running mid-off fielder , the batsmen take two 113.1 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Ali steers it square of the wicket The keeper is up to the stumps now . 112.6 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 3 runs , floated on off and middle , Ali looks to sweep it fine , the ball takes the top-edge and goes over the keeper 's head , the batsmen take three before the ball is fielded 112.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , Shehzad goes down and paddles this flighted delivery on middle to fine leg , the batsmen take three before the fielder gets around the ball 112.4 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle stump , Ali goes down on one knee and sweeps it to backward square leg 112.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , floated outside off , Shehzad drives it to deep extra cover for another single 112.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , leg-break outside off , Shehzad leaves 112.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , tossed up on off , Ali comes on the front foot and drives to extra cover for a single Ish Sodhi [ 23.0-5-68-0 ] is back into the attack There is a slip , a FSL , a short cover and a short mid-wicket in place for Sodhi 111.6 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , almost a yorker around off , Shehzad jams it out into the off-side 111.5 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and on off , Shehzad blocks to short extra-cover 111.4 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and on off , Shehzad gently drives it to short cover 111.3 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish delivery on off , Shehzad stays rooted to the crease and blocks to short cover 111.2 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Shehzad covers the stumps and blocks 111.1 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , fullish and on off , Shehzad goes on the front foot and drives it through extra-cover , the batsmen run for a brace before the ball is hunted down 110.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , another one that 's been banged short and at the batsman , Ali sways away from the line and lets it go through to the keeper 110.5 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Ali ducks underneath 110.4 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , gentle back of a length delivery just outside off , Ali goes on the back foot and punches it towards mid-off 110.3 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , almost an inswinging yorker from Southee , Ali squeezes it out back to the bowler 110.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , bumper that 's going down leg , Ali ducks under it 110.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and going down leg , Ali looks to clip it fine but the ball takes the pad and goes through to the keeper , there was a loud appeal from Southee but the umpire was n't interested 109.6 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , almost a catch there , it was full and on off , Shehzad looks to play the lofted drive , he checks his shot at the last moment and ends up chipping it over the vacant mid-off region , the ball runs away to the fence 109.5 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of a good length and on off , the ball bounced a touch more and hit the bat hard as Shehzad looks to block 109.4 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , touch fuller and outside off , Shehzad lets it go There is a slip and a silly mid-off in place for Anderson 109.3 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the pads , Shehzad moves across and clips it to backward square leg for a brace Anderson comes round the wicket 109.2 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and angling away from the batsman , Shehzad leaves 109.1 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length outside off , the ball shapes away further and Shehzad shoulders arms Corey Anderson [ 7.0-1-31-1 ] is back into the attack 108.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , another one that 's short and at the batsman , Ali hops in the crease and drops his wrists on the ball , the ball rolls away back on the track 108.5 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , bumper aimed at the batsman , Ali ducks under it 108.4 Southee to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , fullish and on off and middle , Ali clips it towards the on-side , Baz at silly mid-on moves to his right but ca n't stop the ball , the ball runs away towards long-on , the mid-on fielder gives chase and the batsmen take two 108.3 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , banged in short around off , Ali jumps in the crease and pushes it towards point with soft hands 108.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish on off and middle , Ali pushes it to silly mid-on 108.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , touch fuller and on off , Ali tucks it away towards the on-side , McCullum at silly mid-on dives to his right and makes the stop , good fielding there 107.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery outside off , Shehzad shoulders arms 107.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , comes over the wicket and angles this one away outside off from the batsman , Shehzad leaves 107.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and around off , Shehzad drives it gently to short cover Boult comes round the wicket 107.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , 1 run , slow and very short from Boult , Ali had a lot of time to go shift his weight on the back foot and he pulls it behind square on the on-side 107.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , short of a good length and on off , Ali punches it through the covers , the short cover fielder dives but ca n't make a stop , the ball runs away towards deep extra cover and the batsmen run a couple 107.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Ali stays in the crease and blocks it to short cover 106.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , that 's a wide , umpire. Is n't it ? It was full and way wide outside off , Shehzad leaves it 106.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and on middle stump , Shehzad blocks it into the on-side 106.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , poor delivery , tries to bowl another short one at the batsman , sprays it down leg though , the batsman does n't have to offer a shot Southee comes round the wicket now There is a slip and a silly mid-off in place for Southee 106.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery on off , Shehzad gets behind the line and blocks solidly 106.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bumper down leg , Shehzad ducks under it 106.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and on off , Shehzad pushes it back towards the bowler , who parries it to silly mid-off with the help of his boot 105.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , length delivery on the off stump , Ali leans forward and blocks it to short cover 105.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and outside off , Ali opens the face of the bat and dabs it to point 105.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and on off , Ali moves across and pushes it to mid-on 105.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , way outside off and moving a touch further away from the batsman , Ali leaves There is a slip , a flying fourth slip and two short covers in place 105.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , touch fullish and around off , Ali drives it to mid-off 105.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Ali blocks Trent Boult [ 21.0-6-46-0 ] is back into the attack Boult starts from round the wicket Drinks are on the field now 104.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and around leg again , Shehzad tucks it into the on-side 104.5 Southee to Azhar Ali , 1 run , full on leg , gets inside the crease and clips it through backward square leg 104.4 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball angled across from the batsman , left alone by Azhar 104.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , leg byes , 1 run , length dl around leg , Shehzad looks to tuck , misses and the ball goes off after hitting the pads behind square , loud appeal from Southee but the umpire is unmoved. That was pitching way down leg Southee comes around the wicket 104.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , stays on the back foot and defends it with a straightish bat to the left of the bowler this time 104.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length around off , Shehzad blocks it off the back foot , McCullum from silly mid-on sticks his left hand out and takes the pace off the ball 103.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , moves insides the crease and tucks it off the pads to fine leg 103.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , presses forward and defends it into the off-side 103.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gets forward and taps back to the bowler 103.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , nicely done by Shehzad , gets inside the line , makes a bit of a room and carves it to the sweeper cover fence , the fielders give it a chase but are unable to stop the ball from crossing the rope 103.2 Craig to Azhar Ali , 1 run , gets inside the line and turns it gently towards mid-wicket 103.1 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , friendly full toss around off , Shehzad knocks it to backward point 102.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , gets forward to pushs it into the off-side , the ball takes the thickish inside edge and flies behind the stumps towards backward square leg 102.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , comes on the front foot and pushes it towards mid-off 102.4 Southee to Azhar Ali , 3 runs , full length ball moving onto the pads , Azhar leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket , good work by the substitute fielder Bracewell in the deep to save the extra run 102.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , full and outside off , draws Shehzad onto the front foot and he creams the drive to deep extra cover , gets his 150 ! He has become the youngest Pakistani opening batsman to get a 150 102.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full around off , Shehzad looks to drive hard at it , the ball takes the inside edge of the bat and goes into the on-side 102.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length ball angled in on middle and leg , Shehzad tucks it neatly in front of square 101.6 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , gets back inside the crease and tucks it towards short-leg 101.5 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , walks forward and gets an inside edge ontto the pads that rolls towards the off-side 101.4 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , presses on the front foot and pushes it gently into the off-side 101.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , around the wicket now , shortish on leg , Shehzad tucks it to short mid-wicket for a quick single , a wayward throw from the fielder there at the striker 's end , which was wide of the keeper 101.2 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , stays back and guides it towards square third man for a brace 101.1 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , goes inside the crease and gently dabs it towards short cover 100.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , full and moving away from the batsman , Azhar lifts his bat and lets it go 100.5 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , touch fuller around off , Azhar defends it with a straightish bat towards short cover 100.4 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , comes on the front foot to this good length ball and knocks it towards point 100.3 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball around off , Azhar knocks it towards cover off the front foot 100.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , back of length delivery around off , Azhar stays on the back foot and defends it towards short cover 100.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , full and onto the pads , Azhar leans forward and flicks it hard towards short mid-wicket , the fielder does well to dive and stop the ball from going any further Tim Southee [ 17.0-2-52-0 ] is back into the attack Brendon McCullum has gone off the field and Kane Williamson has taken over the captainship duties . 99.6 Craig to Azhar Ali , 1 run , flighted on middle and off , Azhar works it to long-on for a comfortable single 99.5 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , full on off again , Azhar works it to the right of the bowler once again 99.4 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , full on off , Ali gets forward and drives it to the right of the bowler , who dives across to stop it 99.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , gets down on one knee and paddles it through backward square leg 99.2 Craig to Azhar Ali , 1 run , on leg , Azhar tucks it to short fine leg 99.1 Craig to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , drifts down leg , Azhar gets down and sweeps it to fine leg , Boult does well to cover ground from deep backward square leg and stop the ball near the rope 98.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery angled in on off , Shehzad defends it towards mid-off 98.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , length ball on the pads , Shehzad tucks it neatly to mid-wicket for a couple Boult comes over the wicket now 98.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length ball around off , Shehzad defends it solidly towards cover 98.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length around off , Shehzad punches it towards short cover 98.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery on off , Shehzad turns it into the on-side 98.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Boult continues from around the stumps , back of a length around off , Shehzad blocks it off the back foot 97.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , gets back inside the crease and punches it to the right of the bowler , who dives full length but is unable to stop the ball from rolling towards mid-on , Azhar hesitates for a moment but completes the run as he sees that Craig was not able to stop it 97.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted outside off , left alone by Shehzad 97.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gets forward and pushes it into the off-side 97.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , SIX , good use of the feet by Shehzad , he comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it majestically over the long-on fence for the first maximum of the match 97.2 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gets inside the line this time and blocks 97.1 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted ball around off , Shehzad presses forward to defend , gets a thick inside edge onto the pads and the ball rolls down the wicket , it was far away from the short-leg fielder 96.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , good length ball angled in , Azhar gets behind it and blocks solidly Coming over the wicket 96.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length and outside off , Azhar punches it off the back foot towards cover 96.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , full around off , Azhar gets forward and drives it hard , straight to the man at mid-off 96.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , good length ball around off , Azhar defends it with a straightish bat back towards the bowler 96.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length on off , Azhar gets inside the crease and taps it towards mid-on 96.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , full ball in the channel outside off , Azhar shoulders arms to it 95.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , presses forward and blocks it back to the bowler 95.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , comes on the front foot and pushes it gently towards cover 95.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it towards deep mid-wicket , cries of 'catch it ' in the deep but the ball was nowhere near the fielder 95.3 Craig to Azhar Ali , 1 run , presses forward and taps it towards long-on for a comfortable single 95.2 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , gets forward and pushes it towards the on-side 95.1 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish ball , Azhar gets down on one knee and sweeps , the ball dribbles of the bat and gloves and hits him on the pads , muted appeal for lbw but the ball had hit the bat first Mark Craig [ 17.0-1-59-0 ] is back into the attack 94.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length ball around off , Shehzad comes on the front foot and pushes it into the off-side again 94.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length ball angled in , Shehzad defends it towards cover 94.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and moving away from the batsman , left alone easily 94.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length ball angled in , Shehzad defends it with an angled bat into the off-side 94.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery wide of off , Shehzad knocks it towards cover 94.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and outside off , Shehzad watches it closely and lets that go 93.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball angled in on middle and off , Azhar punches it with a straight bat but ca n't get it past the man at mid-off 93.5 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , half volley on the pads , Azhar leans forward and works it to short mid-wicket 93.4 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , full again , this time around off , Azhar gets forward and drives it a touch uppishly towards mid-off 93.3 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , full on middle , Azhar gets forward and jams it back to the bowler 93.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , short on middle , Azhar ducks under it 93.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , length delivery angled in on middle and leg , Azhar clips it to mid-wicket for a brace and gets his 17th Test fifty. He hugs his partner and points his bat towards his team-mates. Captain Misbah stands up in the pavilion and applauds 92.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , gets forward and taps it towards cover for a couple , the partnership between Shehzad and Azhar is now 100 92.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , 1 run , comes round the wicket , shortish on middle , Azhar gets inside the crease , rolls his wrists and pulls it down the ground to fine leg , he is on 49 now 92.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , presses forward to this length ball around off and pushes it to the left of the bowler 92.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , on a length and on middle and leg , Azhar is pushed back in the crease and he blocks it into the on-side 92.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , length and angled across , Azhar knocks it towards point 92.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , good length on the pads , Shehzad tucks it to mid-wicket 91.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , angled onto the pads , Shehzad leans forward slightly and clips it to deep mid-wicket , the ball slows down near the rope , allowing Ish Sodhi to slide and field it to save the extra run 91.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length around off , Shehzad blocks it with a straight bat to the right of the bowler 91.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and angled in on middle and leg , Shehzad taps it towards mid-on 91.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , very full around off , Shehzad gets forward and jams it towards cover point 91.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length on middle and off , Shehzad presses forward and defends solidly 91.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , touch back of a length and straighter , Shehzad pushes it back to the bowler Tim Southee [ 15.0-2-47-0 ] is back into the attack Two slips , a gully and a short cover in place for Southee 90.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , comes around the wicket and bowls it full around off , Azhar looks to push it into the off-side , gets a soft inside edge onto the pads and the ball rolls behind 90.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , full and angled in this time , Azhar presses forward and shoulders arms 90.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , bowls it full and outside off again , does not interest Azhar into playing at it 90.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and angled away from the batsman , Azhar lifts his bat and lets it go 90.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , back of a length and on the pads , Azhar tucks it to mid-wicket for a brace. He moves to 48 now 90.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and outside off , Azhar comfortably shoulders arms to it The players are walking out to the middle. Boult will start proceedings on day 2 . Day 2 : Continuing their momentum from the Tests against Australia , Pakistan have begun their Test series against New Zealand on a solid note. Having won the toss and opting to bat first , the hosts made merry posting 269 runs for the loss of just one wicket. Hafeez and Shehzad put up an intimidating 178-run opening stand before the former got out to Anderson. Shehzad batted right through the day , notched up his third Test ton in the process. New Zealand had their chances but have been unable to make use of the opportunities that came their way. Will they be able to stop Pakistan 's progress and get back in the game with quick wickets ? Day 2 action coming up shortly. Stay tuned.. . Day 1 , Stumps : Pakistan have scored 75/0 in the final session of the day. Overall , a comfortable day for them. They began confidently against the clueless New Zealand bowlers as both Mohammed Hafeez and Ahmed Shehzad notched up their respective fifties in the first hour after lunch. The only bright spot for the visitors was when Anderson removed Hafeez for 96. Apart from a missed stumping chance and a couple of catches that dropped short , they have not been able to extract anything from the wicket. Shehzad has gone on to score his 3rd Test ton and is being assisted by Azhar , who is nearing towards a fifty of his own. The New Zealand bowlers have toiled in vain and unless they manage to pick quick wickets , Pakistan look well set to post a big first innings total. Join us back tomorrow for the action on day two. Till then , goodbye and cheers.. . 89.6 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , presses forward to this length ball and turns it in front of square and that 's stumps 89.5 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Shehzad defends it off the back foot with a straight bat 89.4 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length on leg , Shehzad stays inside the crease and tucks it gently 89.3 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length around off , Shehzad blocks it off the back foot to the left of the bowler , who moves across and fields it 89.2 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length ball on middle , Shehzad presses forward and defends it back to the bowler 89.1 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , 1 run , outside off , Ali gets forward and knocks it square of the wicket Brendon McCullum [ 4.0-1-5-0 ] is back into the attack 88.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted outside off , left alone by Shehzad 88.5 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Azhar slaps it towards sweeper cover 88.4 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up on off , Azhar defends it into the off-side 88.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , has enough time to get back in the crease and smartly works it to mid-wicket , Shehzad wanted a second run but is sent back , Sodhi looks to whip the bails as the throw comes in from the on-side but the bails were already fallen 88.2 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , punches it towards cover for a comfortable single 88.1 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , shortish one , touch quicker as well , Azhar gets back inside the crease and works it into the leg-side Ish Sodhi [ 22.0-5-65-0 ] is back into the attack 87.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , strays this one down leg , Shehzad misses the glance 87.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short and outside off , Shehzad gets away from the line and ducks 87.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length on off , Shehzad shuffles across and manages to tuck it towards square leg , the ball hit him low on the bat 87.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , length ball around leg , Shehzad does well to tuck it nicely off the pads to the fine leg fence 87.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length on middle again , Shehzad defends it with a straight bat towards mid-on 87.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length and nipping back into the batsman , Shehzad blocks it off the back foot towards the on-side 86.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and outside off , left alone by Azhar 86.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , short of length and on the hips again , Azhar looks to tuck , the ball hits his body and rolls behind square 86.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the hips , Azhar tucks it to mid-wicket 86.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , sharp bouncer on the stumps , Azhar ducks underneath it 86.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it towards mid-on 86.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , good timing by Shehzad , Boult comes around the wicket and shapes this one a touch away from the batsman , Shehzad eases into the drive and sends the ball running towards sweeper cover , McCullum chases and fields it just before the rope 85.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , shaping back into the pads , Azhar clips it to mid-wicket , a slight misfield by Sodhi allows the batsmen to run the second 85.5 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , bumper on the stumps , Azhar ducks underneath it 85.4 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball slanted on middle and off , Azhar defends it into the off-side 85.3 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , gets forward to this length ball and taps it towards mid-off 85.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , FOUR , shortish on middle and leg , Azhar rocks back to pull , the ball lobs off the glove and flies off the keeper 's outstretched hand as he jumps and runs away to the fine leg fence 85.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball around off , Azhar presses forward and defends it into the off-side 84.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bowls it wide of off again , left alone by Shehzad 84.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish again and moving away from the batsman , Shehzad is disinterested 84.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and outside off , Shehzad comfortably lets it go through 84.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bangs it in short on the stumps , Shehzad ducks under it and leaves it alone 84.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , 1 run , length ball shaping back in on off , Azhar knocks it behind point for a single 84.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , full and well outside off , Azhar just watches it lazily and lets it go through 83.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , 1 run , stays on the back foot to this back of a length ball coming back in and punches it softly towards cover 83.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , short of length on middle and leg , Shehzad tucks it to mid-wicket 83.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slides it down leg , Shehzad lenans forward to clip and misses it 83.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gets forward and defends it into the off-side 83.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , full and shaping back into the batsman , Shehzad leans forward and looks to work it into the on-side , the ball takes the outside edge of the bat and flies between the keeper and slips to the third man fence. There was no first slip there , only the second and third were present , plenty of gap for the ball to run away to the rope 83.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and shaping away , left alone by Shehzad 82.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball on middle and off , Ali moves inside the crease and turns it into the leg-side 82.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , touch back of a length around off , Azhar knocks it just in front of point 82.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , length ball around off , Azhar comfortably defends it with an angled bat off the front foot 82.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , full and moving away from the batsman , Azhar is not interested in playing those 82.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , full and slanted on the pads , Azhar whips it to mid-wicket for a brace , McCullum gives it a chase in the deep and fields it well before the rope 82.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , around the off stump line , Azhar gets forward and defends it into the off-side 81.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length ball shaping back in on middle , Shehzad blocks it off the back foot towards mid-on 81.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and shaping away , Shehzad lifts his bat and lets it go 81.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length just outside off , no feet movement from Shehzad as he knocks it towards cover Two slips and a gully in place 81.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , touch fuller this time but outside the off stump line again , left alone 81.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and moving away from the batsman , Shehzad shoulders arms to it 81.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length around off , Shehzad covers the line and blocks it with a straight bat Tim Southee [ 11.0-1-31-0 ] is back into the attack 80.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , slants it around leg , Shehzad tucks it through backward square leg 80.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length ball outside off , Shehzad presses in front foot and defends it to cover 80.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length and moving into the batsman , Shehzad defends it off the back foot with a straight bat 80.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery around off , Shehzad blocks it off the front foot 80.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length ball angled across , Shehzad taps it in front of point 80.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , presses forward and defends it solidly , the ball rolls into the on-side Trent Boult [ 12.0-4-29-0 ] is back into the attack Second new ball is available now. New Zealand have taken it straightaway . 79.6 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , defends it comfortably 79.5 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , dropped by the keeper. Azhar gets down on one knee and reverse sweeps , gets a top-edge and the ball flies to the right of the keeper , who has already anticipated it but he fails to collect the ball as it just brushes his gloves and rolls behind 79.4 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , defends it off the front foot 79.3 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , shortish on middle , Ali gets inside the crease and works it into the leg-side , in front of square 79.2 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flighted around off , Shehzad punches it to mid-off for a quick single 79.1 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full on off , Shehzad blocks it down the wicket 78.6 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , drags the length short and just outside off , Azhar punches it off the back foot towards short cover 78.5 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , presses forward to this length ball and defends with an angled bat 78.4 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , full on middle , Azhar works it towards short mid-wicket 78.3 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it towards cover 78.2 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , shapes this one slightly away from the batsman , Azhar taps it into the off-side 78.1 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , gets forward to this length delivery and defends it to the right of the bowler 77.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , drifts it down leg , Shehzad stays inside the crease and looks to tuck , misses it 77.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , camps on the back foot and is solid in defence 77.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , presses on the front foot and pushes it back to the bowler 77.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , waits for it from inside the crease and punches it straight to mid-on 77.2 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , quicker and outside off , Shehzad covers the line and lets it go through 77.1 Craig to Azhar Ali , 1 run , shortish and wide , Azhar cuts it to short third man Mark Craig [ 15.0-1-57-0 ] is back into the attack 76.6 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , presses forward to this fullish delivery and defends it towards short cover 76.5 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , 1 run , slides it around leg , Azhar tucks it through backward square leg 76.4 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , defends it with a straight bat back to the bowler 76.3 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , gets forward to this full ball that shapes back in and works it towards the right of the bowler 76.2 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , jams his bat in front of his pads and blocks it down the track 76.1 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , full on off , Azhar leans forward and defends Drinks are on the field now 75.6 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , almost a yorker on middle stump , Shehzad squeezes it out to the right of the bowler , the fielder at mid-on gets around the ball quickly and prevents the single 75.5 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of a good length and on off , Shehzad goes half forward and blocks 75.4 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Shehzad gets behind the line and blocks 75.3 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , fullish but straying on the pads , Shehzad clips it in the gap between mid-on and mid-wicket for a couple 75.2 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and on off , Shehzad leans forward and blocks with the full face of the bat 75.1 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Shehzad goes on the back foot and blocks 74.6 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , McCullum goes wide of the bowling crease and bowls this one fuller and on middle , Shehzad moves across a touch and works it to backward square leg 74.5 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Ali goes back in the crease and turns it to backward square leg 74.4 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , drifting on middle stump this time , Ali goes on the back foot and clips it into the on-side 74.3 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and on off , Ali mistimes the drive to mid-on 74.2 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and on the pads , Ali goes on the back foot and turns it to square leg 74.1 Brendon McCullum to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and outside off , Ali drives to short cover , who dives to his left to stop the ball 73.6 Neesham to Azhar Ali , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Ali looks to punch it into the off-side , the ball shapes back a little and takes the inside edge , the ball dribbles away towards backward square leg 73.5 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish delivery on off , Ali blocks it into the off-side 73.4 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Ali defends it towards cover 73.3 Neesham to Azhar Ali , FOUR , poor delivery from Neesham , it was on a good length and on the pads , Ali had enough time to go on the back foot and works it to the deep mid-wicket fence 73.2 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Ali bunts it to cover 73.1 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length around off and jags back in a touch , Ali eases it down to mid-on 72.6 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and around off , Shehzad leans forward and blocks 72.5 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed on middle and leg , Shehzad works it towards short mid-wicket 72.4 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and outside off , Shehzad leaves 72.3 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , too full and on off , Shehzad squeezes it out 72.2 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed on middle and leg , Shehzad works it into the on-side 72.1 Brendon McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , Brendon McCullum starts off with a loosener , it was full and outside off , Shehzad guides it towards third man , the batsmen come back for a couple Brendon McCullum , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 71.6 Neesham to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , fullish and outside off , Ali drives it to sweeper cover for a brace The keeper goes back to his original position 71.5 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and outside off , Ali shoulders arms , the keeper , who 's standing up to the stumps collects it 71.4 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , a very good yorker that tailed back in from around off , Ali jams it out back to the bowler 71.3 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a good length and on off , Ali defends off the back foot 71.2 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Ali blocks 71.1 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Shehzad punches it towards extra cover off the back foot , the fielder from cover point dives to stop the ball , he parries it towards the mid-off fielder , who was also running towards the ball just in case the other fielder missed 70.6 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , flatter and on middle and leg , Ali turns it towards short fine leg 70.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , very full on off , Shehzad goes on the front foot and bunts it to the right of point for a single 70.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Shehzad goes back in the crease and dabs it into the off-side 70.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated just outside off , Shehzad leans forward and blocks 70.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated on middle , Shehzad puts his bat in front of pad and blocks 70.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up on off , Shehzad opens the face of the bat and gently drives it towards point 69.6 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and on off , Ali drives to short cover 69.5 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Ali punches it to short cover off the back foot , there was a hint of reverse as the ball shaped back in towards the batsman 69.4 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , Ali shoulders arms to a length delivery outside off 69.3 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a good length and just outside off , Ali gets behind the line and bunts it into the off-side 69.2 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Shehzad goes deep in the crease and punches it to sweeper cover , the fielder gives chase and pulls the ball back in time to save a run 69.1 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Shehzad goes on the back foot and pushes it towards short mid-wicket 68.6 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up on off , Ali presses forward and blocks 68.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , pushed through on off , Shehzad goes back and knocks it square of the wicket for a quick single 68.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter delivery on off , Shehzad goes back in the crease and punches it to short cover 68.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slower delivery around off , Shehzad goes on the front foot and blocks , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 68.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated on off , Shehzad goes on the front foot and dead-bats it back to the bowler 68.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up on off , Shehzad leans forward and blocks 67.6 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Ali punches it past the bowler but the fielder at mid-on moves to his left and prevents the batsmen from taking any run there 67.5 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and on off , Ali goes half forward and defends it into the off-side 67.4 Neesham to Azhar Ali , no run , touch fuller outside off and with a hint of shape away , Ali blocks 67.3 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , There it is ! Ahmed Shehzad brings up his 3rd Test hundred with the single. Neesham splayed this one on middle and leg , Shehzad went on the back foot and turned it towards mid-wicket to bring up his century 67.2 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad pushes it to short cover 67.1 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Shehzad is quick to get behind the line and defends it back to the bowler James Neesham [ 2.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack Shehzad will take strike at 99 . 66.6 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up on off , Ali leans forward and dead-bats it 66.5 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , flatter on the stumps , Ali tucks it away towards mid-on 66.4 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , FOUR , full toss on off , Ali goes down on one knee and sweeps it towards backward square leg , the fielder slides and tries to pull the ball back in , but his foot was touching the rope when he flicked the ball back in , the umpire signals a four 66.3 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , too full on off and middle , Ali blocks it back to the bowler 66.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , loopy full toss outside off , Shehzad works it to mid on and the batsmen pinch a quick single 66.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated just outside off , Shehzad moves forward and gently drives to mid-off 65.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Ali eases it into the on-side 65.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Ali covers the stumps and pushes it into the off-side 65.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and outside off , Ali opens the face of the bat and bunts it towards point 65.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , back of a length delivery and straying on the pads , Ali moves across and works it to deep square leg for a brace 65.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , a touch fuller this time , Ali blocks to silly mid-off off the front foot 65.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Ali pokes at it away from the body , the ball takes the thickish outside half of the bat , splits the gully and floating slip and runs away to the third man fence 64.6 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , 1 run , shortish delivery outside off , Ali goes back in the crease and cuts it square of the wicket for a single 64.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flatter and on middle and leg , Shehzad works it to mid-wicket 64.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , yorker outside off , Shehzad digs it out into the off-side 64.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , great delivery from Sodhi , it was the wrong 'un from Sodhi outside off , Shehzad pushes at it thinking it is a leag-break , the ball takes the inside edge and goes past the keeper , runs away to the fine leg fence 64.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter on the stumps , Shehzad goes back in the crease and works it towards mid-on 64.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , googly just outside off , Shehzad leaves the ball but the ball was n't far away from the stumps , it was a good leave nevertheless 63.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , short of length delivery outside off , Ali rocks back and punches it past backward point for a brace 63.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , straying on the pads , Shehzad goes on the back foot and turns it to deep square leg for three runs 63.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and outside off , Shehzad leans forward and knocks it towards short cover 63.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery around middle stump , Shehzad goes back in the crease and punches it towards mid-on 63.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Shehzad covers the stumps and defends it into the off-side off the back foot 63.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Shehzad dabs it to point The keeper is upto the stumps 62.6 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , floated on off and middle , Ali goes forward and blocks with the full face of the bat 62.5 Ish Sodhi to Azhar Ali , no run , lunges forward in defence to a tossed up delivery on off 62.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flatter and outside off , Shehzad goes on the back foot and pushes it square of the wicket , the fielder from backward point puts in the dive but ca n't stop the ball , the batsmen take a single 62.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated on off , Shehzad presses forward and dead-bats it 62.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , leg-break outside off and spinning further away , Shehzad leaves 62.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated on off , Shehzad leans forward and blocks it to short cover 61.6 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Ali stays back and forehands it towards wide mid-off 61.5 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Ali blocks Boult comes round the wicket 61.4 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Ali goes on the back foot and punches it towards short cover , who moves to his left to field the ball 61.3 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , back of a length delivery on top of off , Ali stays back and dabs it towards point with an open face of the bat A floating slip in place now 61.2 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , shortens his length a little and on the stumps , Ali gets behind the line and blocks it into the off-side There is a short cover , a short mid-wicket and a silly mid-off in place 61.1 Boult to Azhar Ali , no run , fullish and on off , Ali drives it to silly mid-off Trent Boult [ 9.0-3-18-0 ] is back into the attack 60.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , leg break outside off , Shehzad looks to push at it , he pulls out of the shot at the last instance and allows it to go through to the keeper 60.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed through quicker on the stumps , Shehzad goes deep in the crease and blocks 60.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated around off , Shehzad presses forward and defends it to cover 60.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up on off , Shehzad goes on the front foot and gently drives it into the off-side 60.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Shehzad goes on the back foot and defends 60.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up on middle , Shehzad leans forward and blocks Ish Sodhi will start the bowling after tea. There is a slip and a FSL in place . Welcome back. The players are walking out to the centre . Tea on Day 1. Pakistan have made serene progress after lunch. They added 109 runs for the loss of Hafeez , who was unlucky to miss out on a Test hundred. Ahmed Shehzad looked compact though and will look to complete his century after Tea. He added a record stand worth 178 runs for the first wicket with Hafeez. Anderson took the only wicket to fall. The spinners lost their discipline as the partnership progressed and run scoring became easy. Join us in a while for the final session. . 59.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a length and shaping away from off , Azhar looks to dab it towards third man and misses. Watling whips the bails off , but Azhar went no where The keeper is up to the stumps 59.5 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Azhar gets half forward and defends it 59.4 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , another cutter from Southee , shapes back in after pitching , Azhar shuffles across and defends it 59.3 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and angling back into Azhar , driven towards mid-on 59.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , the bumper from Southee , Ali ducks underneath it 59.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no ball , 1 run , waist high full toss from Southee , called as a no-ball , he was attempting a slower ball and it slipped off his hands , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 59.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , 1 run , too straight from Southee , ends up drifting onto Azhar 's pads , flicked away towards long leg for a single 58.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi gives this one plenty of air , Shehzad lunges forward and smothers the spin 58.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slower and on off , Shehzad gets a big stride forward in defence 58.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Shehzad gets a big stride forward in defence 58.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi keeps it very full and outside off , Shehzad squeezes it out as the ball rolls away towards the off-side 58.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed through by Sodhi , Shehzad goes back in defence 58.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi drops one short and just outside off , Shehzad makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at point Ish Sodhi [ 15.0-3-51-0 ] is back into the attack 57.6 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , full and on the stumps , Azhar presents the full face of the bat and drives it to mid-on 57.5 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Azhar gets a big stride forward and drives it towards cover 57.4 Southee to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , slower ball from Southee , Azhar reaches out and drives it past extra-cover for a couple of runs 57.3 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , tad fuller and on off , Azhar presses across and defends it 57.2 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Azhar gets a good stride forward in defence 57.1 Southee to Azhar Ali , no run , full and a hint of shape back into Azhar , he prods forward and gets an inside edge towards mid-wicket Tim Southee [ 9.0-1-26-0 ] is back into the attack 56.6 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Shehzad prods forward and defends it 56.5 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Anderson pitches this one up and on off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 56.4 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , nicely played by Shehzad , the off-cutter from Anderson , but plenty of width on that , steered away square on the off-side behind point for a boundary 56.3 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller and on off , Shehzad shuffles across and defends it 56.2 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a length and just outside off , defended with an angled bat towards the off-side 56.1 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Shehzad prods forward and defends it 55.6 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , Craig slows one on off , Azhar goes back and offers a straight bat in defence 55.5 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , pushed back towards the bowler 55.4 Craig to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , Craig gives this one more air , Azhar gets down on his knees and sweeps it in front of square on the on-side , back for the second run 55.3 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Azhar drives it straight to the fielder at cover 55.2 Craig to Azhar Ali , 2 runs , Craig drops this one short and on off , Azhar goes back and whips it past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 55.1 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Shehzad shimmies down the track to a well flighted delivery and drives it to mid-off , calls for a quick single and gets it with ease 54.6 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Azhar leans forward and drives it towards mid-off 54.5 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length outside off and going away with the angle , left alone 54.4 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at mid-off 54.3 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 54.2 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , short of a length and angling across Azhar , defended towards cover point 54.1 Corey Anderson to Azhar Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , steered with an open face towards point 53.6 Craig to Azhar Ali , 1 run , Azhar pushes a well flighted delivery towards mid-on and calls for quick single , gets it with ease 53.5 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , Craig drifts one well outside off , Azhar gets a big stride forward in defence 53.4 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , full toss from Craig , Azhar slaps it straight to the fielder at cover 53.3 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , flighted delivery and in that channel outside off , Azhar lunges forward in defence 53.2 Craig to Azhar Ali , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Azhar Ali makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at cover point 53.1 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Shehzad bends his knees and drives it to deep cover for a single Azhar Ali , right handed bat , comes to the crease 52.6 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , out Caught&Bowled ! ! No hundred for Hafeez , he looks absolutely gutted. New Zealand have their first wicket , they have broken through the record partnership. Good change of pace from Anderson , slips in the slower ball , Hafeez was early into the shot , checks it at the last moment and ends up scooping a simple head high catch towards the bowler. He does n't drop those , delight for New Zealand. Hafeez walks off to a good ovation from the crowd. Hafeez c and b Corey Anderson 96 ( 137 ) [ 4s-10 ] Corey Anderson to Hafeez , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 52.5 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , Anderson keeps it full and gets it to angle across Hafeez , left alone 52.4 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Hafeez gets forward and defends it towards mid-off 52.3 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , FOUR , cracking shot , width on offer from Anderson , Hafeez waits on it , uses the pace of the bowler and steers it square behind point for another boundary , moves along to 96 with that shot This is now the highest opening partnership for Pakistan against New Zealand in Test cricket 52.2 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , 2 runs , this was full and on off , punched back past mid-off for a couple of runs 52.1 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 51.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , Craig drops this one short and on the stumps , Shehzad rocks back and pulls it in front of mid-wicket , the fielder in the deep gets across and prevents the boundary 51.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slows one on off , Shehzad gets his bat in front of the pads in defence 51.4 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , full and on off , punched down towards mid-off for a single 51.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Shehzad shimmies down the track to a well flighted delivery and eases it down towards mid-off 51.2 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , Craig drops one short and just outside off , Hafeez stays back and punches it towards mid-off for a single Craig changes to round the wicket. A slip and a short mid-wicket in place 51.1 Craig to Hafeez , FOUR , flighted delivery and just outside off , Hafeez gets down on his knees and sweeps it behind square on the off-side , the man in the deep is very square , another boundary for Hafeez 50.6 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , punched off the backfoot past extra cover for a single 50.5 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Hafeez stays rooted to his crease and pushes it towards the off-side 50.4 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , FOUR , poor fielding from New Zealand , this was short and wide from Anderson , Hafeez steered it behind square on the off-side. Awkward bounce for the fielder at backward point , and he lets it go right through 50.3 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and just outside off , eased towards mid-off 50.2 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 50.1 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , short of a length and angling across Hafeez , he was early into the cut and misses , the ball does n't carry through to the keeper Corey Anderson [ 3.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack A slip and a gully in place for Anderson 49.6 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , the sweep from Hafeez , gets down on his knees , rolls his wrists over and places it past square leg for a single 49.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , Shehzad goes back and works it in front of square on the on-side for a run 49.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Craig gives this one more air , Shehzad reaches out and pushes it towards the off-side 49.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , pushed through quicker by Craig , but he ends up drifting onto Shehzad 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a brace 49.2 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , Craig drops this one short and wide outside off , Hafeez backs away and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 49.1 Craig to Hafeez , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Hafeez gets a big stride forward in defence 48.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , Shehzad lunges forward and defends it 48.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , Sodhi releases the pressure with a rank short ball , Shehzad makes room and cuts it behind point for a boundary 48.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , that was close ! The wrong 'un from Sodhi , gets it to break back into the batsman. Shehzad did n't read it , goes back on the defensive push , gets an inside edge that lobs off the pads , falls well in front of FSL 48.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi drifts one outside off , Shehzad lunges forward defensively 48.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , flighted delivery and on off , Hafeez works it past cover and calls for a quick single. The fielder shies at the bowler 's end , but Hafeez was well in 48.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , another full toss from Sodhi , Shehzad goes hard on the shot and gets a single to deep mid-wicket 47.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Craig drops one shorter and just outside off , Shehzad makes room and works it wide of cover for a single 47.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed through by Craig , Shehzad shuffles across and defends it 47.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slower and on off , Shehzad gets his bat in front of the pads as he blocks 47.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad comes down the track , gets to the ball on the full and drives it towards cover 47.2 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , Craig tosses this one well outside off , eased down towards long off for a run Just one slip and a short mid-wicket in place 47.1 Craig to Hafeez , no run , Craig loops one on off , defended back towards the bowler 46.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi flights one wider outside off , Shehzad gets a good stride forward and defends it 46.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , Sodhi drops this one short and on the stumps , Shehzad rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket , a couple of bounces and over the ropes 46.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Shehzad is happy to pad it away 46.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , lovely shot , Shehzad shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lifts it against the turn , clears mid-on and races away to the fence 46.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed through by Sodhi , Shehzad goes back and defends it towards the off-side 46.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi tosses one on the stumps , Shehzad prods forward and blocks 45.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Craig drifts one on the leg-stump line , swept away behind square on the on-side for a single 45.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Craig floats this one wider and well outside off , Shehzad lunges forward in defence 45.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Craig gives this one more air , pushed towards the off-side 45.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slower and on off , Shehzad goes back and blocks 45.2 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , Hafeez shimmies down the track to a well flighted delivery and drives it back at the bowler , he ca n't stop it cleanly , a single is pinched 45.1 Craig to Hafeez , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Hafeez goes back and defends it Drinks are on the field now 44.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , short and wide of off , Shehzad goes back in the crease and steers it to deep backward point to collect four 44.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short delivery on off , Shehzad pushes it towards cover 44.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , lunges forward in defence to this tossed up delivery on off 44.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , flatter outside off , Hafeez goes back in the crease and punches it square of the wicket 44.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Shehzad drives it to extra cover off the front foot 44.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , goes back in the crease and looks to cut , there was some extra bounce on that one , Shehzad can only manage a thickish outside edge as he looks to cut , the ball runs away to the third man fence 43.6 Craig to Hafeez , FOUR , Hafeez being more positive this time. He dances down the track and lifts it cleanly between mid wicket and mid on for another boundary 43.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , shortish on leg stump , Shehzad works it away through mid wicket 43.4 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , flighted on off , Hafeez pushes it to mid on for an easy single 43.3 Craig to Hafeez , no run , full delivery , Hafeez drives it straight to extra cover 43.2 Craig to Hafeez , FOUR , tossed up around off , Hafeez goes on the front foot and drives it through the cover region for another boundary 43.1 Craig to Hafeez , 2 runs , comes down the track and makes this tossed up delivery a full toss , he lofts it over mid-off but the timing was n't that great , the batsmen run for a brace Mark Craig [ 8.0-1-20-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up on off , Ahmed Shehzad presses forward and gently drives to short cover 42.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , lunges forward in defence to a flighted delivery on off 42.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , 3rd Test fifty for Shehzad , works a well tossed up ball behind square and comes back for the second run , raises the bat as his mates applaud 42.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up on off , Shehzad drives to short cover 42.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated just outside off , Shehzad was not to the pitch of the ball , he dabs it towards gully in an awkward manner 42.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , goes back in the crease and blocks this quicker one back to the bowler 41.6 Neesham to Hafeez , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Hafeez goes on the back foot and turns it to short mid-wicket 41.5 Neesham to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and around off , Hafeez eases it down to mid-on 41.4 Neesham to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and on the pads , Hafeez misses the flick , the ball rolls away into the on-side after clipping the pad 41.3 Neesham to Hafeez , FOUR , that 's a good shot from Hafeez , banged in short , Hafeez is quick to go on the back foot and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence for a boundary 41.2 Neesham to Hafeez , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Hafeez blocks it to short mid-wicket off the back foot 41.1 Neesham to Hafeez , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Hafeez looks to pull but ca n't connect , the ball rolls away behind square off the thigh pad 40.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up just outside off , Shehzad drives it to short cover 40.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Shehzad goes back in the crease and blocks A gully in place now 40.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , loopy full toss outside off , Shehzad eases it back towards the bowler , who parries it towards short cover 40.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , leg-break outside off , Shehzad leaves 40.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pitched on leg and spinning in towards the batsman , Shehzad watches it carefully and blocks 40.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , floated on off , Shehzad leans forward and blocks 39.6 Neesham to Hafeez , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Hafeez hops in the crease and blocks 39.5 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Shehzad moves across and tucks it away to mid-wicket for a single 39.4 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and wide outside off , Shehzad is happy to not play a shot 39.3 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full delivery on off , Shehzad foes on the front foot and blocks 39.2 Neesham to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and outside off , Shehzad leaves There is a slip , a gully , a short cover and a short extra-cover in place 39.1 Neesham to Hafeez , 1 run , short delivery at the batsman that fails to rise above the waist level after pitching , Hafeez goes on the back foot and pulls it to fine leg James Neesham , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 38.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up on off , Shehzad presses forward and blocks 38.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted delivery on off , Shehzad drives it short cover 38.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , a rank long hop from Sodhi , Shehzad has way too much time to pull it towards the deep mid-wicket fence 38.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Hafeez goes back and steers it square of the wicket 38.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Hafeez knocks it towards short mid-wicket 38.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , quicker leg-break , Hafeez ca n't clip it into the on-side , he is hit on the pad , there was an appeal but the ball was snaking down leg Ish Sodhi [ 9.0-2-20-0 ] is back into the attack There is a slip and a FSL in place 37.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full just outside off and shapes back in a touch , Shehzad looks to drive , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 37.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Shehzad stays back in the crease and pushes it into the on-side 37.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of a good length and around off , Shehzad goes on the back foot and blocks it back to the bowler 37.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and on the stumps , Shehzad turns it to short mid-wicket 37.2 Boult to Hafeez , 3 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Hafeez goes on the back foot , opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards squarish third man , the fielder gives chase and pulls the ball back just before it touches the boundary , the batsmen take three. This is also the second 100-run parternship between these two 37.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , banged in short but the fall just does n't rise much , Hafeez knocks it into the leg-side off the back foot 36.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and well outside off , Shehzad does n't offer a shot 36.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full with a hint of shape in towards the batsman from outside off , Shehzad leaves 36.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , another one that 's fullish and outside off stump , Shehzad shoulders arms and lets it go through to the keeper 36.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and on off , Shehzad goes on the front foot and gently drives it to the left of short cover , who moves and collects the ball 36.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and outside off this time , Shehzad leaves 36.1 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , banged short and aimed at the batsman , Hafeez goes on the back foot and pulls it behind square on the on-side 35.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , touch fullish and on off , Shehzad blocks it into the off-side 35.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and on off , Shehzad works it to short mid-wicket 35.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and on the leg stump , Shehzad moved across to clip it into the on-side , he misses and the ball hits the pad , there was an appeal but the umpire turns it down as the ball was going down leg 35.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shehzad moves across and clips it towards short mid-wicket , who misfields but the ball did n't go far away from the fielder 35.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , touch fuller and just outside off , Shehzad presses forward and blocks it towards mid-off 35.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shehzad goes back and pushes it to short cover 34.6 Southee to Hafeez , no run , short and going down leg , Hafeez half-ducks but the ball was far away from him , the keeper collects it 34.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shehzad goes on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover for a single There is a slip , a short backward point and a short point in place 34.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shehzad goes deep in the crease and punches it towards short backward point , who dives full length to his right to save runs for his team 34.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Shehzad shoulders arms 34.2 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , bumper on middle , Hafeez goes on the back foot and pulls it to backward square leg , the timing was n't great on that one as the batsman was late on the pull 34.1 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Hafeez pushes at it , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls away towards leg gully 33.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Shehzad covers the stumps and blocks 33.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and outside off , Shehzad thinks about pushing at it but pulls out at the last instant , the ball goes through to the keeper 33.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and on off , Shehzad gets behind the line and blocks , the ball kept a touch low as well 33.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad leans forward and drives this full delivery around off to mid-off 33.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish and just outside off , Shehzad leans forward and pushes it to mid-off 33.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , touch full and outside off , the ball shapes away a little after pitching , Shehzad leaves 32.6 Southee to Hafeez , FOUR , Hafeez brings up his 10th Test fifty with this boundary , it was banged in short and at the batsman , Hafeez had ample time to shift his weight on the back foot , he pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence 32.5 Southee to Hafeez , no run , banged in short and going down leg , Hafeez restrains from pulling it , the keeper ca n't collect it cleanly either and parries it towards the short fine leg fielder 32.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 3 runs , short of a good length and on middle and leg , Shehzad works it towards deep mid-wicket , the batsmen run three There is a short mid-wicket in place 32.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad covers the stumps and taps it to silly mid-on 32.2 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , straying on the pads this time , Hafeez moves across and flicks it to fine leg 32.1 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length on off and middle , Hafeez pushes it to silly mid-on There is a silly mid-on and a leg gully in place . 31.6 Boult to Hafeez , 1 run , fullish and outside off , Hafeez opens the face of the bat and drives it to sweeper cover off the front foot 31.5 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and outside off , Hafeez stays in the crease and dabs it to point 31.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Hafeez looks to cut it square of the wicket but can only manage to chop it back on the pitch Boult comes round the wicket 31.3 Boult to Hafeez , no run , another one that 's on off and a touch gullish in length , Hafeez pushes it a little uppishly towards mid-off 31.2 Boult to Hafeez , no run , full and on off , Hafeez defends it to mif-off 31.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fullish and around off , Hafeez knocks it to the left of the bowler Trent Boult is going to start the proceedings. There is a slip and a gully in place . Welcome back. The Pakistani openers are walking out to the middle after lunch . Day 1 , Lunch : Pakistan have done well to get through to the first session of the day without any losses. Both the openers are in their 40s and look good to carry on towards a big score. The wicket is not doing much. New Zealand bowlers have been unable to extract any purchase from it. Watling missed a relatively easy stumping chance while a few catches have dropped short. The visitors will need a quick wicket or two to get back in the game. Join us back in a short while for the post-lunch action . 30.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , yorker , right in the blockhole , safely negotiated by Shehzad , he walks half forward and blocks it with a straightish bat 30.5 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , rocks on the back foot again and pulls this short ball to fine leg this time 30.4 Southee to Hafeez , 2 runs , shortish on the stumps , Hafeez goes on the back foot and pulls , that did not come off the middle of the bat and the ball rolls past the square leg fielder to deep square leg Silly mid-on and leg slip in position 30.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length around off , Hafeez stays back and works it into the leg-side 30.2 Southee to Hafeez , no run , full ball on off and middle , Hafeez leans forward and works it to the right of the bowler 30.1 Southee to Hafeez , 2 runs , angles this one on leg , Hafeez leans forward and clips it neatly off the pads to deep square leg 29.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gets a good stride forward and blocks it with an angled bat 29.5 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , gets back inside the crease and clips it gently towards mid-wicket 29.4 Craig to Hafeez , no run , full and flighted around off , Hafeez gets forward and jams it back to the bowler 29.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , makes room to his shortish ball and punches it to cover for a comfortable single 29.2 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , tossed up around off , Hafeez skips forward and punches it to mid-off for a quick single 29.1 Craig to Hafeez , no run , pushed slower through the air outside off , left alone by Hafeez Mark Craig [ 7.0-1-17-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length around the off-stump again , Shehzad shuffles across , cover the line and blocks it off the back foot 28.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length around off , Shehzad defends it off the back foot towards cover 28.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , stays on the back foot and punches this length ball angled across towards point , Williamson runs in from backward point , dives forward and makes a fine stop 28.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , around leg this time , Shehzad gets inside the line and tucks it through backward square leg 28.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , angles this one onto the pads , Shehzad leans forward and clips it towards mid-wicket 28.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish around off , Shehzad gets forward and pushes it softly into the off-side Tim Southee [ 4.0-1-8-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , touch fuller around off , Hafeez jams it towards cover point 27.5 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , outside the off-stump line again , left alone by Hafeez 27.4 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Shehzad comes on the front foot and drives it a touch uppishly , the ball falls just short of the man at short point , that nearly carried to him , he is unable to get his hands around it and ball rolls to sweeper cover 27.3 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , stays on the back foot and pushes it back to the bowler 27.2 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length and angled across , Shehzad comes half forward and blocks it with a straight bat to the left of the bowler 27.1 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , 1 run , back of a length and slanted across , Hafeez stands tall and punches it to sweeper cover 26.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up around off , Shehzad presses solidly in front and blocks 26.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , outside off again , Shehzad covers the line and leaves it alone 26.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full around off , Shehzad presses forward and blocks solidly 26.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted outside off , does not interest Shehzad into playing at it 26.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , skips forward , does not get to the pitch of the ball , ends up pushing it back to the bowler 26.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full on off , Shehzad defends it towards cover 25.6 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off , Hafeez slaps it square of the wicket for a couple. 11 runs came off that over 25.5 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , outside off , Hafeez watches it closely and lets that go through 25.4 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , back of a length on the hips , Shehzad tucks it to mid-wicket , good fielding by Sodhi there to keep the batsmen down to a single 25.3 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length and outside off , Shehzad looks to flay it into the off-side , beaten as the ball moves away 25.2 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , back-to-back fours for Shehzad. He comes on the front foot and creams the cover drive on this half volley to the deep extra cover fence this time 25.1 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , lovely shot , Shehzad presents the full face of the bat on this full ball around off and punch-drives it to the long-off fence 24.6 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , Hafeez is drawn on the front foot and he looks to defend , the ball spins away from him taking the outside edge of his bat , it dies just in front of Taylor at first slip , whose fingers engulf the ball after it has bounced in front of him Hafeez has been caught in the first slip. The umpires are having a chat about it. Taylor is not sure whether the ball carried towards him. The third umpire has been pressed into the service. Looks close. Replays shows that the ball may have just bounced in front of him before going into his hands. Yes , Hafeez is safe ! 24.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , stays on the back foot and works it to mid-wicket 24.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , taps it towards cover 24.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short again , Shehzad is quick to go on the back foot , punches it straight to the point fielder 24.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushes it into the off-side 24.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , makes a bit of a room and punches it gently just behind point for a quick single 23.6 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , offers some width this time , Shehzad reaches out to it and flays it square of the wicket for a brace 23.5 Corey Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and slanted across , does not interest Shehzad into playing at it 23.4 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , 1 run , back of a length and angles it slightly away from the batsman , Hafeez punches it to sweeper cover 23.3 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , back of a length and outside off , Hafeez punches it off the back foot to short cover , excellent fielding by McCullum there 23.2 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , length delivery outside off , left alone by Hafeez Short extra cover has now been moved to short point 23.1 Corey Anderson to Hafeez , no run , short of length and sliding across , Hafeez punches it to short extra cover Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack One widish slip , one short cover , one short extra cover , two gullies in place 22.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , camps on the back foot and blocks it back to the bowler 22.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , stays inside the line and punches it towards point 22.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , presses forward and pushes it towards cover 22.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , beautifully bowled by Sodhi. Draws Shehzad forward to defend , the ball zips away sharply past the outside edge of his bat , comprehensively beaten 22.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , punches it to mid-off for a quick single 22.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 2 runs , full and outside off , Hafeez reaches out and drives it to deep extra cover , good work by the fielder near the rope to save the extra runs 21.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gets inside the line and blocks uit with a straightish bat towards cover point 21.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , lunges forward and defedns it with an angled bat into the off-side 21.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , gets down once again and does well to sweep it towards fine leg this time 21.3 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , gets down one knee and drags the sweep from outside off through backward square leg 21.2 Craig to Hafeez , no run , shortish and outside off , Hafeez cuts it towards point 21.1 Craig to Hafeez , no run , stays inside the crease and tucks it into the on-side 20.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , drifts it on leg , Shehzad gets down on knee and sweeps it neatly to the fine leg fence to bring up Pakistan 's 50 ! 20.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , skips forward and converts this into a full toss , punches it to deep extra cover , Craig dives full length at extra cover , gets his hands to the ball and slows it down 20.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted outside off , Shehzad presses forward and lets it go through 20.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , leans on the front foot , the ball goes off the inside edge and rolls into the on-side 20.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , skips forward and punches it towards mid-off 20.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , full on off , Hafeez taps it to mid-off for a quick single 19.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , comes on the front foot and defends comfortably 19.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , goes inside the crease and blocks it back 19.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gets forward and defends it solidly 19.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , missed stumping by Watling ! Shehzad comes down the track to defend and misses the arm-ball , Watling is not able to get his hands to the ball even at the second attempt , Shehzad is lucky to get a reprieve here 19.2 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , gets forward and taps it towards mid-off 19.1 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches this shortish ball towards cover , a slight misfield by Williamson allows the batsmen to run a single 18.6 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , presses forward to defend , gets an inside edge onto the pads and the ball rolls down the pitch 18.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , drifts it on the pads , Shehzad tucks it neatly to deep square leg 18.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , shortish on the stumps , Shehzad gets back and pulls awkwardly through backward square leg 18.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , presses forward and defends it to short cover 18.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , camps on the back foot and blocks it back to the bowler 18.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , gets inside the crease to this shortish ball and punches it to cover point for a quick single 17.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flights around off , Shehzad presses forward to defend , the ball rolls off the outside edge in front of point , wants a single but is sent back by Hafeez 17.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gets inside the line and blocks it solidly with a straightish bat 17.4 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Hafeez cuts it square of the wicket for a comfortable single 17.3 Craig to Hafeez , no run , pushes it off the back foot to the right of the bowler 17.2 Craig to Hafeez , no run , flighted outside off , left alone by Hafeez 17.1 Craig to Hafeez , no run , goes inside the crease and whisks it to short mid-wicket , wants a single but hurries back as the fielder has a quick shy at the striker 's end The New Zealand players are in deep discussion. Skipper McCullum has some words of encouragement for them. Craig to continue.. . Drinks are on the field now 16.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi gives this one more air , Shehzad gets a good stride forward and drives it towards cover 16.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi tosses this one slower and on off , defended back at the bowler 16.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Shehzad gets across and defends it 16.3 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , almost sneaked through Shehzad 's defences , this was pushed through quicker and on middle , Shehzad went back on the defensive block , gets a bottom edge that nearly rolls back onto the stumps 16.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi drifts one on off , Shehzad goes back and defends it with a straight bat 16.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , flatter and on off , Hafeez makes room and cuts it wide of cover for a single 15.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted and just outside off , Shehzad comes down the track and smothers the spin 15.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , pushed through flatter and on the stumps , Shehzad gets down on his knee and laps it past the keeper , the fielder at slip chases and hauls the ball back in 15.4 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , Craig gives this one more air and drops it wider outside off , driven past cover for a single 15.3 Craig to Hafeez , 2 runs , the lap sweep from Hafeez , gets well outside off and eases it behind square for a couple of runs 15.2 Craig to Hafeez , no run , Craig gives this one more air and well outside off , Hafeez checks his drive and works it straight to cover 15.1 Craig to Hafeez , no run , slightly shorter and just outside off , Hafeez makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at backward point 14.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , bat/pad and just short of the fielder at short cover. Excellent bowling from Sodhi , he drifts this one outside off , Shehzad comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch and opts to bat it away , the ball lobs of the pads and falls in front of the fielder 14.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted and in that channel outside off , Shehzad shuffles across and defends it 14.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slower and on off , Shehzad jumps down the track as he blocks 14.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , Sodhi drops one shorter and wider outside off , Hafeez goes back and works it square behind point for a single 14.2 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Sodhi loops one won off , Shehzad lunges forward in defence , gets an inside edge past FSL for a single 14.1 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted and just outside off , Shehzad gets a big stride forward in defence 13.6 Craig to Hafeez , no run , Craig tosses one wider outside off , Hafeez gets a big stride forward as he smothers the spin 13.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , the sweep from Shehzad , rolls his wrists and gets it past square leg for a single 13.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Craig floats one outside off , Shehzad gets a big strikde forward in defence 13.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Craig gives this one plenty of air and draws Shehzad wider , defended off an inside edge as Shehzad went for the drive 13.2 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad comes down the track to a well tossed up ball and defends it back towards the bowler 13.1 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Shehzad shimmies dcown the track in defence 12.6 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , pushed through on off , Hafeez goes back and defends it with a straight bat 12.5 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , tossed up and on off , Hafeez goes back and punches it back towards the bowler 12.4 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , slower and just outside off , Hafeez gets his bat in front of the pads as he blocks 12.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , Sodhi drifts one on off , Hafeez comes down the track and defends it 12.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , Sodhi drops one slightly short and on the stumps , Hafeez goes back and pushes it towards mid-on 12.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , pushed through by Sodhi , Hafeez gets forward and pushes it towards short cover 11.6 Craig to Hafeez , 1 run , Craig gives this one plenty of air and the line is well outside off , driven square on the off-side for a single 11.5 Craig to Hafeez , no run , Craig drifts this one well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at mid-off 11.4 Craig to Hafeez , no run , flighted and well outside off , Hafeez drives it to the left of cover where the fielder makes a tumbling stop 11.3 Craig to Hafeez , no run , tossed up and on off , Hafeez gets forward and drives it towards cover 11.2 Craig to Hafeez , FOUR , nicely played by Hafeez , this was tossed up and well outside off , Hafeez gets down on his knees , rolls his wrists and sweeps it past square leg for a boundary 11.1 Craig to Hafeez , no run , flighted delivery outside off and holding its line , left alone 10.6 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up and on off , Shehzad shimmies down the track in defence 10.5 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , did the ball pitch outside leg ? Was height an issue ? Turn for Sodhi , drops one on middle and gets it to rip across the right hander , Shehzad was prodding forward and is struck on the back thigh Loud shout for LBW , NZ decide against a review 10.4 Ish Sodhi to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Sodhi drops this one short and on the stumps , Shehzad goes back and works it straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 10.3 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker as Hafeez came down the track , he gets an inside edge in front of square on the on-side for a single 10.2 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Hafeez presses forward and defends it with a straight bat 10.1 Ish Sodhi to Hafeez , no run , tossed up and on off , Hafeez gets foforward in defence Ish Sodhi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack The other spinner , Ish Sodhi , comes into the attack. A slip and a FSL in place 9.6 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed through quicker and flatter from Craig , Shehzad covers the line and lets it go 9.5 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Craig drifts this one outside off , Shehzad gets forward and drives it back at the bolwer 9.4 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Craig floats this one well outside off , left alone 9.3 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Craig gives this one more air and well outside off , Shehzad looks to sweep and misses 9.2 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Craig tosses this one wider and fuller , driven straight to cover 9.1 Craig to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up and on off , Shehzad gets a big stride forward in defence Mark Craig , right-arm off break , comes into the attack First change for New Zealand. Mark Craig has been introduced into the attack. A slip , a FSL and a short mid-wicket in place 8.6 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length outside off and shaping away , left alone 8.5 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Hafeez gets a good stride forward and drives it towards cover 8.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , tad fuller and nipping back into Hafeez , he was late in bringing his bat down , gets an inside edge towards the on-side 8.3 Boult to Hafeez , no run , Boult shortens his length outside off , Hafeez hops across and defends it with an angled bat , the ball rolls away to the right of the bowler 8.2 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and going away with the angle , Hafeez watches it all along and lets it go 8.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone. The ball almost went to the keeper on the bounce 7.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Shehzad covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 7.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Shehzad gets well forward and blocks it Two slips and a short cover in place 7.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and angling back into Shehzad , he prods half forward and defends it towards short cover 7.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 7.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tad fuller and in that channel just outside off , Shehzad covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go , good leave in the end by the batsman. He was in two minds there , nearly grazed an edge through to the keeper , got his bat away from the line at the last moment 7.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Shehzad gets behind the line and defends it 6.6 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller and wider from Boult , Hafeez does n't need to play at those , left alone 6.5 Boult to Hafeez , no run , tad fuller and on off , Hafeez prods across and defends it back at the bowler 6.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and on off , Hafeez shuffles across and defends it back at the bowler 6.3 Boult to Hafeez , 2 runs , lovely shot , this was fuller and wider from Boult , Hafeez leans forward and pushes it past Anderson at cover point for a couple of runs 6.2 Boult to Hafeez , no run , much better from Boult , pitched up and holding its line on off , Hafeez shuffles across and defends it 6.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , Boult keeps it full and well outside off , Hafeez watches it go through to the keeper 5.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and a hint of shape away from off , Shehzad does n't need to play those. He gets a big stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 5.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad gets a good stride forward as he defends it 5.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tad fuller and just outside off,Shehzad stays behind the line and defends it towards short point 5.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , too straight from Southee , Shehzad shuffles across and tucks it past Latham at mid-wicket for a couple of runs 5.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Southee slants this one full and well down leg-side , Shehzad ca n't get a bat on the flick 5.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length outside off and shaping away from off , left alone 4.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , too short and too straight from Boult , allows Shehzad to get inside the line as he tucks it down towards long leg 4.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Boult shortens his length outside off , Shehzad shuffles across and defends it 4.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , more swing for Boult , but the line is on middle , allows Shehzad to get a good solid press as he drives it back at the bowler 4.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tad fuller and a hint of shape back into Shehzad , he shuffles across and defends it back at the bowler 4.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Shehzad does n't need to play those , left alone 4.1 Boult to Hafeez , 1 run , Boult keeps it full and on off , Hafeez blocks it to the left of cover for a single 3.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 3.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Shehzad gets a big stride forward and defends it 3.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller and slanting well down leg , Shehzad looks to flick and misses 3.3 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , Southee bangs one short and on the stumps , Hafeez swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square for a single 3.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Shehzad checks his drive and pushes it past mid-off for a single 3.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape away , Shehzad gets a good stride forward in defence 2.6 Boult to Hafeez , FOUR , poor ball to end the over , Boult dropped one short and wide outside off , Hafeez gets on top of the bounce and cuts it square behind point , no need to run for those 2.5 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Hafeez gets a big stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 2.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Hafeez gets half forward and defends it 2.3 Boult to Hafeez , no run , lovely line from Boult , he pitches this one from an angle , draws Hafeez forward before getting it to slant across the right hander , Hafeez ended up playing way in front of his body and missed 2.2 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Hafeez gets across and defends it towards the off-side 2.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Hafeez presses across and defends it with a straight bat towards mid-on 1.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad prods across and defends it in front of cover point 1.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller and a tad wider form Southee , Shehzad gets well forward and drives it to the left of cover where McCullum makes a tumbling stop 1.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , much better from Southee , on a good length and in that channel just outside off , a hint of shape away , Shehzad shuffles across and defends it 1.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Southee keeps it full and just outside off , Shehzad prods forward in defence 1.2 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , edged and four , this was full and nips away from outside off , drew Shehzad into the drive , gets the outside edge that rolls away in the gap between slips and gully Three slips , a gully and a FSL for Southee as well 1.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , gentle start from Southee , this was full and swinging away from off , Ahmed Shehzad covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Tim Southee , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Boult to Hafeez , no run , loud shout for LBW , but the swing was taking it down leg. New Zealand decide against a review. This was pitched up and shaped back into Hafeez , he was caught on the move as he shuffled across , gets struck on the flap of the pads and in front of leg-stump 0.5 Boult to Hafeez , 2 runs , nicely played by Hafeez , this was full and wide from Boult , searching for that swing , he gets a good stride forward and punches it past extra cover for a brace 0.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Hafeez shuffles across and defends it with soft hands 0.3 Boult to Hafeez , FOUR , first runs for Hafeez , too full and too straight from Boult , ends up drifting onto Hafeez ' pads , clipped away very fine past the keeper for a boundary 0.2 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Hafeez gets across and defends it towards the on-side 0.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of shape back into Hafeez , he gets a good stride forward and defends it towards the on-side Hafeez and Ahmed Shehzad are at the crease. Hafeez is on strike. Boult will open the attack Three slips , a gully and a FSL as Boult steams in The players are out in the middle. We are set for Day 1 of the Abu Dhabi Test. . Teams : New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Tom Latham , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Corey Anderson , James Neesham , BJ Watling ( w ) , Tim Southee , Mark Craig , Trent Boult , Ish Sodhi Pakistan ( Playing XI ) : Ahmed Shehzad , Mohammad Hafeez , Azhar Ali , Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Asad Shafiq , Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Yasir Shah , Zulfiqar Babar , Rahat Ali , Imran Khan Brendon McCullum : 'We have had a reasonably good year , Test cricket wise and are looking forward to this match. The heat will be an issue , but we have some experience of playing here. We need to do well , we have come here with high expectations. We are playing two seamers , two all-rounders and two spinners. Ross Taylor is fit to play.' Misbah-ul-Haq : 'Looks like the same pitch that we played against Australia. Ideal to bat first. This is a new series , we need to keep our focus. We have n't made any changes to the team , looking forward to the series.' Pakistan have won the toss and have opted to bat Pitch Report : 'The pitch is fairly dry. Their is just a smidgen of grass on the surface , but nothing too alarming. It looks like a Day 3 pitch without any wearing and scruffing on the surface. The spinners will come in to the equation and there will be a bit of reverse wing on offer for the quicks ' , reckons Danny Morrison . New Zealand have already announced their playing XI. Ross Taylor , who is struggling with an injury , has been passed fit. There are indications that skipper , Brendon McCullum , might open the batting . On the other hand , New Zealand also have done well in Tests in recent times. Against Pakistan probably , people do n't expect for them to stand a chance but they are an unpredictable lot. They have a strong batting line-up and if they handle spin well , they have a decent chance of batting Pakistan out of the game. Hello and welcome to the first Test against Pakistan and New Zealand being played at Abu Dhabi. We will bring you the toss and teams shortly. Stay tuned.. . Things took a dramatic turn during Australia 's tour to UAE , when Pakistan bounced back after a dismal T20I and ODI performance to give the visitors a 2-0 drubbing in Tests. High on their first Test series victory against Australia in 20 years , the hosts will be looking to continue their winning momentum. Pakistan have stuck with the same team for the 3-match Test series against New Zealand. With their spinners in fantastic form , the slow wickets in UAE will only boost their confidence to do well . Preview The leaden-footed Australians found themselves bamboozled by Pakistan 's wily spinners and their trans-Tasman rivals New Zealand can expect similar treatment from Misbah-ul-Haq and his men in a three-Test series starting in Abu Dhabi on Sunday . Left-arm spinner Zulfiqar Babar ( 14 ) and leggie Yasir Shah ( 12 ) shared 26 of the 40 Australian wickets between them to help Pakistan secure a comprehensive 2-0 win on the slow , turning wickets in the United Arab Emirates last week . By retaining the same 16 who gave them their first test series victory over Australia in 20 years , Pakistan have suggested they would employ the same tried-and-tested formula against the Brendon McCullum-led Black Caps . " No changes have been made to the side that won the second test against Australia. This is to ensure there is consistency , which will bring more stability and strengthen team bonding and combination , " chief selector Moin Khan said . The slow nature of tracks in the UAE negated much of the threat posed by Australian pacemen , including Ashes hero Mitchell Johnson , while run-machine Younus Khan and his nimble-footed batting colleagues milked the touring spinners dry . Australia 's specialist slow bowler Nathan Lyon bled 422 runs for his three wickets in the series that saw Younus hit two centuries and a double ton while Misbah and top order batsman Azhar Ali hit hundreds in both innings of the Abu Dhabi test . Misbah also equalled West Indies great Viv Richards 's fastest test century record by blasting his second hundred in 56 balls in the Abu Dhabi contest . New Zealand coach Mike Hesson knows what it would take to upstage a formidable Pakistan team eying a second successive whitewash to close their current 12-point gap on second-placed Australia in test rankings . " I 'd like to see us develop in two areas on this tour , " Hesson wrote on his blog on New Zealand Cricket website. " The first is our ability to take wickets on un-responsive surfaces , and the second is that our batsmen all have a method to cope when the ball starts turning , to both defend and to score. " Leggie Ish Sodhi and off-spinner Mark Craig will have to be at the best of their craft against a Pakistani batting order who play spin extremely well . " Australia struggled to take wickets and it 's going to be hard. It 's important that we stick to our plan , " Craig , who has played only three tests , said . Teams : New Zealand ( From ) : Hamish Rutherford , Tom Latham , Kane Williamson , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Corey Anderson , James Neesham , BJ Watling ( w ) , Mark Craig , Tim Southee , Neil Wagner , Trent Boult , Ish Sodhi , Luke Ronchi , Doug Bracewell , Ross Taylor Pakistan ( From ) : Ahmed Shehzad , Mohammad Hafeez , Azhar Ali , Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Asad Shafiq , Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Zulfiqar Babar , Yasir Shah , Imran Khan , Rahat Ali , Taufeeq Umar , Shan Masood , Mohammad Talha , Haris Sohail , Ehsan Adil Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
