Graphs South Africa have started their preparations for the World Cup on a very good note. However , the hosts will have to chalk out a plan against the South African bowlers , who troubled their batsmen. Will the Proteas take an unassailable lead on Friday ? Or will New Zealand level the series ? Join us for the second game on Friday. Till then , take care . AB de Villiers is also the Man of the Match AB : " Feels pretty good , one of those funny kinds of wickets. I never felt I was in throughout the innings. We should have bowled well in the powerplay , we should have bowled them out. New Zealand are a good defending side. Even though they did n't get a great score they ran us close. Overall , happy with the show. We 've played pretty good cricket and it 's very pleasing. The net facilities and the food we 've had , the vibe is great here. " McCullum : " I think the game was pretty close , probably the scoreboard does n't reflect that. Unfortunately , the class of AB and JP took them home. We were a little bit uncertain about the conditions as well , but we 've got some good information for Friday. They got wickets at regular intervals and put pressure on us. Boult was brilliant today and Luke Ronchi batted exceedingly well. The practice wickets are pretty similar to the one in the middle , so we 'll work hard. " For the hosts , Trent Boult was very good with the ball. He got some help from the deck and was able to trouble the South African batsmen , picking up 2/40 in his 10 overs. Daniel Vettori , who returned to his national team after more than a year , was also right on the money. Earlier in the first innings , New Zealand managed to recover from 156/9 to 230 , thanks to a record last wicket stand between Ronchi and Boult. Ronchi would consider himself unlucky after getting out on 99 but he was excellent nevertheless. Talking about their batting lineup , they struggled against the likes of Morkel , Steyn and Tahir. Rest of the batsmen will also have to perform , if New Zealand are to have any chance of levelling the series . de Villiers and Duminy have won this game for South Africa. Their 139-run partnership was very crucial to the run-chase. After South Africa lost QdK in the second over , du Plessis and Amla looked to consolidate for sometime. However , du Plessis ' wicket brought things to a standstill. Amla never got going and struggled throughout his 74-ball 38. Rossouw looked in good touch but gave away his wicket too easily. It was only after de Villiers came to the crease that South Africa looked in some sort of ease . 48.1 Mills to Duminy , SIX , beautiful shot from Duminy , it was full and around off , Duminy just launches it over long-on with ease , this also gives South Africa a 1-0 lead in the series 47.6 Neesham to de Villiers , no run , short of length delivery , de Villiers cuts it to cover-point 47.5 Neesham to de Villiers , FOUR , short delivery down the leg-side , de Villiers nails the pull to the fine leg fence 47.4 Neesham to de Villiers , no run , back of a length delivery around off , de Villiers misses the flick and is hit on the thigh pad 47.3 Neesham to de Villiers , 2 runs , pitched on middle and leg , de Villiers works it away to backward square leg 47.2 Neesham to de Villiers , FOUR , slower and fullish in length outside off , de Villiers slices the drive with one hand to deep extra cover 47.1 Neesham to de Villiers , FOUR , great bit of improvisation from de Villiers , it was a back of a length delivery outside off , de Villiers looks to cut but slices it fine to the third man fence 46.6 Mills to de Villiers , 1 run , driven off the front foot to cover , Baz fumbles and that allows the batsmen to take a single 46.5 Mills to Duminy , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Duminy stays back in the crease and guides it towards third man 46.4 Mills to de Villiers , 1 run , pitched outside off and was on a good length , de Villiers drives it to deep extra cover 46.3 Mills to Duminy , 1 run , driven down to long-off for a comfortable single 46.2 Mills to Duminy , FOUR , beautiful loft from Duminy , it was pitched on off and was fuller in length , Duminy just lifts it over the infield and the ball races away to the long-on boundary , this shot also brings up his 20th ODI fifty 46.1 Mills to Duminy , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Duminy walks out of the crease and looks to guide it to third man , he can only get an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls away on the wicket Kyle Mills [ 7.0-0-33-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Neesham to Duminy , 1 run , Duminy works this delivery on middle and leg towards short mid-wicket , the batsmen run through for a quick single 45.5 Neesham to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length delivery around middle-stump , de Villiers punches it to mid-on 45.4 Neesham to de Villiers , no run , bumper from Neesham , de Villiers walks across and misses the hook this time , the umpire signals one bouncer for the over 45.3 Neesham to de Villiers , FOUR , great shot from de Villiers here , he walks across to a short delivery from Neesham , hooks it fine on the leg-side and collects four runs 45.2 Neesham to Duminy , 1 run , straying on middle and leg , Duminy moves a little across and turns it to backward square leg 45.1 Neesham to Duminy , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Duminy cuts it to point James Neesham [ 2.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Boult to Duminy , 1 run , short delivery just outside off , Duminy moves across and pulls it towards backward square leg , the fielder dives to his right and keeps the batsmen down to a single 44.5 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , on a good length and around off and middle , de Villiers steps out of the crease and pushes it down the ground for a single 44.4 Boult to de Villiers , 2 runs , slower delivery from Boult , de Villiers walks across and clips it to mid-wicket 44.3 Boult to Duminy , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Duminy stays back and punches it to sweeper cover , the single also brings up the 100-run partnership between these two 44.2 Boult to Duminy , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Duminy moves across and works it into the leg-side 44.1 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , short delivery from Boult , de Villiers goes back in the crease and pulls it to backward square leg , the batsmen think about the second run but decide against it Trent Boult [ 9.0-2-34-2 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , FOUR , another great shot from Duminy , this one was pitched on middle and leg , Duminy stepped out of the crease and lofted it towards the deep mid-wicket fence 43.5 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , FOUR , great timing from Duminy , it was short and outside off , Duminy goes deep in the crease and cuts it past backward point 43.4 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , de Villiers leans forward and drives it past the diving bowler to long-on 43.3 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , no run , drives this one straight to the man at cover 43.2 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , no run , driven back to the bowler 43.1 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , no run , pushed on middle and leg , de Villiers pushes it back to the bowler 42.6 Vettori to Duminy , no run , works this delivery to mid-wicket 42.5 Vettori to Duminy , no run , knocks this delivery on middle and leg to mid-wicket 42.4 Vettori to Duminy , SIX , brilliant shot from Duminy , tossed up around off , Duminy steps out and lofts this over the long-off fence 42.3 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , driven to long-off for a single 42.2 Vettori to Duminy , 1 run , shortish outside off , Duminy cuts it to backward square leg 42.1 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off , de Villiers cuts it to sweeper cover Daniel Vettori [ 9.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , no run , driven straight to cover 41.5 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , pitched on middle and leg , de Villiers clips it to deep mid-wicket 41.4 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 2 runs , pushed on middle and leg , de Villiers tucks it into the leg-side and comes back for the second run 41.3 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , FOUR , brilliant weight transfer from de Villiers , the ball was tossed up on off , de Villiers comes on the front foot and drives it to the deep extra cover fence 41.2 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , no run , drives this one straight to mid-off 41.1 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , leg byes , 1 run , flatter delivery on off , Duminy comes down the track but can not connect , the ball hits the pad and rolls away into the off-side Nathan McCullum [ 8.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Corey Anderson to Duminy , 1 run , short of length delivery from Anderson , Duminy shuffles across and pulls this to backward square leg 40.5 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , drives this delivery around off to sweeper cover 40.4 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , FOUR , beautiful shot from de Villiers to bring up his 39th ODI fifty , he came down the track and drives this fullish delivery down the ground 40.3 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , short of length on middle and leg , de Villiers has no room to play with it , he knocks it towards mid-wicket 40.2 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , back of a length close to off , de Villiers stays on leg-stump , guides it to backward point with an open face 40.1 Corey Anderson to Duminy , 1 run , on a length just outside off , eased past cover for a single The batting powerplay yielded 28 runs. . 39.6 Boult to Duminy , 1 run , gets inside the line and works it wide of mid-wicket , retains strike 39.5 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , again , the length is slightly short , de Villiers punches it to sweeper cover 39.4 Boult to Duminy , 1 run , back of a length on the pads , Duminy nurdles it behind square leg 39.3 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , taps the short of length delivery in front of cover and takes a quick single 39.2 Boult to Duminy , 1 run , Duminy walks across his stumps and nudges it towards mid-on , sets off for a sharp run and makes it easily 39.1 Boult to Duminy , no run , length delivery on off , Duminy push-drives it to cover Trent Boult [ 8.0-2-29-2 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Corey Anderson to Duminy , 1 run , back of a length close to off , punched off the back foot to sweeper cover 38.5 Corey Anderson to Duminy , no run , good length on off , Duminy works it to mid-on and shouts " wait " for the single 38.4 Corey Anderson to Duminy , no run , Duminy advances down the track , converts it into a length delivery , drives and ca n't beat an agile Baz 38.3 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , fullish and outside off , driven down the ground to sweeper cover 38.2 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , takes the pace off the ball , de Villiers charges down the wicket , ca n't get bat on ball 38.1 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , FOUR , short and on off , de Villiers is quick to pick up the length , he rocks back and pulls it in front of square , beats the man at deep square leg comfortably Corey Anderson [ 4.0-0-18-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Neesham to Duminy , no run , on a length just outside off , Duminy drives without much timing to cover 37.5 Neesham to de Villiers , 1 run , good length on middle and leg , de Villiers eases it in front of mid-on 37.4 Neesham to Duminy , 1 run , in the air , but just wide of Guptill at backward point. Back of a length around off , Duminy closes the bat face early , the leading edge is found and the ball just about evades the fielder , Guptill dived full length to his right but could n't get there 37.3 Neesham to Duminy , no run , back of a length close to off , Duminy punches to the left of point , Guptill makes a fine save 37.2 Neesham to de Villiers , 1 run , short of length on the body , de Villiers tucks it with soft hands to square leg , thinks about the second but decides against it 37.1 Neesham to de Villiers , no run , fullish just outside off , de Villiers drives crisply , straight to cover James Neesham [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now ! 36.6 Vettori to Duminy , no run , tossed up on off , Duminy works it straight to Baz at short mid-wicket 36.5 Vettori to Duminy , no run , floated on off , Duminy sweeps and picks out the man at backward square 36.4 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , slows this up considerably , de Villiers drives to sweeper cover 36.3 Vettori to de Villiers , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for AB , flighted on off and middle , de Villiers shimmies down the pitch and lofts it beautifully to the long-on fence 36.2 Vettori to de Villiers , FOUR , lovely shot ! A much needed boundary for South Africa , de Villiers dances down the wicket , gets to the pitch of the ball , clips it between midwicket and mid-on , the fielder dives at mid-on in vain 36.1 Vettori to Duminy , 1 run , quicker on middle and leg , whipped off the back foot to deep mid wicket 35.6 Boult to Duminy , 1 run , slightly short and outside off , Duminy cuts it away to third man 35.5 Boult to Duminy , no run , back of a length around off , Duminy shuffles across and bunts it in front of mid-wicket 35.4 Boult to Duminy , no run , Boult still causing trouble , shortish and on the fourth stump line , Duminy was trying to glide it to third man , but is beaten all ends up 35.4 Boult to Duminy , wide , sprays it down the leg-side , Duminy gets inside the line and ca n't connect with the glance , wided by the umpire 35.3 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , slower delivery that is short in length , de Villiers tucks it off the back foot wide of mid-on 35.2 Boult to de Villiers , no run , tad short and around off , de Villiers stays back and chops the cut to cover , that was too close to be playing the cut 35.1 Boult to Duminy , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Duminy nudges it with soft hands to the vacant mid-wicket region Trent Boult [ 7.0-2-25-2 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay. . 34.6 Vettori to Duminy , 1 run , pushed through outside off , Duminy reaches for it and drives to sweeper cover 34.5 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , floated up outside off , de Villiers leans forward and drives to sweeper cover 34.4 Vettori to Duminy , 1 run , flat and on the stumps , Duminy punches it to long-on 34.3 Vettori to Duminy , no run , flighted delivery on off , Duminy comes down the track , yorks himself and jams it into the wicket , the ball lobs off the pads to McCullum at mid-wicket , that was clearly a bump ball The umpires are discussing if Duminy has lobbed one to Baz. The Kiwis think that the ball came off the boot , but before that it hit the ground. Third umpire will make an easy decision . 34.2 Vettori to Duminy , no run , works the tossed up delivery on off to the left of the bowler , Baz intercepts and stops the ball from mid-wicket 34.1 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , nice loopy delivery , de Villiers drives it to sweeper cover 33.6 Neesham to de Villiers , 1 run , on a length close to off , de Villiers dabs it down to third man 33.5 Neesham to de Villiers , no run , fraction short , de Villiers chops the cut towards cover 33.4 Neesham to de Villiers , no run , back of a length on off , de Villiers times the punch , but ca n't get it past cover 33.3 Neesham to Duminy , 1 run , short delivery on middle , Duminy rolls his wrists and pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 33.2 Neesham to de Villiers , 1 run , Neesham bangs this one short as ABdV gives the charge , the batsman still manages to flat-bat it towards sweeper cover 33.1 Neesham to de Villiers , no run , good length angling in , de Villiers comes forward and defends solidly to cover James Neesham , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 32.6 Vettori to Duminy , no run , flighted on middle and leg , Duminy pushes it to the left of Vettori , who dives and stops 32.5 Vettori to Duminy , no run , touch quicker , Duminy gets inside the line and punches it towards mid-wicket , ca n't beat Baz 32.4 Vettori to Duminy , no run , fullish and close to off , Duminy driven without much timing to mid-off 32.3 Vettori to Duminy , no run , slows this up on middle and leg , Duminy works it gently to mid-wicket 32.2 Vettori to Duminy , no run , Vettori dives to his left and saves the single , Duminy drives this floated delivery to the left of the bowler 32.1 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , tosses it up around off , de Villiers stays leg-side and drives to sweeper cover 31.6 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , straight roller on middle and leg , de Villiers eases it away to long-on 31.5 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , 1 run , flatter just outside off , punched off the back foot square of the wicket 31.4 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , no run , works this flighted delivery towards mid-wicket , takes off for a risky single before being sent back , Baz fires a throw at the striker 's end , but Duminy dives to get back in. That was tremendous reflexes by McCullum , who gathered the ball and threw it , all in one motion TV umpire pressed into service for a run-out chance. Duminy the man in question. The dive has just saved him 31.3 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , no run , slider close to off , Duminy back-cuts it to backward point 31.2 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , goes on with the angle from round the wicket , de Villiers guides it past backward point 31.1 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , 1 run , quicker and outside off , Duminy chops the cut to the left of backward point 30.6 Vettori to de Villiers , no run , tad short and outside off , de Villiers cuts it airily towards backward point 30.5 Vettori to de Villiers , no run , skids on after pitching , de Villiers knocks it towards cover 30.4 Vettori to Duminy , 1 run , pushed through on off and middle , Duminy eases it off the back foot to long-on 30.3 Vettori to Duminy , no run , flat and just outside off , punched to cover , straight to the fielder 30.2 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , tossed up outside off , de Villiers drives it down the ground to sweeper cover 30.1 Vettori to Duminy , 1 run , comes down the track and drives it to long-on Daniel Vettori [ 5.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 2 runs , gets forward to this fullish ball and taps it to sweeper cover 29.5 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to long-off 29.4 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , leans forward and works it to mid-wicket 29.3 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , 1 run , drives a full ball to long-off 29.2 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , no run , gets back in the crease and turns it to short mid-wicket 29.1 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , flighted around off , de Villiers carves it square of the wicket 28.6 Mills to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , de Villiers gently guides it to third man 28.5 Mills to Duminy , 1 run , length ball around off , Duminy punches it to mid-off for a quick single 28.4 Mills to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , de Villiers punches it off the back foot towards sweeper cover 28.3 Mills to Duminy , 1 run , turns this back of a length delivery on middle and leg through backward square leg 28.2 Mills to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , de Villiers dabs it to short third man 28.1 Mills to de Villiers , no run , comes down the track and drives it to cover , where Baz bends down and makes an excellent stop 27.6 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , stays in the crease and tucks it through backward square leg 27.5 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , 1 run , turns it to mid-wicket and runs for a brisk single , Guptill fires a quick throw at the striker 's end , had he hit it directly , ABdV was a goner 27.4 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , no run , excellent fielding by Baz as Duminy pushes it towards cover , Baz dives to his left and makes a good stop 27.3 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , no run , skips down and whips it towards short mid-wicket 27.2 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , taps it to long-on for a comfortable single 27.1 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , no run , defends it off the front foot towards cover point 26.6 Mills to Duminy , 2 runs , back of a length on middle and leg , Duminy works it between mid-wicket and mid-on for a brace 26.5 Mills to Duminy , no run , fullish and outside off , left alone by Duminy 26.4 Mills to Duminy , no run , stays on the back foot and blocks this length delivery on middle and off towards the right of the bowler 26.3 Mills to de Villiers , 1 run , comes down the track to this back of a length delivery and slams it to mid-off , quick running between the wickets as the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end 26.2 Mills to de Villiers , no run , back of a length around off , de Villiers pushes it to the left of the bowler 26.1 Mills to Duminy , 1 run , Duminy leans forward and clips it through backward square leg 25.6 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , 1 run , stays back to this flatter delivery and punches it to long-off 25.5 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , no run , defended it to the off-side 25.4 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , going down leg , de Villiers flicks it to deep mid-wicket 25.3 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , 1 run , tucks it through backward square leg 25.2 Nathan McCullum to Duminy , no run , Duminy presses forward and looks to defend , misses and is struck on the pads. Hawk-Eye shows that the impact was in line with the middle stump but the ball was just clipping it. Had it been reviewed , on-field call would have stayed Loud appeal for lbw. The umpire is unconvinced. The NZ players ponder for a while but decide against taking the review 25.1 Nathan McCullum to de Villiers , 1 run , leans forward and clips it through backward square leg Nathan McCullum [ 4.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Mills to Duminy , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , left alone Jean-Paul Duminy , left handed bat , comes to the crease 24.5 Mills to Amla , out Bowled ! ! Amla has been foxed by a slower ball. Just 123kph on this good length delivery from Mills , Amla tried to play it late and run it down to third man , but he ended up dragging it back onto the stumps. End of a sedate innings from Hash. Can New Zealand work on this opening and put pressure on the visitors ? Amla b Mills 38 ( 74 ) [ 4s-1 ] Mills to Amla , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 24.4 Mills to Amla , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Amla shoulders arms 24.3 Mills to Amla , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Amla tucks it into the on-side 24.2 Mills to de Villiers , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , de Villiers cuts it towards deep extra cover 24.1 Mills to Amla , 1 run , slower delivery outside off stump , Amla guides it to third man Kyle Mills [ 4.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Boult to de Villiers , no run , de Villiers plays it from the crease 23.5 Boult to de Villiers , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , de Villiers chops the cut to point 23.4 Boult to de Villiers , no run , short of length delivery angling away from the right-hander , de Villiers shoulders arms 23.3 Boult to Amla , 1 run , shortish delivery on the off stump , Amla pulls it to fine leg 23.2 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , de Villiers gets across the stumps and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side 23.1 Boult to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Amla turns it to mid-on 22.6 Corey Anderson to Amla , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Amla tucks it to backward square leg 22.5 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , stands tall and punches this short of length delivery to sweeper cover 22.4 Corey Anderson to Amla , 1 run , short delivery on the off stump , Amla pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 22.3 Corey Anderson to Amla , no run , fullish and angling away from the right hander , Amla tries to cut but misses 22.2 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , shortish delivery outside off stump , de Villiers rocks back and cuts it to sweeper cover 22.1 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , full delivery outside off stump , de Villiers drives it to cover 21.6 Boult to Amla , no run , edgeeedd but it just falls short of the man at fly slip. Amla plays inside the line of this fullish delivery and gets a thick edge , the fact that he played with soft hands ensured that the ball died down immediately 21.5 Boult to de Villiers , 1 run , on the leg stump , de Villiers glances it to backward square leg 21.4 Boult to Amla , 1 run , worked away through to mid-wicket 21.3 Boult to Amla , no run , short of length delivery pitching just outside off stump , Amla rocked back to cut , but this one jagged back sharply to beat his inside edge 21.2 Boult to Amla , no run , fullish delivery on the off stump , Amla defends off the front foot 21.1 Boult to Amla , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Amla punches it to point , where Guptill dives to his right to stop the ball Trent Boult [ 5.0-2-20-2 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Corey Anderson to Amla , 1 run , Amla jumps right across the sticks to whip this short of length delivery through backward square leg 20.5 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , a touch outside off stump , de Villiers reaches out and drives it to deep backward point 20.4 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , fullish and just shaping back in around the off stump , de Villiers defends it to cover 20.3 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , de Villiers gets behind the line and offers a compact back foot defence 20.3 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , wide , saw ABdV advancing and tried to bowl this away from him , but he bowled it way outside off stump 20.2 Corey Anderson to Amla , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off stump , Amla guides it past backward point to third man 20.1 Corey Anderson to Amla , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , driven to cover 19.6 Vettori to de Villiers , no run , presses forward and defends it to the off-side 19.5 Vettori to Amla , 1 run , leans forward and clips it to mid-wicket 19.4 Vettori to de Villiers , 1 run , stays in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover 19.3 Vettori to de Villiers , 2 runs , reaches at it and cuts it to deep backward point 19.2 Vettori to Amla , 1 run , drives it to long-off for a comfortable single 19.1 Vettori to Amla , no run , tossed up on off , Amla pushes it back to the bowler Daniel Vettori [ 4.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , no run , skips down the track and smashes this fuller length delivery straight towards cover 18.5 Corey Anderson to Amla , 1 run , shuffles across and tucks this back of a length delivery on leg to deep square leg 18.4 Corey Anderson to Amla , 2 runs , gets back in the crease and tucks it off the hip through backward square leg 18.3 Corey Anderson to Amla , no run , angled on off , Amla gets forward and punches it towards mid-off 18.2 Corey Anderson to de Villiers , 1 run , back of a length on middle and off , de Villiers turns it to mid-wicket AB de Villiers , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 18.1 Corey Anderson to Rossouw , out Caught by Brownlie ! ! Anderson gets his first wicket of the day. Rossouw has offered a simple catch to first slip. It was a fullish ball from Anderson , Rossouw looks to drive it away from the body , gets a thick outside edge as the ball moves away a touch and comfortably flies into the safe hands of Brownlie , who just moves across slightly and cups it in front of his face. Rossouw c Brownlie b Corey Anderson 26 ( 31 ) [ 4s-3 ] Corey Anderson to Rossouw , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.6 Nathan McCullum to Amla , no run , leans forward and turns it to the on-side 17.5 Nathan McCullum to Amla , no run , pushes it to the off-side 17.4 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , 1 run , gets back in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover 17.3 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , no run , short and wide , cut off the back foot to cover , who makes an excellent stop 17.2 Nathan McCullum to Amla , 1 run , drives it towards long-on 17.1 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , leg byes , 1 run , gets back in the crease to tuck , the ball goes off the thigh pad towards fine leg 16.6 Corey Anderson to Rossouw , 1 run , Rossouw pulls this short of length ball through backward square leg 16.5 Corey Anderson to Rossouw , no run , length delivery outside off , Rossouw flays it into the off-side 16.4 Corey Anderson to Rossouw , FOUR , short on off , Rossouw pulls it towards the deep mid-wicket fence , the fielder slides near the rope but is unable to stop the ball from going past 16.3 Corey Anderson to Amla , 1 run , back of a length and moving away , Amla stays back and dabs it towards third man 16.2 Corey Anderson to Amla , no run , full around off , Amla drives it straight towards mid-off 16.1 Corey Anderson to Amla , no run , full and angled away , left alone by Amla Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 15.6 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , no run , gets forward and drives it towards cover , good stop by the fielder as he dives and manages to halt the ball 15.5 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , no run , pushes it towards the right of the bowler 15.4 Nathan McCullum to Amla , 1 run , stays in the crease and turns it to deep square leg 15.3 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , 1 run , Rossouw works it to long-on for an easy single 15.2 Nathan McCullum to Amla , 1 run , leans forward and tucks it to deep square leg 15.1 Nathan McCullum to Amla , no run , full on off , Amla looks to work it on the on-side , gets a soft leading edge that rolls towards mid-off 14.6 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , leans forward and drives towards the left of the bowler , who dives across and makes a good stop 14.5 Vettori to Amla , 1 run , gets forward and gently drives it towards long-off 14.4 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , Rossouw is squared up as he looks to defend , gets an outside edge to point , the batsmen run a quick single 14.3 Vettori to Amla , 1 run , punches it towards sweeper cover for a quick single 14.2 Vettori to Amla , no run , stays in the crease and cuts this shortish ball towards point 14.1 Vettori to Amla , no run , walks forward and pushes it back to the bowler 13.6 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , 2 runs , excellent running between the wickets by the batsmen , Rossouw drives this fullish ball to deep extra cover 13.5 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , 2 runs , whips it off the pads to deep mid-wicket 13.4 Nathan McCullum to Amla , 1 run , drifting on leg , Amla tucks it through backward square leg 13.3 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , 1 run , full on middle and off , Rossouw punches it to long-on 13.2 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , no run , gets inside the crease and cuts it to point 13.1 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , no run , full on off , Rossouw punches it to the left of the bowler 12.6 Vettori to Amla , no run , full on off again , Amla pushes it back to the bowler 12.5 Vettori to Amla , no run , full around off , Amla drives it towards cover 12.4 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-on 12.3 Vettori to Amla , 1 run , great effort from Neesham at long-off , Amla gets forward to this full ball and lofts it , Neesham comes running forward and dives but the ball falls just short of him 12.2 Vettori to Amla , no run , pushes it to the off-side 12.1 Vettori to Amla , no run , short and outside off , Amla gets back in the crease and punches it to point 11.6 Nathan McCullum to Rossouw , no run , full around off , Rossouw turns it towards the leg-side 11.5 Nathan McCullum to Amla , 1 run , gets inside the crease and turns it to deep square leg 11.4 Nathan McCullum to Amla , no run , leans forward and works it towards the right of the bowler 11.3 Nathan McCullum to Amla , no run , shortish and outside off , Amla looks to cut and misses 11.2 Nathan McCullum to Amla , no run , tucks it to mid-wicket 11.1 Nathan McCullum to Amla , no run , slider from McCullum straightaway , beats the outside edge of Amla 's bat as he pokes at it from inside the line Nathan McCullum , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 10.6 Vettori to Amla , 1 run , full on off , Amla punches it to long-off for an easy single 10.5 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , full on middle and off , Rossouw drives it to long-on 10.4 Vettori to Amla , 1 run , cuts this to backward point , excellent fielding there stops the batsmen from taking the second run 10.3 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , leans forward and turns it between midwicket and long-on 10.2 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , pushes it to the off-side 10.1 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , pushes it to the off-side , Amla wanted the single but is sent back by Rossouw 9.6 Boult to Amla , 2 runs , fullish outside off , Amla drives it to sweeper cover 9.6 Boult to Amla , wide , bouncer , very high for Amla to play at it , he ducks under it 9.5 Boult to Rossouw , 1 run , back of a length and moving away from the batsman , Rossouw looks to drive but instead slices it to third man 9.4 Boult to Rossouw , no run , short on middle and off , moving away as well , Rossouw is squared up as he looks to defend 9.3 Boult to Rossouw , no run , bouncer outside off , left alone 9.2 Boult to Rossouw , FOUR , back of a length and outside off , Rossouw flays at it , gets a thick inside edge that evades the stumps and runs away to the fine leg fence 9.2 Boult to Rossouw , wide , sliding down leg , Rossouw misses the tuck , brilliant right-handed take by the keeper 9.1 Boult to Rossouw , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Rossouw defends it off the back foot 8.6 Vettori to Amla , no run , Amla gets forward and drives , gets an inside-edge towards mid-on 8.5 Vettori to Amla , no run , Amla gets an inside edge as he looks to push it to the off-side , rolls towards mid-wicket 8.4 Vettori to Amla , no run , shortish around off , Amla stays back and cuts it towards point 8.3 Vettori to Rossouw , 1 run , gets back in the crease and turns it to mid-wicket 8.2 Vettori to Rossouw , no run , full on off , Rossouw pushes it back to Vettori 8.1 Vettori to Amla , 1 run , flighted on off , Amla makes room and slams it back towards the bowler , who dives to his left but is unable to stop the ball as the rolls to mid-off Daniel Vettori , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 7.6 Boult to Rossouw , FOUR , Rossouw stays in the crease and just rolls his wrists , tucks this length ball drifting on leg to deep square leg to get off the mark in style Rilee Rossouw , left handed bat , comes to the crease 7.5 Boult to du Plessis , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Second wicket for Boult ! South Africa are off to a poor start. It was a short delivery from Boult , du Plessis swivels back and goes for the pull-shot again , he ends up getting a thick bottom edge offering a simple catch to the keeper. du Plessis c Ronchi b Boult 8 ( 23 ) [ 4s-1 ] Boult to du Plessis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.4 Boult to du Plessis , no run , defends it from the crease towards the off-side 7.3 Boult to du Plessis , no run , shortish delivery on middle and off , du Plessis gets back and looks to pull , misses as the ball goes off his shoulder into the keeper 's gloves 7.2 Boult to du Plessis , no run , length ball on off , du Plessis taps it towards mid-off 7.1 Boult to du Plessis , no run , full and outside off , du Plessis lets it go through 6.6 Mills to Amla , no run , full length ball outside off , Amla looks to drive , gets an inside edge towards mid-on 6.5 Mills to Amla , FOUR , Amla bends forward and clips this full ball drifting on the pads towards the deep mid-wicket fence 6.4 Mills to Amla , no run , length delivery on off , Amla looks to push it through the off-side , gets an inside edge that rolls towards silly point 6.3 Mills to Amla , no run , fullish and outside off , Amla shoulders arms to it 6.2 Mills to Amla , 2 runs , short of length on off , Amla goes on the back foot and mistimes the pull to deep mid-wicket 6.1 Mills to Amla , no run , length ball around off , Amla pushes it towards cover point 5.6 Boult to du Plessis , no run , short of length ball around off , du Plessis gets forward and punches it towards cover 5.5 Boult to du Plessis , FOUR , fantastic shot ! du Plessis comes down the track to this good length delivery and launches it towards long-on for a one-bounce four 5.4 Boult to du Plessis , no run , back of a length and outside off , du Plessis pushes it towards point 5.3 Boult to du Plessis , no run , length ball around off , du Plessis taps it towards mid-off 5.2 Boult to du Plessis , no run , pushes this length delivery back towards the bowler 5.1 Boult to du Plessis , 2 runs , du Plessis makes room to this back of a length ball and pulls it towards deep mid-wicket for a brace Free hit coming up 5.1 Boult to du Plessis , no ball , Boult has over-stepped , du Plessis blocks this length delivery back 4.6 Mills to du Plessis , 1 run , length delivery around off , du Plessis flays at it , gets a thick inside edge that flies to the left of the keeper , he picks up the ball and fires a throw at the non-striker 's end but the batsmen have comfortably run a single 4.5 Mills to Amla , 1 run , yorker on middle and leg , Amla gets forward and drives it to mid-on 4.4 Mills to Amla , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Amla gently taps it to the leg-side 4.3 Mills to Amla , no run , terrific delivery by Mills. It was a fullish ball that moves away a touch , no foot movement from Amla as he looks to drive but is beaten 4.2 Mills to Amla , no run , length ball on middle and off , Amla blocks it off the back foot 4.1 Mills to Amla , no run , length ball on off , Amla defends it to the off-side 3.6 Boult to du Plessis , no run , short delivery outside off , du Plessis looks to defend and is beaten 3.5 Boult to du Plessis , no run , back of a length and shaping back in , du Plessis covers the line and shoulders arms to it , the ball whistled dangerously close to the off-stump 3.4 Boult to du Plessis , no run , short of length on off , du Plessis is pushed back in the crease and he defends it towards silly point 3.3 Boult to Amla , leg byes , 1 run , on the pads this time , Amla looks to tuck , misses and the ball goes off the thigh pad behind square 3.2 Boult to Amla , no run , length and angled away again , Amla edges it towards point as he looks to defend 3.1 Boult to Amla , no run , length delivery on off , Amla stays on the back foot looking to block , gets a thick outside edge that rolls behind 2.6 Mills to du Plessis , no run , length ball on middle and leg , du Plessis works it towards mid-on 2.5 Mills to Amla , 1 run , Amla leans forward and clips this length ball through backward square leg 2.4 Mills to Amla , no run , full and outside off , left alone by Amla 2.3 Mills to Amla , no run , length delivery outside off , Amla comfortably lets it go through 2.2 Mills to du Plessis , 1 run , full toss on off , du Plessis closes the bat face early and ends up getting a leading edge it towards mid-off 2.1 Mills to Amla , 1 run , Amla stays in the crease and tucks this length delivery through backward square leg 1.6 Boult to du Plessis , no run , on a length and shaping away , du Plessis lifts his bat and lets it go 1.5 Boult to du Plessis , no run , touch back of a length on middle , du Plessis stays in the crease and blocks it back to the right of the bowler 1.4 Boult to du Plessis , no run , length ball on middle , du Plessis defends it with a straight bat towards mid-on 1.3 Boult to du Plessis , no run , length and angled away from the batsman , du Plessis shoulders arms to it 1.2 Boult to du Plessis , no run , short of length steeply rising , du Plessis fends it away off the glove Faf du Plessis , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.1 Boult to de Kock , out Caught by Latham ! ! Excellent start for New Zealand. de Kock was looking very good in the first over. It was a back of length delivery that shapes away a touch , no feet movement from de Kock as he looks to defend by keeping the bat away from the body , the ball takes the outside edge of the bat and flies to the man at first slip. de Kock c Latham b Boult 9 ( 5 ) [ 4s-2 ] Boult to de Kock , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Two slips for Boult as well 0.6 Mills to Amla , no run , length ball on off , Amla stays in the crease and blocks 0.5 Mills to Amla , 2 runs , on the pads again , Amla just bends forward and tucks it through backward square leg for a brace 0.4 Mills to de Kock , 1 run , full and angling in , de Kock clips it towards deep mid-wicket 0.3 Mills to de Kock , no run , length ball around off , de Kock drives it straight towards mid-off 0.2 Mills to de Kock , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for de Kock to begin the proceeding. He gets slightly forward to this full delivery on off and drills it to long-off 0.1 Mills to de Kock , FOUR , fullish ball drifting on leg , de Kock leans forward and rolls his wrists , flicks it to the fine leg fence de Kock and Amla are at the crease. de Kock is on strike. Mills will open the attack Welcome back. The South African openers have walked out to the middle. Mills will open for New Zealand. Two slips in place Barring Luke Ronchi , it was a dismal batting performance from the hosts. The wicket was n't all that bad to bat on but they threw their wickets away. Ronchi kept his cool and batted positively. In the end , with the help of a record 74-run stand for the last wicket , New Zealand have managed to post a respectable score. Philander , Morne , Tahir and McLaren , all bagged two wickets each. Join us back for South Africa 's reply in a while.. . 45.1 Steyn to Ronchi , out Caught by de Kock ! ! Oh no , Dale Steyn. It 's a heartbreak for Ronchi , he 's out for 99. It 's great to see Steyn not celebrate the wicket. In fact , he walked up to the batsman and shook hands with him. Meanwhile , QdK has accounted for 6 dismissals in this match. Nothing but a good length delivery close to the off stump , Ronchi poked at it and got a thick edge which flew to the keeper at a good height. Ronchi c de Kock b Steyn 99 ( 83 ) [ 4s-11 6s-3 ] Steyn to Ronchi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Dale Steyn [ 7.0-1-28-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 McLaren to Ronchi , 1 run , 99 ! Full toss on the leg stump , Ronchi swings and gets an inside edge that rolls to deep mid-wicket 44.5 McLaren to Ronchi , SIX , wow ! Shortish from McLaren and Ronchi has pulled this really hard , the ball just clears the deep mid-wicket fence and Ronchi is just on hit away from a hundred This is now New Zealand 's highest partnership for the 10th wicket in ODIs . 44.4 McLaren to Ronchi , 2 runs , short of length delivery on the off stump , Ronchi pulls it to deep square leg 44.3 McLaren to Boult , 1 run , mistimes the slower delivery to point and sets off 44.2 McLaren to Ronchi , 1 run , punched hard to long-on , where Morne keeps the batsmen down to one run with a fine sliding save 44.2 McLaren to Ronchi , wide , way outside off stump , easy call for the umpire 44.1 McLaren to Ronchi , FOUR , friendly full toss and Ronchi will not miss out on those. Drives with an angled bat and beats sweeper cover So Tahir ends 10-1-37-2 . 43.6 Tahir to Boult , no run , 79kph googly on the stumps , Boult defends from the crease 43.5 Tahir to Boult , no run , another darter on the off stump , Boult defends it to point this time 43.4 Tahir to Boult , no run , faster delivery on the stumps , Boult defends off the back foot 43.3 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , googly down the leg-side , Ronchi glances it to short fine leg 43.2 Tahir to Ronchi , FOUR , tossed up outside off stump , Ronchi lofts it over mid-off and there was no one out there 43.1 Tahir to Ronchi , 2 runs , drives the shortish ball wide of extra-cover , who takes some pace off the ball with a dive to his right Imran Tahir [ 9.0-1-30-2 ] is back into the attack 42.6 McLaren to Boult , no run , slower ball flat-batted on the bounce to Amla at mid-on 42.5 McLaren to Boult , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Boult mistimes the pull to mid-off 42.4 McLaren to Boult , FOUR , full delivery on the leg stump , easy pickings , Boult lofts it over mid-on to bring up the fifty partnership 42.3 McLaren to Boult , no run , Boult has almost flat-batted this straight at the non-striker , Ronchi just about managed to get under the ball 42.2 McLaren to Boult , no run , Boult ducks under this bumper and lets it go 42.1 McLaren to Boult , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Boult mistimes the cut Ryan McLaren [ 6.0-0-39-2 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Philander to Ronchi , SIX , no , Philander ! He bowls a juicy full delivery and Ronchi smashes it over long-off. 18 runs off the over and this 47-run stand has taken New Zealand past 200 41.5 Philander to Ronchi , FOUR , wow ! Great timing ! Ronchi just defended this short of length delivery wide of backward point and the man at sweeper had no chance 41.4 Philander to Ronchi , SIX , ca n't bowl length ball at this stage. Slower delivery in the slot , front leg out of the way and baannggg ! It cleared the mid-wicket fence quite comfortably 41.3 Philander to Boult , 1 run , shortish delivery outside off stump , the slower ball in fact , Boult mistimes it down to long-on 41.2 Philander to Boult , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Boult shoulders arms 41.1 Philander to Ronchi , 1 run , drives this good length delivery along the ground to sweeper cover Vernon Philander [ 6.0-1-20-2 ] is back into the attack 40.6 M Morkel to Boult , no run , short delivery on the stumps , Boult pulls and misses. Strangely , there was a sound as the ball passed the bat Appeal for caught behind , not given and South Africa have reviewed it. No issues with Morne 's footing. There is nothing on the snicko and nothing of Hot-Spot as well. Boult should survive and he does . 40.5 M Morkel to Boult , no run , backs away and misses 40.4 M Morkel to Boult , SIX , wow ! Boult read Morne 's mind on that occasion. He knew that even if he was backing a long way away from the stumps , Morne was n't going to bowl straight. In the end he middled this loft and it just cleared the long-off fence 40.3 M Morkel to Boult , no run , plays inside the line of this bumper and gets beaten 40.2 M Morkel to Boult , no run , this time Morne bowls it well outside off stump and Boult simply was ball watching 40.1 M Morkel to Boult , no run , well , when the batsman is backing away every ball , why do n't you bowl one full and straight , Morne Morkel ? Boult swings and misses New Zealand managed to get 22/0 in the 5-over batting powerplay . 39.6 Steyn to Ronchi , no run , short delivery on the off stump , Ronchi ducks under it 39.5 Steyn to Ronchi , FOUR , nicely done ! Shortish on the leg stump , Ronchi just gets inside the line and helps it away over short fine leg to get the scoreboard moving 39.4 Steyn to Ronchi , no run , Ronchi is beaten again as he pokes at it away from the body 39.3 Steyn to Ronchi , no run , just a hint of away movement on this short of length delivery , Ronchi pokes and misses 39.2 Steyn to Boult , 1 run , full and down the leg-side , Boult backs away and drives it to mid-off 39.1 Steyn to Boult , no run , bouncer attemped , does n't rise much , Boult plays inside the line and gets beaten 38.6 M Morkel to Ronchi , no run , short delivery outside off stump , Ronchi pulls and misses 38.5 M Morkel to Ronchi , no run , back of a length from Morne , Ronchi defends 38.4 M Morkel to Ronchi , no run , slower delivery outside off stump , Ronchi does n't pick it again and gets beaten 38.3 M Morkel to Ronchi , no run , Ronchi swings early at this slower delivery and misses 38.2 M Morkel to Ronchi , 2 runs , an excellent effort from McLaren at mid-off , he ran back and tried to grab this ball , but it burst through his hands. A tough chance though , Ronchi lofted this slower ball straight up in the air and got lucky 38.1 M Morkel to Ronchi , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Ronchi defends off the back foot 37.6 Steyn to Boult , no run , bumper on the stumps , Boult backs away and gets beaten 37.5 Steyn to Boult , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Boult swings and misses 37.4 Steyn to Boult , no run , this bouncer rised high , luckily for him it was n't on target 37.3 Steyn to Boult , 2 runs , Boult actually tried to pull that short ball but he got it on the bottom of the bat and it rolled past backward point 37.2 Steyn to Ronchi , 1 run , in the airrr and just short of a diving Faf du Plessis at mid-off. Ronchi mistimed the lofted drive completely and luckily for him , the ball dropped down just in time 37.1 Steyn to Ronchi , no run , starts off with a 124kph slower delivery outside off stump , tapped to point Dale Steyn [ 5.0-1-20-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 M Morkel to Boult , no run , Morne follows Boult again and the batsman somehow managed to fend this 36.5 M Morkel to Boult , no run , played to point 36.4 M Morkel to Boult , no run , again , goes leg-side and flat-bats this short of length delivery to mid-on 36.3 M Morkel to Boult , no run , that was so close to the leg stump. Boult does n't pick this slower delivery at all , he has a wild swing at it and misses 36.2 M Morkel to Boult , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Boult slashes and misses 36.1 M Morkel to Boult , FOUR , that is a fine shot ! Giraffe followed him with a short of length delivery as Boult backed away , the batsman went through with the flat-batted hit and beat mid-on Morne Morkel [ 5.0-1-27-2 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Tahir to Ronchi , FOUR , neatly done ! Gets inside the line of this flighted delivery and glances it very fine to the fine leg fence 35.5 Tahir to Boult , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Boult slog-sweeps it wide of long-on 35.4 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , second ODI fifty for Ronchi ! Flicks the flighted delivery through mid-wicket 35.3 Tahir to Boult , 1 run , drives the flighted delivery down to long-on 35.2 Tahir to Boult , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Boult defends off the front foot 35.1 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , down the leg-side , flicked to fine leg Batting powerplay has been enforced . 34.6 McLaren to Ronchi , 1 run , cuts off the back foot but picks out sweeper cover 34.5 McLaren to Ronchi , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Ronchi defends off the back foot Trent Boult , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.4 McLaren to Mills , out Caught by Philander ! ! Second wicket for McLaren ! Short ball just outside off stump , Mills pulls but does n't bother to keep it down. The ball goes straight down the throat of the man at deep mid-wicket. Mills c Philander b McLaren 1 ( 6 ) McLaren to Mills , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 34.3 McLaren to Mills , no run , back of a length on the off stump , defended off the back foot 34.2 McLaren to Ronchi , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ronchi pushes it to long-on 34.1 McLaren to Ronchi , FOUR , full delivery outside off stump , Ronchi looks to drive but the ball takes the inside edge and rolls wide of mid-on. In fact , the bat turned in his hand 33.6 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Ronchi pushes it to long-on and keeps strike 33.5 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , almost a yorker , dug out 33.4 Tahir to Mills , 1 run , Mills leans forward to defend , not so sure if he picked this wrong 'un , the ball took the inside edge and rolled to square leg 33.3 Tahir to Mills , no run , too full to trouble the batsman , easily blocked 33.2 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , driven down to long-on 33.1 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , 'wait there ' is the call from Ronchi after driving this flighted delivery straight to cover 32.6 McLaren to Mills , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Mills defends off the front foot 32.5 McLaren to Ronchi , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Ronchi flicks it through backward square leg 32.4 McLaren to Mills , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Mills misses the flick and is hit on the pad , but the impact was too high 32.4 McLaren to Mills , wide , steeply rising bumper , too high reckons the umpire Kyle Mills , right handed bat , comes to the crease 32.3 McLaren to Nathan McCullum , out Caught by de Kock ! ! Wow ! That 's a stunning grab from de Kock ! He has now accounted for 5 dismissals in this match , 4 catches and a stumping. Short delivery down the leg-side , a nothing ball really. McCullum tries to pull but was a touch late on the shot , the ball takes the edge and flies to the left of the keeper. QdK throws himself horizontal to the ground and grabs the ball. Finally , McLaren gets a wicket and that will better his figures. Nathan McCullum c de Kock b McLaren 6 ( 16 ) McLaren to Nathan McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 32.2 McLaren to Nathan McCullum , no run , slower delivery outside off stump , McCullum mistimes the drive back to the bowler 32.1 McLaren to Nathan McCullum , no run , fended uppishly into the on-side 31.6 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Ronchi defends off the front foot 31.5 Tahir to Nathan McCullum , leg byes , 1 run , that looked close but the umpire was n't keen. The faster googly from Tahir , McCullum fails to defend and is hit in line with the off stump. No loud appeal from South Africa as well 31.4 Tahir to Nathan McCullum , no run , tries to flick , gets a soft leading edge that rolls back to the bowler 31.3 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , driven wide of mid-off 31.2 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , tries to cut a googly , but the ball keeps low a touch and sneaks past the bat 31.1 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , defended into the off-side Drinks are on the field now . 30.6 McLaren to Ronchi , 1 run , Ronchi pushes this delivery around off to point , the batsmen take a single 30.5 McLaren to Ronchi , no run , Ronchi blocks this delivery outside off with a straight bat 30.4 McLaren to Nathan McCullum , 1 run , short delivery from McLaren , McCullum goes back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 30.3 McLaren to Nathan McCullum , no run , fullish delivery on off , McCullum goes on the front foot and drives it to cover , it was a beautiful drive but AB at cover saves some runs 30.2 McLaren to Nathan McCullum , no run , missed the clip , the ball hits the pad and the rolls away to the left of the batsman , McCullum thinks about the run but a loud shout from the partner sends him back 30.1 McLaren to Nathan McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery around off , McCullum punched it back to the bowler Ryan McLaren [ 3.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , fullish on leg-stump , Ronchi misses the clip and is hit on the pad , there was an appeal but the ball was going down leg 29.5 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , tossed up around off , Ronchi drives it into the off-side 29.4 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , drives this flighted delivery to mid-off 29.3 Tahir to Nathan McCullum , 1 run , paddle sweeps this delivery on middle and leg to fine leg 29.2 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off , Ronchi knocks it intot he off-side , the batsmen run through for a quick single 29.1 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , flighted delivery on off , Ronchi defends it into the off-side 28.6 Duminy to Nathan McCullum , 2 runs , driven down the ground to mid-off , the fielder makes a good diving save but the batsmen take a couple before the ball is thrown back to the bowler 28.5 Duminy to Nathan McCullum , no run , shortish in length and McCullum punches it into the off-side 28.4 Duminy to Nathan McCullum , 2 runs , flatter delivery from Duminy , McCullum goes on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover 28.3 Duminy to Nathan McCullum , no run , pitched on middle and leg , McCullum goes down to paddle sweep but fails to connect 28.2 Duminy to Ronchi , 1 run , flighted around off , Ronchi drives it to long-off 28.1 Duminy to Ronchi , no run , tossed up on off , Ronchi defends it back to the bowler 27.6 Tahir to Nathan McCullum , no run , a loud appeal from Tahir as the ball strikes McCullum on the pad , the umpire says 'No ' , the ball hit the pad after taking the inside-edge , good decision by the umpire there 27.5 Tahir to Nathan McCullum , no run , googly outside off , McCullum does n't offer a shot and lets it go Nathan McCullum , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.4 Tahir to Vettori , out Lbw ! ! Flatter delivery that pitched on middle , Vettori moved across to paddle sweep on one knee , he misses and the ball hits his pad , Tahir was confident that he had got his man and the umpire obliged him by raising the finger. Vettori lbw b Tahir 0 ( 2 ) Tahir to Vettori , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Daniel Vettori has been given out lbw by the umpire. He has decided to review the on-field call. There is no problem with the front foot. The ball has pitched in line and Hawk-Eye shows that the ball would crash into middle and off. New Zealand have lost their review as well . 27.3 Tahir to Ronchi , leg byes , 1 run , misses the glance and the ball rolls away into the leg-side after hitting the pad , the batsmen run for a leg-bye 27.2 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , defends this delivery on middle and leg into the on-side 27.1 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , flighted delivery on off , defended back to the bowler 26.6 Duminy to Vettori , no run , defends this delivery on off and middle back to the bowler Daniel Vettori , left handed bat , comes to the crease 26.5 Duminy to Latham , out Stumped ! ! Latham perishes ! New Zealand have lost their sixth wicket. Latham comes down the track and yorks himself , he gets an inside-edge onto the pad , the ball rolls away towards de Kock , who is quick to pick the ball and he dislodges the bails in time , good work from the wicket-keeper. Latham st de Kock b Duminy 29 ( 38 ) [ 4s-5 ] Duminy to Latham , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 26.4 Duminy to Latham , no run , flighted delivery on middle-stump , Latham turns it to mid-wicket 26.3 Duminy to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham leans forward and defends 26.2 Duminy to Latham , 2 runs , on middle and leg , Latham moves across and flicks it to fine leg 26.1 Duminy to Ronchi , 1 run , flatter delivery from Duminy , Ronchi goes back in the crease and punches it to long-on 25.6 Tahir to Latham , no run , blocks this off the front foot into the off-side 25.5 Tahir to Latham , no run , shortish and outside off , Latham makes a little room and cuts it , the ball goes fine towards short third man 25.4 Tahir to Latham , FOUR , lovely delivery from Tahir that draws the batsman , Latham gets an outside edge as he looks to push at it , the ball runs away to the third-man fence 25.3 Tahir to Latham , no run , defends this flighted delivery into the off-side 25.2 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , flatter and outside off , Ronchi goes back in the crease and cuts it to cover-point , who makes a diving stop , the batsmen still manage to steal a single 25.1 Tahir to Latham , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Latham drives it off the front foot to sweeper cover Imran Tahir [ 3.0-0-10-1 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Duminy to Latham , 1 run , tossed up around off , Latham goes back and punches it to long-on 24.5 Duminy to Ronchi , 1 run , flighted on off , Ronchi drives it to mid-off , the batsmen take a quick single 24.4 Duminy to Ronchi , 2 runs , flighted delivery on off , Ronchi chips it over the mid-off fielder , comes back for the second before the ball is collected 24.3 Duminy to Latham , 1 run , tossed up on off , Latham drives it to long-off 24.2 Duminy to Latham , no run , Duminy is lucky here , it was a poor delivery around leg , Latham looked to pull it fine but could only manage to hit it straight to the short fine leg fielder 24.1 Duminy to Ronchi , 1 run , shortish in length and on middle and leg , Ronchi moves across and turns it to deep mid-wicket 23.6 McLaren to Latham , no run , fullish and outside off , Latham lets it go 23.5 McLaren to Ronchi , 1 run , straying on the pads this time , Ronchi tucks it towards backward square leg 23.4 McLaren to Ronchi , FOUR , poor delivery from McLaren , he has lost his line , another shortish delivery on leg , Ronchi moves across and pulls this towards the backward square leg fence 23.3 McLaren to Ronchi , no run , blocks this back of a length delivery into the off-side 23.2 McLaren to Ronchi , FOUR , back of a length delivery on middle-stump , Ronchi goes back in the crease and pulls it towards the deep mid-wicket fence 23.1 McLaren to Ronchi , FOUR , fullish and on off , Ronchi drives it beautifully towards the sweeper cover fence , the ball runs away after beating the cover fielder 22.6 Duminy to Latham , no run , comes down the track and works it towards mid-wicket 22.5 Duminy to Latham , no run , flatter delivery around off , Latham punches it to cover 22.4 Duminy to Latham , no run , shortish delivery on off , Latham punches it back to the bowler 22.3 Duminy to Ronchi , 1 run , flatter around off , Ronchi pushes it towards point and the batsmen run through for a single 22.2 Duminy to Ronchi , no run , slower delivery on off , Ronchi leans forward and blocks it into the off-side 22.1 Duminy to Ronchi , no run , tossed up on off , Ronchi drives it to mid-off 21.6 McLaren to Latham , FOUR , third boundary for Latham in this over ! It was a fullish delivery on off , Latham drives and the ball beats a diving mid-off fielder , the ball runs away towards the long-off boundary 21.5 McLaren to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Latham leans forward and taps it to point McLaren comes round the wicket. . 21.4 McLaren to Latham , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Latham hangs back in the crease and cuts it to the deep backward point boundary 21.3 McLaren to Latham , no run , beautiful delivery from McLaren , Latham looks to drive this good length delivery outside off , gets beaten 21.2 McLaren to Latham , FOUR , magnificent shot from Latham , back of a length delivery outside off , Latham goes on the back foot and cuts it beautifully , the ball goes to the right of the backward point fielder and runs into the boundary 21.1 McLaren to Ronchi , 1 run , short of a good length outside off , Ronchi looks to drive it square of the wicket , the ball flies to third man after taking the outside-edge Ryan McLaren [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Duminy to Latham , no run , flighted delivery on off , Latham leans forward and defends it into the off-side 20.6 Duminy to Latham , wide , bowls this one down leg , wided by the umpire 20.5 Duminy to Ronchi , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off , Ronchi hangs back in the crease and punches it to backward point 20.4 Duminy to Latham , 1 run , on middle and leg , Latham moves across and clips it to backward square leg 20.3 Duminy to Latham , FOUR , shortens his length , Latham rocks back and muscles this pull towards the deep mid-wicket fence 20.2 Duminy to Latham , no run , tossed up on middle and leg , Latham goes for the sweep but ca n't connect , the ball hits the pad , there 's a loud appeal from the bowler but the umpire turns it down , the ball was missing leg 20.1 Duminy to Latham , no run , quicker and on leg , Latham misses the glance , the ball runs away towards short fine-leg after clipping the pad Jean-Paul Duminy , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 19.6 M Morkel to Latham , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Latham punches it into the off-side , the batsmen run through for a quick single as the ball loops up a little high in the air after hitting the ground 19.5 M Morkel to Latham , no run , Latham leaves this shortish delivery outside off 19.4 M Morkel to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Latham closes the face of the bat a little too early , the ball takes a leading edge and rolls away into the off-side , Latham is lucky that the ball fell in no man 's land 19.3 M Morkel to Latham , no run , fullish delivery on off , Latham moves forward and pushes it into the off-side 19.2 M Morkel to Latham , no run , beautiful delivery , back of a length delivery on off , Latham shoulders arms , the ball goes over the stumps , it was a good leave at the end from Latham 19.1 M Morkel to Latham , no run , good bounce from Morne there ! It was a back of a length delivery on off , Latham has to jump in the crease , fends the ball away into the off-side with one hand 18.6 Steyn to Ronchi , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Ronchi jumps in the crease and taps the ball towards point 18.5 Steyn to Ronchi , no run , short and outside off , Ronchi lets it go 18.4 Steyn to Ronchi , no run , short of a good length and around off , Ronchi comes forward and pushes it towards point 18.3 Steyn to Ronchi , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Ronchi defends from the crease 18.2 Steyn to Ronchi , FOUR , dropped , fullish delivery on off and Ronchi drives it uppishly , the ball jut about hits Steyn 's fingers on its way to the long-off boundary , it was a difficult chance for Steyn in his follow-through 18.1 Steyn to Ronchi , no run , fullish in length and on off and middle , Ronchi moves a little across and taps it into the on-side Dale Steyn [ 4.0-1-16-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 M Morkel to Latham , no run , defends it off the front foot , the ball dribbles away to the left of the bowler 17.5 M Morkel to Ronchi , 3 runs , slower ball from Morkel on off , Ronchi goes for the lofted drive , can only manage a chip that goes over the infield , Philander runs from mid-off and flicks it back just in time , saves a run for his team 17.4 M Morkel to Ronchi , no run , short and wide outside off , Ronchi lets it go through to the keeper 17.3 M Morkel to Ronchi , no run , shortish delivery on middle and leg , Ronchi jumps in the crease and drops his wrists , the ball rolls away into the leg-side 17.2 M Morkel to Ronchi , no run , fullish and outside off , left alone by Ronchi 17.1 M Morkel to Ronchi , FOUR , back of a length delivery on off , Ronchi pokes at it , the ball takes the outside edge , flies towards third man evading the second slip , Steyn dives but the ball beats him to the fence 16.6 Tahir to Latham , no run , leans forward and defends this back to the bowler 16.5 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , short and slow from Tahir , Ronchi makes room and cuts it to deep backward point 16.4 Tahir to Latham , 1 run , pitched on middle , Latham moves across and pushes it square of the wicket 16.3 Tahir to Ronchi , 1 run , on middle and leg , Ronchi tucks it to deep mid wicket 16.2 Tahir to Ronchi , no run , shortens his length , Ronchi stays back and clips it into the leg-side 16.1 Tahir to Latham , 1 run , full toss on leg , Latham drives it to long on 15.6 M Morkel to Ronchi , no run , nice yorker from Morkel , Ronchi squeezes it out to mid-on Luke Ronchi , right handed bat , comes to the crease Hat-trick ball coming up now. . 15.5 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , out Bowled ! ! What is happening here ? New Zealand are losing the plot here. Morkel who gave away 19 runs in his first 2 overs , has picked 2 wickets in 2 balls. It was a back of a length delivery on off , Anderson pushes at it tentatively , the ball takes the bottom edge and crashes into the off-stump. Corey Anderson b M Morkel 0 ( 1 ) M Morkel to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 15.4 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , out Caught by Tahir ! ! New Zealand are struggling here. The skipper is gone now. It was a shortish delivery that had extra zip and bounce on it , McCullum looks to pull but gets a top edge that flies to fine-leg , simple catch for Tahir , who judges it well. Brendon McCullum c Tahir b M Morkel 16 ( 21 ) [ 6s-2 ] M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.3 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , no run , extra bounce on this one , McCullum looks to cut it but fails to conenct as the ball goes through to the keeper 15.2 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , no run , shortish in length and on off , McCullum punches it back towards the bowler 15.1 M Morkel to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery around off , McCullum hangs back in the crease and defends it awkwardly Morne Morkel [ 2.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 14.6 Tahir to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham lunges forward in defence 14.5 Tahir to Latham , no run , slows up the googly , Latham hangs back and turns it towards mid-wicket Tom Latham , left handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now ! 14.4 Tahir to Brownlie , out Caught by de Kock ! ! QdK was up in a flash to appeal for the caught behind , he convinced his skipper to take the review and it was a wise decision. It was the quicker delivery on off which turned enough to take Brownlie 's outside edge , QdK takes a sharp chance behind the wicket. The umpire did n't hear anything , but had to overrule as the Snicko showed a spike when the ball passed the bat. Brownlie c de Kock b Tahir 24 ( 28 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Tahir to Brownlie , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! South Africa are reviewing a caught behind appeal off Brownlie. Tahir is fine with the front foot. The Snicko has picked up something when the ball passed the bat. He might be in trouble here. The third umpire is having all possible replays , in the end the decision is overturned . 14.3 Tahir to Brownlie , no run , flighted on off , Brownlie presses forward and blocks 14.2 Tahir to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , drags the length back , McCullum has ample time to go back and clip it to deep mid-wicket 14.1 Tahir to Brendon McCullum , no run , too full on off , McCullum squeezes it back to the bowler 13.6 McLaren to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , pitched up outside off , McCullum drives it uppishly to deep extra cover 13.5 McLaren to Brownlie , 1 run , back of a length and leg-stumpish , Brownlie tucks it down to deep backward square leg 13.4 McLaren to Brendon McCullum , leg byes , 1 run , shortens the length on leg-stump , McCullum fails to get bat on the glance , the ball thuds off the thigh pad to square leg 13.3 McLaren to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length on off , McCullum gets behind the line and knocks it to mid-on 13.2 McLaren to Brownlie , 1 run , too straight in line by McLaren , Brownlie tucks it in front of square on the leg-side 13.1 McLaren to Brownlie , no run , fullish and outside off , Brownlie does not bother with it Ryan McLaren , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 12.6 Tahir to Brownlie , 1 run , slider on leg-stump , Brownlie nudges it off the back foot to deep mid-wicket 12.5 Tahir to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , fullish on middle and leg , McCullum drives it to long-on 12.4 Tahir to Brownlie , 1 run , flat and on the stumps , Brownlie works it to long-on 12.3 Tahir to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , googly on leg-stump , McCullum swivels and pulls it to long leg 12.2 Tahir to Brownlie , 1 run , pushed through , Brownlie stays back and punched to long-off 12.1 Tahir to Brownlie , no run , tossed up on off , Brownlie taps it off the front foot to point Imran Tahir , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 11.6 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , tempting line from Philander , just outside off , McCullum is happy to let it pass 11.5 Philander to Brendon McCullum , SIX , back-to-back sixes , good catch in the crowd , banged in half way down the wicket , McCullum rocks back and pulls it powerfully to deep mid-wicket , the ball goes flat over the rope 11.4 Philander to Brendon McCullum , SIX , what a way to get off the mark ! It was a length delivery just outside off , McCullum decides to free his arms , he takes the aerial route and sends it over long-off 11.3 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a length close to off , McCullum is cramped for room , he defends to the right of the bowler 11.2 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , short of length on off , McCullum hangs on the back foot and defends towards cover 11.1 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length well wide of off , McCullum walks across his stumps and shoulders arms 11.1 Philander to Brendon McCullum , wide , splays it down the leg-side , easy call for the ump 10.6 M Morkel to Brownlie , 2 runs , shortish and on leg-stump , Brownlie tucks it behind square and comes back easily for the second 10.5 M Morkel to Brownlie , no run , back of a length just outside off , Brownlie taps it to backward point 10.4 M Morkel to Brownlie , FOUR , poor delivery from Morne , half volley on the pads , this time Styen does n't bother chasing it as Brownlie had timed it beautifully , presses forward and flicks it through mid-wicket 10.3 M Morkel to Brownlie , FOUR , full and bit too straight , Brownlie leans forward and clips it handsomely past a diving mid-wicket , Steyn gives chase in vain 10.2 M Morkel to Brownlie , no run , shortish and outside off , Brownlie misses out on the cut shot 10.1 M Morkel to Brownlie , no run , good length on off and middle , Brownlie works it towards mid-on 9.6 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , loud shout for a caught behind , the umpires is not convinced. ABD , Amla , QdK and Philander contemplate about taking the review , but decide againt it. Short of a length on leg-stump , McCullum shuffles across and looks to glance , the ball goes off the thigh pad , good decision in the end 9.5 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length just outside off , McCullum lifts his bat and lets it go 9.4 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length on middle , McCullum gets behind the line and blocks well 9.3 Philander to Brendon McCullum , no run , a beauty to welcome the Kiwi skipper , angled in and straightening around off , McCullum presses forward to defend , the ball misses the outside edge by a centimeter Brendon McCullum , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.2 Philander to Guptill , out Caught by de Kock ! ! Second wicket for Big Vern. Guptill who never looked at ease has thrown it away after battling for 29 deliveries. Full and shaping away outside off , Guptill drives away from the body , edges it to QdK , who does n't make a mistake. Guptill c de Kock b Philander 5 ( 29 ) Philander to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.1 Philander to Guptill , no run , teasing delivery from Philander , pithed up outside off , invites the batsman to drive , Guptill accepts , chases it and is beaten 8.6 M Morkel to Brownlie , no run , fullish and just outside off , Brownlie drives it straight to short cover 8.5 M Morkel to Guptill , 1 run , much better calling from both batsmen , on a length close to off , Guptill works it wide of mid-on and scampers through to the other end 8.4 M Morkel to Brownlie , 1 run , some confusion between the duo , but no harm done , good length on middle , Brownlie turns it towards mid-on , he sets off for the run , Guptill was in a dilemma , the throw was at the bowlers end which was the wrong end 8.3 M Morkel to Brownlie , no run , dropped ! Faf has put down a sitter. Short and outside off , Brownlie does not bother to keep the cut down the ground , it went low to backward point , Faf gets both hands but ends up spilling it 8.2 M Morkel to Brownlie , SIX , Brownlie has made full use of the free-hit , back of a length delivery on the stumps , he gets his front leg out of the way and heaves it over the deep square leg fence for the first six of the game Free-hit coming up. . 8.2 M Morkel to Brownlie , no ball , Morkel is caught overstepping , short of length on off , Brownlie defends it back down the wicket 8.1 M Morkel to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , starts with a back of a length delivery , Guptill does n't get bat on the flick , the ball rolls off the thigh pad to square leg Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 7.6 Philander to Brownlie , no run , short of length close to off , Brownlie pushes it with a straight bat to mid-off 7.5 Philander to Guptill , 1 run , good length on middle , Guptill knocks it in front of mid-on and takes off for a quick single , the throw his off target at the bowlers end 7.4 Philander to Guptill , no run , slightly back of a length outside off , Guptill shoulders arms 7.3 Philander to Guptill , no run , back of a length shaping away outside off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 7.2 Philander to Guptill , no run , pitched up on middle , Guptill slices the drive uppishly , fortunately for him the ball lands in front of mid-off 7.1 Philander to Brownlie , 1 run , full and on leg-stump , Brownlie flicks it without timing to deep square leg 6.6 Steyn to Guptill , no run , again , the length is tad short , Guptill gets on top of it and pats it to point 6.5 Steyn to Guptill , no run , short of length around off , Guptill defends it to the off-side 6.4 Steyn to Brownlie , 1 run , full and angled into the pads , Brownlie gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball lobs and drops in front of ABD at second slip , who hits the stumps at the striker 's end and concedes a run 6.3 Steyn to Brownlie , no run , drops it short outside off , Brownlie cuts , but ca n't beat Faf at cover 6.2 Steyn to Brownlie , no run , back of a length on off , Brownlie closes the bat face early and gets a thickish outside edge to point 6.1 Steyn to Guptill , 1 run , shortish and targeting the batsman 's hips , Guptill jumps up and tucks it to square leg 5.6 Philander to Brownlie , no run , another excellent delivery to end the over , short of length and moving away , Brownlie goes searching for it and is beaten 5.5 Philander to Brownlie , no run , back of a length close to off , Brownlie rides the bounce and taps it to backward point 5.4 Philander to Brownlie , no run , on a length just outside off , Brownlie shoulders arms Dean Brownlie , right handed bat , comes to the crease 5.3 Philander to Neesham , out Caught by de Kock ! ! Philander strikes ! Neesham 's promising innings comes to an end. This was just too good a delivery for a makeshift operner. Back of a length and slanted across off , Neesham pokes at it tentatively and nicks it to QdK. The umpires check for a no-ball , but Philander is fine on that account. Neesham c de Kock b Philander 16 ( 15 ) [ 4s-3 ] Philander to Neesham , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.2 Philander to Guptill , 1 run , on a length and holds its line , Guptill looks to defend but the ball takes the outside edge and runs down to third man 5.1 Philander to Guptill , no run , good length well wide of off , Guptill leaves it alone 4.6 Steyn to Neesham , no run , peach ! Full , angling in before straightening , Neesham plays down the wrong line , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 4.5 Steyn to Neesham , no run , good length just outside off , Neesham drives it on the up to cover 4.4 Steyn to Neesham , no run , full and outside off , Neesham drives and picks out mid-off 4.3 Steyn to Neesham , FOUR , half volley outside off , Neesham gets a good stride forward and drives it sweetly past cover for the second four of the over 4.2 Steyn to Neesham , FOUR , full and tailing in on off and middle , Neesham wanted to hit it down ground , the bat turns in his hands and he ends up hitting it wide of mid-wicket , the power of Neesham took the ball to the boundary 4.1 Steyn to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , sliding onto the legs , Guptill misses the glance , the ball runs down to fine leg off the pads 3.6 Philander to Neesham , no run , good length on middle and leg , Neesham plays it with a straightish bat to mid-wicket 3.5 Philander to Neesham , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Neesham drives it crisply to the left of Philander , the fielder from mid-on dives to his right and makes a super save 3.4 Philander to Neesham , 2 runs , jagging away outside off , Neesham runs it down to third man , the fielder was too square which allowed the batsmen to come back for the second 3.3 Philander to Neesham , no run , fullish and angled in on middle , Neesham turns it gently to mid-wicket 3.2 Philander to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , drifting onto the legs , Guptill ca n't nail the flick and the ball dribbles off the pads to the on-side 3.1 Philander to Guptill , no run , short of length outside off , left alone 3.1 Philander to Guptill , wide , the inswinger goes awry , slides it down the leg-side , wided by the umpire 2.6 Steyn to Neesham , no run , straightens around the off-stump line , Neesham defends it back to the bowler 2.5 Steyn to Neesham , FOUR , lovely shot ! Overpitched outside off , Neesham presses wll forward and times the drive superbly , the ball races away to the sweeper cover fence 2.4 Steyn to Neesham , no run , slanted across the left-hander , who decides to leave it alone 2.3 Steyn to Guptill , 1 run , finally , Guptill opens his account , too straight from Steyn , clipped away to deep backward square leg 2.2 Steyn to Guptill , no run , pitched up on off and middle , Guptill plays a punchy drive to mid-on 2.1 Steyn to Neesham , 1 run , fullish and outside off , Neesham throws his bat at it , the ball flies off the outside half of the bat to third man 1.6 Philander to Guptill , no run , good length ball on off , Guptill comes on the front foot and blocks solidly 1.5 Philander to Guptill , no run , half tracker outside off , the ball just holds up in the wicket , Guptill cuts and picks out the fielder at backward point , who dives to his right and makes a fine stop 1.4 Philander to Guptill , no run , length delivery well wide of off-stump , Guptill chooses not to play at that 1.3 Philander to Guptill , no run , shortens the length and the line is outside off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 1.2 Philander to Guptill , no run , a beauty ! That is a superb delivery from the Vern , angles it in and gets it to shape away from the batsman , Guptill is drawn into a defensive push and he is lucky that the ball did n't take the outside edge 1.1 Philander to Neesham , 1 run , straightaway movement for Philander , this one shapes back in , Neesham is stuck in the crease , plays for the wrong angle and the ball squirts off the inside edge to deep backward square leg Vernon Philander , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Steyn to Guptill , no run , perfect start by Steyn , another delivery that holds its line , Guptill comes forward and pushes it to the off-side 0.5 Steyn to Guptill , no run , pitches it up on off , Guptill does well to stay in the crease and block 0.4 Steyn to Guptill , no run , fullish and shaping away just outside off , Guptill lets it go through to QDK 0.3 Steyn to Guptill , no run , some shape for Steyn , good length and tailing away , Guptill does not bother with it 0.2 Steyn to Guptill , no run , on a length close to off , Guptill presses forward and knocks it to cover 0.1 Steyn to Guptill , no run , starts with a fuller one on middle and leg , Guptill gets nicely behind the line and defends it in front of mid-on Guptill and Neesham are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. Steyn will open the attack The openers are out in the middle. All set for a cracking game of cricket. Steyn has the new nut in his hands. Here we go. . Teams : South Africa ( Playing XI ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( c ) , Jean-Paul Duminy , Ryan McLaren , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Martin Guptill , James Neesham , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Tom Latham , Dean Brownlie , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Nathan McCullum , Daniel Vettori , Kyle Mills , Trent Boult South Africa have won the toss and have opted to field Meanwhile , South Africa have named a full strength squad. The team is high on confidence as they won the tri-nation series in Zimbabwe which included Australia. Faf du Plessis , in particular was in excellent form as he scored 3 hundreds in the series and won the Player of the Series. How will the sides shape up today ? Hello and welcome to the first ODI between New Zealand and South Africa. Toss and teams coming up in a short while.. . The countdown to the World Cup has begun. Every team will be looking to get their squad right before naming the final 15. The 3-match ODI series will help both New Zealand and South Africa. The Kiwis will be tested against a quality side like the Proteas. The home team is without some of their key players , the ones missing are Ross Taylor ( out due to a calf strain ) and Kane Williamson. However , they have the experienced Daniel Vettori returning to international cricket after a gap of 16 months . Preview South Africa begin an one-day series against New Zealand looking to strike a psychological blow against the Black-Caps ahead of the Cricket World Cup early next year. The three-match series , which begins in the North Island 's picturesque Mount Maunganui , will also give the Proteas a chance to familiarise themselves with local conditions in preparation for the World Cup pool matches they will play at New Zealand venues . South Africa On paper , the series should be a mis-match , with South Africa ranked the world 's second best ODI team , just behind Australia , while New Zealand languish at seventh. In addition , the Proteas have three batsmen in the ICC 's top 10 ( AB de Villiers , Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ) , and two of the world 's best-ranked bowlers ( Dale Steyn and Ryan McLaren ) . Captain de Villiers said the tourists will not underestimate New Zealand , either in the upcoming series or the World Cup , when he believes home advantage means Brendon McCullum 's men will rank among the tournament favourites. The World Cup is a glaring omission from South Africa 's trophy cabinet and de Villiers said the New Zealand series provides the chance to sharpen his team 's skills for the tournament . South Africa have had a successful year so far in the shorter format of the game. They arrived in New Zealand on the back of a victorious campaign in Zimbabwe , where they clinched the triangular series after beating Australia in the final. The winning sequence has allowed the selectors to maintain a level of consistency in selection , a big positive with the World Cup fast approaching . New Zealand New Zealand , meanwhile , have just one player ranked among the ODI elite in batsman Ross Taylor , and he will miss the series with a calf strain. But the Blacks Caps frequently punch above their weight in the 50-over format , including eliminating the Proteas at the quarter-final stage of the last World Cup in 2011 and claiming a first-ever ODI series win on South African soil last year . New Zealand fast bowler Adam Milne will join Taylor on the sick list for the series , while batsman Kane Williamson will miss the first match and then undergo a fitness test. The Black Caps have called in Dean Brownlie and Tom Latham to bolster their depleted batting stocks. They also welcome veteran spinner Dan Vettori back into the 14-man squad after a long stint on the sidelines injured , although it is not yet clear whether he will play . Numbers 1 : Brendon McCullum is one innings away from becoming the fourth New Zealand player to have featured in 200 innings or more . 320 : The number of runs AB de Villiers requires to reach the mark of 7000 in ODI cricket. If he reaches the milestone within 13 innings , he will become the fastest to 7000 . 379 : The number of runs Hashim Amla requires to reach the mark of 5000 in ODI cricket. If he reaches the milestone within 21 innings , he will become the fastest to 5000 . Quotes : We have played a good brand of cricket for the last five or six months. We beat India , Sri Lanka away , Australia and Zimbabwe away so we are quite happy with where we are at the moment : South Africa coach , Russell Domingo . We 've never played international cricket this early in the season so the conditions will be challenging and it 's hard to know how the new ground at Bay Oval will shape up : New Zealand coach , Mike Hesson . Teams : South Africa ( From ) : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( w ) , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( c ) , Jean-Paul Duminy , David Miller , Ryan McLaren , Aaron Phangiso , Morne Morkel , Dale Steyn , Imran Tahir , Rilee Rossouw , Wayne Parnell , Vernon Philander , Kyle Abbott New Zealand ( From ) : Martin Guptill , Tom Latham , James Neesham , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Nathan McCullum , Daniel Vettori , Kyle Mills , Tim Southee , Trent Boult , Dean Brownlie , Matt Henry , Mitchell McClenaghan Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
