Graphs Kane Williamson became the fastest Kiwi batsman to reach 3000 Test runs. He took 71 innings to reach the landmark . The 365-run unbeaten partnership between Williamson and Watling is the highest ever for the 6th wicket in Tests . Since October 2013 , New Zealand have played 15 Tests , won 8 , drawn 5 and lost only 2 . Sangakkara has now scored 11 double tons , just one short of Sir Don Bradman 's record of 12 . Kumar Sangakkara became the fastest batsman to reach 12000 Test runs , overtaking Sachin Tendulkar 's record . Mark your calendars as the ODI series starts this Sunday ( January 11 ) . We have enjoyed bringing you all the cricketing action and hope that you join us for the ODIs as well. Until next time , take care. But , before we leave , take a look at some of the interesting stats . For now , the Sri Lankans need to forget this mauling from the hands of the Kiwis and move on as the action shifts to the ODI arena. Both teams will now lock horns in a 7-match ODI series before the start of the World Cup . Series summary : It was a great team performance from the Black Caps. For the Sri Lankans , they will have to look within themselves to find the strength to lift themselves up. The retirement of Mahela Jayawardene from Tests has not helped their cause either . The Black Caps bowlers also deserve due credit for bowling their opposition out four times in a row. Boult and Southee lead from the front and were outstanding in the first Test. At Wellington , it was more of an all-round performance with Bracewell , who replaced Wagner in this Test , also doing a more than decent job. The spinner Mark Craig , who has become a regular feature in the side now , also chipped in with wickets at crucial junctures . Their players have shown great responsibility and grit throughout the series. There were times when they were down and out , but someone from their team always stepped up to see them through. If it was Brendon McCullum 's swashbuckling 134-ball 195 in the first Test or the Williamson-Watling record-breaking partnership here , the Kiwis have shown an amazing fighting spirit . It has been a phenomenal series for the Black Caps. They have turned their fortunes around in Tests in the last year and a half. They truly deserved the win as they were the better side throughout the series . Unfortunately , we could n't bring you the presentation ceremony because of unforeseen circumstances . Kane Williamson has been adjudged the Man of the Match for scoring 69 and 242 * in this game . Match Summary : When New Zealand came out to bat again , they struggled. They were reeling at 159/5 and were effectively 24/5 when Watling came to the crease to join Williamson. At that time Sri Lanka were looking all set for a win , but the Kiwi duo had other plans. Williamson-Watling batted for almost three and a half sessions and took the game away from the Lankans. To add to the Lankan misery , their catching and fielding was extremely poor and it cost them dearly. Since then , it was all New Zealand and Sri Lanka could never make a way back into the game . In this game , Sri Lanka started off really well. They bowled out New Zealand for a paltry 221 in the first innings. However , on the first day itself , the visitors lost 5 wickets and were staring at another low score in the first innings. But , Kumar Sangakkara had other plans when they came out the next day. His fluent double hundred guided the Lankans to 356 and they took a lead of 135 runs . Going into the final day , Sri Lanka needed 345 runs and New Zealand needed 9 wickets for a win. However , the way the Lankans started , they were only looking for a draw. On the other hand , the Kiwis were aggressive in their approach and it paid off. They picked up 9 wickets even before tea could be taken today . Kane Williamson leads the Kiwis as they walk off the field. Players from both teams exchange handshakes as well . 72.4 Southee to Pradeep , out Bowled ! ! That 's the final nail in the coffin and New Zealand complete a whitewash , winning the series 2-0. It was a yorker from Southee , Pradeep fails to keep it out and the ball crashes into middle and leg. The Kiwis are ecstatic as they hug each other and share high-fives. Pradeep b Southee 1 ( 2 ) Southee to Pradeep , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 72.3 Southee to Thirimanne , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Thirimanne pushes at it , but hits it uppishly past short cover for a single , McCullum runs towards the ball as the batsmen were going for a risky single and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , it would have been interesting had he he hit the stumps 72.2 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Thirimanne was looking to cut it , but the ball goes past the edge New Zealand have decided to review a caught behind appeal of Thirimanne. The on-field decision is 'Not Out'. There is nothing on Snicko and HotSpot , Thirimanne stays and New Zealand lose a review 72.1 Southee to Pradeep , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Pradeep lofts it over the mid-off fielder , but the timing was not great , the ball trickles away towards the long-off region and the batsmen take a single Tim Southee [ 17.0-6-39-0 ] is back into the attack The post-lunch session has been extended by half an hour as Sri Lanka are 9 wickets down 71.6 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up outside off and spinning away , Thirimanne was lining up for another slog , the ball goes past the outside edge and the keeper collects 71.5 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , Thirimanne comes down the track and Craig drags it a little wide watching him step out , the batsman can only push it into the off-side as the ball was away from him 71.4 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , floated up around off , Thirimanne sweeps hard , but hits it straight to the FSL fielder 71.3 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up on off , Thirimanne defends off the front foot 71.2 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , flatter outside off , Thirimanne cuts it to point 71.1 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , floated up on off and middle , Thirimanne bunts it to the left of the bowler 70.6 Williamson to Thirimanne , 1 run , slightly wide outside off , Thirimanne waits for it and cuts it late to third man , Neesham from backward point gives chase and the batsmen only take a single , Thirimanne will keep the strike 70.5 Williamson to Thirimanne , FOUR , shortish and outside off , Thirimanne cuts it past backward point and collects four runs 70.4 Williamson to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up around off , Thirimanne drives it a little uppishly to mid-off , the shout was 'Catch ' , but it did n't carry to the fielder at all 70.3 Williamson to Thirimanne , no run , floated up outside off , Thirimanne drives it to cover 70.2 Williamson to Thirimanne , no run , pushed through on middle , Thirimanne turns it towards square leg 70.1 Williamson to Thirimanne , no run , flatter on the stumps , Thirimanne punches it back to the bowler Kane Williamson [ 1.0-0-1-0 ] is back into the attack Nuwan Pradeep , right handed bat , comes to the crease 69.6 Craig to Thirimanne , out Lakmal Run Out ! ! That is suicidal from the Sri Lankans. It was a flighted delivery on off , Thirimanne pushes it into the off-side and sets off for a single , Lakmal was slow to start and Bracewell at cover picks the ball and throws it towards the keeper in a flash and Watling does nothing wrong there as he whips the bails off. Lakmal was not even in the frame there. Sri Lanka are 9 down now. Lakmal run out ( Doug Bracewell/Watling ) 6 ( 15 ) [ 4s-1 ] Craig to Thirimanne , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 69.5 Craig to Thirimanne , FOUR , floated up outside off , Thirimanne lofts it over cover and the ball runs away to the fence 69.4 Craig to Thirimanne , FOUR , pushed through on middle and leg , Thirimanne sweeps it to the deep square leg fence and that boundary brings up the 3rd Test fifty for Thirimanne 69.3 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , turn and bounce for Craig outside off , Thirimanne was looking to drive it through the off-side , the ball goes past the outside edge 69.2 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , floated up on off and middle , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and defends 69.1 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up on off , Thirimanne blocks off the front foot 68.6 Southee to Lakmal , FOUR , back of a length delivery just outside off , Lakmal pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and bounces just short of Neesham at third slip , he could n't stop the ball either and the ball runs away to the third man fence 68.5 Southee to Thirimanne , 1 run , short delivery down leg , Thirimanne pulls it to deep backward square leg , Rutherford from fine leg gets around and stops the ball from reaching the fence , but the batsmen only take a single 68.4 Southee to Thirimanne , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Thirimanne pulls it to the deep backward square leg fence , the fielder at fine leg was a little late to get off the blocks , the ball runs away to the fence 68.4 Southee to Thirimanne , FOUR , to backward square leg, 68.3 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , shortish and wide outside off , Thirimanne slashes it to deep point , but refuses the single 68.2 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , slighlty back of a length delivery around off , Thirimanne punches it to cover off the back foot 68.1 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , length delivery on off , Thirimanne knocks it back to the bowler from the crease 67.6 Craig to Lakmal , no run , arm ball outside outside off , Lakmal pokes at it away from his body , the ball goes past the outside edge 67.5 Craig to Lakmal , no run , overpitching outside off , Lakmal was looking to push it into the off-side , he fails to connect and the keeper collects 67.4 Craig to Lakmal , no run , floated up around off , Lakmal presses forward and defends 67.3 Craig to Lakmal , no run , tossed up just outside off , Lakmal leans forward and dead-bats it 67.2 Craig to Lakmal , no run , pushed through on middle stump line , Lakmal hangs back and turns it to mid-wicket 67.1 Craig to Lakmal , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Lakmal stays back in the crease and punches it to mid-off 66.6 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Thirimanne has a waft at it , but ca n't connect 66.5 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , bumper from Southee this time , Thirimanne ducks under it 66.4 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , on a good length and around off , Thirimanne bunts it into the off-side 66.3 Southee to Thirimanne , 2 runs , on a good length and outside off , Thirimanne drives it on the up past the non-striker , the batsmen take two before the ball is hunted down 66.2 Southee to Lakmal , 1 run , length delivery on off and middle , Lakmal drops it in front of mid-on and sets off for a single , the fielder runs forward , picks up the ball and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , had he hit , Lakmal would have been a goner 66.1 Southee to Lakmal , no run , on a length and angling in on off , Lakmal blocks it back towards the bowler 65.6 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , floated up around off , Thirimanne comes forward and defends it into the off-side 65.5 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , gives this one more air outside off , Thirimanne goes down on one knee and looks to sweep , he fails to connect and the keeper collects 65.4 Craig to Thirimanne , FOUR , overpitching just outside off , Thirimanne drives it square of the wicket , the ball runs away to the fence 65.3 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , slightly shortish outside off , Thirimanne cuts it to backward point off the back foot 65.2 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , floated up outside off , Thirimanne goes for the slog sweep and can only toe-end it into the off-side 65.1 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , quicker one on the stumps , Thirimanne goes back in the crease and blocks 64.6 Southee to Thirimanne , 1 run , short delivery from Southee , Thirimanne pulls it to deep backward square leg , he will keep the strike 64.5 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Thirimanne hangs back and punches it to point after opening the face of the bat 64.4 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , on a good length on off and middle , Thirimanne pushes at it with hard hands , the ball goes uppishly to the left of Southee 64.3 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , on a good length and outside off , Thirimanne stays back and looks to guide it towards the third man region , Neesham at third slip dives to his left and stops the ball 64.2 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , banges in short and at the batsman , Thirimanne ducks under it 64.1 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Thirimanne dabs it towards deep point , but refuses the single Tim Southee [ 14.0-6-26-0 ] is back into the attack 63.6 Craig to Lakmal , no run , floated up around off , Lakmal defends off the front foot 63.5 Craig to Thirimanne , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Thirimanne checks his push and ends up hitting in the air , luckily it went wide of the fielder at cover 63.4 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Thirimanne blocks 63.3 Craig to Lakmal , 1 run , floated outside off , Lakmal punches it hard into the off-side , Boult at cover misfields and the batsmen run for the single , Boult quickly gets up , runs to his right , picks up the ball and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , had he hit , Lakmal would have been a goner 63.2 Craig to Lakmal , no run , slightly wide outside off , Lakmal swings hard at it , but ca n't connect 63.1 Craig to Lakmal , no run , flatter on the stumps , Lakmal turns it towards short mid-wicket , where the fielder slides and stops the ball 62.6 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , banged in short and wide outside off , Thirimanne tries to play the ramp shot , but ca n't connect 62.5 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , yorker tailing in on middle and leg , Thirimanne jams it out , there was a doubt whether it hit the pad first or not and that 's why New Zealand went for the review , but he got it off his bat New Zealand have decided to review a lbw call for Thirimanne. Replays show that Thirimanne got it off the inside half of the bat and New Zealand lose a review. The onfield decision stays . 62.4 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , angles this one around off , Thirimanne blocks from the crease 62.3 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Thirimanne defends it into the on-side 62.2 Boult to Thirimanne , FOUR , even better this time , it was another full delivery on off and middle , Thirimanne drills the drive straight down the ground and this time , the ball beats the fielder to the fence , Thirimanne timed it beautifully 62.1 Boult to Thirimanne , 2 runs , fullish on off stump line , Thirimanne moves across and drives it beautifully past the non-striker , the fielder from mid-on gives chase and the batsmen take two 61.6 Craig to Lakmal , no run , off-break on off and middle , Lakmal flicks it uppishly , the fielder at short cover dives to his left and tries to take a blinder , the ball just about evades him , the batsmen do n't take a single and Thirimanne will be on strike next over 61.5 Craig to Lakmal , no run , tossed up outside off , Lakmal leans forward and pushes it into the off-side Suranga Lakmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease The new batsman has been crowded with 6 fielders apart from the wicket-keeper Craig 's on a hat-trick now 61.4 Craig to Herath , out Lbw ! ! Craig came from round the wicket and bowls this slider that went on with the angle on middle stump line. Herath was pushing at it , the ball beats the bat and hits the pad around the knee roll. There was a loud appeal and the umpire raised his finger in a flash. Herath reviewed but the decision goes in favour of the fielding side. Herath lbw b Craig 0 ( 1 ) Craig to Herath , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Herath has been given out lbw here. He has decided to review the decision. Craig 's front foot is fine. There is no inside-edge on that. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was clipping the leg-stump and the onfield decision stays. Herath is gone . Rangana Herath , left handed bat , comes to the crease Comes round the wicket now 61.3 Craig to Chandimal , out Caught by Watling ! ! Craig picks up his third wicket and Chandimal has to go now. Probably , Craig himself did n't know about the edge there. It was the quicker and straighter one , Chandimal was pushing at it outside off , the ball takes a faint tickle and Watling swallows it. New Zealand need 3 wickets to complete a whitewash. Chandimal c Watling b Craig 13 ( 27 ) [ 4s-2 ] Craig to Chandimal , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 61.2 Craig to Chandimal , no run , floated up just outside off , Chandimal comes forward and turns it into the on-side 61.1 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flatter and around off , Chandimal punches it to mid-on off the back foot 60.6 Boult to Chandimal , 1 run , shortish delivery on middle and leg , Chandimal hangs back and tucks it away to fine leg for a single Back over the wicket now 60.5 Boult to Chandimal , no run , bowls this one on off and middle from the angle , Chandimal moves across and turns it into the on-side , he thinks about a single , but decides against it Comes round the wicket now 60.4 Boult to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Chandimal stands tall in the crease and defends it back to the bowler 60.3 Boult to Chandimal , no run , banged in short and on middle and leg , Chandimal sits under it 60.2 Boult to Chandimal , no run , bouncer from Boult , Chandimal ducks under it 60.1 Boult to Thirimanne , 1 run , just short of a good length and angling in on off , Thirimanne defends off the back foot 59.6 Craig to Chandimal , no run , tossed up around off , Chandimal presses forward and defends it into the off-side 59.5 Craig to Chandimal , FOUR , another slog sweep from Chandimal as he dispatches this delivery on off and middle stump to the deep square leg fence 59.4 Craig to Chandimal , 2 runs , floated up outside off , Chandimal slog-sweeps it past mid-wicket for a brace 59.3 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Chandimal drives it towards short cover , who dives to his left and stops the ball 59.2 Craig to Chandimal , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Chandimal comes on the front foot and blocks 59.1 Craig to Chandimal , FOUR , goes down on one knee and sweeps this flighted delivery just outside off to the deep backward square leg fence , the ball raced away to the fence there 58.6 Boult to Thirimanne , 2 runs , length delivery on middle stump line , Thirimanne shuffles across and flicks it to deep backward square leg , the batsmen run for a brace before the ball is collected 58.5 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , on a good length and around off , Thirimanne comes forward and blocks it solidly 58.4 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , touch fullish on off and middle , Thirimanne moves across and drives it to mid-on Apart from the slip cordon , there are two short covers and a silly mid-off in place as well 58.3 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , fuller in length and on off , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and blocks it towards short cover 58.2 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Thirimanne stands tall and defends it into the off-side 58.1 Boult to Thirimanne , 2 runs , full delivery on the pads , Thirimanne chips it through mid-wicket and gets back for the second run , it was in the air for quite some time , but there was no fielder there Drinks are on the field now 57.6 Craig to Chandimal , no run , tossed up and turning in from outside off , Chandimal is happy to leave it 57.5 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Chandimal gets down on one knee and sweeps it to backward square leg 57.4 Craig to Chandimal , no run , comes on the front foot and looks to heave it through the on-side , but mistimes it to mid-wicket 57.3 Craig to Chandimal , no run , floated on off , Chandimal gets forward and turns it to FSL 57.2 Craig to Chandimal , no run , tossed up delivery outside off , Chandimal lunges forward and lets it go to the keeper 57.1 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flighted delivery on off , Chandimal comes forward and pushes it to point 56.6 Boult to Chandimal , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Chandimal tucks it to fine leg 56.5 Boult to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery nipping back into the right-hander , Chandimal prods forward in defence and misses , the ball hits him outside off and just over the knee roll. Replays suggest it would have gone over the off-stump 56.4 Boult to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Chandimal turns it to the on-side 56.3 Boult to Chandimal , no run , short of length delivery on off , Chandimal gets behind the line and defends it solidly 56.3 Boult to Chandimal , wide , bouncer on middle and leg , Chandimal ducks under it , called a wide as it was way over the batsman 's head 56.2 Boult to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery which straightens a touch just outside off , Chandimal is completely squared up as the ball beats the outside edge of the bat 56.1 Boult to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery on leg , Chandimal blocks it back to the bowler 55.6 Craig to Thirimanne , byes , FOUR , this one has beaten everyone here. A quicker delivery drifiting down the leg-side , Watling is unable to collect it and these are four bonus runs for Sri Lanka 55.5 Craig to Chandimal , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Chandimal comes forward and drives it straight down the ground to get off the mark Dinesh Chandimal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 55.4 Craig to P Jayawardene , out Caught by Williamson ! ! Craig has broken this partnership. This was a flighted delivery turning in from outside off , Jayawardene comes on the front foot and looks to drive it against the spin , ends up chipping it in the air towards Williamson at cover , who takes an easy catch. Sri Lanka are six down for 133 now. P Jayawardene c Williamson b Craig 10 ( 37 ) [ 4s-2 ] Craig to P Jayawardene , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 55.3 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , flatter delivery on middle , Jayawardene gets forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 55.2 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , flighted delivery outside off and turning in , Jayawardene comes well forward and leaves it alone 55.1 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , touch shorter on off , Jayawardene goes on the back foot and turns it to the on-side 54.6 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , another short delivery on off , Thirimanne watches it carefully and sways away 54.5 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , bumper on leg , Thirimanne sits under it 54.4 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , bouncer on middle , Thirimanne ducks under it 54.3 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne leans forward and drives it to mid-off 54.2 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne is surprised by the extra bounce as he fends it towards gully 54.1 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Thirimanne goes back and works it to mid-wicket 53.6 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , comes on the front foot and smothers it to the off-side 53.5 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , tossed up delivery turning and bouncing a touch on leg , Jayawardene turns it to short fine leg 53.4 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , flighted delivery around off , Jayawardene comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 53.3 Craig to Thirimanne , 1 run , goes on the back foot and pushes it to sweeper cover for a run 53.2 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , flighted delivery on leg , Thirimanne leans forward , looks to sweep and misses , the ball hits him on the pads in line with the leg-stump 53.1 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , fullish on off , Thirimanne gets forward and dead-bats it 52.6 Boult to P Jayawardene , no run , good length ball on middle and leg , Jayawardene comes on the front foot and blocks it 52.5 Boult to P Jayawardene , no run , good length delivery angled across off , Jayawardene lifts his bat and lets it go 52.4 Boult to Thirimanne , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Thirimanne goes inside the crease and punches it to cover-point for a single 52.3 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , bouncer on middle and leg , Thirimanne ducks underneath it 52.2 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , fullish just outside off , Thirimanne gets well forward and pushes it to cover 52.1 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Thirimanne comes forward and drives it to mid-on 51.6 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Jayawardene leans forward and defends it with an angled bat to the on-side 51.5 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , tossed up delivery outside off , Jayawardene comes forward and pads it away 51.4 Craig to Thirimanne , 1 run , floated around off , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and pushes it to point for a run 51.3 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up delivery around off , Thirimanne taps it to the off-side 51.2 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , flighted delivery on off , Thirimanne gets forward and pushes it to cover 51.1 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , shorter delivery on off , Thirimanne goes back and punches it to cover 50.6 Boult to P Jayawardene , no run , bouncer on middle , Jayawardene ducks under it 50.5 Boult to P Jayawardene , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Jayawardene shoulders arms 50.4 Boult to Thirimanne , 1 run , fuller length delivery coming into the left-hander , Thirimanne gets forward and clips it to fine leg for a run 50.3 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , good length ball outside off , Thirimanne comes across and lets the ball go through to the keeper 50.2 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery on off , Thirimanne gets forward and defends it back to the bowler 50.1 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery angling into the left-hander , Thirimanne goes on the back foot and defends it to mid-on 49.6 Craig to P Jayawardene , FOUR , slightly shorter outside off , Jayawardene rocks back and cuts it in front of square on the off-side for the second boundary of the over 49.5 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Jayawardene leans forward and blocks it to the off-side 49.4 Craig to Thirimanne , 1 run , drifting down leg , Thirimanne helps it along to fine leg for a run 49.3 Craig to P Jayawardene , 1 run , tossed up around off , Jayawardene comes on the front foot and eases it to mid-off 49.2 Craig to P Jayawardene , FOUR , flatter delivery just outside off , Jayawardene sweeps it in the air to the deep backward square leg fence for a boundary 49.1 Craig to P Jayawardene , no run , floated on off , Jayawardene gets forward and blocks it back to the bowler Mark Craig [ 6.0-4-16-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery on off , Thirimanne gets well forward as he defends it back to the bowler 48.5 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery slanting into the left-hander , Thirimanne defends it back to the bowler 48.4 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , on a length around off , Thirimanne comes forward and pushes it to the off-side 48.3 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery on off , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and blocks it back to the bowler , who throws it back at the stumps 48.2 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , short of length delivery on off , Thirimanne goes back and defends it to the off-side 48.1 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne gets well behind the line as he defends it to the off-side Trent Boult [ 13.0-0-39-2 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Southee to Thirimanne , 1 run , good length delivery on middle and ff , Thirimanne comes across and works it to deep backward square leg 47.5 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , short delivery down the leg-side , Thirimanne ducks underneath 47.4 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery slanted across off , Thirimanne stays inside the crease and blocks it to cover 47.3 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Thirimanne lifts his bat and lets it go 47.2 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Thirimanne comes forward and pushes it to cover 47.1 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , short of good length ball angling across off , Thirimanne gets forward and defends it back to the bowler 46.6 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , too full on off , Jayawardene comes forward and jams it to mid-off 46.5 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , good length ball in the channel just outside off , Jayawardene leans forward and defends it to cover 46.4 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Jayawardene turns it off the back foot to mid-wicket 46.3 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Jayawardene presses forward and blocks it back to the bowler 46.2 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , 1 run , good length delivery around off , Thirimanne comes forward and taps it to point for a quick single 46.1 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , short of good length delivery angling away from the left-hander , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and prods forward in defence , the ball sails past the outside egde and through to the keeper 45.6 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Jayawardene gets forward and drives it to mid-off 45.5 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , length delivery on middle , Jayawardene pushes it to mid-on 45.4 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , good length delivery outside off , Jayawardene shoulders arms 45.3 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Jayawardene drives it off the front foot to silly mid-on 45.2 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , fullish on middle , Jayawardene gets forward and drives it to mid-on 45.1 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Jayawardene lifts his bat and lets it go 44.6 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Jayawardene comes on the front foot and pushes it in front of Boult at mid-on with soft hands and sets off for a quick single , Boult dives forward and has a shy at the stumps but Jayawardene was comfortably in 44.5 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Jayawardene stays inside the crease and bunts it to the off-side 44.4 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , fullish and just outside off , Jayawardene prods forward and drives it to cover 44.3 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Jayawardene leans forward and drives it to mid-on 44.2 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Jayawardene gets well forward as he blocks it back to the bowler 44.1 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , on a length and in the channel around off , Jayawardene comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side 43.6 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery outside off , Thirimanne lifts his bat and lets it go 43.5 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery slanting down the leg-side , Thirimanne leaves it alone 43.4 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , yorker length delivery shaping in from off , Thirimanne digs it out to the off-side 43.3 Southee to Thirimanne , FOUR , overpitches this one on off , Thirimanne leans forward and presents the full face of the bat as he caresses the drive straight down the ground for another boundary 43.2 Southee to Thirimanne , 2 runs , too full and too straight by Southee , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and drives it straight down the ground for a brace Three slips and a gully in place for Southee 43.1 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , fullish and just outside off , Thirimanne gets forward and defends it to the off-side Tim Southee [ 11.0-5-19-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , on a length and in the channel just outside off , Jayawardene has a poke at it and misses 42.5 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , good length delivery around off , Jayawardene gets well forward and turns it to the on-side 42.4 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Jayawardene lifts his bat and lets it go Lunch on Day 5 : Sri Lanka have scored just 65 runs and have lost 4 wickets in the process. The nightwatchman , Prasad was dismissed in the second over of the day by Boult. Sangakkara was given out on review as it looked like he had bottom-edged a shortish delivery from Boult. Silva and Thirimanne then added 33 runs before Bracewell came back to dismiss Silva after the opener got to his fifty. Williamson took a screamer to dismiss the Sri Lankan skipper for just 8 and the visitors find themselves in trouble as half their side has been dismissed. Can New Zealand push for the win in the second session ? Join us in a short while to find out.. . 42.3 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , out Caught by Williamson ! ! Bracewell dismisses the Sri Lankan skipper just before lunch. This was a back of a length delivery just outside off , Mathews was stuck on the back foot as he pokes at it , gets a thick outside edge which flies high to the left of Williamson at gully who gets a hand to it on the first attempt and snaffles a brilliant catch on the second attempt as he landed on the ground. That will be lunch. Mathews c Williamson b Doug Bracewell 8 ( 11 ) [ 4s-2 ] Doug Bracewell to Mathews , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.2 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , fullish on off , Mathews blocks it to the off-side 42.1 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , 3 runs , fuller length delivery on off , Thirimanne comes forward and presents the full face of the bat as he drives it straight down the ground 41.6 Craig to Mathews , no run , tossed up delivery around off , Mathews leans forward and turns it to the on-side 41.5 Craig to Mathews , byes , FOUR , tossed up delivery and turning in from outside off , Mathews comes on the front foot and looks to drive , the ball goes through the gap between bat and pad and over the off-stump , the keeper also misses because of the extra bounce 41.4 Craig to Mathews , FOUR , short again and Mathews rocks back and cuts it again to the deep backward point region for back-to-back boundaries 41.3 Craig to Mathews , FOUR , drops this short and wide outside off , Mathews goes on the back foot and cuts it in front of square on the off-side for a boundary 41.2 Craig to Mathews , no run , comes on the front foot and smothers it to the on-side 41.1 Craig to Thirimanne , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Thirimanne leans forward and works it to the on-side 40.6 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run, 40.5 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Mathews gets behind the line and blocks it to the off-side 40.4 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , short of length delivery nipping back into the right-hander , Mathews goes back and turns it to the on-side 40.3 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , length delivery on off , Mathews comes forward and blocks it Angelo Mathews , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , out Caught by Craig ! ! Bracewell strikes just before the lunch break. This was a back of a length delivery just outside off , Silva goes back and pushes at it , gets an outside edge which flies to Craig at second slip , who takes a low catch to his left. Silva 's patient knock comes to an end. Kaushal Silva c Craig b Doug Bracewell 50 ( 121 ) [ 4s-3 ] Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 40.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , wide , length delivery very wide outside off , wided by the ump 40.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Silva gets forward and punches it to mid-off 39.6 Craig to Kaushal Silva , 3 runs , flighted delivery on off , Silva comes on the front foot and paddles it to the fine leg region to get to his 7th Test fifty 39.5 Craig to Thirimanne , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it straight to the fielder at forward short leg , the ball ricochets off his pads as they sneak in a run 39.4 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Thirimanne leans forward and smothers it to the off-side 39.3 Craig to Thirimanne , no run, 39.2 Craig to Kaushal Silva , 1 run, 39.1 Craig to Kaushal Silva , 2 runs, 38.6 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Thirimanne gets behind the line and blocks it 38.5 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Thirimanne goes back and fends it to the off-side 38.4 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , short of length delivery angling across off , Thirimanne lifts his bat and lets it go 38.3 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Silva leans forward and defends it in front of mid-off and sets off for a quick single 38.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , leg-cutter just outside off , Silva pokes at it and misses 38.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , 2 runs , short and wide outside off , Silva goes on the back foot and cuts it to gully where the fielder gets a hand to it and the batsmen run a brace 37.6 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , flighted delivery on off , Thirimanne gets well forward and dead-bats it 37.5 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , comes on the front foot and turns it to backward square leg 37.4 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , goes on the back foot and punches it back to the bowler 37.3 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , floated on off , Thirimanne goes back and defends it 37.2 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up delivery around off , Thirimanne comes on the front foot and smothers the spin 37.1 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , flighted delivery on leg , Thirimanne comes forward and squirts it away to the off-side 36.6 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery outside off , Silva prods forward and hangs his bat at it , which runs low to Neesham at third slip , who stops it 36.5 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , 2 runs , fuller length delivery just outside off , Silva leans forward and drives it through covers,the fielder gives chase and keeps them to only two 36.4 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , short of length delivery on off and middle , Silva fends it off the back foot to the on-side 36.3 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Silva gets well behind the line and blocks it 36.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run, 36.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run, 35.6 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , slider on leg , Thirimanne misses the clip again as the ball thuds high on the pads 35.5 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , shortens the length a touch , Thirimanne goes back and guides it to point 35.4 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , quicker delivery drifting down the leg-side , Thirimanne misses the glance 35.3 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , tossed up delivery on middle and off , Thirimanne gets forward and clips it to square leg 35.2 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Thirimanne leans forward and pushes it to FSL 35.1 Craig to Thirimanne , no run , floated on off , Thirimanne punches it back to the bowler Mark Craig [ 2.0-2-0-1 ] is back into the attack Spin for the first time in this session. As Craig replaces Bracewell in the attack 34.6 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , fullish just outside off , Silva prods forward and drives it to cover 34.5 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a length around off , Silva comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 34.4 Southee to Thirimanne , 3 runs , fuller length delivery wide outside off , Thirimanne leans forward and drives it between extra cover and mid-off , Baz chases from cover and saves a run for his team 34.3 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery outside off , Thirimanne leans forward and pushes it to cover 34.2 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , short of good length delivery angling across off , Thirimanne is late in getting his bat down as he chops it back over the off-stump 34.1 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery slanting across off , Thirimanne lifts his bat and lets it go 33.6 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Silva drives it straight to mid-on 33.5 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , good length delivery angling into the right-hander , Silva blocks it off the front foot 33.4 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Silva punches it to point 33.3 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , short delivery just outside off , Silva ducks under it 33.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , fullish just outside off , Silva drives it to cover 33.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Silva drives it to cover 32.6 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , fullish and outside off , Thirimanne lifts his bat and lets it go 32.5 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Thirimanne leans forward and drives it to mid-off 32.4 Southee to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Thirimanne stays inside the crease and blocks it with a straight bat 32.3 Southee to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Silva swivels the pull to deep square leg for a run 32.2 Southee to Kaushal Silva , FOUR , short delivery around off , Silva rocks back and pulls it in the air towards the deep mid-wicket fence for a boundary 32.1 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Silva gets forward and pushes it to the off-side 31.6 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery slanted across off , Thirimanne lifts his bat and lets it go 31.5 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Thirimanne shoulders arms 31.4 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne leans forward and drives it uppishly to the right of McCullum at mid-off 31.3 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , fullish on off , Thirimanne gets well forward and blocks it to mid-off 31.2 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , good length delivery outside off , Thirimanne leaves it alone 31.1 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Thirimanne blocks it to point 30.6 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , good length on off , Silva prods forward in defence 30.5 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , good length delivery in the channel just outside off , Silva leans forward and blocks it to cover , wants a single but is sent back by Thirimanne 30.4 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a length around off , Silva gets forward and pushes it to the off-side 30.3 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , short of good length on off , Silva defends it off the front foot to the on-side 30.2 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Silva punches it off the back foot to point , Southee tumbles in his followthrough meanwhile 30.1 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , good length delivery outside off , Silva lifts his bat and lets it go Tim Southee [ 8.0-4-11-0 ] is back into the attack Time for a drinks break 29.6 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , fullish just outside off , Thirimanne leans forward and defends 29.5 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Silva pulls it in the air towards fine leg for a single 29.4 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and outside off , Silva shoulders arms 29.3 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , slightly wide outside off , Silva leaves it alone for the keeper 29.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery angling in around off , Silva was looking to drive it straight down the ground , Silva gets an inside edge back on the pad , there was an appeal from the Kiwis , but the umpire said 'Not Out ' straightaway 29.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Silva comes on the front foot and pushes it towards the point region , where the fielder dives to his right and makes the stop 28.6 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , angling away outside off , left alone by Thirimanne 28.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 3 runs , back of a length delivery wide outside off , Silva hangs on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket , McCullum from cover-point gives chase and saves a run for his team 28.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , just short of a good length and angling in around off , Silva defends it into the off-side 28.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Silva tucks it away to short mid-wicket off the back foot 28.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , slightly fuller this time and outside off , Silva lifts his bat and leaves it for the keeper 28.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and outside off , Silva shoulders arms 27.6 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , fuller in length and slightly wider outside off , Thirimanne leaves and the keeper dives to his left to stop the ball 27.5 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , on middle and leg line this time , Thirimanne defends 27.4 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , in the channel outside off and on a length , Thirimanne leans forward and across to defend 27.3 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Thirimanne puts his front foot forward and leaves it alone 27.2 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , length delivery angled across off , Thirimanne was pushing at it , the ball takes the outside edge and rolls away towards gully 27.1 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Thirimanne defends it to mid-off after going back in the crease There is a slight drizzle in the air , but not substantial for the players to come off 26.6 Boult to Thirimanne , 3 runs , fuller in length and angling in on middle stump line , Thirimanne clips it towards deep mid-wicket and the batsmen take three 26.5 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , short of length delivery around off , Thirimanne gets behind the line and defends 26.4 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Thirimanne blocks it into the off-side off the back foot 26.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 3 runs , full delivery outside off , Silva comes on the front foot and drives it towards the sweeper cover region , the batsmen take three 26.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery in the channel outside off , Silva leaves it alone 26.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Silva blocks it into the off-side off the front foot 25.6 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Thirimanne ducks under it 25.5 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , good length delivery on the pads , Silva works it towards fine leg for a single 25.4 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Silva does n't offer a shot 25.3 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Silva leaves it for the keeper 25.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , angling in on middle stump line , Silva bunts it into the on-side off the back foot 25.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and on off , Silva defends off the front foot 25.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no ball , back of a length delivery angling in on middle and leg , Silva was looking to work it through the on-side , but ca n't connect and wears it on his pad , the Kiwis decided to appeal , but the umpire did n't think it was out , Hawk-Eye showed that the ball was clipping leg. New Zealand do n't lose a review though as it was called a no-ball Meanwhile , New Zealand have decided to review another lbw appeal and Silva is the man in question here. Southee has overstepped there and it 's been called a no-ball . Lahiru Thirimanne , left handed bat , comes to the crease Doug Bracewell [ 2.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack Sangakkara usually walks off if he knows that he got an edge , but he did n't this time . 24.6 Boult to Sangakkara , out Caught by Watling ! ! Sangakkara shakes his head as he walks off the field. This could well be his last Test innings. It was short and wide outside off , Sangakkara went for a flashing cut , the bowler appealed as he thought Sanga nicked it , but the others were not sure. McCullum still went for the review and the spike on Snicko brought about Sanga 's downfall. Sanga was not at all happy with the decision though. Sangakkara c Watling b Boult 5 ( 18 ) [ 4s-1 ] Boult to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! New Zealand have decided to review a caught behind appeal for Sangakkara. The front foot is fine. There is a faint sound as the ball goes past the bat. Did he get an under edge there ? Snicko shows a spike as the ball goes past the bat. HotSpot , however , is inconclusive. In fact , he has been given out , but Sanga is not a happy man . 24.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , slightly back of a length and angling in on off , Sangakkara defends it into the off-side off the back foot 24.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Silva pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg for a single 24.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Silva drives it to mid-off 24.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and angling away outside off , Silva does n't offer a shot 24.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , full and outside off , left alone by Silva 23.6 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and around off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and knocks it to the left of the bowler , who dives while attempting to stop the ball 23.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , angles this one closer to the off-stump , but still outside off , Sangakkara covers the stumps and leaves it for the keeper 23.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , another one that 's full and outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go Southee will come round the wicket now 23.3 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , full and outside off , Sangakkara puts his front foot forward and shoulders arms 23.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , bowls a bouncer now , Sangakkara sits under it , the keeper collects 23.1 Southee to Sangakkara , FOUR , touch too straight from Southee , Sangakkara flicks it to the deep backward square leg fence off his pads , the timing and placement was superb as the ball raced away to the fence 22.6 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , another one that 's on off stump line , Silva pushes it into the off-side with soft hands and wanted to get to the other end , he rushes back in as Sanga shouts a loud 'No' 22.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery angling away outside off , Silva was pushing at it , the ball goes past the outside edge and through to the keeper 22.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and around off , Silva drops it into the off-side and was looking for a quick single , Sanga was n't interested though 22.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 2 runs , fuller in length and outside off , Silva leans into the drive and gets it through the cover region , McCullum from mid-off gives chase and keeps the batsman down to a couple 22.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , angles this one away outside off , Silva leaves it alone 22.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , slightly fuller just outside off , Silva leans forward and drives it to mid-off 21.6 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and angling away just outside off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and bunts it past the non-striker , he thinks about a single , but does n't take it after seeing the mid-off fielder running towards the ball 21.5 Southee to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , on a good length and on middle and leg line , Silva flicks it behind square on the on-side off his pads , Silva thinks about coming back for the second , but decides against it 21.4 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery outside off , Silva is happy to leave it for the keeper 21.3 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Silva ducks under it 21.2 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Silva leans forward and drives it to mid-off 21.1 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery around off , Silva blocks it to cover-point off the front foot 20.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Sangakkara defends 20.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , little straighter in line this time , Silva turns it to square leg and the batsmen pinch a quick run 20.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and around off , Silva looks to defend off the front foot , the ball rolls away behind square on the off-side off the outside half of the bat 20.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and angling away outside off , Silva does n't offer a shot 20.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery in the corridor of uncertainty , Silva leaves it for the keeper 20.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and outside off , Silva comes on the front foot and defends it towards backward point after opening the face of the bat 19.6 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , fuller delivery around off , Sangakkara was looking to drive , gets a thickish outside edge that rolls away into the off-side 19.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , in the channel outside off , Sangakkara gets behind the line and defends it to mid-on 19.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , slightly back of a length just outside off , Sangakkara pushes it to cover off the front foot 19.3 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , full and angling away outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go 19.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and angled across off , Sangakkara defends it towards mid-off 19.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Sangakkara leaves it alone 18.6 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , length delivery on off , Sangakkara bunts it towards cover-point and sets off for a single 18.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Sangakkara shoulders arms Kumar Sangakkara , left handed bat , comes to the crease 18.4 Boult to Dhammika , out Caught by Neesham ! ! Dhammika was playing at everything and it was just a matter of time before he edged one to the slips. The nightwatchman is gone in the second over of the day. It was angled away outside off on back of a length , Dhammika was looking to punch it through the off-side , but ends up getting a thick outside edge that flies towards Neesham , who takes a one handed screamer leaping up at third slip. That was a great catch from the tall man. Dhammika c Neesham b Boult 6 ( 27 ) [ 4s-1 ] Boult to Dhammika , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.3 Boult to Dhammika , no run , widish delivery outside off , Prasad chases it , but fails to connect 18.2 Boult to Dhammika , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Dhammika was looking to play the ramp shot , but ends up dabbing it towards the slip cordon 18.1 Boult to Dhammika , FOUR , angling away outside off , Dhammika goes hard at it , the ball goes uppishly through the gap between backward point and gully for a boundary Trent Boult [ 7.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack Trent Boult will share the attack with Southee 17.6 Southee to Dhammika , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhammika goes back and punches it past a diving short cover for a single , he will keep the strike 17.5 Southee to Dhammika , no run , length delivery with a hint of shape away on off , Dhammika blocks off the back foot 17.4 Southee to Dhammika , no run , angling in on middle and leg , Dhammika works it to short mid-wicket 17.3 Southee to Dhammika , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Dhammika stays back and defends it back to the bowler 17.2 Southee to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , length delivery on off and middle , Silva turns it towards square leg and gets to the other end Three slips and a gully in place 17.1 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , slightly back of a length on off and middle , Silva defends with soft hands off the back foot The players are out in the middle. Tim Southee will start the proceedings on day 5 . We will start right on time as the conditions seem to be getting better for now . It is fairly overcast at the Basin Reserve. The covers were on sometime back , but the good news is that now they have been taken off. It 's not raining for now , but we could see a few bursts of rain today. Fingers crossed , let 's hope the rain stays away . Can Sri Lanka defy the odds and chase this total down ? Or will they bat out the 90 overs for a draw ? We will find out soon. The hosts , on the other hand , will look to take the 9 wickets to wrap up the series 2-0. Can the Black Caps achieve their goal ? Or will the Lankans spoil their party ? The answers will come to you in a short while from now. Stay tuned . Sri Lanka have spilled the advantage they had when Kumar Sangakkara helped them take a 135-run lead. However , they now face an uphill task altogether. If Sri Lanka draw this game , they will still lose the series 1-0. Currently , the scoreboard reads 45/1 in 17 overs for Sri Lanka in the second innings , needing another 345 runs to win . Hello and welcome to the final day of the final Test between New Zealand and Sri Lanka. After being 159/5 at one point , Williamson and Watling went onto record the highest 6th wicket partnership in Tests and took their team to safety. Both Williamson and Watling also registered their highest individual scores in Tests , with Williamson scoring his maiden double ton . The final day of the Test match and the series will be a fascinating affair as all three results are still possible. In fact , it is not just the match , the series is also wide open for now. Can New Zealand cash in on the advantage and take the series 2-0 ? Or will the Lankans put up a fight and try to chase this total down ? Join us tomorrow to find out. Until then , take care. See you . Earlier , it was the Williamson and Watling show as both of them put on a record 6th wicket partnership ( 365 * ) in Tests , surpassing the earlier record held by McCullum and Watling ( 352 against India ) . The Black Caps have snatched the game away from the hands of the Lankans as at one stage , New Zealand were 159/5 when Watling came out to bat. To add insult to injury , the Sri Lankan bowlers were not helped by some very poor catching and ground fielding and it costed them dearly . Stumps , Day 4 : An absorbing day of cricket comes to an end. It was hard work for the bowlers as only one wicket fell in the entire day 's play. New Zealand will feel fairly comfortable going into day 5. Sri Lanka still need 345 runs to win this game and level the series. On the other hand , the Kiwis require 9 wickets to win the series 2-0 . 16.6 Williamson to Dhammika , no run , slightly flatter around off , Dhammika goes deep in the crease and defends Last ball coming up.. . 16.5 Williamson to Dhammika , no run , tossed up just outside off , Dhammika leans forward and dead-bats it 16.4 Williamson to Dhammika , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Dhammika pushes it into the on-side 16.3 Williamson to Dhammika , no run , very full just outside off , Dhammika drives it to mid-off off the front foot 16.2 Williamson to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , floated up on off and middle , Silva moves forward and wrists it through mid-wicket for a single 16.1 Williamson to Kaushal Silva , no run , tossed up outside off , Silva leaves it alone Kane Williamson , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Williamson will bowl the last over of the day 15.6 Craig to Dhammika , no run , flighted delivery just outside off and spinning in on off , Dhammika blocks it after getting behind the line 15.5 Craig to Dhammika , no run , floated well outside off , Dhammika is happy to leave it for the keeper Comes round the wicket now 15.4 Craig to Dhammika , no run , drags this one a little short , Dhammika goes deep in the crease and defends 15.3 Craig to Dhammika , no run , tossed up around off , Dhammika lunges forward in defence 15.2 Craig to Dhammika , no run , floated up around off and middle , Dhammika defends off the back foot 15.1 Craig to Dhammika , no run , floated up just outside off and spinning in towards the batsman , Dhammika leaves after putting his front foot across , the ball turns back and was not that far away from the stumps 14.6 Rutherford to Dhammika , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Dhammika stays back and bunts it towards short mid-wicket , he will keep the strike 14.5 Rutherford to Dhammika , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Dhammika opens the face of the bat and pushes it into the off-side 14.4 Rutherford to Dhammika , no run , tossed up outside off , Dhammika comes on the front foot and dead-bats it 14.3 Rutherford to Dhammika , no run , tossed up outside off , Dhammika presses forward and blocks 14.2 Rutherford to Dhammika , no run , floated up outside off , Dhammika defends with an angular bat A slip , a gulyl and a FSL in place 14.1 Rutherford to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , drags this one short , Silva jabs the pull towards deep mid-wicket , it was in the air for some time , the batsmen take a single Hamish Rutherford , comes into the attack Rutherford in the attack now 13.6 Craig to Dhammika , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Dhammika was looking to drive , the ball misses the outside edge as Dhammika was jamming it out , the keeper also missed it as well , good over comes to an end 13.5 Craig to Dhammika , no run , almost a return catch there for the bowler , it was floated up outside off , Dhammika drives , but almost ends up hitting it straight back to the bowler , it fell short of the bowler though 13.4 Craig to Dhammika , no run , tossed up outside off , Dhammika drives it towards mid-off 13.3 Craig to Dhammika , no run , pushed through quicker outside off , Dhammika defends from the crease Dhammika Prasad , right handed bat , comes to the crease A slip , a gully , a leg slip , a FSL and a silly point in place Sri Lanka have sent in the nightwatchman Dhammika Prasad. Can he survive these 3.4 overs ? Let 's see . 13.2 Craig to D Karunaratne , out Caught by Rutherford ! ! The change has worked and Craig takes a wicket with his second ball of the innings. It was tossed up around off , Karunaratne drives , but hits it uppishly , Rutherford at mid-off dives forward and takes a good low catch. Karunaratne has to depart and that 's also the first wicket of the day. D Karunaratne c Rutherford b Craig 17 ( 34 ) [ 4s-4 ] Craig to D Karunaratne , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.1 Craig to D Karunaratne , no run , drifting down the leg side , Karunaratne pads it into the on-side Mark Craig , right-arm off break , comes into the attack He will come round the wicket Spin will be introduced for the first time as Craig comes into the attack . 12.6 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , great delivery to finish the over , it was slightly back of a length delivery angled across off , Silva was pushing at it off the back foot , the ball goes past the blade once again 12.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , good delivery from Boult , he bowls this one outside off and gets it to angle away , Silva was thinking about playing it , but pulls his bat back in time , the keeper collects 12.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , angles this one across off , Silva defends it into the off-side with an angular bat 12.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery on off , Silva defends from the crease 12.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 2 runs , on a good length and outside off , Silva leans forward and opens the face of the bat as he pushes at it , the ball runs away backward of point and the batsmen take a couple before the ball is hunted down 12.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery on top of off , Silva drops his wrists and dabs it towards the slip cordon 11.6 Doug Bracewell to D Karunaratne , no run , on leg stump line , Karunaratne fails to work it through the leg-side and wears it on the pad , there was a stifled appeal , but the ball was definitely snaking down leg 11.5 Doug Bracewell to D Karunaratne , FOUR , angling away outside off , Karunaratne waits for it and cuts it late , the ball runs away to the square third man fence , three fielders give chase , Nessham dives as well , but ca n't pull the ball back in time 11.4 Doug Bracewell to D Karunaratne , no run , on a good length and on off , Karunaratne blocks it back to the bowler 11.3 Doug Bracewell to D Karunaratne , FOUR , length delivery angling away outside off , Karunaratne was looking to drive , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away to the third man fence 11.2 Doug Bracewell to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Karunaratne goes on the back foot and blocks it into the on-side 11.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , fuller in length and angling down leg , Silva tickles it to fine leg and gets to the other end 11.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , wide , bumper that sails over the batsman 's head , Silva ducks and the umpire calls it a wide 10.6 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , another one goes past the edge , length delivery outside off , Karunaratne was pushing at it , the ball beats the blade and Watling takes it in his gloves 10.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , length delivery on middle stump line , Silva drops it towards point and sets off for a quick single 10.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , this is great bowling from Boult , he beats the outside edge once again , it was on a length and angled across off , Silva was looking to defend , the ball carries on with the angle and it was so close to taking the outside edge , but luckily for Silva , he did n't get anything on that 10.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , bowls this one slightly wider outside off , Silva leaves it alone 10.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Silva pushes at it with soft hands , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 10.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery outside off , Silva pokes at it , the ball goes past the outside edge and the keeper collects 9.6 Doug Bracewell to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Karunaratne gets behind the line and defends it into the off-side 9.5 Doug Bracewell to D Karunaratne , no run , fullish outside off , Karunaratne drives it to mid-off , the bat turned in his hands while doing that 9.4 Doug Bracewell to D Karunaratne , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Karunaratne defends from the crease 9.3 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , bowls this one on off and middle line , Silva wrists it wide of mid-on for a single 9.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Silva leans forward and drives it to widish mid-off Three slips and a gully for Bracewell 9.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery outside off , Silva leans forward and defends Doug Bracewell , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 8.6 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , on a good length and on off , Karunaratne comes forward and defends off the front foot 8.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , on a good length and on middle stump line , Silva pushes at it off the front foot , the ball runs away behind square off the inside half of the bat , the batsmen take a run 8.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , just short of a good length and on top of off , Silva goes back and blocks with soft hands , his right hand came off the bat as he was looking to defend 8.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , slightly fuller and outside off , Silva lifts his bat and lets it go 8.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , angling away outside off , Silva shoulders arms this time around 8.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Silva bunts it into the on-side 7.6 Southee to Kaushal Silva , leg byes , 1 run , straying on the pads , Silva ca n't put it away fine , the ball clips the pad and rolls away into the on-side , the batsmen take a leg bye 7.5 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and on off , Silva defends from the crease 7.4 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , full delivery on off , Silva defends off the front foot 7.3 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery angling in on off and middle , Silva was looking to work it through the on-side , the ball shapes away just a touch and Silva was almost squared up there Another ball change is going to take place. If not right now , it will happen sooner. The problem with the Kookaburra balls just not seem to go away. Umpire Davis and Illingworth have a discussion and decide that the ball needs to be changed. Out comes the fourth umpire with his briefcase. They choose another one and hand it over to the fielding side 7.2 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , overpitching outside off , Silva goes for the expansive drive , but only finds the man at cover 7.1 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Silva leans forward and blocks 6.6 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Karunaratne defends off the back foot 6.5 Boult to D Karunaratne , FOUR , Boult lets out a huge grunt as he bowls this down leg , Karunaratne moves across and glances it to the fine leg fence , Boult was not happy with himself there as the pressure that was being applied goes in vain 6.4 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Karunaratne defends 6.3 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , on a length and around off , Karunaratne blocks it back to the bowler 6.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 3 runs , overpitching outside off , Silva leans into the drive and opens the face of the bat to get it square of the wicket , the fielder just about manages to pull it back in time and the batsmen take three 6.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller in length and on off , Silva defends off the front foot 5.6 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , slightly back of a length delivery that shapes in from around off , Karunaratne was looking to push at it , the ball clips the thigh pad and goes through to the keeper , the Kiwis started appealing , but umpire Davis was not impressed. Hawk-Eye shows that it was too high and was going over the off-stump. Anyway , it was a great over from Southee 5.5 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Karunaratne defends 5.4 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , peach from Southee ! It was slightly back of a length scrambled seam delivery and it deviated a long way , Karunaratne was pushing at it , the ball goes past the outside edge 5.3 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , bumper from Southee this time , Karunaratne ducks under it 5.2 Southee to D Karunaratne , FOUR , fuller in length and outside off , Karunaratne puts a good stride forward and drives it to the left of mid-off , who did n't have a chance of stopping that , the ball runs away to the long-off fence in no time 5.1 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , length ball angling away just outside off , Karunaratne was looking to defend off the front foot , the ball goes past the blade and through to the keeper 4.6 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on middle and leg line , Silva blocks after looking to move across , he almost falls over as he defends that one 4.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , slightly fuller and outside off , Silva does n't offer a shot 4.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , just short of a good length and shapes back in from around off , Silva leaves and the ball goes over the stumps , was not that far away there from the off stick 4.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length and angles in on middle from outside leg , Silva fails to work it through the on-side and wears it on his thigh pad 4.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , FOUR , shortish and wide outside off , Silva shifts his weight on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket for a boundary 4.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and outside off , Silva watches it go into the hands of the keeper after leaving it alone 3.6 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , in the corridor of uncertainty , Karunaratne shoulders arms 3.5 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , fuller in length and on off , Karunaratne jams it to the right of the bowler 3.4 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , slighlty back of a length and on off , Karunaratne defends from the crease , the ball rolls away towards point 3.3 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , length delivery around off , Karunaratne moves across a touch and blocks it back towards the bowler 3.2 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , closer to the off stump this time but angling away , Karunaratne puts his front foot forward and leaves 3.1 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , angling away outside off , left alone by the batsman 2.6 Boult to Kaushal Silva , FOUR , almost a wicket there , it was on a length and shaping in towards the batsman , who was pushing at it. The ball takes the inside edge and flies to the right of the leg gully , the ball races away to the fence and Silva gets four for that Comes round the wicket now 2.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , slightly fuller outside off , Silva does n't offer a shot 2.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and outside off , Silva leaves it alone 2.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Silva blocks it into the off-side with soft hands 2.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and around off , Silva blocks it to the left of the bowler 2.1 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , slightly wider outside off and going across , Silva shoulders arms 1.6 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , on a good length and in the channel outside off , the ball was going away with the angle , Karunaratne leaves it for the keeper 1.5 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , length delivery outside off , Karunaratne lifts his bat and lets it go A FSL in place now 1.4 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , angles this one away outside off , Karunaratne puts his front foot forward and leaves it alone 1.3 Southee to Kaushal Silva , leg byes , 1 run , length delivery angling down leg , Silva fails to work it fine , the ball clips the pad and rolls away behind square on the on-side , the batsmen run for a leg bye 1.2 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a length and shaping in on off , Silva comes on the front foot and blocks 1.1 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , like Boult , Southee also starts with a delivery down leg , Silva fails to glance it fine , the keeper collects Tim Southee , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Southee will share the attack with Boult. Three slips and a gully in place . 0.6 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , fullish outside off , Silva leans forward and drives it to cover , the batsmen steal a quick run 0.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , good delivery from Boult , it was on a length and angled across off , Silva was pushing at it , the ball beats the outside edge once again , there was a little explosion on the pitch as the ball hit the track as well A FSL has been put in place as well 0.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and angled just outside off , Silva was pushing at it , the ball holds its line and beats the outside edge 0.3 Boult to D Karunaratne , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Karunaratne jumps in the crease and taps it towards point , the batsmen take a quick single 0.2 Boult to D Karunaratne , byes , FOUR , that missed everything , it was just short of a good length and goes on with the angle down leg , Karunaratne fails to tickle it fine , the keeper fails to stop it and the ball runs away to the fence for four byes 0.1 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length delivery down leg , Karunaratne is happy to leave that for the keeper D Karunaratne and Kaushal Silva are at the crease. D Karunaratne is on strike. Boult will open the attack There are three slips and a gully in place. Here we go.. . Boult will open the bowling. Karunaratne will take the strike first . The umpires are out in the middle. The Kiwi players are in a huddle and now all of them , including the batsmen , walk out to the centre . Sri Lanka will have to bat out 17 overs today and 90 tomorrow to salvage a draw. However , Sri Lanka are 1-0 behind in the series and a draw would still see them lose the series. Can they push on for a win here ? If they can , it will be a very interesting run chase . McCullum has declared as New Zealand now lead by 389 runs. The record partnership remains unbeaten on 365 runs. This has been a superb batting performance from the Black Caps. They were 159/5 at one stage when Neesham departed. After that it was all New Zealand as Williamson and Watling bailed them out of the trouble. Williamson went onto register his maiden double hundred in the process and Watling registered his 4th Test hundred. Sri Lankan bowlers looked out of sorts as they failed to take a wicket for 3 and a half sessions . 171.6 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Watling glides it down to square third man 171.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run , good length delivery arounnd off , Watling pushes it to the off-side 171.4 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , short delivery on off , Williamson pulls it to backward square leg for a run 171.3 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , short delivery outside off , Watling chops it away to third man 171.2 Pradeep to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling cuts it straight to the fielder at cover 171.1 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Williamson goes back and glides it to square third man Nuwan Pradeep [ 36.0-4-113-3 ] is back into the attack 170.6 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , goes on the back foot and eases the drive to long-on 170.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , good length delivery on off , Williamson defends it to the off-side 170.4 Herath to Watling , 1 run , goes deep in the crease and punches it to long-off 170.3 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , slightly shortish outside off , Williamson punches it to long-on 170.2 Herath to Watling , 1 run , gets well forward and drives it to long-off 170.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , comes on the front foot and eases it to long-on 169.6 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson punches it to sweeper cover 169.5 Dhammika to Williamson , 2 runs , short of length delivery on off , Williamson pulls it to deep square leg for a brace 169.4 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle , Watling comes on the front foot and works it to mid-wicket , the partnership now becomes the highest 6th wicket partnership in Tests , going past the previous record held by McCullum and Watling ( 352 ) , the crowd applauds as the batsmen congratulate each other 169.3 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson guides it to the gully region for a quick single 169.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , good length delivery on off , Williamson defends it solidly 169.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , bumper on off , Williamson ducks under it 168.6 Herath to Watling , SIX , charges down the track to this flighted delivery on middle , Watling whacks it over the deep mid wicket fence for the first maximum of the match 168.5 Herath to Watling , no run , comes forward and defends it to the off-side 168.4 Herath to Williamson , byes , 3 runs , oh Prasanna has missed yet another chance to dismiss Williamson. This was floated on middle and went on straight , Williamson comes down the track and looks to go over cover but misses , Prasanna was also watching Williamson as he does n't grab the ball , and the batsmen run 3 byes 168.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 168.2 Herath to Williamson , FOUR , beautiful shot , flighted delivery just around off , Williamson shimmies down the track and drives it inside out over cover for a magnificent boundary 168.1 Herath to Watling , 1 run , tossed up delivery closer to off , Watling comes forward and pushes it to cover-point , who misfields and as a result they sneak in a single Rangana Herath [ 54.0-8-138-1 ] is back into the attack Herath comes back into the attack 167.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , bouncer outside off , Williamson sways away and watches it go through to the keeper 167.5 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , good length delivery cloer to off , Watling gets forward and pushes it to cover for a quick single 167.4 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , fullish and just outside off , Williamson drives it to sweeper cover for a run 167.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson turns it to on-side 167.2 Dhammika to Williamson , FOUR , short of length delivery bit wide outside off , Williamson camps on the back foot and uses the pace to glide it through the slips cordon for a boundary 167.1 Dhammika to Williamson , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on the pads , Williamson comes on the front foot and clips it to deep mid-wicket Dhammika Prasad [ 26.0-1-89-1 ] is back into the attack 166.6 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Williamson hops inside the crease and tucks it to short mid-wicket for a quick single 166.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Williamson lifts his bat and lets it go 166.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , straighter delivery on middle , Williamson gets behind the line and defends it to the off-side 166.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , length delivery outside off , Williamson watches the ball sail through to the keeper 166.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fullish on middle , Williamson leans forward and pushes it to the right of the bowler 166.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , bouncer on middle , Williamson ducks under it 165.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery slanted across off , Watling goes back and dabs it to gully 165.5 Lakmal to Watling , no run , good length delivery outside off , Watling runs it down to slips as he plays it with soft hands 165.4 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Williamson pulls it along the ground off the back foot to deep square leg 165.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Williamson leaves it alone Comes around the wicket now 165.2 Lakmal to Watling , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Watling comes on the front foot and pushes it to point for a run 165.1 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , fuller length delivery wide outside off , Williamson reaches for it as he drives it to cover 164.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , good length delivery shaping away a touch outside off , Watling guides it to gully 164.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run , fullish just outside off , Watling drives it off the front foot to cover 164.4 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Williamson punches it off the back foot to deep backward point 164.3 Pradeep to Williamson , FOUR , length delivery sliding down leg , Williamson comes across and nurdles it fine to the fine leg fence 164.2 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling goes back and punches it to sweeper cover for run 164.1 Pradeep to Watling , no run , good length delivery on off , Watling blocks it back to the bowler 163.6 Lakmal to Watling , 3 runs , fuller length delivery swinging away outside off , Watling now comes on the front foot and caresses the drive through covers , Kaushal Silva chases from cover and keeps them to three. This is now Watling 's highest score in Tests 163.5 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , short of good length delivery around off , Williamson camps on the back foot and defends it with soft hands towards gully for a quick single 163.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery shaping away a touch outside off , Williamson goes back and guides it to gully 163.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good length delivery outside off , Williamson leaves it alone 163.2 Lakmal to Williamson , FOUR , half-volley just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and creams the drive to the deep extra cover fence for a superb boundary 163.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , short and touch wide outside off , Williamson misses out on the cut 162.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Watling blocks it to the off-side 162.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , fuller length delivery straying on the pads , Williamson eases it to fine leg for a run 162.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery coming into the right-hander , Williamson comes on the front foot and misses the clip , the ball hits him on the knee roll in front of middle and leg , Sri Lanka immediately went for a review , but Hawk-Eye suggested it would have gone down leg. Sri Lanka lose a review Sri Lanka have reviewed an LBW appeal against Williamson , Pradeep 's front foot is fine , there 's no wood on the Hot-Spot , Hawk-Eye says it would have missed leg stump 162.3 Pradeep to Williamson , FOUR , fuller length delivery outside off , Williamson leans forward and drives it to the deep extra cover fence to bring up 3000 runs in Tests 162.2 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling camps on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side 162.1 Pradeep to Watling , no run , on a good length on off , Watling comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side Nuwan Pradeep [ 33.0-4-100-3 ] is back into the attack 161.6 Lakmal to Williamson , 2 runs , short of length delivery on the pads , Williamson helps it along the ground to the vacant mid-wicket region for a brace 161.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good length delivery angling away , Williamson guides it to backward point 161.4 Lakmal to Watling , 1 run , good length delivery straying on the pads , Watling pushes it to the on-side and completes a quick single 161.3 Lakmal to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Watling gets well behind the ball and defends it to the off-side 161.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , short of length delivery on off , Watling rocks back and looks to pull , misses and is hit on the thigh pad , the ball almost went back onto the stumps there 161.1 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson goes back and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side Suranga Lakmal [ 29.0-4-74-0 ] is back into the attack Sri Lanka have taken the third new ball 160.6 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up delivery on leg , Williamson comes on the front foot and sweeps it behind square on the on-side 160.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , leans forward and sweeps it to square leg 160.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it to the on-side 160.3 Herath to Williamson , FOUR , flighted delivery on leg , Williamson gets down the track and chips it over the mid-wicket region to register his maiden double ton in Tests. That also brings up the 300-run stand between these two. Williamson takes off his helmet and signals towards the dressing room 160.2 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , tossed up on leg , Williamson gets down on one knee and sweeps it very fine for a brace 160.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , leans forward and sweeps it to backward square leg 159.6 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , length delivery on the pads , Watling turns it to the on-side 159.5 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Watling gets well forward and defends it back to the bowler 159.4 Thirimanne to Williamson , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Williamson pushes it to short cover and completes a quick single 159.3 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson guides it to point 159.2 Thirimanne to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling camps on the back foot and punches it to extra cover for a run 159.1 Thirimanne to Williamson , 1 run , shortish delivery on the pads , Williamson helps it along the ground to fine leg. This is now Williamson 's highest score in Tests 158.6 Herath to Watling , no run , shortish delivery turning away from middle , Watling goes back and defends it 158.5 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , floated on off , Williamson shimmies down the track and eases it to long-on as he equals his highest Test score 158.4 Herath to Watling , 1 run , goes on the back foot and nurdles it to backward square leg 158.3 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , makes room and drives it inside out to sweeper cover for a run 158.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 158.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Williamson gets well forward and blocks it 157.6 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , another length delivery outside off , Watling blocks it to the off-side 157.5 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , length delivery on off , Watling defends it off the front foot to the off-side 157.4 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , length delivery on the pads , Watling comes across and looks to glance it , gets a leading edge which rolls to cover 157.3 Thirimanne to Watling , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling goes back and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side 157.2 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , on a length just outside off , Watling comes on the front foot and pushes it to cover 157.1 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , good length delivery on off , Watling blocks it to the on-side Welcome back for the post tea session... It will be Thirimanne to continue Watling has been really sensible and notched up a deserving hundred. At the other end , Williamson is also closing in on his maiden double ton as well. The Sri Lankan bowlers have failed to make an impression today and if these two keep on batting , it is going to be very tough for the Lankans to get a favourable result out of this game. The Kiwis now lead by 310 runs and it would be interesting to see if they declare before the end of day 's play. The final session of the day follows in a short while. Stay tuned . Tea , Day 4 : New Zealand are in a very strong position now. This was the third consecutive session that Sri Lanka have failed to pick a wicket. Williamson and Watling have batted really well , stitiching together New Zealand 's highest 6th wicket partnership against Sri Lanka in Tests . 156.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated up on leg , Williamson defends it back to the bowler 156.5 Herath to Watling , 1 run , darted on the pads , Watling works it behind square and gets to the other end 156.4 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up on middle and spinning away , Watling defends it after pressing forward 156.3 Herath to Watling , FOUR , bad ball from Herath , flatter and down leg , Watling goes back and helps it on its way to the fine leg fence 156.2 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Williamson drives it off the front foot to sweeper cover 156.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up around off , Williamson drives it to cover off the front foot Last over before tea coming up.. . 155.6 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , length delivery on off , Watling blocks off the front foot 155.5 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , on leg stump line , Watling moves across slightly and turns it into the on-side 155.4 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Watling gets behind the line and defends it back to the bowler 155.3 Thirimanne to Watling , FOUR , this is poor bowling from Thirimanne , it was angled down leg once again , Watling glances it fine and collects four as the ball races away to the fence 155.2 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , angles this one on the pads , Watling turns it to mid-wicket and shouts a loud 'No ' for the single 155.1 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , on a length and just outside off , Watling bunts it to cover off the front foot 154.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up just outside off , Williamson drives it to cover off the front foot 154.5 Herath to Watling , 1 run , on middle and leg , Watling tucks it away behind square for a single , that brings up the 300-run lead for New Zealand 154.4 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up on the leg stump line , Watling turns it to square leg off the front foot 154.3 Herath to Watling , no run , floated up on leg once again , Watling works it towards short fine leg 154.2 Herath to Watling , no run , down the leg side this time , Watling tickles it to short fine 154.1 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up on leg , Watling lunges forward in defence Comes over the wicket now 153.6 Thirimanne to Williamson , 2 runs , angling down leg , Williamson nurdles it fine , Herath from short fine was a little slow to get off the blocks and that allowed the batsmen to come back for the second , good running there from Williamson especially as he was running to the danger end 153.5 Thirimanne to Watling , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Watling hangs back and knocks it square of the wicket 153.4 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , Watling leans forward and defends this length delivery to the right of the bowler 153.3 Thirimanne to Williamson , 1 run , length delivery on off and middle , Williamson turns it to square leg and gets to the other end 153.2 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , slighlty back of a length and angling in on off , Williamson moves across and wrists it to mid-wicket 153.1 Thirimanne to Watling , 1 run , fuller on middle and leg line , Watling eases it down to long-on 152.6 Herath to Watling , 1 run , pushed through quicker from Herath , Watling stays on the back foot and punches it square of the wicket , he will keep the strike 152.5 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , on middle and leg , Williamson works it to short fine leg for a single 152.4 Herath to Watling , 1 run , slows this one on the stumps , Watling stays back and punches it to sweeper cover 152.3 Herath to Watling , no run , pushed through quicker around off , Watling taps it to cover 152.2 Herath to Watling , no run , floated up outside off , Watling drives it to backward point off the front foot , he opened the face of the bat there 152.1 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up around off , Watling leans forward and defends 151.6 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Williamson punches it to short cover 151.5 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , Williamson presses forward and defends this length delivery on off 151.4 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , closer to the off-stump this time , Williamson is happy to block it into the off-side off the front foot 151.3 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , in the channel outside off , Williamson goes forward and across and blocks solidly 151.2 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , on a length and outside off , Williamson blocks it into the off-side with an angular bat , the ball rolls away behind square 151.1 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , length delivery angling in on off , Williamson turns it into the on-side Lahiru Thirimanne [ 3.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack 150.6 Herath to Watling , no run , fired in on off , Watling defends off the front foot to short cover 150.5 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , gives the charge once again and wrists it to long-on 150.4 Herath to Watling , 1 run , pushed through on the pads , Watling flicks it to square leg and gets to the other end 150.3 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , slighlty flatter outside off , Williamson waits for it on the back foot and dabs it behind square on the off-side , the batsmen take a single 150.2 Herath to Williamson , FOUR , great shot from Williamson as he skips out and whips this flighted delivery to the deep mid-wicket fence 150.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , slowish just outside off , Williamson was pushing at it off the front foot , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad 149.6 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , short and on leg stump line , Williamson pulls it along the ground to fine leg , he rolled his wrists to send it along the ground 149.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Williamson defends it into the off-side 149.5 Pradeep to Watling , no ball , 1 run , angled away outside off , Watling guides it to square third man after opening the face , Pradeep overstepped as well and will have to bowl that one again 149.4 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , another one that 's short and at the batsman , Williamson pulls it to deep square leg 149.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Williamson punches it towards cover 149.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , banged in short and outside off , Williamson was looking to pull it at first , but decides to let it go at the end 149.1 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , slightly back of a length and wide outside off , Watling dabs it towards gully , who misfields and that allows the batsmen to go through with the single Coming back to Watling 's ton , 2 of his 4 Test tons have come in a 200-plus partnership. Also , he scored another 89 against West Indies when he was involved in a 200-run stand with Neesham. That 's quite a feat . 148.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , touch slower and just outside off , Williamson dead-bats it off the front foot 148.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , lunges forward in defence to this flighted delivery around off 148.4 Herath to Watling , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Watling punches it to long-off for a single 148.3 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , pushed through on off and middle , Williamson eases it down to long-on for a single 148.2 Herath to Watling , 1 run , that was risky , but Watling survives the scare to complete his 4th Test hundred , it was floated up on off , Watling drives it towards extra-cover and sets off for a single , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but Watling put in the dive to get inside the crease , he is ecstatic , takes off his helmet and raises his bat to the dressing room 148.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Williamson drives through the covers for a run Rangana Herath [ 47.0-8-107-1 ] is back into the attack 147.6 Pradeep to Watling , 2 runs , too straight from Pradeep , Watling tucks it away through mid-wicket for a couple of runs , the partnership has gone past 250 runs and Watling also reaches 99 147.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , angles this one on the pads , Williamson works it to deep backward square leg for a single 147.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery across off , Williamson defends off the back foot 147.3 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , angled away outside off , Watling dabs it towards point for a single With the last couple of runs , the partnership between Williamson and Watling has now gone past 246 , the highest 6th wicket partnership for New Zealand in Tests against Sri Lanka 147.2 Pradeep to Watling , 2 runs , straying on the pads , Watling works it off his pads to fine leg and the batsmen come back for the second run Comes round the wicket 147.1 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , full delivery just outside off , Williamson drives it past the bowler , the fielder at mid-off runs to his right , dives and stops the ball , the batsmen take a single Nuwan Pradeep [ 31.0-4-88-3 ] is back into the attack Pradeep comes back into the attack now , replacing the part-timer Thirimanne 146.6 Dhammika to Watling , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Watling ducks under it 146.5 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , just short of a good length and angling in on the pads , Williamson tucks it away past square leg for a single 146.4 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , fullish on middle stump line , Watling squeezes the clip to square leg , the fielder dives and stops the ball , but ca n't prevent the batsmen from going through with the single 146.3 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , yorker just outside off , Williamson jams it out towards cover-point and the batsmen take a run 146.2 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Watling waits for it and bunts it gently into the off-side , the batsmen run through for a quick single and that also brings up New Zealand 's 400 146.1 Dhammika to Watling , 2 runs , slightly fuller on off and middle , Watling drives off the inside half of the bat and gets it wide of mid-on for a brace 146.1 Dhammika to Watling , wide , drags this one way wide outside off , Watling was looking to go after it , but leaves it at the last moment , the umpire calls it a wide 145.6 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , touch fuller and angling in on off and middle , Williamson puts his bat in front of his pad and blocks solidly 145.5 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , length delivery outside off , Williamson comes forward and mistimes the drive to mid-off 145.4 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson moves across and wrists it to short mid-wicket 145.3 Thirimanne to Watling , 1 run , goes slighlty wider outside off this time around , Watling drives it to sweeper cover and the batsmen cross over 145.2 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , overpitching just outside off , Watling drills the drive to mid-off 145.1 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , on a good length and on off , Watling comes on the front foot and defends 144.6 Dhammika to Williamson , FOUR , on a good length and wide outside off , Williamson was looking to drive it through the off-side , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away in the gap between widish slip and the keeper , Williamson gets four for that streaky shot 144.5 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , full outside off , Watling drives it towards cover and the batsmen take a quick single 144.4 Dhammika to Watling , no run , slightly fuller this time around , Watling leans forward and drives it a little uppishly to mid-off , the ball was not far away from the short cover fielder 144.3 Dhammika to Watling , no run , on a good length and on off , Watling gets forward and blocks solidly 144.2 Dhammika to Williamson , 3 runs , length delivery outside off , Williamson punch-drives it past a diving short cover , the batsmen take three before the ball is fielded 144.1 Dhammika to Williamson , 2 runs , touch too straight from Dhammika , Williamson moves across a touch and works it through mid-wicket for a couple of runs 143.6 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , on a good length and on off , Watling presses forwardand defends it into the off-side 143.5 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , angling in on off and middle , Watling turns it to short mid-wicket off the back foot 143.4 Thirimanne to Watling , no run , on middle stump line this time , Watling wrists it to short mid-wicket 143.3 Thirimanne to Williamson , 1 run , straying on the pads , Williamson tucks it away behind square on the on-side for a single 143.2 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Williamson defends off the back foot 143.1 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , on a good length and angling in on off , Williamson blocks off the front foot Drinks are on the field now 142.6 Dhammika to Williamson , 3 runs , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson gets on top of the bounce and punches it firmly to the sweeper cover fence , where Lakmal comes across , dives to his right and saves a run for his team 142.5 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , bouncer on middle , Williamson ducks under it 142.4 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , good length delivery wide outside off , Watling stays inside the crease and guides it to deep backward point 142.3 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson goes on the back foot and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 142.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Williamson punches it to cover 142.1 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Williamson goes back and nudges it to square leg Dhammika Prasad [ 23.0-1-66-1 ] is back into the attack 141.6 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , length delivery on middle , Williamson works it off his pads to backward square leg 141.5 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , good length delivery outside off , Williamson pushes it to the off-side 141.4 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , good length delivery on the pads , Williamson nudges it to the on-side 141.3 Thirimanne to Watling , 1 run , fuller length delivery on the pads , Watling clips it off his pads to deep square leg 141.3 Thirimanne to Watling , wide , short and very wide outside off , wided by the umpire 141.2 Thirimanne to Williamson , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Williamson cuts it to deepish cover 141.1 Thirimanne to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Williamson gets behind the line of the ball and blocks it back to the bowler Lahiru Thirimanne , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Well , well , Thirimanne has come onto bowl now 140.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Watling defends it to the on-side 140.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Williamson goes on the back foot and works it in front of square on the on-side 140.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , short delivery slanted across off , Williamson pulls it to mid-wicket 140.3 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , short delivery down the leg-side , Watling comes across and pulls it to fine leg 140.3 Pradeep to Watling , no ball , fuller length delivery on the pads , Watling flicks it to square leg , Pradeep has overstepped again 140.2 Pradeep to Watling , no run , bumper down the leg-side , Watling sits under it 140.1 Pradeep to Watling , no run , short delivery down the leg-side , Watling leaves it alone 139.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Williamson gets well forward and blocks it to the off-side 139.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , skips down the track and smothers it back to the bowler 139.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on off , Williamson drives it back to the bowler 139.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated outside off , Williamson drives it to cover Comes round the wicket now 139.2 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , bit shortish turning away from middle , Williamson goes back and punches it to deep extra cover 139.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery outside leg , Williamson sweeps it to short fine leg 138.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , bumper on the leg-stump line , Watling ducks underneath 138.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run , yet another bouncer down the leg-side , Watling sits under it 138.4 Pradeep to Watling , byes , FOUR , another short delivery down the leg-side , Watling looks to pull but misses , and the ball goes through the keeper 's gloves for four bonus runs 138.3 Pradeep to Watling , no run , bouncer on the leg-stump , Watling ducks under it 138.2 Pradeep to Watling , 2 runs , another short of length delivery on middle and leg , Watling camps on the back foot and swivels the pull behind square on the on-side for a brace 138.1 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Williamson rocks back and pulls it to deep backward square leg 138.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no ball , short of length delivery on middle and off , Williamson jumps inside the crease and pushes it to the off-side , Pradeep has overstepped there 137.6 Herath to Watling , no run , goes on the back foot and pushes it to the on-side 137.5 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Watling comes forward and dead-bats it 137.4 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on leg , Watling bunts it to he on-side 137.3 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up on middle , Watling wrists it to mid-on 137.2 Herath to Watling , no run , floated on middle , Watling defends it to the on-side 137.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up on leg , Williamson comes forward and drives it to mid-on 136.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Watling punches it to cover-point 136.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run , another bumper on middle and leg , Watling ducks underneath this time 136.4 Pradeep to Watling , no run , good bouncer from round the wicket , Watling goes back and takes his eye off the ball as he sways away , gets hit on the shoulder as he falls down 136.3 Pradeep to Watling , no run , good length delivery around off , Watling gets forward and blocks it back to the bowler 136.2 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery just around off , Williamson pushes it with soft hands in front of point and sets off for a quick single 136.1 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Watling tucks it to backward square leg for a run 135.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , leans forward and sweeps it straight to short fine leg 135.5 Herath to Williamson , FOUR , flighted delivery outside leg , Williamson gets down on one knee and sweeps it past the man at short fine leg to bring up the 200 run-stand. Williamson also reaches 150 with that four 135.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up outside leg , Williamson sweeps it straight to short fine leg 135.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on leg , Williamson turns it to mid-wicket 135.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Williamson comes on the front foot and blocks it 135.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on middle , Williamson gets well forward and smothers it 134.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , bouncer on the leg stump , Watling ducks underneath it 134.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , good length delivery sliding down the leg-side , Williamson gets across and helps it along the ground to fine leg 134.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , bumper down the leg-side , Williamson sits under it 134.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , short delivery on off , Williamson ducks under it 134.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Williamson gets forward and drives it to mid-off 134.1 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , fullish on leg , Watling works it to mid-wicket Nuwan Pradeep [ 27.0-4-77-3 ] is back into the attack 133.6 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , comes on the front foot and sweeps it to the vacant deep mid-wicket region for a brace 133.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on middle , Williamson gets down on one knee and sweeps it to square leg 133.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on middle , Williamson gets forward and blocks it 133.3 Herath to Watling , 1 run , goes back and tucks it to square leg 133.2 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up on middle and leg , Williamson shimmies down and drives it inside out to mid-off to bring up 350 for NZ 133.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on middle from over the wicket , Williamson drives it to cover 132.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , bouncer on middle and leg , Watling ducks underneath 132.5 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , fullish ball on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and flicks it to mid-wicket for a run 132.4 Lakmal to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Watling tucks it off the back foot behind square on the on-side 132.3 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , fullish on the pads , Williamson clips it to fine leg for a single 132.2 Lakmal to Williamson , FOUR , good length delivery wide outside off , Williamson leans forward and caresses the drive through the covers region for a magnificent boundary 132.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson punches it to point 131.6 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 131.5 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , tossed up delivery turning away from off , Williamson skips down the track and lofts it over mid-off , Pradeep at long-on comes across and stops the ball from reaching the fence 131.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on off , Williamson drives it to cover 131.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery around off , Williamson comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side 131.2 Herath to Watling , 1 run , goes on the back foot and guides it to backward point 131.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Williamson comes forward and drives it to mid-off 130.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , fullish on off , Watling pushes it to the on-side 130.5 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , fuller length delivery on off , Williamson drives it to mid-on for a run. The lead is now 200 130.4 Lakmal to Williamson , 2 runs , fuller length delivery wide outside off , Williamson leans forward and drives it wide of the cover fielder , where Chandimal dives across and gets a hand to it , Herath from mid-off chases and keeps them down to only two 130.3 Lakmal to Williamson , 2 runs , short of length delivery on the hips , Williamson goes back and tucks it to deep square leg 130.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good length ball outside off , Williamson lifts his bat and lets it go 130.1 Lakmal to Williamson , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on middle , Williamson camps on the back foot and works it to the vacant mid-wicket region for a couple 129.6 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Watling comes on the front foot and defends it 129.5 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to deepish cover 129.4 Herath to Watling , 1 run , floated around off , Watling gets forward and pushes it with soft hands in front of cover for a quick single 129.3 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Williamson leans forward and drives it to to deep extra cover 129.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson comes forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 129.1 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , shortish on the pads , Williamson goes back and nudges it to fine leg Herath to continue 128.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , fullish on off , Watling blocks it solidly to mid-off 128.5 Lakmal to Watling , no run , length delivery outside off , Watling gets forward and watches the ball sail to the keeper 128.4 Lakmal to Watling , no run , yet another fuller length delivery outside off , Watling leaves it alone 128.3 Lakmal to Watling , no run , fullish outside off , Watling shoulders arms 128.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Watling mistimes the drive in front of point 128.1 Lakmal to Watling , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Watling prods forward and drives it to mid-off Welcome back.. . Lunch on Day 4 : It has been New Zealand all the way in this morning session as they have added 72 runs without losing a wicket in 27 overs. Williamson registered his 9th Test ton and after that , he was dropped once again off Herath. Watling went onto to register his 9th Test fifty and is looking solid as the pair have added 166 runs for the sixth wicket. Sri Lankan bowlers looked out of sorts and are looking nowhere close to breaking this partnership. The hosts lead by 190 runs and are placed comfortably in this game. Can Sri Lanka come out and find a wicket from somewhere after lunch ? Join us in a short while to find out.. . 127.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson gets well forward and blocks it 127.5 Herath to Watling , 1 run , shortish on off and middle , Watling goes back and tucks it to backward square leg 127.4 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up just around off , Watling comes forward and drives it to cover 127.3 Herath to Watling , no run , floated on middle and off , Watling leans forward and defends it back to the bowler 127.2 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up delivery on middle , Watling comes on the front foot and dead-bats it 127.1 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on off , Watling gets forward and defends it back to the bowler Herath comes round the wicket now 126.6 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good length delivery around off , Williamson gets well forward as he blocks it solidly to the off-side 126.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fullish outside off , Williamson lifts his bat and lets it go 126.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good length ball in the channel just outside off , Williamson watches the ball sail through to the keeper 126.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-on 126.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good length delivery outside off , Williamson lifts his bat and lets it go 126.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , short delivery wide outside off , Williamson reaches for it as he cuts it to point Suranga Lakmal [ 25.0-2-60-0 ] is back into the attack 125.6 Herath to Watling , no run , shortish delivery on middle , Watling looks to guide it through point , but finds the fielder to perfection 125.5 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on leg , Watling comes on the front foot and smothers it 125.4 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps this flighted delivery outside leg behind square on the on-side 125.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated outside leg , Williamson sweeps it to square leg 125.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on leg , Williamson tucks it to mid-wicket 125.1 Herath to Watling , leg byes , 1 run , tossed up delivery on the pads , Watling misses the glance , the ball runs off the pads to fine leg 124.6 Pradeep to Williamson , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off , Williamson stays on the back foot , opens the face of the bat and guides it to square third man for a brace 124.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Williamson leans forward and flicks it to the right of mid-on , where Herath dives and saves a couple of runs there 124.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , too full on off , Williamson drives it straight back to the bowler 124.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , good length delivery in the channel just outside off , Williamson gets well forward and blocks it solidly to gully 124.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , good length delivery outside off , Williamson shoulders arms 124.1 Pradeep to Williamson , FOUR , length delivery wide outside off , Williamson gets on the front foot and creams the cover drive to the deep extra cover fence for a delightful boundary 123.6 Herath to Williamson , 3 runs , fullish on middle and leg , Williamson leans forward and flicks it in the gap between mid-on and mid-wicket for yet another three 123.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , goes on the back foot and blocks it to the off-side 123.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it to backward square leg 123.3 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , floated outside leg , Williamson comes on the front foot and works it to the vacant mid-wicket region for a brace 123.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on leg , Williamson leans forward and dead-bats it 123.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on leg , Williamson smothers it to mid-wicket off the front foot 122.6 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Williamson rocks back and cuts it to deep backward point 122.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson camps on the back foot as he punches it to cover 122.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , on a length and outside off , Williamson lifts his bat and lets it go 122.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , good length delivery wide outside off , Williamson drives it to cover Mathews is walking off the field as he fielded the last ball he injured his finger 122.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Williamson gets forward and drives it to mid-off 122.1 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , good length delivery on middle and off , Watling comes on the front foot and plays it with soft hands in front of point for a quick single 121.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , goes on the back foot and punches it back to the bowler 121.5 Herath to Watling , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Watling goes back and punches it to cover to bring up the 150-run stand between these two 121.4 Herath to Watling , no run , goes back and pushes it to the on-side 121.3 Herath to Williamson , 3 runs , slightly shortish on leg , Williamson goes on the back foot and whips to deep mid-wicket 121.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on leg , Williamson comes on the front foot and blocks it 121.1 Herath to Watling , 1 run , shortish delivery on middle and leg , Watling goes back and turns it to square leg 120.6 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Williamson steers it to gully 120.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , another fuller length delivery on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it back to the bowler 120.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fullish on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and blocks it to mid-on 120.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , good length ball around off , Williamson gets well forward and defends it solidly to cover 120.2 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling stays inside the crease and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side 120.2 Pradeep to Watling , no ball , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling leaves it alone , Pradeep has to bowl that one again as he has overstepped 120.1 Pradeep to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Watling gets forward and drives it back to the bowler 119.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Williamson leans forward as he blocks it to the off-side 119.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on middle , Williamson gets well forward and blocks it solidly 119.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and dead-bats it 119.3 Herath to Watling , 1 run , goes on the back foot and pushes it to point 119.2 Herath to Watling , no run , fullish on middle , Watling sweeps it to short fine leg 119.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , another life for Williamson. This was a flighted delivery on middle and leg , Williamson comes on the front foot and looks to defend , the extra bounce takes the glove , as the keeper fluffs it past the first slip fielder 118.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , good length delivery outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go 118.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run, 118.4 Pradeep to Watling , no run, 118.3 Pradeep to Watling , no run, 118.2 Pradeep to Watling , no run, 118.1 Pradeep to Watling , no run, Nuwan Pradeep [ 23.0-3-67-3 ] is back into the attack 117.6 Herath to Watling , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Watling drives it wide of extra cover and completes a quick single 117.5 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , flatter delivery on middle and leg , Williamson gets down on one knee and sweeps it to deep mid-wicket Comes over the wicket now 117.4 Herath to Watling , 1 run , tossed up delivery outside off , Watling skips down the track and drives it inside out to cover 117.3 Herath to Watling , no run , floated delivery outside off , Watling leaves it alone 117.2 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Watling comes on the front foot and blocks it 117.1 Herath to Watling , 2 runs , flighted delivery outside off , Watling leans forward and drives it to extra cover where Chandimal misfields as the batsmen run two 116.6 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , poor delivery , again straying on the pads , Watling helps it along the ground to fine leg 116.5 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , fuller length delivery straying on the pads , Williamson gets an inside edge onto the pads as it rolls to fine leg 116.4 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Watling leans forward and guides it with an open face to deep backward point 116.3 Dhammika to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Watling gets forward and works it to mid-wicket 116.2 Dhammika to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Watling gets behind the line of the ball and blocks it solidly to the off-side 116.1 Dhammika to Watling , FOUR , poor delivery down the leg-side , Watling says thank you as he glances it along the ground to the fine leg fence for a boundary 115.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it 115.5 Herath to Watling , 1 run , goes on the back foot and tucks it to square leg 115.4 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , flatter on middle and leg , Williamson goes back and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 115.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated outside off , Williamson leaves it alone 115.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , shortens the length a touch , Williamson rocks back and punches it to cover 115.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and smothers it 114.6 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Williamson goes inside the crease and tucks it to mid-wicket 114.5 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling goes back and steers it to deep backward point 114.4 Dhammika to Watling , no run , short of length delivery on off , Watling gets behind the ball and defends it to the on-side 114.3 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson goes on the back foot and punches it to short cover to bring up his 9th Test hundred. He takes off his helmet and hugs Watling as he waves his bat towards the dressing room Williamson on 99.. . 114.2 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , on a length on middle and leg , Watling comes across and works it in front of mid-on for a run 114.1 Dhammika to Watling , no run , good length delivery around off , Watling gets forward and blocks it to the off-side 113.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Williamson skips down the track and dead-bats it 113.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Williamson comes forward and slices it to point 113.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , skips down the track and defends it back to the bowler 113.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 113.2 Herath to Williamson , FOUR , flighted delivery on middle , Williamson shimmies down the track and flicks it superbly in the gap between mid-wicket and mid-on for a boundary as he moven onto to 99 113.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on middle , Williamson gets well forward and smothers it to the on-side 112.6 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and pushes it towards the point region with soft hands , the batsmen run through for a quick single 112.5 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , banged in short and down leg , Williamson thinks about the pull , but decides to leave it for the keeper 112.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Williamson drives it to cover off the front foot 112.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , slightly fuller on off and middle , Williamson wrists it down to mid-on 112.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run 112.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , length delivery just outside off , Williamson dabs it to gully from the crease The umpires have found the right replacement and give it to the fielding team These stops because of the ball change take a lot of time. They use the Kookaburra balls here in New Zealand. The quality of the balls is not upto the mark maybe as we have seen it being changed so many times in this Test match Another issue with the ball. I have never seen the ball being changed this many number of times in a Test match. The umpires are probably going to change this time as well. Meanwhile , the players will take drinks 112.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , bouncer just outside off , Williamson sits underneath 111.6 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Watling presses forward and dead-bats it 111.5 Herath to Watling , no run , gives this one more air on off and middle , Watling leans forward and blocks 111.4 Herath to Watling , no run , flatter on the stumps , Watling hangs back and punches it to extra cover 111.3 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , floated up on off and middle , Williamson eases it down to mid-on after moving across A slip and a FSL in place 111.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Williamson defends off the front foot 111.1 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , drifting on the pads , Williamson works it to deep mid-wicket and the batsmen come back for the second Rangana Herath [ 32.0-8-58-1 ] is back into the attack Comes from round the wicket Herath comes into the attack. Can he provide Sri Lanka the crucial breakthrough ? Let 's find out . 110.6 Dhammika to Watling , no run , touch too straight again , Watling turns it to square leg from the crease 110.5 Dhammika to Watling , no run , yorker on off , Watling squeezes it out 110.4 Dhammika to Watling , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Watling drives it towards point after opening the face of the bat 110.3 Dhammika to Watling , no run , did the ball hit the pad first there ? The bowler thinks so. It was on a good length and on middle , Watling defends it solidly. Replays show that there was no pad invovled and it came straight off the bat 110.2 Dhammika to Watling , no run , fuller in length and just around off , Watling drives it back to the bowler 110.1 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , starts off with one on the pads , Williamson tucks it away to deep backward square leg and gets to the other end Dhammika Prasad [ 19.0-1-53-1 ] is back into the attack A widish slip and a gully in place for Dhammika The ball has been changed and there 's a change in bowling as well. Dhammika Prasad comes onto bowl now . There are some issues with the ball. The umpires are taking a look and they have decided to change the ball as the fourth umpire is out there with his briefcase . 109.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , on a good length and on middle and leg , Watling bunts it down to mid-on 109.5 Lakmal to Watling , no run , length delivery around off , Watling comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 109.4 Lakmal to Watling , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Watling was looking to work it through the on-side , but the ball clips the pad and pops up right next to the pitch There is a little drizzle that is falling down at the Basin 109.3 Lakmal to Watling , no run , on middle and leg , Watling tucks it away to shortish square leg 109.2 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson hangs back and dabs it late behind square on the off-side for a single 109.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , angles this one down leg , Williamson fails to glance it fine , the ball clips the pad and the keeper dives to his left to collect the ball There is a short mid-wicket and a short square leg for Lakmal. Let 's see if this change of plan works 108.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , hint of shape away outside off , Watling was happy to let it go 108.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 3 runs , on a good length and outside off , Williamson presses forward and drives it past a diving cover , the ball slows down before the boundary and by the time Mathews from mid-on pulls it back , the batsmen take three 108.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , bumper down leg , Williamson ducks under it 108.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , almost a yorker tailing in around off , Williamson jams it out to cover 108.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fullish outside off , Williamson leans into the drive , but finds the mat at cover 108.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , length delivery just outside off , Williamson stays inside the crease and defends it towards the point region 107.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , slightly fuller and angling in on middle , Watling eases it down to mid-on off the front foot 107.5 Lakmal to Watling , no run , on a good length and around off and middle , Watling was pushing at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad , the bowler was interested there , but there was a clear inside edge and hence , the umpire was n't 107.4 Lakmal to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Watling bunts it towards mid-on 107.3 Lakmal to Watling , 2 runs , short and wide outside off , Watling stays on the back foot and cuts it to the left of the deep backward point fielder , who runs to his left and slides across to stop the ball , the batsmen take two 107.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , slighlty back of a length delivery on off , Watling blocks it into the off-side 107.1 Lakmal to Watling , no run , inswinger just outside off , Watling left it alone , the ball goes through to the keeper , but it was n't far away from the off stump , one can call it a good leave as well 106.6 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Williamson puts his front foot forward and shoulders arms 106.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , full outside off , Williamson leaves it alone 106.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , on a good length and angling in just around off , Williamson defends it back towards the bowler with his bat close to the pad 106.3 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , touch shorter and wide outside off , Watling stays back in the crease and cuts it to deep backward point 106.2 Pradeep to Watling , no run , slighlty fuller just outside off , Watling comes on the front foot and looks to drive , the ball rolls away towards gully off the outside half of the bat , the gully fielder had to dive to his right to make the stop 106.1 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , on middle and leg stump line this time around , Williamson tucks it away to deep mid-wicket and the batsmen take a comfortable single 106.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no ball , length delivery just outside off , Williamson dabs it towards gully , Pradeep will also have to bowl this one again as he overstepped there 105.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , on a good length and swinging away just a shade , Watling does n't offer a shot 105.5 Lakmal to Watling , no run , on a good length and outside off , Watling waits for the ball to arrive and tries to cut it very late , but finds the man at gully 105.4 Lakmal to Watling , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Watling comes forward and defends A slip has been taken out now 105.3 Lakmal to Watling , no run , in the channel outside off and on a good length , Watling shoulders arms 105.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , just short of a good length outside off , Watling defends it into the off-side and decides against taking the single 105.1 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and bunts it towards cover-point for a single 104.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , on a good length and around off , Watling pushes it in front of cover off the front foot , he shouts a loud 'No ' to let his partner know that the single was n't on 104.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , short delivery just outside off , Williamson hangs back and pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 104.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , on a good length and around off , Williamson gets behind the line and defends 104.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , on a good length and angling in on the pads , Williamson ca n't clip it through the leg-side and is hit on the pad , there was an appeal , but the ball was snaking down leg 104.2 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , length delivery around off , Watling pushes at it with his bat and pad close together , the ball runs past a diving gully and Watling gets to the other end easily 104.1 Pradeep to Watling , no run , full on off , Watling leans forward and blocks it into the off-side 103.6 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Williamson shoulders arms 103.5 Lakmal to Watling , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Watling pushes at it with a slightly angluar bat , the ball rolls away through the backward point region and Watling calls for a single 103.4 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , length delivery wide outside off , Williamson cuts it to deep backward point , the batsmen take a run 103.3 Lakmal to Watling , 1 run , slightly back of a length outside off , Watling hangs back and dabs it towards deep backward point , the single brings up the 100-run stand between these two 103.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Watling blocks it into the off-side 103.1 Lakmal to Watling , 2 runs , a little too straight from Lakmal , Watling works it behind square on the on-side and the batsmen take a couple , these two runs also bring up the 9th Test fifty for Watling 102.6 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , length delivery a little wide outside off , Williamson was looking to cut it through the off-side with laden feet , but fails to connect , the keeper collects 102.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , slightly wider outside off this time , Williamson leaves it for the keeper 102.4 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , fuller outside off and with a hint of away movement , Watling leans forward and drives it to deep backward point Two slips and a gully in place for Pradeep as well 102.3 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Williamson wrists it towards the mid-wicket region and the batsmen take a single 102.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and swinging away just outside off , Williamson leaves it alone 102.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length and around off , Williamson stays inside the crease , gets behind the line and solidly blocks Nuwan Pradeep [ 19.0-3-57-3 ] is back into the attack Pradeep will share the attack with Lakmal 101.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Watling punches it towards cover , where the fielder dives to his right and makes an excellent stop 101.5 Lakmal to Watling , no run , Watling defends this delivery around off 101.4 Lakmal to Watling , no run , full outswinger just outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go 101.3 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , on a good length and on off and middle , Williamson clips it to square leg and gets to the other end Two slips and a gully in place 101.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and on the legs , Williamson could n't work it fine and wears it on his pad , the ball was clearly going down leg there 101.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run 101.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , on a good length and shaping away outside off , Williamson leaves it alone The players are out in the middle. It is quite overcast there. Lakmal will open the bowling. Williamson will be on strike Sri Lanka on the other hand have to break this partnership as quickly as possible to have a crack at the Kiwi tail. All depends on this session of play as the match hangs in the balance. Will the hosts get a lead which is big enough to defend on this wicket ? Or will the visitors chip in with some early wickets and put themselves in a match winning position ? We will find out soon.. . Hello and welcome to the fourth day 's play of this final Test between New Zealand and Sri Lanka. The hosts were in a precarious position when they were reduced to 159/5 , but thanks to Williamson and Watling , who have added 94 runs for the 6th wicket and bailed New Zealand out of trouble. The Kiwis would like to extend their lead with these two at the crease until lunch . This Test match could well be decided tomorrow if the Black Caps lose early wickets , but for now , it hangs in the balance. Join us tomorrow for what should be another cracker of a day in this Test series. Until then , take care. Ciao ! New Zealand were 159/5 when Neesham departed and since then , Williamson and Watling have added 94 runs. The game is nicely poised for a close finish. The Kiwis will look to extend their lead tomorrow and on the other hand , Sri Lanka will need to break this partnership if they do n't want to let the game slip away . Stumps , Day 3 : The game is nicely balanced at the end of day 3. In 34 overs , New Zealand added 70 runs without losing a wicket and extended their lead to 118 runs in the last session. Williamson and Watling were both up to the task of fighting it out and looked very patient at the crease. Williamson may be lucky to be out there after Pradeep dropped a sitter , but apart from that and the chance Herath floored , Williamson has looked in great touch . 100.6 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Watling drives it straight at silly point 100.5 Herath to Watling , no run , floated up outside off , Watling drives it to mid-off 100.4 Herath to Watling , no run , arm ball from Herath , Watling pushes it into the off-side 100.3 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Watling leans forward and blocks 100.2 Herath to Watling , no run , floated up on middle , Watling turns it into the on-side 100.1 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up outside off , Watling drives it towards silly point Last over of the day coming up.. . 99.6 Pradeep to Watling , 3 runs , short delivery from Pradeep , Watling rocks back and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket region , the batsmen take three before the ball is chased down 99.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run , another bouncer from Pradeep , Watling is happy to sit under it and the keeper collects 99.4 Pradeep to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Watling stands tall and blocks it into the off-side 99.3 Pradeep to Watling , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Watling ducks under it A FSL is being put in place now as Pradeep comes round the wicket 99.2 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , just short of a good length and angling in on off , Williamson clips it wide of mid-on and the batsmen steal a quick run 99.1 Pradeep to Watling , 1 run , on middle and leg , Watling works it wide of mid-on and sets off for a single 98.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated up just outside off , Williamson leans forward and smothers the spin 98.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery around off , Williamson bunts it to cover 98.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up just outside off , Williamson blocks it towards silly point , who was a little too excited that he made his way on the pitch while the batsman was playing the shot 98.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , on the pads , Williamson fails to work it fine , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the pads 98.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Williamson dead-bats it off the front foot 98.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated up just outside off , Williamson leans forward and defends 97.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , length delivery outside off , Watling comes on the front foot and drives it to short cover 97.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run , length delivery on off , Watling comes forward and blocks it to the left of the bowler 97.4 Pradeep to Watling , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Watling works it into the on-side 97.3 Pradeep to Watling , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Watling punches it to cover-point off the back foot 97.2 Pradeep to Watling , no run , in the channel outside off , Watling leaves it alone 97.1 Pradeep to Watling , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling stays back and opens the face while punching it past a diving gully , the batsmen take two before the ball is hunted down Nuwan Pradeep [ 17.0-3-50-3 ] is back into the attack 96.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , loopy delivery just outside off , Williamson presses forward to smother the spin 96.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , overpitching on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it to short cover 96.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Williamson stays back and dead-bats it 96.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Williamson goes back in the crease and blocks 96.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated up around off , Williamson leans forward and blocks 96.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off , Williamson defends off the front foot Rangana Herath [ 29.0-5-58-1 ] is back into the attack Another bowling change as Herath comes back 95.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , slightly fuller and shaping away outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go 95.5 Lakmal to Watling , no run , comes over the wicket now and bowls this on a length outside off , Watling shoulders arms 95.4 Lakmal to Watling , no run , too straight from Lakmal , Watling ca n't work it fine , the ball dribbles away into the on-side off the pads , Watling sets off for a single , but Williamson was n't interested , the bowler charges towards the ball and Watling has to rush back in as well 95.3 Lakmal to Watling , 2 runs , on the pads , Watling clips it through the vacant mid-wicket region , the batsmen take two before the fielder from mid-on runs across and collects the ball 95.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , angles this one on the off stump , Watling defends it back to the bowler 95.1 Lakmal to Watling , no run , length delivery on off , Watling blocks it into the off-side off the front foot 94.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , bouncer to finish the over , Williamson ducks 94.5 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery tailing in just outside off , Williamson stays on the back foot and dabs it towards gully 94.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Williamson defends off the back foot 94.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , banged in short and angling down leg , Williamson is happy to duck there 94.2 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , good delivery from Dhammika , it was on a good length and shapes away just a touch when Watling was pushing at it , the ball rolls away wide of gully off the outside half of the bat , the bowler has his hands on his head 94.1 Dhammika to Watling , no run , full outside off , Watling leans on the front foot and drives it towards short cover , who dives to his left and stops the ball There seems to be some issue with the ball. Umpire Davis is holding it and has a disscussion with umpire Illingworth. They have decided that the ball is fine for now and hand it back over to the bowler 93.6 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and angling away just outside off , Williamson was pushing at it , the ball carries on with the angle and goes past the outside edge , this was the only time in the over that Lakmal made Williamson play 93.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , in the channel outside off and going away with the angle , Williamson leaves it for the keeper 93.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Williamson lifts his bat and lets it go through to the keeper 93.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , another one that 's angled away outside off and was a little wide as well , Williamson leaves it alone 93.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , length delivery outside off , Williamson shoulders arms Two slips and a gully in place 93.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , angles this one away outside off , Williamson watches it closely and lets it go Suranga Lakmal [ 18.0-1-48-0 ] is back into the attack Lakmal comes into the attack and he will come from round the wicket 92.6 Dhammika to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Watling gets right behind the line and defends 92.5 Dhammika to Watling , no run , good delivery from Dhammika , this one was angled on middle , the ball straightens a little after pitching and there was extra bounce as well , Watling was looking to defend , the ball jams into his glove on the handle 92.4 Dhammika to Watling , no run , in the channel outside off and jags back in sharply from there , Watling left it alone , but the ball goes through to the keeper and it was n't far away from the stumps 92.3 Dhammika to Watling , no run , full outside off , left alone by Watling 92.2 Dhammika to Watling , no run , bouncer from Dhammika , Watling ducks under it 92.1 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , little too straight from Dhammika , Williamson tucks it away to backward square leg and the batsmen cross over 91.6 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Watling skips out of the crease , but was n't upto the pitch of the ball , he ends up defending it back on the pitch 91.5 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Williamson drives it past a diving silly mid-off and gets to the other end 91.4 Herath to Watling , 1 run , drags this one a little short and outside off , Watling waits for it in the crease and cuts it to point , the batsmen take a single 91.3 Herath to Watling , no run , flatter on the stumps , Watling punches it back to the bowler off the back foot 91.2 Herath to Watling , no run , floated up just outside off , Watling comes on the front foot and defends it into the off-side 91.1 Herath to Watling , no run , shortish and just outside off , Watling backs away and cuts it towards extra cover 90.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , bouncer down leg , Williamson sits under it 90.5 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , angling in on middle and leg , Watling works it to fine leg off his pads 90.4 Dhammika to Watling , no run , little wide outside off , Watling hangs on the back foot and dabs it towards gully after opening the face of the bat late 90.3 Dhammika to Watling , no run , fullish outside off , Watling leans forward and drives it straight to the fielder at cover 90.2 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson waits for it in the crease and dabs it towards squarish third man and gets to the other end 90.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and angling in around off , Williamson blocks off the front foot Dhammika Prasad [ 16.0-1-49-1 ] is back into the attack Dhammika Prasad comes into the attack now. He replaces the captain Mathews . 89.6 Herath to Watling , no run , floated up on off , Watling comes on the front foot and blocks 89.5 Herath to Watling , no run , drags this short and outside off , Watling hangs back and dabs it towards backward point 89.4 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on off , Watling presses forward and dead-bats it 89.3 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up around off , Watling lunges forward in defence 89.2 Herath to Watling , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Watling leans forward and defends A slip and a FSL in place 89.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Williamson goes deep in the crease and punches it to long-off Rangana Herath [ 27.0-5-55-1 ] is back into the attack Herath is back into the attack , replacing Lakmal 88.6 Mathews to Watling , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Watling sways away from the line and lets it pass 88.5 Mathews to Watling , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go 88.4 Mathews to Watling , no run , full outside off , Watling drives it off the front foot to mid-off 88.3 Mathews to Watling , no run , on a good length and around off , Watling bunts it towards point 88.2 Mathews to Watling , no run , in the channel outside off , Watling leans forward and drives it to cover 88.1 Mathews to Watling , no run , full delivery a little wide outside off and shaping away as well , Watling shoulders arms 87.6 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , slightly fuller around off from the angle , Williamson was pushing at it , the ball takes the outside edge and goes on the bounce to gully , Williamson did well there as he was playing that with soft hands 87.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , angles this one across off , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it back in the direction of the bowler Comes round the wicket now 87.4 Lakmal to Watling , 1 run , length delivery on the pads , Watling works it away to mid-wicket and gets to the other end 87.3 Lakmal to Watling , leg byes , FOUR , poor delivery from Lakmal , down the leg-side , Watling gloves it fine past the diving keeper and the ball races away to the fence , the umpire did n't spot the glove and gave it as leg byes , New Zealand 's lead also goes past 100 87.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , slightly back of a length and tailing in on off , Watling stays back and blocks solidly 87.1 Lakmal to Watling , no run , outswinger just outside off , Watling was pushing at it off the front foot , the ball rolls away towards the gully region off the outside half of the bat 86.6 Mathews to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson stays back and punches it to short cover 86.5 Mathews to Williamson , no run , third consecutive short delivery from Mathews , Williamson ducks yet again 86.4 Mathews to Williamson , no run , Mathews bangs this one short again , Williamson sits under it 86.3 Mathews to Williamson , no run , bumper aimed at the batsman , Williamson ducks under it 86.2 Mathews to Williamson , no run , slightly wide outside off this time , Williamson is not interested in playing at those 86.1 Mathews to Williamson , no run , full outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and blocks 85.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , just short of good length and with a hint of away movement , Watling defends it into the off-side 85.5 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , angles this one on middle stump line , Williamson stays back and works it backward of square on the on-side 85.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , in the channel outside off and going away after pitching , Williamson lifts his bat and lets it go 85.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , another one that 's full and shapes away a little wide outside off , Williamson shoulders arms 85.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fullish outswinger outside off , Williamson is happy to leave that 85.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and swinging away outside off , Williamson was looking to leave it , but was a little late to do so , the ball runs away towards gully off the face of the bat Drinks are on the field now 84.6 Mathews to Watling , no run , on a length and just outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go 84.5 Mathews to Watling , no run , good length delivery on off , Watling comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 84.4 Mathews to Watling , no run , good length delivery outside off , Watling shoulders arms 84.3 Mathews to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Watling gets well forward and blocks it back to the bowler 84.2 Mathews to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling goes back and cuts it to gully 84.1 Mathews to Watling , no run , good length delivery on middle and going with the angle , Watling comes forward and misses the flick , the ball lobs off the pads to the off-side Angelo Mathews [ 8.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 83.6 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson watches the ball sail through to the keeper 83.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson punches it off the back foot to cover 83.4 Lakmal to Watling , 1 run , length delivery straying on the pads , Watling gets across and tucks it to fine leg 83.3 Lakmal to Watling , no run , good length delivery outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go 83.2 Lakmal to Watling , FOUR , good length delivery just outside off , Watling stays inside the crease and dabs it very late between gully and the second slip fielder for a boundary 83.1 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Williamson leans forward and drives it to sweeper cover for a run Suranga Lakmal [ 15.0-1-40-0 ] is back into the attack 82.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Watling comes on the front foot and solidly defends it to the off-side 82.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , slightly back of a length delivery on the hips , Williamson tucks it to fine leg 82.4 Pradeep to Williamson , FOUR , fuller length delivery on middle and leg , Williamson comes across and flicks it superbly to the deep mid-wicket fence for a boundary. The timing on that one was brilliant as it raced away to the fence 82.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson gets behind the ball punches it to cover 82.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery around off , Williamson leans forward and defends it back to the bowler 82.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , good length delivery shaping away a touch outside off , Williamson blocks it to point 81.6 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to the left of the fielder at cover to retain the strike 81.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , shortish delivery on the stumps , Williamson goes back and punches it to the right of the bowler 81.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Williamson leaves it alone 81.3 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , comes on the front foot and works it off his pads to deep mid-wicket 81.2 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , flighted delivery around off , Williamson looks to cut , the ball gets some extra bounce , as a result , Williamson gets an outside edge which goes wide of the first slip fielder for a brace 81.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 80.6 Pradeep to Watling , FOUR , back of a length delivery just outside off , Watling rocks back and cuts it behind sqaure on the off-side for a boundary 80.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , good length delivery straying on the pads , Williamson gets forward and wotks it to mid-wicket for a run 80.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Williamson drives it off the front foot to mid-off 80.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , good length delivery shaping away outside off , Williamson prods forward and feels for it , the ball sails past the outside edge of the bat through to the keeper 80.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Williamson gets forward and drives it to mid-off Just one ball with the old ball and the new cherry is taken 80.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson punches it to cover Nuwan Pradeep [ 15.0-3-40-3 ] is back into the attack New ball is now available , but they continue with the older one 79.6 Herath to Watling , no run , comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side 79.5 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up on middle , Watling prods forward and smothers it to the on-side 79.4 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery around off , Watling presses forward and blcosk it to the off-side 79.3 Herath to Watling , no run , floated delivery on middle and leg , Watling comes forward and dead bats it 79.2 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on middle and off , Watling gets forward and turns it to the on-side 79.1 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up delivery on middle , Watling comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 78.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , bumper on middle , Williamson ducks underneath 78.5 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Watling tucks it to deep backward square leg 78.4 Dhammika to Watling , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Watling dabs it off the back foot to gully 78.3 Dhammika to Watling , no run , on a length and just outside off , Watling prods forward and defends it to mid-off 78.2 Dhammika to Watling , no run , good length delivery in the channel just outside off , Watling presses forward and blocks it to point 78.1 Dhammika to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling goes on the back foot and punches it to cover 77.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery around off , Williamson comes forward and defends it to the off-side 77.5 Herath to Watling , 1 run , comes on the front foot and tucks it in front of square on the on-side to bring up the 50-run stand 77.4 Herath to Watling , 2 runs , tossed up delivery on middle and off , Watling goes back and punches it between mid-wicket and mid-on for a couple 77.3 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , goes back and punches it to sweeper cover for a run 77.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Williamson shimmes down and nudges it to mid-wicket 77.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery on off , Williamson gets forward and drives it back to the bowler 76.6 Dhammika to Watling , no run , good length delivery on off , Watling gets well forward and defends it to the off-side 76.5 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , Pradeep has dropped a sitter at fine leg ! This was a shortish delivery on middle , Williamson rocks back and top-edges the pull to Pradeep at fine leg , who juggles thrice before shelling it 76.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson guides it with an opened face to gully 76.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , good length ball on middle and leg , Williamson gets forward and turns it to mid-on 76.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , on a length delivery outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 76.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , good length delivery on off , Williamson gets behind the line and defends it back to the bowler 75.6 Herath to Watling , no run , slightly on the shorter side around off , Watling goes back and punches it to mid-off 75.5 Herath to Watling , no run , floated just outside off , Watling comes forward and taps it to the off-side 75.4 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up delivery on off again , Watling comes on the front foot and blocks it to silly point 75.3 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on off , Watling leans forward and defends it to silly point 75.2 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up delivery on middle and leg , Williamson goes back and nudges it to deep backward square leg 75.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on leg , Williamson comes forward and blocks it to the on-side 74.6 Dhammika to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Watling gets behind the line and pushes it to mid-on 74.5 Dhammika to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery in the channel just outside off , Watling pokes at it without much foot movement and gets beaten 74.4 Dhammika to Watling , no run , fullish and outside off , Watling leans forward and drives it straight to mid-off 74.3 Dhammika to Watling , no run , good length delivery around off , Watling gets well behind the line and defends it to cover 74.2 Dhammika to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go 74.1 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Williamson goes on the back foot and glances it to fine leg 73.6 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Watling leans forward and blocks it to short cover 73.5 Herath to Watling , no run , shortens the length a touch , Watling goes back and punches it back to the bowler 73.4 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up delivery on middle , Watling comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side 73.3 Herath to Watling , no run , flighted delivery around off , Watling gets well forward and defends it to cover 73.2 Herath to Watling , no run , tossed up on off , Watling leans forward and defends 73.1 Herath to Watling , no run , on the pads , Watling stays back and flicks it to FSL Rangana Herath [ 22.0-3-45-1 ] is back into the attack 72.6 Dhammika to Watling , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Watling helps it off his hips to fine leg for a run 72.5 Dhammika to Watling , no run , low full toss on middle , Watling comes forward and flicks it to mid-wicket 72.4 Dhammika to Watling , no run , another fullish delivery outside off , Watling leaves it alone 72.3 Dhammika to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Watling shoulders arms 72.2 Dhammika to Watling , no run , good length delivery outside off , Watling comes forward and watches the ball go through to the keeper 72.1 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson goes back and guides it to deep backward point Dhammika Prasad [ 12.0-1-44-1 ] is back into the attack 71.6 Mathews to Watling , no run , on a length and outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go 71.5 Mathews to Watling , no run , length delivery outside off , Watling gets well forward and blocks it to cover 71.4 Mathews to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery around middle and leg , Williamson tucks it to the wide of the mid-on fielder for a run 71.3 Mathews to Williamson , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Williamson gets forward and blocks it to the off-side 71.2 Mathews to Williamson , FOUR , beautiful shot , overpitches this one on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it straight down the ground past the stumps at the non-striker 's end for yet another boundary 71.1 Mathews to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery way outside off , Williamson is not interested in playing those 70.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Watling defends it off the back foot to the off-side 70.5 Lakmal to Watling , FOUR , short delivery on off , Watling rocks back , swivels the pull along the ground to the deep backward square leg fence for a boundary 70.4 Lakmal to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Watling gets forward and flicks it to mid-wicket 70.3 Lakmal to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery in the channel outside off , Watling pokes at it and misses 70.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , fullish outside off , Watling comes on the front foot and drives it straight to cover 70.1 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Williamson leans forward and eases it to the right of mid-on 69.6 Mathews to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go to the keeper 69.5 Mathews to Watling , no run , good length delivery on middle , Watling gets forward and presents the full face of the bat and pushes it to cover 69.4 Mathews to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Watling comes on the front foot and defends it with a straight bat back to the bowler 69.3 Mathews to Williamson , 1 run , short delivery just outside off , Williamson rocks back and pulls it to deep backward square leg 69.2 Mathews to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson goes back and blocks it back to the bowler 69.1 Mathews to Williamson , no run, 68.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Watling gets behind the line and blocks it to the off-side 68.5 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , fullish on middle and leg , Williamson gets across and clips it off his pads to fine leg to get to his 16th Test fifty. He raises his bat as he acknowledges towards the dressing room 68.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , play and miss ! This was a good length delivery in the channel outside off , Williamson presses forward and pokes at it and gets beaten 68.3 Lakmal to Watling , 1 run , fuller length delivery straying on the pads , Watling leans forward and helps it to fine leg 68.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Watling goes back and defends it to point 68.1 Lakmal to Watling , no run , good length delivery in the channel outside off , Watling gets well forward and blocks it to cover 67.6 Mathews to Watling , 1 run , length delivery angling into the right-hander , Watling comes across and tucks it to fine leg 67.5 Mathews to Watling , no run , another fullish delivery outside off , left alone by Watling 67.4 Mathews to Watling , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go 67.3 Mathews to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Watling gets behind the line and defends it to the off-side 67.2 Mathews to Watling , 2 runs , back of a length delivery just outside off , Watling goes on the back foot and cuts it through covers for a brace 67.1 Mathews to Williamson , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and tucks it to deep backward square leg Welcome back for the final session of the third day 's play. Mathews will continue with two slips and a gully in place Tea , Day 3 : Sri Lanka will be the happier side as they walk off the field. New Zealand are effectively 48/5 at this stage. In 28 overs , New Zealand scored 87 runs but lost the wickets of their captain McCullum and Neesham. In the next session , all eyes will be on Kane Williamson , who is nearing his fifty. On the other hand , Sri Lanka will look to take a few quick wickets after tea and Williamson is the main threat for them. Can Williamson guide New Zealand to safer shores ? Or will the Lankans bowl the Kiwis out cheaply ? Join us in a short while to find out . 66.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , slightly back of a length just outside off , Watling defends it into the off-side 66.5 Lakmal to Watling , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Watling ducks under it 66.4 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Williamson dabs it in front of gully after opening the face of the bat,. Williamson charges to the other end and completes the single 66.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , full around off , Williamson drives it back to the bowler after leaning forward 66.2 Lakmal to Williamson , 2 runs , length delivery just outside off , Williamson slices the drive through the covers and gets back for the second run 66.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fullish and outside off , Williamson drives it to mid-off off the front foot Last over before tea 65.6 Mathews to Watling , no run , full on off and middle , Watling gets behind the line and solidly defends 65.5 Mathews to Watling , no run , length delivery holding its line outside off , Watling shoulders arms 65.4 Mathews to Watling , no run , full and angling in on off and middle , Watling bunts it to mid-on off the front foot 65.3 Mathews to Watling , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Watling blocks 65.2 Mathews to Watling , 2 runs , fuller in length and outside off , Watling opens the face of the bat and drives it past backward point off the front foot 65.1 Mathews to Williamson , 1 run , down the leg-side , Williamson tucks it away off his pads to fine leg , the batsmen cross over 64.6 Lakmal to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Watling stands tall and defends from the crease 64.5 Lakmal to Watling , no run , angling in on middle stump line , Watling turns it to mid-wicket 64.4 Lakmal to Watling , FOUR , that is the third boundary through the third man region for Watling , it was on a length and outside off , Watling pushes at it with soft hands , the ball runs away through the gap between gully and second slip after taking the outside edge , Watling moves onto 12 64.3 Lakmal to Watling , no run , on a length and angling in on off , Watling leans forward and defends it to short cover 64.2 Lakmal to Watling , no run , another one that 's full and in the channel outside off , Watling is happy to leave it for the keeper 64.1 Lakmal to Watling , no run , full just outside off , Watling does n't offer a shot Suranga Lakmal [ 11.0-1-26-0 ] is back into the attack 63.6 Mathews to Williamson , no run , length delivery just outside off , Williamson defends it into the off-side 63.5 Mathews to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Williamson drives it back to the bowler off the front foot , the bowler dives forward in his followthrough to stop the ball 63.4 Mathews to Williamson , no run , length delivery just outside off , Williamson blocks off the front foot 63.3 Mathews to Williamson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson comes forward and defends it into the off-side 63.2 Mathews to Williamson , FOUR , straying on the pads , the ball bounces a little extra and Williamson was looking to tickle it fine,the ball takes the glove and runs away to the fence after the keeper put in the dive 63.1 Mathews to Williamson , no run , length delivery outside off , Williamson leaves it alone 62.6 Pradeep to Watling , FOUR , on a good length and just outside off , Watling pushes at it off the front foot , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away in the gap between gully and the slip cordon for another boundary 62.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Watling leaves it alone 62.4 Pradeep to Watling , no run , full just outside off , Watling drives it back to the bowler 62.3 Pradeep to Watling , FOUR , slightly shortish and wide outside off , Watling waits for it and cuts it past a diving gully , the ball runs away to the fence 62.2 Pradeep to Watling , no run , on middle stump line , Watling was looking to work it through the on-side , gets a very soft leading edge that rolls back towards the bowler after he closes the bat face a little too early 62.1 Pradeep to Watling , no run , full delivery shaping in a touch from just outside off , Watling leaves , but the ball was n't very far away from the stumps 61.6 Mathews to Williamson , no run , slightly fuller just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and blocks 61.5 Mathews to Williamson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson pushes at it with his bat close to the pad , the ball rolls off the inside half of the bat and goes past the leg stump 61.4 Mathews to Williamson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson defends off the front foot 61.3 Mathews to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and angling in just outside off , Williamson punches it into the off-side off the back foot 61.2 Mathews to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Williamson leaves it alone 61.1 Mathews to Williamson , 2 runs , little too straight to start off with , Williamson flicks it off his pads past mid-wicket and the batsmen take two Angelo Mathews [ 2.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack Mathews is back into the attack , replacing Herath 60.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watling gets behind the line and blocks off the back foot 60.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run , slightly back of a length and angling in towards the batsman , Watling defends it into the off-side 60.4 Pradeep to Watling , no run , on a good length and on off , Watling comes on the front foot and defends it to mid-off with his bat close to the pad BJ Watling , right handed bat , comes to the crease 60.3 Pradeep to Neesham , out Lbw ! ! Neesham is gone now. It was on a good length and angling in towards the batsman , Neesham misses the flick and the ball hits him on the knee roll , the umpire thought that the ball was going down leg and hence , he gave it not out. However , Sri Lanka decided to review the decision after much deliberation and it was the right decision as Hawk-Eye showed that the ball cannoning into the leg stump. Neesham lbw b Pradeep 19 ( 44 ) [ 4s-3 ] Pradeep to Neesham , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Sri Lanka have decided to review a lbw call. The onfield umpire gave it 'Not Out'. The bowler 's front foot is fine and there was no inside edge on that. Hawk-Eye shows three reds and the onfield decision has been overturned . 60.2 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , on a good length and outside off , Neesham lifts his bat and lets it go 60.2 Pradeep to Neesham , wide , bouncer that sails over the batsman 's head , wided by the umpire for height 60.1 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , fuller in length and angling in on off , Neesham drives off the front foot to mid-off 59.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Williamson leans forward and drives it straight to short cover 59.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , touch quicker and on the stumps , Williamson goes back and defends 59.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated up on off , Williamson comes forward and blocks 59.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , Williamson was in two minds whether to go forward or not , he ends up dabbing this flighted delivery outside off towards backward point 59.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Williamson dead-bats it 59.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , flatter on the stumps , Williamson punches it to short cover 58.6 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , another one that 's been banged in short and at the batsman , Neesham ducks 58.5 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , bumper at the batsman , Neesham sits underneath 58.4 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , fullish and angling in on the pads , Neesham turns it to square leg 58.3 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , on a good length and angling in close to off , Neesham comes on the front foot and defends 58.2 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Neesham defends it into the off-side from the crease 58.1 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Neesham moves across and eases it to mid-on 57.6 Herath to Neesham , 1 run , floated up on off and middle , Neesham drives it past the silly mid-on fielder and gets to the other end , he will keep the strike 57.5 Herath to Neesham , no run , on middle and leg line , Neesham turns it behind square on the on-side 57.4 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , slightly flatter outside off , Williamson punches it to sweeper cover off the back foot 57.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , steps out of the crease and drives this flighted delivery back to the bowler 57.2 Herath to Neesham , 1 run , tossed up around off and middle , Neesham comes down the track and bunts it to long-on 57.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , flatter from Herath , Williamson rocks back and punches it to sweeper cover 56.6 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , bumper at the batsman , Neesham ducks under it 56.5 Pradeep to Neesham , FOUR , Mathews took the second slip out just two balls back and this time the edge goes through that area , it was fullish outside off , Neesham was looking for the drive again , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away to the third man area , had there been a second slip , it would have been a regulation catch 56.4 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Neesham pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge , but falls well short of the fielder at first slip 56.3 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , fullish angling in on middle , Neesham drives it to mid-on off the inside half of the bat 56.2 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Neesham hops and defends it into the on-side 56.1 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , comes round the wicket and angles this one back in from outside off , Neesham was looking for a drive through the off-side , the ball goes past the inside edge and through to the keeper 55.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , gives the charge and defends this tossed up delivery back to the bowler 55.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Williamson turns it behind square on the on-side 55.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated up around off , Williamson defends it into the off-side off the front foot 55.3 Herath to Williamson , FOUR , flighted delivery on off and middle , Williamson skips out of the crease and lofts the drive just wide of mid-on , Williamson did n't get the desires elevation , but the ball races away to the long-on fence 55.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , slower delivery on off , Williamson lunges forward and dead-bats it 55.1 Herath to Neesham , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Neesham goes forward and eases it to long-on 54.6 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends 54.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , slightly fuller and angling in towards the batsman , Williamson pushes it to mid-on 54.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson leans forward and opens the face of the bat as he defends with the bat close to the pad , the ball rolls away towards gully 54.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson blocks it towards gully with an angular bat 54.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , slightly fuller and outside off , Williamson shoulders arms 54.1 Pradeep to Williamson , 2 runs , on a good length and on off , Williamson pushes at it , the ball rolls away behind square off the inside edge , the batsmen take two as the fielder had to run in from the deep , good running there from Williamson especially Drinks are on the field now 53.6 Herath to Neesham , 2 runs , quicker delivery down the leg-side , Neesham glances it to fine leg for a couple 53.5 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , touch shortish outside off , Williamson goes on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover for a run 53.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Williamson leans forward and blocks it to cover 53.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated around off , Williamson stays in the crease and defends it to the off-side 53.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery around off , Williamson gets well forward and dead bats it 53.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off , Williamson gets forward and pushes it to mid-off 52.6 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , another fullish delivery on off , Neesham leans forward and drives it straight to mid-off 52.5 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Neesham comes on the front foot and drives it to cover 52.4 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , overpitches this on on off , Neesham leans forward and drives it down the ground , Pradeep does well on the followthrough dive to his right and stop it 52.3 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Neesham has a waft and misses 52.2 Pradeep to Neesham , FOUR , magnificent shot , good length delivery just outside off , Neesham comes on the front foot , presents the full face of the bat and drives it on the up past the mid-off fieder for a boundary 52.1 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Neesham leans forward and works it to mid-wicket 51.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson gets forward and smothers it to the off-side 51.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , catch dropped by Herath. This was a tossed up delivery just outside off , Williamson shimmies down the track and drives it powerfully in the air back to Herath who gets two hands to it but shells it. That might be a costly miss as Williamson is looking in good touch 51.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and dead bats it 51.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , shortens the length a touch , Williamson goes back and blocks it to cover 51.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery wide outside off , Williamson leaves it alone 51.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , skips down the track to this fullish ball on off and drives it back to the bowler 50.6 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Neesham goes back and blocks it , the ball rolls back onto the stumps as Neesham stops it with his bat 50.5 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , good length delivery on middle , Neesham gets forward and tucks it to mid-wicket 50.4 Pradeep to Neesham , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Neesham goes on the back foot and cuts it handsomely past the backward point fielder for a boundary 50.3 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Neesham ducks underneath it 50.2 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , good length delivery shaping back in a touch , Neesham is struck inside the crease and defends it to the on-side 50.1 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Neesham misses the glance , the ball rolls off the thigh pads to the on-side Nuwan Pradeep [ 8.0-2-17-2 ] is back into the attack 49.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery around off , Williamson gets forward and drives it straight to mid-off 49.5 Herath to Neesham , 1 run , floated on middle , Neesham works it to deep mid-wicket for a single 49.4 Herath to Neesham , no run , tossed up delivery outside off , Neesham pushes it to the off-side 49.3 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson comes forward and drives it to mid-off 49.2 Herath to Neesham , 1 run , low full toss on leg , Neesham is happy to work this one through mid-wicket to get off the mark 49.1 Herath to Neesham , no run , floated on leg , Neesham tucks it to backward square leg 48.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , good length delivery angling into the right-hander , Williamson gets well forward and blocks it to the off-side 48.5 Dhammika to Williamson , FOUR , beautiful shot , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Williamson leans forward , presents rhe full face of the bat and drives it past the mid-on fielder for a superb boundary 48.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , bumper just outside off , Williamson ducks under it 48.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson goes on the back foot and punches it to mid-off 48.2 Dhammika to Williamson , 2 runs , short of length delivery just outside off , Williamson goes back and cuts it to sweeper cover for a brace 48.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery angling into the right-hander , Williamson tucks it to mid-wicket 47.6 Herath to Neesham , no run , fullish ball outside off , Neesham leaves it alone 47.5 Herath to Neesham , no run , comes on the front foot and dead bats it 47.4 Herath to Neesham , no run , shortish on off , Neesham goes back and pushes it to cover 47.3 Herath to Neesham , no run , tossed up delivery on middle , Neesham comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 47.2 Herath to Neesham , no run , gets forward for this flighted delivery on off and drives it to mid-on 47.1 Herath to Neesham , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 46.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , good length delivery on off , Williamson defends it to the off-side 46.5 Dhammika to Neesham , leg byes , 1 run , what was Neesham doin there ? This was a shortish delivery angling away from the left-hander , Neesham drops his wrists and gets hit on the forearm as the it flies past gully as the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 46.4 Dhammika to Neesham , no run , good length delivery around off , Neesham gets forward and defends it to the off-side James Neesham , left handed bat , comes to the crease 46.3 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , out Lbw ! ! Dhammika has got the danger man of New Zealand. This was a good length delivery coming in with the angle , McCullum comes on the front foot and looks to work it to the on-side and misses , it hit him on the knee roll plumb in front of middle and leg. Umpire Davis gives out but McCullum challenges the decision after consulting with Williamson. Hawk-Eye suggested it would have hit leg , New Zealand lose a review. Brendon McCullum lbw b Dhammika 22 ( 46 ) [ 4s-3 ] Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! McCullum has been given out , he has asked for a review. Dhammika 's footing is fine , there 's no wood on that. It looks to pretty plumb in line with middle and off. He 's out as Hawk-Eye suggests it would have hit the top of leg 46.2 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , no run , slightly back of a length delivery on middle and off , McCullum goes back and turns it to mid-wicket 46.1 Dhammika to Williamson , 3 runs , fuller length delivery on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 45.6 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted delivery on off , McCullum gets forward and defends it to the off-side 45.5 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , shortens the length a touch , McCullum goes back and works it to fine leg 45.4 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , comes forward and gets an inside edge onto the pad , but falls short of FSL 45.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , quicker delivery just outside off , McCullum watches the ball as it goes through to the keeper , that was a godo leave as it was very close to the off-stump 45.2 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , tossed up on middle andoff , McCullum comes forward and defends it 45.1 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , skips down the track and drives this fullish delivery to mid-off and completes a quick single 44.6 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle , Williamson pushes it with soft hands to mid-on for a quick single 44.5 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , a huge shout for lbw , not given by the umpire. This was a fuller length delivery on middle and going with the angle , Williamson comes forward and misses the flick , gets hit on the pads in front of leg , good decision by the ump as it would have slid down leg 44.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , bouncer aimed at the batsman , Williamson ducks under it 44.3 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , McCullum is squared up in defence , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat to deep point 44.2 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , beautiful shot ! This was a good length delivery just outside off , McCullum comes on the front foot , drives it on the up past the cover fielder for a magnificent boundary 44.1 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Williamson flays it to sweeper cover for a run 43.6 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , touch shortish outside off , Williamson rocks back and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side 43.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery around off , Williamson gets well forward and smothers it 43.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , shortens the length a touch , Williamson goes back and punches it to cover 43.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on middle , Williamson comes forward and dead bats it 43.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Williamson gets forward and defends it to the off-side 43.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Williamson makes room and cuts it straight to backward point 42.6 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a length around off , McCullum comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 42.5 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , no run , short of length delivery around off , McCullum goes back and blocks it to cover 42.4 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length delivery angling into the right-hander , McCullum gets well forward and defends it back to the bowler 42.3 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson goes on the back foot and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side for a single 42.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , good length ball on middle , Williamson comes forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 42.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , fullish outside off , Williamson gets forward and drives it straight to short cover 41.6 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , quicker and fuller on middle , McCullum comes on the front foot and blocks it 41.5 Herath to Williamson , 3 runs , floated on leg , Williamson leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket and comfortably completes the third run 41.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on middle , Williamson gets well forward and dead bats it 41.3 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , flighted delivery just outside off , Williamson skips down the track and drives it between extra cover and mid-off for a brace 41.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on middle , Williamson goes back and punches it back to the bowler 41.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on middle and leg , Williamson goes back and pushes it to mid-on 40.6 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson goes back and steers it to deep backward point for a run 40.5 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Williamson drives it back to the bowler 40.4 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , McCullum rocks back and cuts it to deep backward point for a run 40.3 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length delivery around off , McCullum comes forward and defends it to cover 40.2 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , McCullum shoulders arms McCullum becomes the third New Zealand player to go past 1000 Test runs at Basin Reserve 40.1 Dhammika to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , McCullum lifts his bat and lets it go Dhammika Prasad [ 7.0-1-25-0 ] is back into the attack Dhammika will partner Herath after lunch 39.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Williamson leans forward and drives it to mid-on 39.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and pushes it to the off-side 39.4 Herath to Williamson , FOUR , shorter this time and Williamson is quick to go on the back foot and punches it through the covers region for a boundary 39.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on off , Williamson gets forward and drives it to mid-off 39.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on middle , Williamson turns it to mid-wicket 39.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Williamson gets a good stride forward and drives it to cover Welcome back for the post lunch session. Herath will continue with a slip and a FSL in place Lunch on Day 3 : New Zealand managed to score 74 runs and lost 3 wickets in the session. The first hour of the day 's play belonged to the New Zealand openers as they stitched a partnership of 75 runs. But immediately after the drinks break , it was all Sri Lanka as they chipped in with 3 wickets. Pradeep got 2 wickets in 2 overs and Herath bowled a ripper to dismiss Taylor for a duck. Williamson and McCullum have looked okay until now but they still trail by 39. Sri Lanka have the advantage as they go in for lunch. For New Zealand , it 'll be important for one of these two to carry on and score big. The post lunch session promises to be very interesting. Join us in a short while for the second session 's play.. . 38.6 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length delivery on middle , McCullum defends it to the on-side 38.5 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , overpitches this one on off , McCullum comes on the front foot and drives it superbly past the mid-off fielder for a magnificent boundary 38.4 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length delivery in the channel , McCullum lifts his bat and lets it go 38.3 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , another bumper on off , McCullum ducks underneath 38.2 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , bouncer going down leg , McCullum ducks under it 38.1 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , shortish delivery just outside off , McCullum drops his gloves and sways away , the ball bounces a lot after pitching , Prasanna fumbles it and the ball falls just in front of the helmet Last over before lunch.. . 37.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on leg , Williamson gets a good stride forward and dead bats it 37.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , goes back and punches this shortish delivery back to the bowler 37.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Williamson leans forward and defends it to the off-side 37.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , shortens the length a touch , McCullum goes on the back foot and punches it to long-on for a single 37.2 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted delivery on off , McCullum comes on the front foot and smothers it to the on-side 37.1 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , floated outside off , McCullum comes across and lets it go to the keeper 36.6 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , good length delivery outside off , Williamson watches it sail through to the keeper 36.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fullish just outside off , Williamson leans forward and blocks it solidly to cover 36.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson stays inside the crease and defends it back to the bowler 36.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Williamson lifts his bat and lets it go 36.2 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , good length delivery just outside off , McCullum comes on the front foot and drives it square of the wicket on the off-side 36.1 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery coming into the right-hander , McCullum jumps inside the crease and misses the nudge , the ball goes off the thigh pad to Prasanna on the bounce 35.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Williamson gets forward and blocks it to cover 35.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Williamson leans forward and drives it to mid-off 35.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson comes forward and defends it to the on-side 35.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , quicker and flatter around off , McCullum punches it to long-off 35.2 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish on off , McCullum drives it back to the bowler There 's a slight drizzle in the air 35.1 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , goes back and punches it back to the bowler 34.6 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , length delivery on middle , McCullum comes across and works it to mid-wicket to keep the strike 34.5 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , in the channel just outside off , McCullum gets forward and defends it to cover 34.4 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , McCullum goes inside the crease and blocks it to cover 34.3 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller length delivery around off , McCullum comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 34.2 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery on off , McCullum goes back and punches it to mid-on 34.1 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , McCullum shoulders arms Suranga Lakmal [ 8.0-1-20-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off , Williamson skips down the track and drives it back to the bowler 33.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , fullish this time on off , Williamson drives it to mid-off 33.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , pitched up and turning away , Williamson comes forward and defends it 33.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated on off , Williamson comes forward and turns it to mid-wicket 33.2 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , floated on middle and leg , McCullum goes back and nudges it to backward square leg 33.1 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , slows this one around off , McCullum goes back in the crease and defends 32.6 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , in the channel just outside off , Williamson gets forward and blocks it with an opened face to gully 32.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 2 runs , good length delivery in the channel just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and looks to defend , gets an outside edge as he plays it with soft hands , the ball runs down to third man as they complete two 32.4 Pradeep to Brendon McCullum , leg byes , 1 run , good length delivery straying on the pads , McCullum misses the glance and is hit on the pads as they sneak in a leg bye 32.3 Pradeep to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , slightly back of a length delivery just outside off , McCullum rocks back and cuts it powerfully to the square third man fence for a boundary 32.2 Pradeep to Brendon McCullum , no run , another fuller length delivery just outside off , McCullum comes forward and blocks it to mid-wicket 32.1 Pradeep to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller length delivery on off , McCullum gets forward and drives it to mid-off 31.6 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , short delivery on off , McCullum goes back and cuts it very late square of the wicket on the off-side for a run 31.5 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , stifled shout for LBW but that was snaking down leg. That was tossed up delivery on middle and leg , McCullum comes forward and the ball misses the defence , gets hit on the pad and rolls to the on-side 31.4 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , the arm-ball on middle , McCullum gets his bat down just in time , but the ball takes the inside edge of the bat and rolls to FSL Brendon McCullum , right handed bat , comes to the crease 31.3 Herath to Ross Taylor , out Bowled ! ! That was a ripper from Herath. This was tossed up delivery on middle and turning away , Taylor comes on the front foot and plays down the wrong line , the ball goes past the outside edge of the bat and hits top of the off-stump. Sri Lanka are on a roll here. New Zealand are all of a sudden in some trouble. Ross Taylor b Herath 0 ( 7 ) Herath to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 31.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery on off , Taylor comes forward and checks his drive which falls short of the short cover fielder 31.1 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , floated on middle and leg , Taylor gets forward and turns it to FSL 30.6 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , good length delivery in the channel just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it solidly to the off-side 30.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , bumper at the batsman , Williamson ducks underneath 30.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Williamson comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 30.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , good length delivery in the channel , Williamson gets forward and blocks it to backward point 30.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it with an angled bat to backward point 30.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Williamson goes inside the crease and blocks it back to the bowler 29.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery around off , Taylor gets forward and defends it to the off-side 29.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up outside off and turning away , Taylor leans forward and pushes it uppishly towards cover-point 29.4 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , floated on middle and leg , Taylor presses forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 29.3 Herath to Williamson , 1 run , fullish on middle , Williamson gets forward and drives it to the right of mid-on for a run 29.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery around off , Williamson comes forward and defends it to the off-side 29.1 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it firmly to mid-off and sets off for a single , Taylor immediately sends him back 28.6 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and inside edges it back onto the pads Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.5 Pradeep to Latham , out Caught by P Jayawardene ! ! Pradeep strikes for the second time in two overs. This was slightly fuller in length and outside off , Latham was drawn into the drive , gets a thickish outisde edge which is snaffled up by Prasanna. New Zealand have lost both their openers now. Latham c P Jayawardene b Pradeep 35 ( 86 ) [ 4s-4 ] Pradeep to Latham , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 28.4 Pradeep to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Latham gets behind the line and defends it 28.3 Pradeep to Latham , no run , good length delivery outside off , Latham lifts his bat and lets it go 28.2 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson rocks back and tucks it to square leg 28.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , in the corridor just outside off , Williamson pushes at it tentatively and gets beaten 27.6 Herath to Latham , 2 runs , shortens the length a touch , Latham camps on the back foot and punches through cover , the cover fielder chases and throws it back to the keeper , Williamson was keen for the third run and was halfway down the track , Latham sends him back and Williamson had to make a dive to reach in the end 27.5 Herath to Latham , no run , flighted delivery turning in on off , Latham goes back and blocks it to the off-side 27.4 Herath to Latham , no run , flatter delivery on middle , Latham comes on the front foot and defends it to the on-side 27.3 Herath to Latham , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Latham sweeps it straight to FSL 27.2 Herath to Latham , no run , floated outside off , Latham comes across and pushes it to the off-side 27.1 Herath to Latham , no run , goes on the back foot and defends it to FSL 26.6 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson goes on the back foot and blocks it to point 26.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , good length delivery around off , Williamson comes forward and defends it to the off-side Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 26.4 Pradeep to Rutherford , out Caught by Chandimal ! ! Pradeep strikes for Sri Lanka. This was a short of length delivery angling into the left-hander , Rutherford makes room and cuts it in the air straight to Chandimal at third man. There was a certain plan for Rutherford bowling short from round the wicket , and it worked. New Zealand lose their first wicket still trailing by 60. Rutherford c Chandimal b Pradeep 40 ( 84 ) [ 4s-5 ] Pradeep to Rutherford , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 26.3 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , good bouncer on the stumps again , Rutherford drops his hands and sways away the last moment 26.2 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , bumper on the stumps , Rutherford ducks under it 26.1 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Rutherford goes on the back foot and defends it back to the bowler Pradeep comes round the wicket now 25.6 Herath to Rutherford , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Rutherford comes on the front foot and drives it to the right of mid-off 25.5 Herath to Rutherford , no run , tossed up delivery around off , Rutherford comes forward and pushes it to the off-side 25.4 Herath to Rutherford , no run , quicker delivery on off , Rutherford goes back and defends it to the on-side 25.3 Herath to Rutherford , no run , shortens the length a touch and turning in , Rutherford goes back and turns it to FSL 25.2 Herath to Latham , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Latham gets down on one knee and sweeps it to deep mid-wicket 25.1 Herath to Latham , no run , floated outside off , Latham goes back and guides it to point Drinks are on the field now 24.6 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , full around off , Rutherford leans forward and drives it to mid-off 24.5 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , fuller in length and on off and middle , Rutherford drives it to the left of the bowler , who fields by outting his left hand out and threatens to throw it back at the stumps 24.4 Pradeep to Rutherford , FOUR , just short of a good length and just outside off , Rutherford goes on the back foot and punches it to the deep extra cover fence , the fielders ran after the ball , but the ball beat them to the boundary rope 24.3 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , good bouncer from Pradeep , it surprised Rutherford and he was not expecting it , but just about manages to get away from the line and falls over on the pitch 24.2 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , length delivery outside off , Rutherford defends it towards gully with an angular bat 24.1 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and shaping in back towarss the batsman , Rutherford was pushing at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls away into the off-side 23.6 Herath to Latham , no run , gives this one more air , Latham goes on the back foot and blocks 23.5 Herath to Latham , no run , very full outside off , Latham drills it back towards the bowler 23.4 Herath to Latham , no run , tossed up around off , Latham drives it back to the bowler 23.3 Herath to Latham , 2 runs , shortish outside off , Latham hangs back and dabs it behind square on the off-side for a brace 23.2 Herath to Latham , no run , goes down and looks to sweep this flighted delivery outside off , the ball turns back and hits Latham on the pad , the ball drops right next to his leg , luckily for him , it did n't go back on the stumps 23.1 Herath to Latham , no run , tossed up just outside off , Latham blocks off the front foot Rangana Herath [ 3.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack A slip and a FSL in place for him. He will come round the wicket . Herath comes into the attack now 22.6 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Rutherford drives it to short cover 22.5 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , full delivery on off , Rutherford drives it back to the bowler , the bowler throws the ball back at the stumps , but finds the batsman , he apologises after that 22.4 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , fullish on off and middle , Rutherford clips it to mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 22.3 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , length delivery on off , Rutherford gets behind the line and blocks 22.2 Pradeep to Latham , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Latham tucks it away to fine leg and gets to the other end 22.1 Pradeep to Latham , no run , on a good length and on off , Latham blocks it back to the bowler off the front foot Nuwan Pradeep [ 2.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack Pradeep comes into the attack , replacing Dhammika 21.6 Mathews to Rutherford , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Rutherford ducks under it 21.5 Mathews to Latham , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Latham punches it square of the wicket for a single 21.4 Mathews to Latham , no run , slightly fuller this time on off and middle , Latham blocks it into the leg-side 21.3 Mathews to Latham , no run , just short of a good length and angling across off , Latham guides it gully with an angular bat 21.2 Mathews to Latham , no run , on a good length and little wide outside off , Latham does n't offer a shot Two slips and a gully in place for Mathews as well 21.1 Mathews to Latham , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Latham stays back and blocks 20.6 Dhammika to Rutherford , FOUR , back of a length delivery down leg , Rutherford tickles it fine and the ball runs away to the fence in no time 20.5 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Rutherford defends off the back foot 20.4 Dhammika to Latham , 1 run , slightly wide outside off , Latham cuts it square of the wicket 20.3 Dhammika to Latham , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Latham lifts his bat and lets it go 20.2 Dhammika to Rutherford , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Rutherford bunts it into the off-side and sets off for a single 20.1 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Rutherford sways away from the line 19.6 Mathews to Latham , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Latham blocks it into the off-side 19.5 Mathews to Rutherford , 1 run , slightly shorter and wide outside off , Rutherford cuts it to sweeper cover for a single 19.4 Mathews to Rutherford , 2 runs , on the pads this time , Rutherford clips it past square leg for another couple of runs 19.3 Mathews to Rutherford , 2 runs , slightly back of a length delivery outside off , Rutherford goes on the back foot and punches it through the covers for a brace 19.2 Mathews to Rutherford , FOUR , just short of a good length and slightly wide outside off , Rutherford stays back and cuts it to the sweeper cover fence 19.1 Mathews to Rutherford , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Rutherford stands tall and defends Angelo Mathews , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack First bowling change of the morning as Mathews replaces Lakmal into the attack 18.6 Dhammika to Latham , no run , Latham leaves another length delivery that 's angled away outside off 18.5 Dhammika to Latham , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Latham punches it to the deep extra cover fence off the back foot 18.4 Dhammika to Latham , no run , touch fuller this time and closer to the off and angling away , Latham was looking to defends , the ball goes past the outside edge 18.3 Dhammika to Latham , no run , on a good length and outside off , left alone by Latham 18.2 Dhammika to Latham , no run , angling away outside off , Latham leaves 18.1 Dhammika to Rutherford , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Rutherford drives it square of the wicket off the front foot 17.6 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a length and on off , Latham defends off the front foot 17.5 Lakmal to Latham , FOUR , fullish delivery outside off , Latham leans forward and drives it beautifully to the sweeper cover fence 17.4 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and around off , Latham blocks off the front foot 17.3 Lakmal to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Latham shoulders arms 17.2 Lakmal to Latham , no run , slightly fuller and outside off , Latham leaves it alone 17.1 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and angling in on off , Latham drives it to mid-off Continues from round the wicket 16.6 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , bumper from Dhammika this time , Rutherford ducks under it 16.5 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Rutherford comes slightly forward and defends it back to the bowler 16.4 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Rutherford goes after it and looks to cut , but fails to connect and the keeper takes it 16.3 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , on middle stump line this time , Rutherford works it towards mid-on After the last delivery , a FSL is being put in place 16.2 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , shortish delivery this time , Rutherford hops up and fends it into the on-side in an awkward fashion , he was looking for the single there , but decides against it 16.1 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Rutherford gets behind the line and blocks with the straightest of bats 15.6 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and angling in from well outside off , Latham shoulders arms 15.5 Lakmal to Latham , FOUR , touch fuller and outside off , Latham presses forward and caresses the drive to the sweeper cover fence , the timing on that one was sweet 15.4 Lakmal to Latham , no run , bowls this one outside off , Latham leaves it for the keeper 15.3 Lakmal to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery angling in on middle , Latham hops up in the crease and tucks it away to square leg 15.2 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Latham comes forward and defends 15.1 Lakmal to Latham , no run , angles this one on off , Latham gets behind the line and blocks Lakmal comes round the wicket now 14.6 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , touch fuller this time and around off , Rutherford comes forward and drives it to mid-on 14.5 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Rutherford goes back and blocks it into the off-side 14.4 Dhammika to Rutherford , FOUR , back of a length delivery just outside off , Rutherford was pushing at it off the back foot , the ball takes the inside edge , goes past the leg stump and runs away to the fine leg fence 14.3 Dhammika to Latham , 1 run , touch fuller and around off , Latham drives it to the left of mid-off , where the fielder slides and stops the ball , but he ca n't prevent the batsmen from taking the single 14.2 Dhammika to Latham , no run , on a good length and on off , Latham blocks it solidly into the off-side 14.1 Dhammika to Latham , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Latham goes on the back foot and punches it square of the wicket , the fielder gives chase and the batsmen run for a brace 13.6 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , goes slightly wide outside off this time and Rutherford was looking to cut , he only manages to connect with thin air and the keeper collects 13.5 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , angles this one across off , Rutherford gets behind the line and defends 13.4 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and around off , Rutherford blocks it into the off-side 13.3 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , on leg stump line this time , Rutherford was looking to work it through the on-side , he misses and wears it on the pad , there was a stifled appeal from the bowler and the fielders , but the ball was snaking down leg 13.2 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rutherford comes on the front foot and defends it into the off-side 13.1 Lakmal to Latham , 3 runs , fullish outside off , Latham leans forward and drives it through the covers , the fielder gives chase and the batsman take three 12.6 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , closer to the off stump this time , but still it was far enough for the batsman to shoulder arms 12.5 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Rutherford stays back in the crease and knocks it into the off-side 12.4 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , another one that carries on with the angle outside off , Rutherford does n't offer a shot 12.3 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , fullish delivery angling away outside off , Rutherford looks to drive , but ca n't connect with it 12.3 Dhammika to Rutherford , no ball , was there glove involved on that one ? There was an appeal , but the umpire had called it a no-ball , replays showed that the bowler did n't even overstep and there was some glove on that , Sri Lanka ca n't even review it , poor decision from the umpire. Coming back to the ball , it was on a good length and Rutherford was looking to leave it , the ball took the glove on its way when the batsman was dropping his wrists 12.2 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , slightly back of a length delivery on middle , Rutherford defends Two slips and a gully in place for Dhammika as well 12.1 Dhammika to Rutherford , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Rutherford stays back and punches it towards the sweeper cover fence , the fielder from deep backward point runs across and puts in the dive , but ca n't stop the ball from reaching the fence Dhammika Prasad will share the attack with Lakmal 11.6 Lakmal to Latham , no run , in the channel outside off and Latham is happy to let it go as well 11.5 Lakmal to Latham , no run , slightly wide outside off and going away with the angle , Latham leaves it alone 11.4 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Latham comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 11.3 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on middle and leg line this time , Latham stays inside the crease and pushes it into the on-side Two slips and a gully in place 11.2 Lakmal to Latham , no run , slightly fuller and angling away outside off , Latham lifts his bat and lets it go 11.1 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Latham defends The players are out in the middle. Lakmal will open the bowling on day 3. Tom Latham will be on strike The Kiwi openers came out to bat in the final hour of play yesterday and were able to see through the 11 overs that were left. Currently , New Zealand are 113 runs behind and the first session today will be crucial to the cause of both teams. Can Sri Lanka impose their dominance by picking up a few quick wickets early in the morning ? Or will the Black Caps batsmen knock off the lead without much fuss ? We will find out soon. Stay tuned . Hello and welcome to day 3 of the final Test between New Zealand and Sri Lanka. Day 2 belonged to Kumar Sangakkara , who notched up his 11th Test double ton , guiding Sri Lanka to a 135-run lead. Considering Sri Lanka were reeling at 78/5 at one stage , Sangakkara batted really well with the lower order and crucially , he kept Sri Lanka alive in the series . The first target for New Zealand tomorrow will be to play out the first session without losing many wickets. The lead will also take care of itself if the Kiwis batsmen bat well. So , can the hosts turn on the heat with the bat ? Or will the Lankans continue their dominance ? Join us tomorrow to find out. Until then , take care . After 15 wickets fell yesterday , only 5 wickets were lost today. The demons in the pitch seem to have vanished and it looks like a good batting track now. New Zealand should n't think about the lead , but back themselves to score big this innings. Remember , the spin of Mark Craig can be handy on this pitch in the fourth innings. But for now , it is the Kiwi batsmen , who have a big task ahead of them . Yesterday , New Zealand ended the day with the advantage. Today , it is Sri Lanka 's turn to end the day on a high , riding on a double ton from Sangakkara , who might be playing his last Test match. He has proved yet again that he is one of the best batsmen in the world. This was also his 11th double ton and he is now just one double ton short of Sir Don Bradman 's record of 12 . Stumps , Day 2 : So , New Zealand have managed to keep their wickets intact in this little period of play. They scored 22 runs in 11 overs , reducing the Sri Lankan lead to 113 runs now . 10.6 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , short of length delivery angling away outside off , Rutherford sways away from the line and leaves it for the keeper 10.5 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , fullish delivery angling away just outside off , Rutherford lifts his bat and lets it go 10.4 Dhammika to Latham , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Latham taps it square of the wicket and gets to the other end 10.3 Dhammika to Latham , no run , drags his length back a little , Latham leaves it alone as the ball was going away with the angle 10.2 Dhammika to Latham , no run , another one that 's a little fuller in length and outside off , Latham shoulders arms , the keeper does n't collect it cleanly , but luckily for him , the ball only rolled away towards first slip 10.1 Dhammika to Latham , no run , angling away outside off , Latham lets it go Last over of the day coming up 9.6 Herath to Rutherford , no run , floated up on off , Rutherford gets his front foot out of the way and dead-bats it 9.5 Herath to Rutherford , no run , loopy fullish delivery around off , Rutherford squeezes it out into the off-side 9.4 Herath to Rutherford , no run , quicker one on the stumps this time , Rutherford camps on the back foot and blocks 9.3 Herath to Rutherford , no run , very slow around off from Herath , Rutherford lunges forward in defence 9.2 Herath to Latham , 1 run , touch flatter this time , Latham goes on the back foot and punches it towards the cover-point region , the batsmen take a single 9.1 Herath to Rutherford , 1 run , floated up just outside off and spinning back in , Rutherford goes back in the crease and knocks it to point for a single Herath will come round the wicket now 8.6 Dhammika to Latham , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Latham stays back and bunts it towards point 8.5 Dhammika to Latham , no run , length delivery outside off , Latham covers the stumps and lets it go 8.4 Dhammika to Rutherford , 1 run , drags it short and wide outside off , Rutherford shifts his weight back at the last moment and cuts it to deep point for a single 8.3 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , touch fuller and angling away outside off , Rutherford puts his front foot forward and leaves it alone 8.2 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , length delivery on off , Rutherford blocks it to cover 8.1 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , shortish and wide outside off , Rutherford will feel that he missed out on a certain boundary , Rutherford went for the cut there , but failed to connect Dhammika Prasad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Dhammika Prasad comes into the attack now , replacing Lakmal 7.6 Herath to Latham , no run , touch quicker and on middle stump line , Latham drives it back towards the bowler 7.5 Herath to Latham , no run , tossed up on off , Latham comes on the front foot and blocks 7.4 Herath to Rutherford , 1 run , on the pads this time , Rutherford tucks it away to fine leg and the batsmen take a single 7.3 Herath to Rutherford , no run , too full from Herath there , Rutherford jams the drive to mid-wicket 7.2 Herath to Rutherford , no run , drags this one a little shortish and wide of off , Rutherford leaves 7.1 Herath to Rutherford , no run , pushed through quicker on off , Rutherford goes deep in the crease and blocks 6.6 Lakmal to Latham , no run , short of length delivery around off , Latham gets behind the line and defends solidly 6.5 Lakmal to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Latham stays on the back foot and blocks it into the off-side 6.5 Lakmal to Latham , wide , bumper which is a little too high , Latham ducks and the umpire exercises his arms to signal a wide 6.4 Lakmal to Latham , no run , full and outside off , Latham lifts his bat and lets it go 6.3 Lakmal to Latham , no run , bumper from Lakmal , Latham ducks under it 6.2 Lakmal to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Latham blocks off the back foot 6.1 Lakmal to Rutherford , 1 run , waits for this back of a length delivery and dabs it square of the wicket for a quick single 5.6 Herath to Latham , no run , touch flatter just outside off , Latham goes back and pushes it towards the cover region 5.5 Herath to Latham , no run , tossed up around off , Latham pushes at it , the ball takes a thickish outside edge , but does n't carry to the lone slip 5.4 Herath to Latham , no run , a loud shout for lbw , but the umpire is not interested , it was the slowed one just outside off , the ball misses the defensive push of the batsman and hits him on the back pad , but the impact was outside off , good decision from the umpire 5.3 Herath to Rutherford , 3 runs , shortish and wide outside off , Rutherford hangs back and cuts it to sweeper cover , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down 5.2 Herath to Rutherford , no run , floated up outside off , Rutherford punches it into the off-side A slip and a FSL in place 5.1 Herath to Rutherford , no run , tossed up around off , Rutherford defends it into the on-side Rangana Herath , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 4.6 Lakmal to Rutherford , 1 run , slightly back of a length outside off , Rutherford stays on the back foot and opens the face of the bat to guide it towards deep backward point 4.5 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , full outside off , Rutherford leaves it for the keeper 4.4 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , slightly back of a length and angled across on off , Rutherford covers the stumps and defends it back in the direction of the bowler 4.3 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , length delivery on off , Rutherford defends off the front foot 4.2 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , touch shortish and outside off , Rutherford wanted to cut , but was too close to his body , ends up chopping it towards short cover 4.1 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and around off , Rutherford covers the line and defends it into the off-side 3.6 Pradeep to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Latham goes on the back foot and blocks with a straight bat 3.5 Pradeep to Latham , 2 runs , fullish delivery just outside off , Latham comes on the front foot and pushes it gently square of the wicket , the batsmen had ample time to come back for the second 3.4 Pradeep to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery on top of off , Latham stays back and defends it into the off-side 3.3 Pradeep to Latham , no run , angling away outside off , Latham shoulders arms 3.2 Pradeep to Latham , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Latham defends it back towards the bowler from the crease 3.1 Pradeep to Latham , no run , on a good length and on middle stump line , Latham blocks it to the left of the bowler 2.6 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , bouncer to finish the over , Rutherford sways away from the line and lets it go 2.5 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , on middle and leg line , Rutherford stays back and works it to mid-wicket Back over the wicket now 2.4 Lakmal to Latham , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Latham hops in the crease and bunts it square of the wicket for a single 2.3 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a length and outside off , Latham leaves it alone 2.2 Lakmal to Latham , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Latham lifts his bat and lets it go 2.1 Lakmal to Rutherford , 1 run , strays on the pads this time , Rutherford clips it to fine leg and gets to the other end 1.6 Pradeep to Rutherford , 1 run , on a length and shaping in on middle , Rutherford pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge and goes wide of mid-on , the batsmen think about a second , but decide against it 1.5 Pradeep to Rutherford , 2 runs , shortish and wide outside off , Rutherford stays back and cuts it square of the wicket for a brace 1.4 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , in the channel outside off and goin away with the angle , Rutherford leaves 1.3 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , touch fuller this time and outside off , Rutherford shoulders arms Two slips and a gully in place 1.2 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , good delivery from Pradeep , it was just short of a good length and shapes away slighty outside off , Rutherford was playing at it , the ball goes past the outside edge 1.1 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , slightly wide outside off , Rutherford wanted to cut it square , but ca n't connect Nuwan Pradeep , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a length and just outside off , Latham leans forward and blocks it into the off-side 0.5 Lakmal to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery angled in just outside off , Latham was pushing at it , the ball comes back in enough and beats the inside edge there Comes round the wicket now 0.4 Lakmal to Latham , FOUR , touch shortish and outside off , Latham stays back and cuts it through the gap between gully and backward point , the fielder in the deep could n't cut it off as well , Latham gets off the mark 0.3 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and angled across off , Latham leaves it on the length , but the ball was n't too far away from the off stump 0.2 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and bowls this one wider of off , Latham does n't offer a shot Two slips and a gully in place 0.1 Lakmal to Latham , no run , fullish delivery with a hint of outswing outside off , Latham leaves it alone Latham and Rutherford are at the crease. Latham is on strike. Lakmal will open the attack The players are out in the middle. Lakmal will open the bowling and Latham will face him first up . Sangakkara constructed good lower order partnerships with the tail and helped Sri Lanka extend their lead to 135 runs. Now , the Lankan bowlers will come out and have a go at the Kiwi batsmen. They will definitely have their tail up now. Sangakkara has given them a platform to push for the win from here. Can the Lankan bowlers put the Black Caps batsmen under pressure ? Or will New Zealand 's batsmen show their mettle ? We will find out soon as New Zealand come out to bat for the second time . Now , Sangakkara is just one double ton behind Sir Donald Bradman 's record of 12 Test double centuries. Quite a feat to achieve , but the Lankan maestro was superb in this innings. He was on 33 at the start of the day and along with Chandimal , he stitched together a 130-run partnership to lift the visitors . With this Sri Lanka 's innings comes to an end. Considering how they were reeling at 78/5 at one stage , they have made a great comeback. Kumar Sangakkara , who failed in the first Test showed us all why he is considered as one of the greatest modern batsmen. Sangakkara bailed Sri Lanka out of trouble with his 11th Test double ton . 102.1 Craig to Lakmal , out Stumped ! ! Sanagakkara goes and now Lakmal follows. It was a slowish delivery outside off , Lakmal gave the charge and wanted to slog it out of the park , he misses and Watling also fails to collect the ball the first time he takes the bails off. Since , Lakmal was n't even looking back , Watling quickly picked the ball and took the off stump out of the ground. Had Lakmal tried getting back , he would have been not out , but now , he has to go. Lakmal st Watling b Craig 5 ( 26 ) [ 4s-1 ] Craig to Lakmal , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! Nuwan Pradeep , right handed bat , comes to the crease 101.6 Neesham to Sangakkara , out Caught by Boult ! ! Sanga is gone ! Great catch to dismiss him. All the Kiwi players shake hands with Kumar Sangakkara as he walks off the field. This could very well be his last Test match and the crowd gives him a standing ovation. Coming back to the wicket , it was shortish and wide , Sangakkara cuts it uppishly , Boult at backward point dives full length to his left and takes a sensational catch. Sanga smiles as he goes back to the pavilion. That was a great knock from Sangakkara. Sangakkara c Boult b Neesham 203 ( 306 ) [ 4s-18 6s-3 ] Neesham to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 101.5 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , way wide outside off , Sangakkara leaves it , the keeper dives to his left and collects 101.4 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , loopy full toss from Neesham , Sangakkara will feel that he should have put it away , ends up pushing it back towards the bowler 101.3 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , fullish outside off , Sangakkara drives it to long-off and declines a single 101.2 Neesham to Sangakkara , leg byes , 2 runs , angling down leg , Sangakkara ca n't tickle it fine , the ball rolls away fine after clipping the pad , the batsmen run for two leg byes 101.1 Neesham to Sangakkara , FOUR , that 's it , it 's a great 11th double ton for Sangakkara , it was fuller and outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it wide of mid-off , the ball races away to the fence , Sanga raises his bat to the applause and he has been magnificent in this innings James Neesham [ 10.0-0-38-2 ] is back into the attack Sanga is on 199 and Neesham will come onto bowl now 100.6 Craig to Lakmal , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Lakmal turns it to FSL , who dives to his right and stops the ball 100.5 Craig to Lakmal , no run , tossed up around off , Lakmal leans forward and blocks 100.4 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , touch flatter outside off , Sangakkara guides it to sweeper cover and gets to the other end 100.3 Craig to Sangakkara , SIX , gives the charge and this time he connects well with the loft , he launches it straight down the ground and moves to 198 100.2 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , floated up on off , Sangakkara lofts it high in the air , does n't get the required distance , McCullum runs across and puts in the dive while trying to catch that ball , but the ball justa bout evades him and Sanga survives 100.1 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , comes down the track and takes it on the full , whips it to deep square leg but does n't take a single 99.6 Doug Bracewell to Lakmal , no run , touch fuller and on off this time , Lakmal stays back and solidly blocks 99.5 Doug Bracewell to Lakmal , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Lakmal waits for it in the crease and guides it straight to gully 99.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , angling into the pads once again , Sangakkara clips it to deep mid-wicket and this time he takes a single 99.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , slower short ball from Bracewell , Sangakkara pulls it fine after rolling his wrists over it , the keeper goes after it and Sanga does n't take the single 99.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sangakkara stands tall and defends it into the off-side 99.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Sangakkara works it to deep mid-wicket , but does n't take the single on offer 98.6 Craig to Lakmal , no run , goes on the back foot and punches it to cover 98.5 Craig to Lakmal , no run , comes on the front foot and looks to defend , gets an inside edge which spoons over the short leg fielder , unlucky for New Zealand 98.4 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , skips down the track to this flighted delivery on off and works it to deep mid-wicket 98.3 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , gets forward and drives it to long-off 98.2 Craig to Sangakkara , 2 runs , drifting on the pads , Sangakkara sweeps it to fine leg for a brace 98.1 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , comes on the front foot and drives it firmly to mid-off 97.6 Doug Bracewell to Lakmal , no run , full and swinging away a touch outside off , Lakmal pokes and gets an outside edge which falls short of Craig at second slip 97.5 Doug Bracewell to Lakmal , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Lakmal is late on the pull and the ball goes through to the keeper 97.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , too full on middle and leg , Sangakkara gets forward and works it to deep mid-wicket to bring up the 50-run stand 97.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 2 runs , another fullish delivery on middle , Sangakkara gets forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket for yet another couple 97.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Sangakkara eases it to long-on 97.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 2 runs , makes room and caresses it to deep backward point for a brace 96.6 Craig to Lakmal , no run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Lakmal gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it over mid-on and does n't take a single 96.5 Craig to Lakmal , no run , comes on the front foot and blocks it towards cover 96.4 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , fullish on off , Sangakkara steers it to long-on for a run 96.3 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , shortens the length a touch , Sangakkara goes back and plays it with soft hands to the off-side 96.2 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Sangakkara drives it back to the bowler 96.1 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Sangakkara gets forward and blocks it to the off-side Drinks are on the field now 95.6 Doug Bracewell to Lakmal , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Lakmal gets forward and eases the drive to mid-off 95.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , short delivery on middle , Sangakkara rocks back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a run 95.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no ball , good short delivery on the stumps , Sangakkara misses out on the hook , but the Bracewell has overstepped here 95.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , very full outside leg , Sangakkara shuffles across and misses the glance 95.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , shuffles across to this full delivery and tucks it to deep square leg 95.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off , Sangakkara lofts it over mide-on , Baz chases and stops it with a brilliant dive and keeps them to two 95.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara drives it to extra cover 94.6 Craig to Lakmal , no run , flatter delivery on middle and leg , Lakmal comes forward and misses the defense , the ball lobs off the pads and goes to the leg-slip fielder 94.5 Craig to Sangakkara , 3 runs , skips down the track for this flighted delivery on middle and lofts it inside out over extra cover , they run well and come back comfortably for the third 94.4 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , goes on the back foot and dabs it to point 94.3 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , shortens the length a touch , Sangakkara goes back and guides it to point 94.2 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , fullish on middle , Sangakkara drives it to long-on , but does n't take the single 94.1 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Sangakkara lets it go to the keeper Mark Craig [ 13.0-3-41-0 ] is back into the attack 93.6 Doug Bracewell to Lakmal , no run , length delivery outside off , Lakmal leaves it alone 93.5 Doug Bracewell to Lakmal , no run , good length delivery around off , Lakmal comes on the front foot and blocks it solidly to the off-side 93.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , yet another fuller length delivery outside off , Sangakkara drives it to sweeper cover for a single 93.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , FOUR , fuller length wide outside off , Sangakkara leans forward , gets down on one knee and drives it over the cover fielder to the deep extra cover fence for back-to-back boundaries 93.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , FOUR , length delivery outside off , Sangakkara clears his front foot and lofts it over the mid-on fielder for another boundary. Sri Lanka now lead by 100 93.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , low full toss from round the wicket on off , Sangakkara drives it to mid-on Doug Bracewell [ 20.0-2-74-3 ] is back into the attack 92.6 Southee to Lakmal , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Lakmal jumps inside the crease and cuts it powerfully past the gully and the backward point fielder for a boundary 92.5 Southee to Lakmal , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Lakmal comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 92.4 Southee to Lakmal , no run , length ball outside off , Lakmal cuts it to point 92.3 Southee to Lakmal , no run , straighter delivery which shapes away a touch , Lakmal turns it to the on-side 92.2 Southee to Lakmal , no run , good length delivery shaping away just outside off , Lakmal without much foot movement pokes at it , gets a thick outisde edge which falls short of the first slip fielder as Watling dives to his right but it was far of him 92.1 Southee to Lakmal , no run , slower delivery down the leg-side , Lakmal misses the glance , the ball goes off the pad to the keeper 91.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery on off , Sangakkara defends it to the off-side 91.5 Boult to Sangakkara , SIX , short of length delivery outside off , Sangakkara waits for it and ramps it over the slips cordon , Southee at third man comes across and gets a hand to it but is not able to catch it and helps the ball over the ropes for a maximum 91.5 Boult to Sangakkara , wide , fuller length delivery very wide outside off , wide called by the umpire 91.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Sangakkara turns it to mid-wicket 91.3 Boult to Sangakkara , FOUR , fuller length delivery outside off , Sangakkara gets down on one knee and lofts it over cover for a superb boundary 91.2 Boult to Sangakkara , 2 runs , fuller length delivery swinging away a touch on middle , Sangakkara looks to go towards the on-side , gets a leading edge which flies square of the wicket on the off-side where Bracewell mis-fields and the batsmen take a couple 91.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Sangakkara pulls it straight to mid-on 90.6 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , short of length delivery around off , Sangakkara comes across and mistimes the pull to the vacant mid-wicket region to keep the strike 90.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , slower delivery outside off , Sangakkara makes room and looks to go over the off-side , but ca n't reach for the ball as the it dribbles to the keeper 90.4 Southee to Sangakkara , FOUR , slower short delivery down the leg-side , Sangakkara goes back and pulls it very fine to the fine leg fence for a boundary 90.3 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery outside off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and drives it on the up to long-off but does n't take the single 90.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sangakkara goes back and blocks it to the off-side 90.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara makes room and guides it to point 89.6 Boult to Lakmal , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Lakmal ducks under it 89.5 Boult to Lakmal , no run , fuller length delivery sliding down leg , Lakmal misses the glance , Watling does well to dive to his left and snaffles it 89.4 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery just o , Sangakkara makes room and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side to get to his 19th 150 plus score in Tests 89.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara skips down the track and swipes it to cover 89.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , makes room for this good length ball angling into him and punches it towards mid-off 89.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery around off , Sangakkara gets solidly behind the line and pushes it to the off-side 88.6 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara drives it to short cover to retain the strike 88.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , bumper on the the leg-stump , Sangakkara ducks underneath it 88.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Sangakkara cuts it to point 88.3 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , slower delivery just outside off , Sangakkara adjusts his shot and guides it to backward point 88.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sanga plays it with soft hands to the off-side 88.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , length ball swinging away outside off , Sangakkara drives it powerfully to covers 87.6 Boult to Lakmal , no run , length delivery around off , Lakmal comes forward and blocks it solidly back to the bowler 87.5 Boult to Lakmal , no run , another yorker length delivery on off , Lakmal blocks it back to the bowler 87.4 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , yorker length delivery on middle , Sangakkara lifts it over cover for a run 87.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery on middle , defended to the off-side 87.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , catch dropped short of length delivery outside off , Sangakkara looks to upper-cut it over the in-field , the ball flies to the third man fielder who shells a difficult chance , he dived forward , gets a hand to it but could n't snaffle it 87.1 Boult to Lakmal , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Lakmal makes room and cuts it through gully for a run 86.6 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , fuller and wider outside off , Sangakkara is unable to get bat on it 86.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Sangakkara digs it out to the off-side 86.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara dabs it to point 86.3 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , opens the face of the bat and guides it to gully 86.2 Southee to Sangakkara , 2 runs , fuller length delivery just around off , Sangakkara leans forward and launches it over long-on , mid-on goes back but is unable to get to it and the batsmen take a couple 86.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sangakkara goes back and defends it towards off-side Suranga Lakmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 85.6 Boult to Herath , out Caught by Watling ! ! Boult strikes in the third over after tea. This was a fuller length delivery sliding down the leg-side , Herath was struck in the crease and looks to glance it , gets the tiniest of edges which is snaffled up by Watling. New Zealand were successful in their review as there was a tiny spot on the Hot-Spot. Herath c Watling b Boult 15 ( 18 ) [ 4s-3 ] Boult to Herath , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! New Zealand have reviewed for a caught behind of Herath , Boult 's footing is fine , there 's no spike on the Snicko , but there 's a tiny spot on the Hot-Spot , the umpire has to change his decision and Herath is a goner . 85.5 Boult to Herath , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Herath comes forward and pushes at it and misses 85.4 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , yorker length delivery ends up as a low full-toss on the stumps , Sangakkara gets a leading edge to deep backward point 85.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Sangakkara comes acorss and defends it 85.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 85.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara stays back and guides it in the air , which falls short of the fielder at third man 84.6 Southee to Herath , no run , another fuller in-dipper from Southee , Herath is stuck inside the crease and looks to hoick it and misses , the ball goes past the inside edge of the bat and through to the keeper 84.5 Southee to Herath , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Herath blocks it to the off-side 84.4 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Sangakkara gets forward and clips it to backward square leg 84.3 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery swinging into the left-hander , Sangakkara comes forward and is beaten in the defense , the ball hits him on the thigh pad and rolls past the leg-stump 84.2 Southee to Herath , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Herath stays inside the crease and steers it in the air , wide of the fielder at third man for a run 84.1 Southee to Herath , no run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Herath jumps inside the crease and blocks it 83.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length delivery down the leg-side , Sangakkara misses the glance 83.6 Boult to Sangakkara , wide , bumper on the stumps , Sangakkara ducks underneath , the umpire signals wide as it was way over Sanga 's head 83.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery angling into the left-hander , Sangakkara stays inside the crease and dead bats it 83.4 Boult to Sangakkara , FOUR , fullish and just outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it in the air over the cover fielder for a superb boundary to get going after tea 83.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 83.2 Boult to Herath , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Herath goes back and pushes it in front of cover for a quick single 83.1 Boult to Herath , no run , fuller length delivery angling in , Herath comes forward and blocks it Welcome back for the final session 's play on day 2. Boult resumes the attack with three slips and two gullies in place.. . Can Sanga give Sri Lanka a hefty lead ? or will New Zealand crawl their way back ? Join us in a short while to find out . Sri Lanka scored 121 runs in this session and even though they lost the wickets of Chandimal and Dhammika , Sangakkara has continued his march. Sanga registered his 38th Test ton and looked at his belligerent best during the last few overs of the post-lunch session. Sri Lanka will now look to extend their lead beyond 100 , first thing after tea. All eyes will be on Sanga , who has started to accelerate after Chandimal got out . Tea , Day 2 : The Black Caps players congratulate Kumar Sangakkara as players walk off the field. Another session that has gone Sri Lanka 's way. They have managed to overhaul the Kiwi total and in fact , they now lead by 59 runs. Kumar Sangakkara has turned the game on its head and it 's Sri Lanka , who now hold a distinct advantage. The pitch also seems to have eased up and there are no demons as such . 82.6 Southee to Sangakkara , SIX , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara backs away and helps it on his way towards the third man fence , the ball carried the distance as well and that 's tea on day 2 82.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Sangakkara drops it into the off-side and thinks about a single , but the fielder was very close to the ball 82.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , bumper from Southee , Sangakkara ducks under it 82.3 Southee to Herath , 1 run , on a length outside off , Herath has a go at this one as well , he did n't time it well , but the ball goes over the cover region , the batsmen take one 82.2 Southee to Herath , FOUR , on a length and outside off , Herath gets drawn into the drive , but can only get an edge that flies over the slip cordon and crashes into the third man fence 82.1 Southee to Herath , no run , good inswinger from Southee , it was on a length and on middle stump line , Herath pushes at it , gets an inside edge onto the pad , the Kiwis thought that they had got their man , but the umpire was not interested Tim Southee [ 19.0-2-59-1 ] is back into the attack 81.6 Boult to Sangakkara , FOUR , another great shot from Sanga here , it was touch fullish and outside off , Sangakkara slices the drive between gully and backward point , the ball runs away to the fence 81.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , on a length and just outside off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and eases it to short cover 81.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery shaping away outside off , Sangakkara leaves 81.3 Boult to Sangakkara , FOUR , touch fuller outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and lofts the drive through the covers , the timing was superb and the ball raced away to the fence 81.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , bit of outswing there for Boult on this length delivery , Sangakkara pushes it to mid-off So , there is definitely some issue with the ball. The umpires are taking at look at it. The fourth umpire comes out with his briefcase and the ball has been changed again and it 's brand new . 81.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Sangakkara defends from the crease Trent Boult [ 18.0-3-44-1 ] is back into the attack Looks like Brendon McCullum is not happy with the new ball. Has it already gone out of shape ? The umpire gives it back to McCullum after a discussion 80.6 Southee to Herath , no run , on a length and around off and middle , Herath wanted to hoick it over mid-on , but mistimes it completely , the ball rolls away to the left of mid-on off the inside half of the bat 80.5 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery on leg , Sangakkara swivels and pulls it to fine leg for a single , Herath will face the last ball of this over 80.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery around off , Sangakkara bunts it down to mid-off 80.3 Southee to Sangakkara , 2 runs , overpitching outside off , Sangakkara drives it through the covers off the front foot , McCullum from mid-off gives chase and the batsmen take two 80.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , straying on the pads this time , Sangakkara works it towards mid-on 80.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Sangakkara defends it into the off-side Tim Southee will open the bowling with the new ball The new ball is due now. New Zealand will probably take it straightaway and yes , they have taken the new ball . 79.6 Neesham to Herath , no run , on a good length and outside off , Herath shoulders arms Comes round the wicket now 79.5 Neesham to Herath , no run , angles this one across the left-hander 's off stump , Herath leaves , but it was n't that far away from the pad s well as the off stump there 79.4 Neesham to Sangakkara , 1 run , touch shortish and wide outside off , Sangakkara cuts it to deep backward point 79.3 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , great delivery from Neesham , it was on a length and angling away just outside off , Sangakkara was pushing at it , the ball goes past the outside edge 79.2 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Sangakkara dabs it towards gully 79.2 Neesham to Sangakkara , wide , bumper outside off and over the batsman 's head , the umpire calls it a wide for height 79.1 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , angles this one across off , Sangakkara was looking to push at it , but pulls his bat back in time , the keeper collects the ball 78.6 Doug Bracewell to Herath , no run , length delivery around off , Herath moves across and looks to whack it hard , miscues it towards mid-on 78.5 Doug Bracewell to Herath , FOUR , another edge and another boundary for Herath , it was another length delivery outside off , Herath pokes at it away from his body , the ball takes the outside edge and goes in the gap between the second slip and gully 78.4 Doug Bracewell to Herath , FOUR , length delivery outside off , Herath was looking to drive off the front foot , he gets an outside edge that goes over the head of backward point and gully , the ball races away to the fence 78.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , slightly back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara guides it to deep backward point off the back foot , he ran the first one very quickly , but the second one would have been risky and Sangakkara decides against it 78.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , bowls this one well wide outside off , Sangakkara goes after it , but ca n't connect 78.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , wide , bumper down leg and way over the batsman 's head , wided by the umpire 78.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , FOUR , on a good length and angling into the batsman , Sangakkara gives the charge and swiped across the line , dispatching it to the long-on fence 77.6 Neesham to Herath , no run , slightly back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Herath was feeling for it , the ball goes past the outside edge Rangana Herath , left handed bat , comes to the crease 77.5 Neesham to Dhammika , out Caught by Watling ! ! Neesham picks the second wicket of the day. It was coming in with the angle on good length , there was extra bounce on that one as well , Dhammika could n't get out of the way and ends up nicking it to the keeper. Dhammika c Watling b Neesham 11 ( 25 ) [ 4s-1 ] Neesham to Dhammika , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 77.4 Neesham to Dhammika , no run, 77.3 Neesham to Dhammika , no run , yorker from Neesham , Prasad jams it out into the on-side 77.2 Neesham to Dhammika , no run , on a good length and outside off , Prasad lifts his bat and lets it go 77.1 Neesham to Sangakkara , 3 runs , length delivery angled across off , Sangakkara drives it through the covers on the up , the fielder from mid-off gives chase and hauls the ball back in time to save a run , it was a great shot from Sanga The lead is now 18 runs 76.6 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , no run , on a length and around off , Dhammika blocks off the front foot 76.5 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , FOUR , slightly back of a length outside off , Dhammika hangs back and guides it to the deep backwards point fence after opening the face of the bat 76.4 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , 2 runs , very full on the stumps , Prasad jams it out in front of mid-on , the fielder runs forward , but misfields in his attempt to get to the ball quickly , the batsmen take two 76.3 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Prasad sits under it 76.2 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , no run , length delivery wide outside off , Dhammika does n't offer a shot 76.1 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , no run , a little hint of away movement on this delivery in the channel outside off , Dhammika shoulders arms 75.6 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , short delivery this time , Sangakkara lines up for the pull , but gets an inside edge that hits him on the box , Sangakkara looked in some pain there 75.5 Neesham to Sangakkara , FOUR , another one that 's overpitched outside off , Sangakkara waits for it , he opens the face of the bat and gently guides it past backward point , the ball races away to the fence in a flash 75.4 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , full outside off , Sangakkara drives it wide of mid-off , where the fielder dives to his right and saves a certain boundary , good effort from the fielder there 75.3 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara stays back and dabs it towards gully after opening the face of the bat 75.2 Neesham to Sangakkara , FOUR , full and wide outside off , Sangakkara slices the drive to the deep backward point fence , collects four 75.1 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , angling in from just outside off , Sangakkara leaves as the ball was not coming back enough to hit the off stump , good leave that from Sanga 74.6 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Dhammika punches it to the left of point , but the batsmen decide to not take the single there 74.5 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , no run , length delivery closer to the off stump line , Dhammika covers the line and blocks solidly 74.4 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , no run , very full just outside off , Dhammika squeezes it out into the on-side 74.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , fullish outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it square of the wicket for a single 74.2 Doug Bracewell to Dhammika , 1 run , dropped by McCullum ! IT was on a length outside off , Dhammika leans forward and drives uppishly to McCullum at mid-off and the Kiwi captain floors a very easy chance 74.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , full outside off , Sangakkara squeezes the drive to mid-off and the batsmen run through for a quick single Doug Bracewell [ 17.0-2-51-3 ] is back into the attack Sangakkara has been warned for running on the pitch. However , it was not an official warning 73.6 Neesham to Sangakkara , 3 runs , on a good length and outside off , Sangakkara drives it through the covers , a little uppishly , but in the gap. The batsmen take three and Sri Lanka go past the Kiwi total and now lead by a run 73.5 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery angling into the batsman , Sangakkara stays rooted to the crease and defends 73.4 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , full and little wide outside off , Sangakkara takes a good stride forward and drives to short cover 73.3 Neesham to Dhammika , 1 run , on the pads this time , Dhammika whips it to fine leg off the inside half of the bat 73.2 Neesham to Dhammika , no run , bumper at the batsman , Dhammika just about manages to sway away from the line , the keeper collects 73.1 Neesham to Dhammika , no run , fuller outside off , Dhammika leans forward and drives it to mid-off Coming back to Sanga 's ton , this is the third time he has scored a Test century in New Zealand. Also , his second ton at Wellington . 72.6 Craig to Dhammika , 1 run , on the pads this time , Dhammika tucks it away behind square and will keep the strike as the batsmen take a single 72.5 Craig to Sangakkara , 3 runs , shortish and wide outside off , Sangakkara hangs back and cuts it to the deep backward point fence , the batsmen take three and Sanga reaches his 38th Test ton with that shot 72.4 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , a little flatter just around off , Sangakkara waits for it and gently guides it behind square on the off-side 72.3 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , touch quicker and on off , Sangakkara leans forward and dead-bats it 72.2 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , floated up just outside off , Sangakkara defends it into the off-side off the front foot 72.1 Craig to Sangakkara , 2 runs , tossed up outside off , Sangakkara punch-drives it past a diving short cover and gets back for the second run 71.6 Neesham to Dhammika , no run , touch shorter and wide outside off , Dhammika goes after it , but only connects with thin air there 71.5 Neesham to Dhammika , no run , fullish just outside off , Dhammika drives it to mid-off 71.4 Neesham to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Sangakkara stays back and turns it to short mid-wicket , the batsmen cross over 71.4 Neesham to Sangakkara , 1 run , to short mid wicket 71.3 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , touch fuller and angled in on off and middle , Sangakkara eases it down to mid-on 71.2 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery around off , Sangakkara pushes it to the left of the bowler 71.1 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , bowls this one in the channel outside off , Sangakkara shoulders arms 70.6 Craig to Dhammika , no run , quicker one on the pads , there was a loud appeal as the ball spins back in , clips the thigh pad on its way to the fielder at leg slip , the umpire was not interested though 70.5 Craig to Dhammika , 2 runs , tossed up outside off , Dhammika drives through the cover off the front foot , the batsmen take two 70.4 Craig to Dhammika , no run , pushed through around off , Prasad stays back and blocks with a straight bat 70.3 Craig to Dhammika , no run , floated up outside off and turning back in towards the batsman , Dhammika pushes forwar , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 70.2 Craig to Dhammika , no run , touch flatter outside off , Dhammika defends off the back foot 70.1 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , darted on leg , Sangakkara eases it to mid-on and gets to the other end Dhammika Prasad , right handed bat , comes to the crease 69.6 Neesham to Chandimal , out Caught by Watling ! ! Finally Neesham breaks this crucial partnership of 130 runs. This was a fuller length delivery little wide outside off , Chandimal comes on the front foot and chases at it , gets a faint nick which is snaffled up by Watling. Superb innings from Chandimal comes to an end and it 's time for drinks. Chandimal c Watling b Neesham 67 ( 143 ) [ 4s-8 ] Neesham to Chandimal , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 69.5 Neesham to Sangakkara , 1 run , another fuller length delivery on middle , Sangakkara punches it to mid-on for a quick single 69.4 Neesham to Sangakkara , FOUR , fullish on middle and off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot , presents the full face of the bat and drives it to the long-on fence for a magnificent boundary 69.3 Neesham to Sangakkara , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara steers it away to third man for a brace 69.2 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery aroun off , Sangakkara goes back and defends it to the off-side With that four in the previous over Chandimal completed 1000 runs in Tests 69.1 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery outside off , Sangakkara shoulders arms James Neesham [ 4.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 68.6 Craig to Chandimal , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it solidly to the on-side 68.5 Craig to Chandimal , no run , goes back and defends it to the off-side 68.4 Craig to Chandimal , no run , floated outside off , Chandimal leaves it alone 68.3 Craig to Chandimal , FOUR , tossed up delivery just outside off , Chandimal leans forward , gets down on one knee and sweeps it in the air to the left of the the diving backward square leg fielder for a boundary 68.2 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , tossed up delivery on the middle , Sangakkara leans forward and sweeps it to the right of to the backward square leg fielder for a quick single 68.1 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , flighted delivery drifting down the leg , Sangakkara sweeps it to short fine leg 67.6 Southee to Chandimal , no run , fullish in length just outside off , Chandimal gets well forward as he defends it to short cover 67.5 Southee to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Chandimal comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side 67.4 Southee to Chandimal , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on off , Chandimal is squared up as the ball goes off the outside half of the bat square of the wicket on the off-side for a couple 67.3 Southee to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Chandimal goes back and defends it to the off-side 67.2 Southee to Chandimal , no run , on a length outside off , Chandimal lifts his bat and lets it go 67.1 Southee to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery on off , Chandimal drives it straight to short cover 66.6 Craig to Chandimal , 1 run , tossed up delivery on middle , Chandimal goes back and works it to backward square leg 66.5 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and drives it to long-off 66.4 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Sangakkara gets forward and drives it to the right of bowler , who gets across and stops it 66.3 Craig to Chandimal , 1 run , leans forward and tucks it to square leg for a run 66.2 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , skips down the track and drives it inside out to long-off 66.1 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Sangakkara turns it to short mid-wicket 65.6 Southee to Chandimal , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Chandimal leans forward for the drive and gets beaten for the umpteenth time 65.5 Southee to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery outside off , Chandimal comes forward and blocks it to mid-off 65.4 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , yorker length delivery on middle , Sangakkara gets forward and eases it to mid-on 65.3 Southee to Sangakkara , 2 runs , fuller length delivery wide outside off , Sangakkara gets down on one knee and drives it to sweeper cover for a brace 65.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara shoulders arms 65.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Sangakkara gets forward and pushes it to mid-off Tim Southee [ 17.0-2-54-1 ] is back into the attack Southee replaces Boult in the attack as the umpires check the about the state of the ball again , looks like they are happy with it as Southee runs in 64.6 Craig to Chandimal , no run , floated on off , Chandimal gets forward and pushes it to the left of the bowler , who goes across and stops it 64.5 Craig to Chandimal , no run , short delivery wide outside off , Chandimal chases for the cut and misses 64.4 Craig to Chandimal , FOUR , tossed up delivery outside off , Chandimal comes forward , gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it beautifully to the deep mid-wicket fence for a boundary 64.3 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flighted delivery and turning in a touch from outside off , Chandimal comes forward and misses the defence , the ball rolls to the on-side off his pads 64.2 Craig to Chandimal , no run , floated delivery wide outside off , Chandimal leaves it alone 64.1 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , shorter delivery around off , Sangakkara goes back and dabs it to point 63.6 Boult to Sangakkara , 3 runs , another fuller length delivery outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it between cover and mid-off , Baz chases from mid-off and saves a run for his team 63.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go 63.4 Boult to Sangakkara , 2 runs , fullish on middle , Sangakkara comes on the front foot , presents the full face of the bat and punches it past the bowler for a brace to bring up the 100-run stand 63.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , much fuller this time on middle , Sangakkara presses forward and drives it to mid-on 63.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , on a length angled into the left-hander , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and pushes it back to the bowler 63.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery around off , Sangakkara blocks it off the front foot to cover 62.6 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Chandimal gets forward and blocks it to cover 62.5 Craig to Chandimal , no run , tossed up delivery very full outside off , Chandimal looks to sweep and misses , the ball goes off the boot to the off-side 62.4 Craig to Chandimal , no run , fullish on off and middle , Chandimal turns it to mid-wicket 62.3 Craig to Chandimal , no run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Chandimal comes on the front foot and blocks it 62.2 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flighted delivery on off , Chandimal leans forward and works it to mid-wicket 62.1 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flatter delivery on off , Chandimal comes forward and defends it back to the bowler 61.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Sangakkara defends it back to the bowler 61.5 Boult to Sangakkara , FOUR , quicker short delivery around off , Sangakkara rocks back and pulls it in front of square on the on-side past Bracewell for a boundary 61.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery angling into the left-hander , Sangakkara blocks it to the off-side 61.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , on a length just outside off , Sangakkara trusts the bounce on the wicket as he leaves that alone 61.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length ball shaping away a touch outside off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 61.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go 60.6 Craig to Chandimal , no run , floated wide outside off , Chandimal is not interested in playing those 60.5 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flighted delivery turning in from off , Chandimal leans forward and tucks it to short fine leg 60.4 Craig to Chandimal , no run , fullish on middle , Chandimal comes forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 60.3 Craig to Chandimal , no run , shortens the length a touch , Chandimal cuts it to point 60.2 Craig to Chandimal , no run , floated outside off , Chandimal pads it to first slip 60.1 Craig to Chandimal , no run , shorter and just wide enough to cut , Chandimal guides it to point 59.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , fullish around off , Sangakkara presses forward and checks his drive to mid-off 59.5 Boult to Sangakkara , 2 runs , fuller length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara opens the face of the bat and runs it to square third man for a brace 59.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , touch fuller on off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it to mid-off 59.3 Boult to Chandimal , 1 run , short of length delivery on the hips , Chandimal helps it along the ground to fine leg 59.2 Boult to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Chandimal lifts his bat and lets it go 59.1 Boult to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Chandimal was struck in the crease and was looking to push at it , gets beaten again 58.6 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , floated on the leg-stump line , Sangakkara comes forward and turns it FSL 58.5 Craig to Chandimal , 1 run , flatter on off , Chandimal punches it to long-on 58.4 Craig to Chandimal , no run , floated outside off , Chandimal moves across and pushes it back to the bowler 58.3 Craig to Chandimal , 2 runs , short and wide outside off , Chandimal rocks back and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side , where Bracewell dives to his left and saves a run 58.2 Craig to Chandimal , no run , stays inside the crease and turns it to the on-side 58.1 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , goes back and punches it to cover point 57.6 Boult to Chandimal , no run , beaten again ! This was a good length delivery angled across the right-hander , Chandimal comes on the front foot and pushes at it and misses 57.5 Boult to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery angled across , Chandimal blocks it back to the bowler 57.4 Boult to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Chandimal lifts his bat and lets it go 57.3 Boult to Chandimal , no run , very full outside off , Chandimal drives it back to the bowler 57.2 Boult to Chandimal , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Chandimal leans forward and drives it to the left of short-cover who dives and stops it 57.1 Boult to Chandimal , 2 runs , back of a length delivery angled across the right-hander , Chandimal goes back and looks to defend , gets squared up and the ball runs off the outside edge of the bat past the backward point fielder to get to his 6th Test fifty in a streaky fashion 56.6 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , flighted delivery drifting in on middle , Sangakkara blocks it to the right of the bowler 56.5 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , floated outside off , left alone 56.4 Craig to Chandimal , 1 run , comes on the front foot and works it to square leg 56.3 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flatter delivery turning in a touch from outside off , Chandimal comes forward and nudges it to the on-side 56.2 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flatter delivery outside off , Chandimal leaves it alone 56.1 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Chandimal leans forward and turns it to short fine leg 55.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , play and miss ! This was a good length delivery shaping away outside off , Sangakkara pushes at it and gets beaten 55.5 Boult to Chandimal , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Chandimal stays inside the crease and works it to square leg for a quick single 55.4 Boult to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Chandimal shoulders arms 55.3 Boult to Chandimal , no run , bit fullish just outside off , Chandimal presses forward and defends it to the on-side 55.2 Boult to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery angled across the right-hander , Chandimal comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side 55.1 Boult to Chandimal , no run , angled away from outside off , Chandimal leans forward and looks to drive , gets beaten Trent Boult [ 13.0-3-29-1 ] is back into the attack Boult will start from the other end , he has three slips and a gully in place 54.6 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Sangakkara gets forward and defends it to short cover 54.5 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , floated outside off , left alone 54.4 Craig to Chandimal , 1 run , short and touch wide outside off , Chandimal goes back and cuts it to the right of the point fielder for a run 54.3 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , shortens the length a touch , Sangakkara rocks back and cuts it to deep point 54.2 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , floated on middle and leg , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 54.1 Craig to Chandimal , 1 run , fullish on middle , Chandimal comes forward and turns it to short fine leg Welcome back... Craig will resume with a slip in place Lunch on Day 2 : Sanga and Chandimal have done really well to add 81 runs without losing a wicket in this session. Sanga went onto register his 52nd Test fifty and Chandimal is looking in good touch after struggling a bit with his timing at the start of his innings. New Zealand bowlers toiled hard and were constantly asking questions , especially to Chandimal , but nothing has gone their way. Sri Lanka are now just 62 runs behind and are currently in the driver 's seat. Join us in a short while to find out whether they can go past the Kiwi total . 53.6 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , FOUR , full and wide outside off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and drives it in the air past the diving point fielder for a boundary. And that 's lunch . 53.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sangakkara defends it to cover 53.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 2 runs , fullish on middle , Sangakkara leans forward and flicks it past the mid-on fielder for a brace 53.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , bumper on the stumps , Sangakkara ducks under it 53.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go 53.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Sangakkara pushes it to mid-on 52.6 Craig to Chandimal , no run , this was a flighted delivery turning in from outside off , Chandimal comes on the front foot and pads it away to the off-side , McCullum went for a review as the batsman did n't offer a shot , but the ball was going over the off-stump as NZ lose a review McCullum has reviewed for an LBW against Chandimal , Craig 's footing is fine , Chandimal did n't offer a shot so the NZ skipper went for the review , Hawk-Eye says it would have missed the off-stump. Chandimal is safe 52.5 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flatter delivery outside off , left alone by Chandimal 52.4 Craig to Chandimal , 2 runs , tossed up delivery outside off , Chandimal leans forward and sweeps it to fine leg for a brace 52.3 Craig to Chandimal , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Chandimal presses forward and plays inside the line 52.2 Craig to Chandimal , FOUR , flatter delivery outside off , Chandimal gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it to the deep mid-wicket fence for a boundary 52.1 Craig to Chandimal , no run , tossed up delivery outside off , Chandimal watches it go through to the keeper 51.6 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara goes back and cuts it to deep point for a couple 51.5 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Chandimal works it off his pads to mid-wicket 51.4 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , bumper on the stumps , Chandimal ducks under it 51.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara defends it with an angled bat to point 51.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , on a length around off , Sangakkara gets forward and drives it straight to short-cover 51.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara comes forward and drives it to short-cover 50.6 Craig to Chandimal , 2 runs , flighted delivery on middle and off , Chandimal gets down on one knee and sweeps it to fine leg 50.5 Craig to Sangakkara , 1 run , shortish delivery outside off , Sangakkara goes back and cuts it to deep backward point 50.4 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , floated on off , Sangakkara drives to the right of the boeler , who dives and stops it 50.3 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up on off , Sangakkara leans forward and defends it to the off-side 50.2 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , oohhh ! This was the arm-ball from Craig , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and was looking to defend , goes past the inside edge which goes to the keeper 50.1 Craig to Chandimal , 1 run , flatter delivery turning in to the right-hander , Chandimal gets down on one knee and looks to sweep , manages to get a glove on it , which goes past the leg-stump , past the keeper to fine leg for a run 49.6 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , another back of a length delivery from outside off , Sangakkara is happy to let that go to the keeper 49.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery angling in from outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go Comes round the wicket now 49.4 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Chandimal goes back and tucks it to fine leg for a run 49.4 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , wide , bumper on the stumps , Chandimal ducks underneath it , but it was way over Chandimal 's head , wide called by the ump 49.3 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , bumper outside off , Chandimal ducks under it 49.2 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , fullish just outside off , Chandimal leans forward and drives it back to the bowler 49.1 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Chandimal comes forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 48.6 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up delivery turning away outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and looks to drive , gets an inside egde which rolls to the on-side 48.5 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , fullish on middle and leg , Sangakkara turns it to square leg 48.4 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , shortens the length a touch , Sangakkara goes back and punches it to cover 48.3 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , flatter delivery turning away from the left-hander , Sangakkara gets forward and gets an outside edge to the off-side 48.2 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Sangakkara leaves it alone 48.1 Craig to Sangakkara , no run , full and drifting on the pads , Sangakkara pushes it to square leg Mark Craig , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Spin for the first time in this innings in the form of Craig. He has a slip and a FSL in place 47.6 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , short of good length delivery outside off , Chandimal lifts his bat and lets it go 47.5 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery on off , Chandimal blocks it back to the bowler 47.4 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , oh yet again Chandimal gets beaten ! This was a good length delivery nipping back into the right-hander , Chandimal came forward and was looking to defend , the ball goes past the inside the edge of the bat 47.3 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Chandimal goes back and defends it to the on-side 47.2 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , bumper on the stumps , Chandimal ducks underneath 47.1 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Chandimal presses forward and pushes it to mid-on Doug Bracewell [ 13.0-1-39-3 ] is back into the attack Bracewell changes ends as he replaces Southee 46.6 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , short and wide outside off , Sangakkara lets it go through to the keeper 46.5 Neesham to Chandimal , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Chandimal helps it along to fine leg for a run 46.4 Neesham to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery around off , Chandimal comes on the front foot and defends it to cover 46.3 Neesham to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery on middle , Chandimal turns it to mid-wicket 46.2 Neesham to Chandimal , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on the pads , Chandimal presses forward and clips it off his pads past the square leg fielder for a brace 46.1 Neesham to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery on off , Chandimal gets forward and pushes it to square leg 45.6 Southee to Chandimal , 1 run , full and straight on middle and leg , Chandimal leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 45.5 Southee to Chandimal , no run , bumper on the stumps , Chandimal ducks under it 45.4 Southee to Chandimal , no run , beaten ! This was another good length delivery shaping away a touch outside off , Chandimal was in two minds whether to leave it or not , ends up getting beaten 45.3 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Sangakkara comes forward and works it to mid-on for a run 45.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , on a length outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go 45.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , straighter delivery on middle , Sangakkara turns it to mid-wicket 44.6 Neesham to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery outside off , left alone by Chandimal 44.5 Neesham to Chandimal , FOUR , overpitches this one outside off , Chandimal leans forward and goes for the drive , gets a thickish outside egde , which dribbles past the slip and the gully fielder for a boundary 44.4 Neesham to Chandimal , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Chandimal watches the ball go through to the keeper 44.3 Neesham to Chandimal , no run , short and wide outside off , Chandimal chases at it and gets beaten 44.2 Neesham to Chandimal , no run , short of good length delivery nipping back into the right-hander , Chandimal misses the flick and is hit high on the thigh pad 44.1 Neesham to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery wide outside off , Chandimal shoulders arms James Neesham [ 2.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack Neesham replaces Bracewell in the attack , the umpires checks the shape of the ball , they are happy with it and they will continue 43.6 Southee to Chandimal , 1 run , full and straying on the pads , Chandimal helps it along the ground to fine leg. That single also brings up the 50-run stand between these two 43.5 Southee to Chandimal , no run , bowls this one wider from the crease on off , Chandimal comes forward and looks to defend , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat to square leg 43.4 Southee to Chandimal , no run , fullish on off , Chandimal comes on the front foot and blocks it back to the bowler 43.3 Southee to Chandimal , no run , play and miss ! This was a good length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Chandimal leans forward and looks to drive but misses 43.2 Southee to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Chandimal stays inside the crease and punches it to cover 43.1 Southee to Chandimal , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Chandimal lifts his bat and lets it go 42.6 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , angled in from round the wicket , Sangakkara comes forward and pushes it back to the bowler 42.5 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Chandimal tucks it to square leg for a single 42.4 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , FOUR , beautiful shot , fuller length delivery on off , Chandimal leans forward and drives it to the left of the mid-on fielder for a magnificent boundary 42.3 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery outside off , Chandimal shoulders arms 42.2 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , huge shout for lbw but the umpire is unmoved. This was a fuller length delivery nipping back into the right-hander , Chandimal comes forward and was looking to defend , misses and is it outside the line of off-stump 42.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Sangakkara goes back and works it to short mid-wicket 41.6 Southee to Chandimal , no run , bumper on the stumps , Chandimal ducks underneath 41.5 Southee to Chandimal , FOUR , fuller length delivery straying on the pads , Chandimal leans forward and flicks it to the deep square leg fence for a boundary 41.4 Southee to Chandimal , no run , another fuller length delivery outside off , Chandimal comes forward and watches the ball go through to the keeper 41.3 Southee to Chandimal , no run , fullish on off , Chandimal gets forward and pushes it to cover 41.2 Southee to Chandimal , no run , good length ball on off , Chandimal comes forward and defends it to the right of the bowler 41.1 Southee to Chandimal , no run , back of a length outside off , Chandimal jumps inside the crease and punches it to point Drinks are on the field now 40.6 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , good delivery to end the over , it was slightly back of a length and just outside off , Sangakkara was pushing at it , but could n't connect , the ball hit him on the thigh pad 40.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Sangakkara pushes at it with an angular bat , the ball rolls away towards gully and Sanga ca n't go through with the single 40.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , outside off again and once again fuller in length , Sangakkara leaves 40.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , fullish outside off , Sangakkara drives hard , but Neesham at short cover dives to his right and makes a good stop , the ball went to him in a flash , good fielding there 40.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , in the channel outside off and shapes in after pitching , Sangakkara leaves 40.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off , Sangakkara drives it through the cover region off the front foot , Sanga slipped at the non-striker 's end and hence , they could only take two there Bracewell comes round the wicket now 39.6 Southee to Chandimal , no run , length delivery outside off , Chandimal comes on the front foot and knocks it into the covers , the batsmen think about a single , but a loud 'No ' call from Chandimal meant that thewy wo n't take it 39.5 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , touch too straight from Southee , Sangakkara works it to square leg for a single 39.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery outside off , Sangakkara leaves this one 39.3 Southee to Sangakkara , FOUR , great shot from Sanga there , brings up his 52nd Test fifty with that boundary , it was fullish just outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and caresses the dive past a diving McCullum at cover 39.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Sangakkara takes a step forward and blocks it back to the bowler 39.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery on off , Sangakkara leans forward and pushes it to mid-off Tim Southee [ 13.0-2-42-1 ] is back into the attack McCullum is back on the field now 38.6 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , bumper outside off , Chandimal ducks under it Brendon McCullum is off the field. Kane Williamson is the acting captain in his absence 38.5 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , full outside off , Chandimal was looking to drive it through the off-side , gets an inside edge that rolls away into the leg-side 38.4 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , length delivery around off , Chandimal moves across and turns it into the on-side 38.3 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , touch fuller and little wide outside off , Chandimal moves forward and across , he drives it back towards the bowler off the inside half of the bat 38.2 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , slightly shortish and wide outside off , Chandimal hangs back and cuts , the fielder at backward point hangs his left hand out and stops the ball 38.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , fullish around off , Sangakkara squeezes it out towards cover and gets to the other end 37.6 Boult to Chandimal , no run , angling away outside off , Chandimal is happy to leave it alone 37.5 Boult to Chandimal , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Chandimal pushes at it , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and runs away in the gap between gully and backward point , the batsmen takw two 37.4 Boult to Chandimal , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Chandimal blocks it into the leg-side 37.3 Boult to Chandimal , no run , full and a little wide outside off , Chandimal does n't get drawn into playing away from his body , lets it go this time 37.2 Boult to Chandimal , no run , bouncer from Boult , Chandimal ducks under it 37.1 Boult to Sangakkara , 3 runs , angling into the pads , Sangakkara works it uppishly past a diving Latham at short mid-wicket , the ball slows down before the boundary and the batsmen take three 36.6 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , splays this one on the pad , Sangakkara works it away to fine leg off his hip , he will keep the strike 36.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , on a length and around middle stump line , Sangakkara eases it into the on-side 36.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , wide , bumper from Bracewell , Sangakkara sways away from the line , but it was way too high anyway , wided by the umpire 36.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , angled across on off , Sangakkara leaves as the ball was not very close to the stumps 36.3 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , 1 run , full outside off , Chandimal drives it through the covers off the front foot , McCullum from mid-off gives chase and keeps the batsman down to a single , good fielding there from the Kiwi captain 36.2 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , slighlty back of a length delivery outside off , Chandimal pushes it into the off-side 36.1 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Chandimal punches it into the on-side 35.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , touch fuller outside off , Sangakkara does n't offer a shot 35.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , in the channel outside off , Sangakkara leaves it alone 35.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery on off , Sangakkara blocks 35.3 Boult to Sangakkara , 2 runs , overpitching down leg , Sangakkara works it behind square on the on-side and gets back for the second , this couple also brings up 100 on the board for Sri Lanka 35.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Sangakkara covers the line and blocks solidly 35.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Sangakkara blocks it into the leg-side 34.6 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , fullish outside off , Chandimal drives away from his body and finds cover 34.5 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery angling into the batsman , Chandimal punches it in front of mid-on 34.4 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Chandimal was looking to drive , the ball goes past the inside edge and through to the keeper 34.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , fuller in length and on the pads , Sangakkara clips it to deep square leg and gets to the other end 34.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and angled across off , Sangakkara gets behind the line and defends Three slips and a gully in place 34.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara blocks it into the off-side Doug Bracewell [ 8.0-1-26-3 ] is back into the attack Bracewell replaces Southee in the attack 33.6 Boult to Chandimal , no run , angling away outside off , Chandimal shoulders arms 33.5 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , Sanga drops his wrists on that and pushes it in front of cover , he calls for a single , McCullum picks the ball and has a shy at the striker 's end , but the batsman was well in 33.4 Boult to Chandimal , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Chandimal tucks it away to backward square leg after going back in the crease , Chandimal slips , but gets up quickly to get to the other end 33.3 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , length delivery on off , Sangakkara drops it in front of cover and sets off for a single , McCullum at cover did n't pick the ball cleanly , if he had picked it cleanly and had a shy at the stumps , it would have been very close 33.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and angling into the batsman , Sangakkara pushes it to mid-on 33.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , on a length and on off and middle , Sangakkara bunts it to mid-on , the batsmen think about a single , but Sanga says no after seeing that the fielder was very close to the ball 32.6 Southee to Chandimal , FOUR , very full on the pads , Chandimal flicks it behind square on the on-side , Boult from fine leg runs across to stop the ball from reaching the fence , but makes a mess of it , Chandimal collects four 32.5 Southee to Chandimal , no run , length delivery angling in on off , Chandimal blocks it back to the bowler 32.4 Southee to Chandimal , no run , slightly wider outside off this time , Chandimal leaves 32.3 Southee to Chandimal , no run , peach of a delivery from Southee ! it was angled into the batsman , Chandimal was looking to work it into the on-side with the angle , the ball pitched and shapes away , beating Chandimal all ends up , it ws very close to the off stump as well , but just went over 32.2 Southee to Chandimal , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Chandimal comes forward and knocks it into the on-side 32.1 Southee to Chandimal , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Chandimal turns it to mid-wicket 31.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good probing line from Boult , it was on a length and moves away off the seam outside off , Sangakkara does n't offer a shot 31.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , fuller in length and shaping away outside off , Sangakkara puts his front foot forward and shoulders arms 31.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , bouncer from Boult , Sangakkara sits underneath 31.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , in the channel outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and leaves 31.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , full delivery angling in on off , Sangakkara bunts it straight at the stumps at the other end , the batsmen ca n't take a single there 31.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , full outside off , Sangakkara went for the expansive drive through the off-side with laden feet , could n't connect though 30.6 Southee to Chandimal , no run , length delivery outside off , the ball shapes away a little as Chandimal pushes at it off the front foot , goes past the outside edge there 30.5 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , banged in a little short and at the batsman , Sangakkara swivels and pulls it to deep square leg 30.4 Southee to Chandimal , 1 run , Chandimal could have been run-out there , it was on the pads , Chandimal tucked it away to the corner and was charging back for the second , but Sanga was n't interested , the throw from the deep was at the striker 's end , had it been at the non-striker 's end , it could have been very close 30.3 Southee to Chandimal , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Chandimal hops in the crease and cuts it late through the gap between gully and backward point , gets four for that 30.2 Southee to Chandimal , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Chandimal comes on the front foot and blocks 30.1 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Sangakkara was looking to drive it through the off-side off the front foot , the ball shaped back in a touch , it squirts off the inside edge and rolls away towards square leg 29.6 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara punches it wide of point and sets off for a single , he will keep the strike 29.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , short of length delivery around off , Sangakkara stands tall in the crease and blocks solidly 29.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , straying on the pads this time , Sangakkara flicks it to mid-wicket 29.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on middle stump line , Sangakkara turns it towards mid-wicket 29.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery angling into the batsman , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and bunts it past the non-striker , mid-on fields 29.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , slightly back of a length and around off , Sangakkara stays back and defends 28.6 Southee to Sangakkara , 1 run , touch fuller and outside off , Sangakkara drives it towards the cover region , where McCullum puts in the dive , but ca n't prevent the batsmen from taking the single Back over the wicket 28.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , full outside off and angling in towards the batsman , Sangakkara leaves as the ball was never coming back enough to hit the stumps 28.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery closer to the off stump this time , Sangakkara defends it into the off-side 28.3 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and coming back in from outside off , Sangakkara does n't offer a shot Comes round the wicket 28.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , down the leg-side , Sangakkara did n't really try to connect with it , the keeper collects 28.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery angling away outside off , Sangakkara leaves 27.6 Boult to Sangakkara , leg byes , 1 run , straying on the pads , Sangakkara ca n't glance it fine , the batsmen run for a leg bye as the ball rolls away into the on-side 27.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , almost played it back on there , it was a back of a length delivery angling into the pads , Sangakkara failed to work it into the on-side and wears it on his pad , the ball dribbles away back on the track and was very close to hitting the stump , before Sanga used his bat to push it away , it could have been mighty close 27.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara comes foward and blocks it back to the bowler 27.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go 27.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , touch fuller in length this time , Sangakkara pushes it to the right of the bowler Three slips and a gully in place 27.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sangakkara was feeling for the ball and the ball goes past the outside edge and through to the keeper Trent Boult [ 7.0-1-18-1 ] is back into the attack Trent Boult replaces Doug Bracewell 26.6 Southee to Chandimal , no run , bumper from Southee to end the over , Chandimal ducks under it 26.5 Southee to Chandimal , no run , fullish and just outside off , Chandimal comes on the front foot and bunts it back towards the bowler 26.4 Southee to Chandimal , no run , fullish delivery a little wide outside off , Chandimal reaches out for it and drives it to cover , Chandimal played that shot well away from his body and on this pitch , it could be dangerous 26.3 Southee to Chandimal , no run , length delivery outside off , Chandimal comes forward and blocks it solidly 26.2 Southee to Chandimal , no run , on a good length and shaping away outside off , Chandimal punches it in front of cover Three slips and a gully in place 26.1 Southee to Chandimal , no run , in the channel outside off , Chandimal is happy to leave it for the keeper 25.6 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , 3 runs , on the pads this time , Chandimal tucks it away through mid-wicket and the batsmen take three before the ball is fielded 25.5 Doug Bracewell to Chandimal , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Chandimal stays back and defends it into the off-side It 's bright and sunny out there. The players are walking out to the middle. Bracewell will finish his over from yesterday. Dinesh Chandimal will be the new batsman . Sri Lankan hopes will be pinned on their legendary batsman Kumar Sangakkara , who is currently batting at 33. During his stay at the crease , Sanga also became the fastest batsman to go past 12000 Test runs. Can Sanga lift his team from this perilous position ? Or will the Kiwis conitnue to make merry and run through the final five wickets ? Live action follows in a short while. Stay tuned . However , Sri Lanka let the advantage slip as New Zealand made a rousing comeback into the game through their bowlers. Bracewell , who was picked ahead of Wagner for this Test , stood up to the expectations , picking up 3 wickets yesterday. In the final over of the day , Bracewell got the wicket of Prasanna Jayawardene , reducing Sri Lanka to 78/5 . Hello and welcome to day 2 of the final Test between New Zealand and Sri Lanka. Looking back at yesterday , it was an astonishing first day 's play with 15 wickets falling for just 299 runs in total. After Sri Lanka restricted the Kiwis to just 221 on the board , they should have taken control of the game . The Black Caps must certainly be happy with the show they put up. The wicket has been slightly two-paced and after New Zealand got bowled out for 221 , Sri Lanka have let the advantage slip. But , the way the Kiwis have come back is brilliant. It is going to be another cracker of a day tomorrow. Who will have the upper hand when the Sri Lankan first innings gets over ? Can Sanga guide them to safer shores ? Or will the Kiwis continue their march. Join us tomorrow to find out. Until then , take care . Boult and Southee bowled really well , but it was Doug Bracewell , who was the pick of the bowlers , ending with three of the five Sri Lankan wickets to fall. Kumar Sangakkara , who became the fastest batsman to go past 12000 Test runs in this innings , holds the key for Sri Lanka. He will now be joined by Dinesh Chandimal tomorrow morning . Stumps , Day 1 : Whoa ! What an eventful day it has been. 15 wickets fell in the day. After Sri Lanka bowled the Kiwis out cheaply , it was their batsmen turn to face up to the challenge against the likes of Boult and Southee. However , with five Sri Lankan batsmen already back in the hut , it is New Zealand , who now hold the advantage . 25.4 Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , out Caught by Neesham ! ! Phenomenal bowling from Bracewell as he gets Jayawardene in the last over of the day. It was on a length and outside off , Jayawardene was pushing at it , the ball takes the outside edge and Neesham at second slip holds onto it. P Jayawardene c Neesham b Doug Bracewell 6 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] Doug Bracewell to P Jayawardene , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 25.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery angling into the batsman , Sangakkara pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge and runs past the stumps , the ball rolls away into the on-side and the batsmen take a quick run , Sanga is lucky to not have chopped it back onto the stumps Comes round the wicket 25.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , on a length and on off , Sangakkara gets behind the line and blocks solidly 25.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no ball , fullish on off and middle , Sangakkara works it to mid-on , Bracewell overstepped as well and he will have to bowl that one again 25.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , angles this one across on off , Sangakkara defends it to the right of the bowler , short cover moves to his left and stops the ball Last over of the day coming up.. . 24.6 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , full outside off , left alone by Jayawardene 24.5 Southee to P Jayawardene , 2 runs , fuller in length and outside off , Jayawardene drives it through mid-off after leaning forward , he gets two for that shot 24.4 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , another one in the channel outside off and holding its line , Jayawardene is happy to leave that alone 24.3 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , fullish outside off , Jayawardene lifts his bat and leaves it alone 24.2 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , touch fuller and shapes away outside off , Jayawardene lets it go 24.1 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , on a good length and shaping back in just outside off , Jayawardene leans forward and blocks it into the off-side 23.6 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Sangakkara moves across a little and blocks with a straight face 23.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 2 runs , length delivery on the pads , Sangakkara works it behind square on the on-side , Sanga also comes back for the second run 23.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Sangakkara defends it towards short cover , where Neesham moves to his right and stops the ball 23.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , on a length and around off , Sangakkara pushes it towards short cover 23.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , FOUR , fullish outside off , Sangakkara goes down on one knee and drives it beautifully through the covers , Sanga collects four for that shot 23.1 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , length delivery in the channel outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go Doug Bracewell [ 6.0-1-15-2 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Southee to Sangakkara , 3 runs , length delivery outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it through the cover , McCullum from silly mid-off runs after the ball and saves a run for his team there 22.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , fullish delivery angling away outside off , left alone by Sanga 22.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , bumper at the batsman , Sangakkara ducks underneath 22.3 Southee to Sangakkara , 2 runs , on a length and around off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and bunts it past the non-striker for a couple 22.2 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Sangakkara drops it in front of cover with soft hands , the batsmen decide against the single 22.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , slightly back of a length and with a hint on inward movement around off , Sangakkara leaves and the ball goes over the stumps , good judgement of the length there 21.6 Neesham to P Jayawardene , no run , in the channel outside off , left alone by the batsman 21.5 Neesham to P Jayawardene , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Jayawardene defends it back to the bowler 21.4 Neesham to Sangakkara , 1 run , poor running between the batsmen , it was a disastrous run from the Sri Lankan legend , it was fuller outside off , Sangakkara drives it towards cover-point , the ball spun and changed direction on its way towards the fielder , seeing that Sanga thinks about going through with the run , but Boult was quickly onto the ball and Sanga also stumbled while going for the run , it would have been all over for Sanga had Boult hit the stumps as Sanga was nowhere close to the non-striker 's end , but he survives 21.3 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , on a length and angling away on off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it to mid-off 21.2 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , fullish delivery on off , Sangakkara blocks it back to the bowler 21.1 Neesham to Sangakkara , no run , almost a yorker from Neesham , Sanga squeezes it out into the leg-side 20.6 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , back of a length delivery that shapes back in from outside off , Jayawardene was pushing at it , the ball goes past the inside edge and through to the keeper 20.5 Southee to P Jayawardene , FOUR , touch too straight , Jayawardene flicks it past backward square leg and the ball races away to the fence in no time , the fine leg fielder had no chance as he timed it very well 20.4 Southee to P Jayawardene , no run , in the channel outside off , Jayawardene is happy to leave that alone Prasanna Jayawardene , right handed bat , comes to the crease 20.3 Southee to Mathews , out Caught by Watling ! ! Captain Mathews is gone here. New Zealand get the vital breakthrough. It was back of a length delivery just outside off , Mathews gets drawn into pushing at it thinking it will come with the angle , the ball straightens and takes the outside edge on its way to the keeper. Great ball from Southee there. Mathews c Watling b Southee 15 ( 24 ) [ 4s-2 ] Southee to Mathews , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 20.2 Southee to Mathews , no run , wide outside off , Mathews goes hard at it , but fails to connect , the keeper collects 20.1 Southee to Mathews , no run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Mathews turns it to mid-wicket 19.6 Neesham to Mathews , 1 run , little too straight again , Mathews tucks it away to square leg 19.5 Neesham to Mathews , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Mathews goes on the back foot and pushes it to short cover 19.4 Neesham to Mathews , no run , on the pads this time , Mathews flicks it to short mid-wicket 19.3 Neesham to Mathews , no run , length delivery outside off , Mathews leaves it 19.2 Neesham to Mathews , FOUR , shortish and wide outside off , Mathews was looking to dab it through the off-side , he rolls his wrsits over it , but the ball still goes uppishly through the region between gully and third slip 19.1 Neesham to Mathews , no run , length delivery on off , Mathews defends off the front foot James Neesham , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 18.6 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , on a length and around off , Sangakkara drives it straight to silly mid-off , where McCullum makes a good stop 18.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , there 's confusion in running and Mathews survives , Sangakkara blocks this one into the off-side and Mathews was charging towards the other end , he slipped as well , but made it back in time 18.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , half volley from Southee , but Sangakkara hits it straight towards silly mid-off 18.3 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , in the channel outside off , Sanga is happy to let it go through to the keeper 18.2 Southee to Mathews , 1 run , straying on the pads , Mathews tucks it away to fine leg for a single 18.1 Southee to Mathews , no run , on a good length and shapes away outside off , Mathews was looking to push at it , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 17.6 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , 1 run , length delivery on off , Mathews bunts it down to mid-off , the batsmen scamper though for a quick single 17.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , on a length and aroud off , the batsmen run through for a quick single as Sanga pushes it into the off-side 17.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , full delivery on off , Sangakkara pushes it back to the bowler 17.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on middle stump line , Sangakkara looks to defend , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away fine , the batsmen come back for the second 17.2 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , 1 run , straying on the pads , Mathews tucks it away to fine leg for a single 17.1 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Mathews gets forward and blocks 16.6 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and around off , Sangakkara defends it back to the bowler 16.5 Southee to Sangakkara , FOUR , very full from Southee this time , Sangakkara drills the drive straight down the ground and collects four for it 16.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery across Sanga , Sangakkara gets an inside edge onto the thigh pad and the ball rolls away into the off-side 16.3 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , short of length delivery angling away outside off , Sangakkara leaves 16.2 Southee to Sangakkara , 2 runs , full delivery on the pads , Sangakkara works it to towards deep square leg and the batsmen had ample time to come back for the second 16.1 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , in the channel outside off , Sangakkara lets this one go through as well 15.6 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Mathews hops up and drops his wrists 15.5 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , on the pads , Mathews goes on the back foot and turns it into the on-side 15.4 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Mathews rocks back and blocks 15.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , drop and run single from Sanga as he gently pushes this delivery into the off-side and calls for a quick single , the fielder at silly mid-off has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but Sanga was well in 15.2 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery away from Sanga , who is happy to leave that one 15.1 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , 1 run , too straight from Bracewell , Mathews works it to fine leg for a single 14.6 Southee to Sangakkara , FOUR , back of a length delivery a little wide outside off , Sangakkara goes hard at it , the ball takes the edge and goes over the slip cordon and into the third man boundary 14.5 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , bowls this one well wide outside off , Sangakkara lets it go 14.4 Southee to Sangakkara , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Sangakkara sways away from the line 14.3 Southee to Mathews , 1 run , on middle and leg line , Mathews works it through square leg and gets to the other end 14.2 Southee to Mathews , no run , on a length and around off , Mathews covers the line and defends 14.1 Southee to Mathews , FOUR , touch fuller outside off , Mathews gets drawn into the drive and goes hard at it , he gets an outside edge that goes over the slip cordon and crashes into the third man fence Tim Southee [ 3.0-1-3-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and angling away from the batsman , Sangakkara does n't offer a shot 13.5 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Mathews jumps up and fends it away into the off-side , the batsmen take a quick single 13.4 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Mathews looks to push at it , the ball goes past the outside edge and through to the keeper 13.3 Doug Bracewell to Mathews , no run , on a good length and around off , Mathews blocks with a straight bat Angelo Mathews , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.2 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , out Caught by Brendon McCullum ! ! Three wickets down for Sri Lanka now as Thirimanne walks back. It is one of the softest dismissals today. It was back of a length and just outside off , Thirimanne pushes at it and ends up chipping it to McCullum at mid-off , who takes a very easy catch. Sri Lanka are struggling here. Thirimanne c Brendon McCullum b Doug Bracewell 0 ( 7 ) Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.1 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Thirimanne lets it go 12.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara thought about playing at it , but pulls his bat back in time and lets it go 12.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , in the channel outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go 12.4 Boult to Sangakkara , 2 runs , on the pads , Sangakkara tucks it away through the mid-wicket region for a brace , this couple of runs also bring up 12000 Test runs for Sangakkara 12.3 Boult to Thirimanne , leg byes , 1 run , angled on the pads , Thirimanne fails to tickle it fine , the batsmen take a leg bye as the ball rolls away into the on-side after clipping the pad 12.2 Boult to Thirimanne , no run , just short of a good length and shaopes away outside off as Thirimanne feels for it , the ball was very close to the outside edge , good delivery from Boult 12.1 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara chops it to point and gets to the other end 11.6 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , fullish delivery around off , Thirimanne leans forward and blocks solidly 11.5 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Thirimanne blocks it into the on-side 11.4 Doug Bracewell to Thirimanne , no run , on a length and angling away outside off , Thirimanne leaves Lahiru Thirimanne , left handed bat , comes to the crease 11.3 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , out Bowled ! ! Sri Lanka are in trouble here as Silva goes now. It was on a back of a length and just around off , Silva looks to defend with soft hands , the ball goes behind him on the bounce and crashes into the stumps. So , both openers are back in the hut now. Kaushal Silva b Doug Bracewell 5 ( 30 ) Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 11.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , another full one from Bracewell , Silva blocks it into the off-side 11.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , fullish outside off , Silva drives it to cover-point 10.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and shaping back in on off , Sanga blocks off the front foot 10.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , outswinger from Boult this time , Sanga leaves it alone 10.4 Boult to Sangakkara , 2 runs , angles this one into the pads , Sanga works it through mid-wicket for a brace 10.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , fullish delivery shaping away outside off , Sanga lets it go 10.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and around off stump line , Sanga blocks it towards cover 10.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , outswinger that 's bowled well outside off , Sangakkara leaves it alone 9.6 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , 1 run , length delivery shaping back in on middle and leg , Sanga flicks it to square leg , where the fielder juggles with the ball and the batsmen take a single 9.5 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and on off , Sanga blocks off the front foot 9.4 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , on middle and leg this time , Sanga works it towards mid-on , he thinks about a single , but decides against it 9.3 Doug Bracewell to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Sanga stays back and blocks it into the off-side with an open face 9.3 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no ball , 3 runs , oversteps this time , it was on a length outside off , Silva leans forward and drives it throught the covers for three runs 9.2 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Silva hangs back and blocks solidly 9.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and outside off , Silva comes on the front foot and opens the face of the bat , the ball rolls away towards the slip cordon 8.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , leaves this delivery outside off for the keeper 8.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and blocks it into the off-side 8.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good delivery from Boult , it was on a length just outside off , Sangakkara gets drawn forward , the ball shapes away and beats the outside edge once again 8.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , touch fuller and moves away outside off , Sangakkara lets it go 8.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , in the channel outside off , Sangakkara leaves it alone Kumar Sangakkara , left handed bat , comes to the crease 8.1 Boult to D Karunaratne , out Caught by Neesham ! ! First wicket for the Black Caps here. It was a back of a length delivery just outside off , Karunaratne pushes at it and the ball takes the outside edge and goes towards Neesham in the slip cordon , who takes a good low catch. The centurion from the last game goes early this time around. D Karunaratne c Neesham b Boult 16 ( 25 ) [ 4s-2 ] Boult to D Karunaratne , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.6 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , fullish delivery wide outside off , Silva does n't offer a shot 7.5 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and shapes away after drawing the batsman forward , who was looking to push at it , the ball beats the outside edge and the keeper collects 7.4 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , another one that swings away from the batsman outside off , Silva lifts his bat and lets it go 7.3 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , no run , another outswinger that shapes away from outside off , Silva shoulders arms 7.2 Doug Bracewell to D Karunaratne , 1 run , straying on the pads , Karunaratne works it to backward square leg for a single 7.1 Doug Bracewell to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , shapes away from outside off , Silva comes on the front foot and drives it through the cover reguion for a single Doug Bracewell , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 6.6 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , in the channel outside off , Karunaratne leaves it alone 6.5 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , shortish and wide outside off , left alone by Karunaratne 6.4 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , outswinger that swings away a long way from outside off , Karunaratne leaves and the keeper dives to his left to make a stop 6.3 Boult to D Karunaratne , FOUR , back of a length delivery around off , Karunaratne was looking to work it through the on-side , he gets a leading edge that runs away throught the slip cordon and into the fence 6.2 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , on a good length and angling in on off , Karunaratne blocks off the front foot 6.1 Boult to D Karunaratne , FOUR , slightly short and wide outside off , Karunaratne camps on the back foot and guides it in the gap between gully and backward point , found the gap there to perfection 5.6 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and outside off , Silva comes on the front foot and pushes at it , the ball dribbles away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 5.5 Southee to D Karunaratne , 3 runs , back of a length delivery on the middle stump line , Karunaratne goes on the back foot and works it past short mid-wicket for three runs 5.4 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , good delivery from Southee , it was on a length and came back in a little around off , Karunaratne was pishing at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls away into the on-side 5.3 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , fullish this time and around off , Karunaratne clips it towards short mid-wicket , where the fielder puts in the dive and stops the ball 5.2 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , slightly back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Karunaratne was feeling for it and gets beaten for the second time in a row 5.1 Southee to D Karunaratne , no run , length delivery outside off , Karunaratne was pushing at it , the ball goes past the outside edge 4.6 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and across the batsman , Silva pushes at it , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and bounces before the gully fielder 4.5 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Silva shoulders arms 4.4 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a good length and angled across off , Silva was looking to leave it , but was a little late to do so , the ball takes the inside edge on its way to the keeper , Silva is lucky to not have dragged it back on 4.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , angles this one away outside off , Silva leaves 4.2 Boult to D Karunaratne , 1 run , very full on off , Karunaratne drills it towards mid-on and sets off for a single , had it gone straight towards the fielder , there could have been a run-out chance , but for now , the batsmen get through to their respective ends comfortably 4.1 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Karunaratne comes on the front foot and defends it into the off-side 3.6 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , just short of a good length and tailing in on off and middle , Silva looks to work it fine , but ca n't connect properly , the ball rolls away into the on-side , there was some extra bounce on that one as well 3.5 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , bouncer from Southee this time , Silva ducks underneath 3.4 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , outswinger just outside off , Silva is happy to leave those 3.3 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Silva shoulders arms 3.2 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Silva moves away from the line and lets it go , the keeper dives to his left and collects the ball 3.1 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Silva comes on the front foot and blocks solidly 2.6 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , good delivery to end the over , it was slightly back of a length and shapes away outside off , Karunaratne was looking to push at it , but pulls his bat back in time to let it go 2.5 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length delivery on top of off , Karunaratne punches it to mid-on off the back foot 2.4 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , full and angling in on off , Karunaratne clips it into the on-side 2.3 Boult to Kaushal Silva , 1 run , just short of a good length and tailing in on middle stump line , Silva was pushing at it , the ball rolls away to deep backward square leg off the inside half of the bat 2.2 Boult to Kaushal Silva , no run , bumper from Southee , Silva is happy to duck under it 2.1 Boult to D Karunaratne , 1 run , full and on off and middle , Karunaratne works it to fine leg after moving across a touch 1.6 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , shapes away from outside off , Silva lifts his bat and lets it go 1.5 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , full just outside off and going away a little , Silva does n't offer a shot 1.4 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , fullish around off , Silva leans forward and blocks 1.3 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , sprays this down the leg-side , Silva ca n't tickle it fine , the keeper collects 1.2 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , angles this on the pads , Silva ca n't work it into the on-side , the ball hits him high on the thigh pad , there was half an appeal from the fielders , but it was too high and going down leg 1.1 Southee to Kaushal Silva , no run , on a length and shaping away outside off , Silva lifts his bat and lets it go 0.6 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , fullish just outside off , Karunaratne puts his front foot across and shoulders arms 0.5 Boult to D Karunaratne , 2 runs , fuller and outside off , Karunaratne pushes at it away from his body , the ball rolls away wide of mid-on after taking the inside half of the bat , the batsmen take two 0.4 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , on a length and shaping away outside off , Karunaratne pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and falls short of the fielder at third slip 0.3 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , fuller in length and tailing away on off , Karunaratne bunts it towards mid-on , the batsmen think about a single , but decide against it 0.2 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Karunaratne leans forward and defends it to the right of the bowler Three slips and a gully in place 0.1 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , fullish and shaping away outside off , Karunaratne leaves D Karunaratne and Kaushal Silva are at the crease. D Karunaratne is on strike. Boult will open the attack The players are out in the middle. Boult will open the bowling and Karunaratne will take the strike . Now , it is upto the Lankan batsmen to score big and take a hefty lead on this green track. But , do n't count New Zealand out of the game. They have shown us in the past that they are very dangerous on wickets like this. Can New Zealand emulate their first innings bowling performance from the first Test ? Or will Sri Lanka take a big step forward in their search for a win that will level the series ? Sri Lanka 's first innings follows in a short while. Stay tuned . So , after a disappointing start for the Sri Lankans , they have come back really well to bundle out New Zealand for 221. In fact , New Zealand lost their last 8 wickets for 80 runs. Considering that there was enough movement off the pitch , the Sri Lankan bowlers found the right line and length in the second session. However , the Kiwi batsmen would also be disappointed with the shots they played , gifting their wickets away at times . 55.1 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , out Bowled ! ! That 's the final wicket of the innings and it was a fuller one angling in on middle and leg , Bracewell went for an expansive hoick , but failed to connect , the ball goes through the gap between bat and pad and crashes into the leg stump. Doug Bracewell b Dhammika 16 ( 26 ) [ 4s-2 ] Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Dhammika Prasad [ 11.0-1-50-1 ] is back into the attack Dhammika replaces Herath , who bowled just the one over 54.6 Pradeep to Doug Bracewell , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Bracewell hooks it to deep square leg , he was n't in total control , but did well to send the ball along the ground , he will keep the strike 54.5 Pradeep to Boult , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Boult opens the face and dabs it square of the wicket for a single 54.4 Pradeep to Boult , no run , banged in short and just outside off , Boult just about sways away from the line in time , but falls back as he shifted his weight backwards 54.3 Pradeep to Doug Bracewell , 1 run , short of a good length and outside off , Bracewell opens the face of the bat and guides it towards third man for a single 54.2 Pradeep to Doug Bracewell , no run , on a length and just outside off , Bracewell covers the line and blocks solidly 54.1 Pradeep to Doug Bracewell , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Bracewell chops it towards gully , where the fielder jumps up and stops the ball 53.6 Herath to Boult , no run , tossed up around off , Boult lunges forward in defence 53.5 Herath to Boult , no run , floated up on the stumps , Boult presses forward and blocks 53.4 Herath to Doug Bracewell , 1 run , whips this flighted delivery to long-on 53.3 Herath to Doug Bracewell , FOUR , that 's a great shot from Bracewell , it was tossed up on off , Bracewell comes down the track and drives it through the covers , the ball races away to the fence 53.2 Herath to Doug Bracewell , no run , floated up on leg , Bracewell defends it to short mid-wicket 53.1 Herath to Doug Bracewell , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Bracewell backs away and blocks it back to the bowler Rangana Herath [ 1.0-0-2-0 ] is back into the attack Herath is into the attack 52.6 Pradeep to Doug Bracewell , 1 run , slightly back of a length and on middle stump line , Bracewell waits in the crease and guides it to third man , he will keep the strike 52.5 Pradeep to Boult , 1 run , length delivery on middle stump line , Boult goes right across and works it to backward square leg for a single 52.4 Pradeep to Doug Bracewell , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Bracewell stays back and dabs it square of the wicket 52.3 Pradeep to Boult , 3 runs , on a length on middle and leg , Boult backs away and drives it towards the sweeper cover region , the fielder from deep backward point runs across and pulls the ball back in time to save a run for his team 52.2 Pradeep to Boult , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Boult goes right across his stumps and wanted to work it on the on-side , he ends up defending it into the off-side in an awkward manner 52.1 Pradeep to Boult , no run , almost a yorker from Pradeep , Boult squeezes it out back to the bowler 12 runs came off Lakmal 's last over 51.6 Lakmal to Doug Bracewell , no run , full toss down the leg-side , Bracewell failed to help it on its way , the keeper collects 51.5 Lakmal to Boult , 1 run , shortish and little wide outside off , Boult moves away and cuts it square of the wicket for a single 51.4 Lakmal to Boult , FOUR , Lakmal bowls this one on a length and on off stump line , Boult backs away and slices the loft to the deep extra-cover fence 51.3 Lakmal to Boult , FOUR , another one that 's short of a length and at the batsman , Boult backed away and has a swipe at it , he can only get a top-edge that goes over the keeper'e head and into the boundary 51.2 Lakmal to Boult , 2 runs , back of a length delivery from Lakmal , Boult backs away and plays a flat-batted slice through the covers , he comes back for the second before the ball is hunted down 51.1 Lakmal to Doug Bracewell , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Bracewell pulls it to deep square leg and gets to the other end 50.6 Pradeep to Boult , no run , backs away and looks to hit this short of length delivery through the off-side , he fails to connect , the ball goes over the stumps and through to the keeper 50.5 Pradeep to Boult , no run , Boult backs away and Pradeep follows him with a back of a length delivery , Boult can only block it back towars the bowler 50.4 Pradeep to Boult , no run , fullish with a hint of away movement on off , Boult blocks it back towards the bowler Trent Boult , right handed bat , comes to the crease 50.3 Pradeep to Southee , out Caught by Sangakkara ! ! Southee departs for a golden duck. It was a back of a length delivery outside off , Southee was looking to punch it through the off-side , the ball got a little big on him and it catches the outside edge that flies to Sanga at first slip. Just a wicket to go for the Sri Lankans here. Southee c Sangakkara b Pradeep 0 ( 1 ) Pradeep to Southee , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 50.2 Pradeep to Doug Bracewell , 1 run , slightly back of a length delivery on off and middle , Bracewell moves across and works it towards square leg 50.1 Pradeep to Doug Bracewell , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Bracewell hops and blocks it into the off-side Tim Southee , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.6 Lakmal to Craig , out Caught by Mathews ! ! Sri Lanka get what they were looking for - a wicket in the first over after tea. It was banged in short and just outside off , Craig went for the pull , but miscues it straight down the throat of Mathews at mid-on. New Zealand are 8 wickets down now. Craig c Mathews b Lakmal 7 ( 20 ) [ 4s-1 ] Lakmal to Craig , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.5 Lakmal to Craig , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Craig was poking at it away from his body , Craig was not close to the ball there 49.4 Lakmal to Craig , no run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Craig hangs back in the crease and defends it into the off-side 49.3 Lakmal to Craig , 2 runs , on a good length and angling away outside off , Craig drives it through the covers for a brace 49.2 Lakmal to Craig , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Craig blocks off the back foot 49.1 Lakmal to Craig , no run , fullish outside off , left alone by Craig Welcome back to the post-tea session. The players are walking out to the centre. Can Sri Lanka run through the tail ? Or will the lower-order Kiwi batsmen offer some resistance ? Let 's find out . Sri Lanka will look to take the final three wickets right after the tea interval. On the other hand , New Zealand would want their tailenders to score as many as possible. Join us in a short while to witness this fascinating contest . For New Zealand , Williamson and Taylor batted really well in the first half an hour after lunch , but Taylor 's wicket opened the floodgates for the Lankans. After Taylor chopped one back on , McCullum got out in a similar fashion on nought. Since then , it has been a struggle for the Kiwis. Williamson did put up a front , but he also perished for 69 before tea , playing one back on as well . Tea , Day 1 : Sri Lanka have made a great comeback and New Zealand are reeling at 192/7 here. In this session , New Zealand lost 5 wickets for 99 runs in 24 overs. Considering that they were 141/2 at one stage , they lost 5 wickets in 41 runs as Williamson was the seventh wicket to fall , leaving New Zealand on 182/7 at one stage. Pradeep has been the star bowler for Sri Lanka. He has bowled the right line and length throughout this session . 48.6 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bracewell pushes at it off the front foot , the ball rolls away towards gully off a thickish outside edge and that 's tea on day 1 48.5 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Bracewell punches it into the off-side off the back foot 48.4 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , no run , full delivery just around off , Bracewell comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 48.3 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , no run , bouncer from Dhammika , Bracewell sits under it 48.2 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , FOUR , touch shortish and outside off , Bracewell looks to punch it through the off-side , he gets a thickish outside edge and beats the diving gully , the ball races away to the fence 48.1 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , no run , fullish on off and middle , Bracewell moves across and clips it into the on-side 47.6 Mathews to Craig , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Craig drives it to mid-off 47.5 Mathews to Craig , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Craig ducks under it 47.4 Mathews to Craig , no run , in the channel outside off and full again , Craig lifts his bat and lets it go 47.3 Mathews to Craig , no run , touch fuller and angling away outside off , Craig looks to bunt it through the off-side , the ball goes past the outside edge 47.2 Mathews to Craig , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Craig stands tall and bunts it down to mid-on 47.1 Mathews to Craig , no run , fullish just outside off , Craig leaves it alone 46.6 Dhammika to Craig , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Craig was pushing at it , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away to square leg , the batsmen steal a quick run 46.5 Dhammika to Craig , FOUR , back of a length delivery angling away just outside off , Craig waits on the back foot and gets on top of the bounce , he steers it past backward point after opening the face of the bat there 46.4 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , 1 run , straying on the pads , Bracewell nurdles it to fine leg and gets to the other end 46.3 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , no run , back of a length delivery that shapes back in from outside off , Bracewell shuffled across and was looking to work it through the on-side , he misses and the ball strikes him on the pad , but the impact was well outside off , good decision by the umpire Sri Lanka have decided to review a lbw appeal. The onfield decision is not out. Hotspot shows that there was no edge on that. The impact looks well outside off and hence , the onfield decision is upheld and Sri Lanka lose a review 46.2 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , no run , very full outside off , Bracewell does n't offer a shot 46.1 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Bracewell moves across and blocks with a straight bat 45.6 Mathews to Craig , no run , back of a length delivery angled across , Craig blocks off the back foot 45.5 Mathews to Craig , no run , fullish outside off , Craig goes hard at it , the ball takes the outside edge and bounces just short of the fielder at second slip 45.4 Mathews to Craig , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Craig punches it back to the bowler off the back foot 45.3 Mathews to Craig , no run , good length delivery holding its line outside off , Craig was looking to drive it off the front foot , the ball goes past the outside edge 45.2 Mathews to Craig , no run , on a length and outside off , Craig shoulders arms this time 45.1 Mathews to Craig , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Craig defends it into the on-side off the back foot 44.6 Dhammika to Doug Bracewell , no run , full and tailing in just outside off , Bracewell jams it out into the off-side Doug Bracewell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.5 Dhammika to Williamson , out Bowled ! ! Williamson goes now. The Kiwis are going back to the pavilion one after the other. He also drags one back on. It was a back of a length delivery that tails back in from outside off , Williamson hops up in the crease and looks to punch , the ball rockets into the leg stump off an inside edge and Williamson departs for a well made 69. Williamson b Dhammika 69 ( 115 ) [ 4s-9 ] Dhammika to Williamson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 44.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery angling into the batsman , who ca n't put it away , wears it high on his pad 44.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , peach from Dhammika , it was on a good length and outside off , Williamson was feeling for it , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 44.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Williamson works it into the on-side 44.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no ball , oversteps this time , he will have to bowl this one again 44.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , length delivery shaping in on off , Williamson defends it back to the bowler Dhammika Prasad [ 8.0-1-39-0 ] is back into the attack Mark Craig , left handed bat , comes to the crease 43.6 Mathews to Watling , out Caught by Chandimal ! ! Lucky break for the Sri Lankans here as Watling goes now. It was shortish and wide of off , Watling wanted to cut it late , but could only manage a top edge to first slip , who takes a simple catch. Watling reached out for that without any feet movement. Watling c Chandimal b Mathews 11 ( 22 ) [ 4s-2 ] Mathews to Watling , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.5 Mathews to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery angling into the batsman , who blocks it back to the bowler off the back foot 43.4 Mathews to Watling , no run , on a good length and on leg stump line , Watling fails to tickle it fine , the ball hits him on the pad and there was a stifled appeal from the Sri Lankans , the ball was snaking down leg though 43.3 Mathews to Watling , no run , slightly back of a length and on middle and leg , Watling turns it into the on-side 43.2 Mathews to Watling , no run , in the channel outside off , Watling leaves it alone 43.1 Mathews to Watling , no run , fullish outside off , Watling looks to drive , gets a thickish inside edge onto the pad 42.6 Pradeep to Williamson , 2 runs , angles this one on the pads , Williamson shuffles across and works it past mid-on for another brace 42.5 Pradeep to Watling , 3 runs , touch straighter in line , Watling moves across a little and clips it through mid-wicket , the batsmen take three 42.5 Pradeep to Watling , no ball , the umpire signals a no-ball as Pradeep knocks the bails off with his leg , it was fuller and around off , Watling defends 42.4 Pradeep to Watling , no run , on a length and on off and middle , Watling works it to mid-wicket 42.3 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , angling in on middle stump line , Williamson nurdles it to fine leg and gets to the other end 42.3 Pradeep to Williamson , wide , bumper from Pradeep that sails over the batsman 's head , who was ducking under it , the umpire calls it a wide for height 42.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , in the channel outside off and fuller in length , Williamson covers the stumps and does n't offer a shot 42.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fullish and shaping in just outside off , Williamson presses forward and blocks 41.6 Mathews to Watling , no run , touch fuller and around off , Watling gets behind the line and defends it to mid-off 41.5 Mathews to Watling , FOUR , slightly shortish and wide outside off and Watling latches onto it in a flash , he waits for it and cuts it past backward point to collect another four runs 41.4 Mathews to Watling , no run , angles this one on middle stump line , Watling stands tall and defends it to mid-on 41.3 Mathews to Williamson , 1 run , just short of a good length and close to off and middle , Williamson blocks it into the on-side and sets off for a single 41.2 Mathews to Williamson , no run , on middle and leg this time , Williamson wrists it to mid-on and shouts 'Wait on' 41.1 Mathews to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Williamson leaves 40.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , a little shortish outside off , Watling was looking to cut , but the ball was n't that wide , goes past the otuside edge and the keeper collects 40.5 Pradeep to Watling , FOUR , great shot to get off the mark , it was fuller in length and outside off , Watling leans forward and drives it past the cover region , where the fielder was very slow to get down and the ball goes past him and runs away to the fence Three slips and a gully in place 40.4 Pradeep to Watling , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Watling punches it to backward point off the back foot 40.3 Pradeep to Watling , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Watling hangs back and defends it into the off-side with soft hands 40.2 Pradeep to Watling , no run , fullish this time and on off stump line , Watling blocks off the front foot 40.1 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson drops his wrsits one it , the batsmen take a quick single as the ball rolls away behind square on the off-side 39.6 Mathews to Watling , no run , a little wide outside off this time , Watling jams out the drive straight to backward point 39.5 Mathews to Watling , no run , on a length and shaping in on off and middle , Watling leans forward and defends solidly with his bat close to the pad 39.4 Mathews to Watling , no run , angles this one on off , Watling comes on the front foot and looks to defend , the ball rolls away towards point off the outside half of the bat 39.3 Mathews to Williamson , 1 run , slightly back of a length and on middle stump line , Williamson hops up and works it wide of mid-on , the fielder gives chase and was a little sluggish , but the batsmen only take a single 39.2 Mathews to Williamson , no run , outside off again and fuller in length , Williamson leaves 39.1 Mathews to Williamson , no run , full just outside off , Williamson leans into the drive , but hits it uppishly to the right of short cover , luckily for the batsman , it did n't carry to the fielder and went straighter towards mid-off Angelo Mathews [ 4.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack Mathews comes into the attack , replacing Lakmal . 38.6 Pradeep to Watling , no run , angles this one on middle and leg , Watling defends it into the on-side and shouts a loud 'No ' to let his partner know that the single was n't on Three slips and a gully in place for the new man 38.5 Pradeep to Watling , no run , full outside off , Watling lifts his bat and lets it go BJ Watling , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.4 Pradeep to Neesham , out Caught by P Jayawardene ! ! This is great bowling from Pradeep. He gets his third wicket of the innings and half the Kiwi side is back in the hut. It was on a good length and angled across the batsman , who was looking to drive it straight down the ground , the ball takes a faint edge on its way to the keeper , who swallows it with ease. This is the third wicket of the session for the Sri Lankans. Neesham c P Jayawardene b Pradeep 15 ( 18 ) [ 4s-3 ] Pradeep to Neesham , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.3 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , angles this one away outside off , Neesham leaves 38.2 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Williamson hops up and dabs it past the slip cordon for a single 38.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fullish and shaping away a little outside off , Williamson leans forward and drives it to mid-off Drinks are on the field now 37.6 Lakmal to Neesham , FOUR , on a length and outside off , Neesham comes on the front foot and drills the drive down the ground to collect four The bowler must feel hard done with that no-ball and the warning as the first bouncer he bowled was well directed and was not higher than the batsman 's head. Perhaps , umpire Steve Davis saw something that we all could n't 37.6 Lakmal to Neesham , no ball , FOUR , bangs this one short again , Neesham pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence after rolling his wrists over it , the umpire calls it a no-ball for the height and the bowler has been given a warning 37.5 Lakmal to Neesham , no run , on a length outside off , Neesham bunts it to mid-off off the front foot 37.4 Lakmal to Neesham , FOUR , bangs it in short and at the batsman , Neesham gets hurried in the pull , gets a top-edge that runs away to the fine leg fence , great delivery from Lakmal Comes round the wicket 37.3 Lakmal to Neesham , no run , on a length and outside off , Neesham leaves 37.2 Lakmal to Neesham , no run , fullish and angling away outside off , Neesham lifts his bat and shoulders arms 37.1 Lakmal to Neesham , no run , bumper from Lakmal , Neesham ducks underneath 36.6 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , on a good length and tails back in around off , the Sri Lankans go up in appeal as the ball struck the pad when Williamson was looking to leave , but it was too high for the umpire 's liking and he turned them down 36.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson waits for it in the crease and defends it into the off-side with an open face of the bat 36.4 Pradeep to Neesham , 3 runs , on a length and around off , Neesham punches it past the non-striker , good running ensures that the batsmen come back for the third 36.3 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , bumper from Pradeep , Neesham sways away from the line and lets it go 36.2 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , length delivery angled across off , Neesham defends off the front foot 36.1 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , on middle and leg stump , Neesham turns it into the on-side off the back foot 35.6 Lakmal to Williamson , 2 runs , touch fuller on off and middle , Williamson moves across and wrists it past mid-on for a brace 35.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , another one that 's banged in short , Williamson was looking to hook it , he has a swipe at it , but could n't connect , the keeper collects 35.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , bumper from Lakmal , Williamson sits under it 35.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , length delivery around off , Williamson leans forward and blocks with his bat and pad close together 35.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length on off and middle , Williamson jumps in the crease and works it towards mid-on 35.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson leans forward and blocks it into the off-side 34.6 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , full and angling away outside off , Neesham leaves 34.5 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , another good bouncer from Pradeep , Neesham was late to duck underneath , but manages to just do so in time to avoid the ball , the keeper collects 34.4 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , bumper at the batsman , Neesham sways away from the line and leaves it for the keeper 34.3 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , fullish outside off , left alone by Neesham 34.2 Pradeep to Neesham , no run , back of a length delivery that tails back in towards the batsman , who fails to work it into the on-side , the ball hits him high on the pad , the Sri Lankans appealed , but the umpire was not interested , it was a little high and looked as if it would go down leg Two slips and a gully in place 34.1 Pradeep to Williamson , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson dabs it past a diving gully and gives the strike to Neesham James Neesham , left handed bat , comes to the crease 33.6 Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , out Bowled ! ! Ohh dear god ! What has Brendon McCullum done here. Following Taylor , he gets out on a duck after dragging one back on the stumps. It was back of a length and outside off , McCullum was looking to cut , but it was too close to the body , he ends up dragging it back onto the stumps off an inside edge. The Sri Lankans are jubilant as they have picked up two wickets in two overs. Brendon McCullum b Lakmal 0 ( 2 ) Lakmal to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Two slips and a gully in place. A deep backward square leg and a fine leg are also in place for McCullum . 33.5 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , too straight from Lakmal , Williamson tucks it away to deep backward square leg and gets to the other end 33.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and around off , Williamson bunts it to mid-on off the front foot 33.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Williamson wrists it towards mid-on after jumping in the crease 33.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , slighlty back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson was looking to cut it , but ends up chopping it into the off-side 33.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Williamson looks to drive it hard , but gets a thickish inside edge back onto the pad 32.6 Pradeep to Brendon McCullum , no run , full outside off , McCullum lifts his bat and lets it go Brendon McCullum , right handed bat , comes to the crease 32.5 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , out Bowled ! ! Finally , Sri Lanka break this partnership. Taylor perishes after dragging this one back on. It was just short of a good length and shaped back in from just outside off , Taylor was pushing at it , he gets a thickish inside edge that crashes into the stumps. Taylor is unhappy with himself , but he has to walk back anyway. Ross Taylor b Pradeep 35 ( 43 ) [ 4s-5 ] Pradeep to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 32.4 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , fullish outside off , Taylor leans forward and drives it to mid-off 32.3 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , on a good length outside off , Taylor shuffles across his stumps and wrists it into the on-side 32.2 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , FOUR , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away past a diving second slip and crashes into the fence 32.1 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , overpitching outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and drives it towards sweeper cover for a brace Nuwan Pradeep [ 7.0-0-29-1 ] is back into the attack Pradeep comes into the attack now 31.6 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 1 run , on the pads this time , Taylor tucks it away to square leg , he will keep the strike 31.5 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Taylor blocks it back to the bowler 31.4 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , on a good length and just around off , Williamson bunts it down the ground , the fielder at mid-on slides to his left and makes the stop , ca n't prevent the single though 31.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and coming back in towards the batsman , Williamson wrists it to mid-on off the back foot 31.2 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 1 run , on a good length and straightens on off , Taylor was pushing at it , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away to deep backward point for a single 31.1 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , fullish delivery on off and middle , Taylor works it to mid-on The umpires are taking a look at the ball again. The insert it through the hoops and it appears that the ball has gone a little out of shape. The fourth umpire comes running in with his briefcase containing balls , the umpires choose the right replacement and hand it over to the Lankans . 30.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Williamson defends it with soft hands , the ball rolls away towards the slip cordon 30.5 Dhammika to Williamson , 2 runs , fuller in length just outside off , Williamson leans forward and drives it wide of mid-off , the fielder puts in the dive , but ca n't stop it cleanly , Taylor was poor there with the running and the batsman can only take two 30.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , overpitching just outside off , Williamson drives it back to the bowler , who threatens to throw it back at the stumps 30.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and blocks 30.2 Dhammika to Williamson , FOUR , fullish on off , Williamson leans forward and drills the drive to the long-off fence , great shot that 30.1 Dhammika to Williamson , FOUR , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and bounces short of the second slip fielder , who could n't stop the ball and it rolls away very fine , even a dive in the deep could n't stop the ball from reaching the fence and that 's Williamson 's 15th Test fifty 29.6 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , on a good length and on middle stump line , Taylor moves across and blocks 29.5 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , just short of a good length and around off , Williamson drops his wrists on it , the ball rolls away towards the point region and the batsmen take a single 29.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson was looking to leave it , but ends up dabbing it towardssecond slip 29.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , another one that 's full and outside off , Williamson leaves it alone 29.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , in the channel outside off , Williamson covers the stumps and lets it go 29.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Williamson leaves 28.6 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , FOUR , on a good length and outside off , Taylor goes hard at it , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away to the third man fence , streaky but Taylor would take that 28.5 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , no run , just short of a good length and angling in towards the batsman from outside off , Taylor knocks it into the off-side 28.5 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , wide , bumper down leg that was way over the batsman 's head , the umpire calls it a wide 28.4 Dhammika to Williamson , 1 run , fullish delivery on off and middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and drives it down the ground , the mid-on fielder runs to his left , puts in the dive and keeps the batsmen down to a single 28.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length delivery on off , Williamson goes on the back foot and blocks 28.2 Dhammika to Williamson , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Williamson stays back and waits for the ball to arrive , he cuts it very late and finds the gap between the slip cordon and the gully to perfection , the boundary also brings up the 50-run stand between these two 28.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Williamson hangs back and defends 27.6 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , on a good length just outside off , Taylor was pushing at it , the ball shapes away a little and beats the outside edge 27.5 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , too straight again , Taylor works it off his pads to deep square leg , the batsmen take two 27.4 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and pushes it back to the bowler 27.3 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , FOUR , shortish and wide outside off , Taylor hangs back and cuts it to the deep backward point fence , the fielder at deep backward point was not too far away from the ball , but the ball beat him to the fence 27.2 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , another one that 's full outside off , Taylor leaves this as well 27.1 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , full outside off , Taylor lifts his bat and lets it go 26.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends solidly 26.5 Dhammika to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Taylor tucks it away to square leg off his hips 26.4 Dhammika to Williamson , leg byes , 1 run , strays down leg this time , Williamson looks to glance it fine , but ca n't connect , the batsmen run for a leg bye as the ball rolls away to fine leg after clipping the pad 26.3 Dhammika to Williamson , FOUR , great shot from Williamson , it was ovepitched outside off , Williamson leans forward and caresses the drive through the covers , superb timing on that one 26.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson defends it into the off-side Two slips and a gully in place 26.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery on off , Williamson drives it to mid-off off the front foot Dhammika Prasad [ 5.0-1-14-0 ] is back into the attack Prasad will share the attack with Lakmal 25.6 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , on a good length and angling in on off and middle , Taylor works it to mid-on 25.5 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , full and just outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and bunts it down to mid-off 25.4 Lakmal to Williamson , 3 runs , fullish delivery tailing in on middle stump line , Williamson works it wide of mid-on , the batsmen take three before the ball is fielded 25.3 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 1 run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Taylor punches it wide of short cover and gets to the other end 25.2 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Taylor punches it through the covers for a brace Two slips and a gully in place 25.1 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Taylor blocks it into the on-side Welcome back to the post-lunch session. The players are walking out to the middle. Lakmal will open the bowling and Taylor will face him first . Since then , Taylor and Williamson have done well to pacify the swing available for the pacers. They were lucky as well as a number of outside edges went through the slip cordon. However , the game has not drifted away much from the Sri Lankans , but they will need to get some quick wickets after lunch to have a chance of restricting the Kiwis from posting a big total. Can Sri Lankan pacers force New Zealand 's batsmen on the back foot ? Or will Williamson and Taylor put up a big partnership ? Join us in a short while to find out . Earlier , Latham and Rutherford got New Zealand off to a good start , but Latham departed when the team score was 31. Williamson then joined Rutherford at the crease and both of them were looking good to construct a big partnership , but unfortunately for the Kiwis , Rutherford edged one behind to the keepersoon afterwards . Lunch , Day 1 : New Zealand might have lost both their openers , but they will be happy to be just two down at lunch. Both Williamson and Taylor have looked steady on a pitch that has something for the pacers . 24.6 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated up on off and middle , Williamson comes forward and defends 24.5 Herath to Williamson , no run , touch flatter around off , Williamson goes back and blocks it into the on-side 24.4 Herath to Williamson , no run , loopy delivery at 74kph , Williamson lunges forward and dead-bats it 24.3 Herath to Williamson , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Williamson eases it to mid-off off the front foot 24.2 Herath to Williamson , no run , tossed up on off this time , Williamson leans forward and blocks A slip and a FSL in place 24.1 Herath to Williamson , 2 runs , pushed through down leg , Williamson tucks it away to deep square leg off the back foot , the batsmen take two Rangana Herath , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Herath will come onto bowl the last over before lunch 23.6 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , straying on the pads , Williamson tucks it away to square leg off his hips and gets to the other end 23.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , on a good length and angling in on off and middle , Williamson clips it into the on-side Finally , a third slip is in place now 23.4 Lakmal to Williamson , FOUR , slightly back of a length and outside off , Williamson goes for the punch off the back foot , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away in the gap between second slip and gully , this is the third time that the ball has gone through that region 23.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , angles this fuller delivery on the pads , Williamson works it just wide of mid-on and shouts 'Wait ' , they do n't take the single there 23.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Williamson jumps up in the crease and punches it into the off-side So , the umpires did change the ball 23.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Williamson drives it to mid-off off the front foot The umpires are taking a look at the ball. They use the hoops as well. Not sure whether they changed the ball or not . 22.6 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , fuller and just outside off , Taylor bunts it down to mid-on after going across 22.5 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , just short of a good length and angling into the batsman , Taylor blocks it back to the bowler 22.4 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor moves across and turns it into the on-side 22.3 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Taylor ducks under it 22.2 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , slightly fuller and on off and middle , Taylor blocks it to the left of the bowler 22.1 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , too straight in line , Taylor tucks it away wide of mid-on for a brace 21.6 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , in the channel just outside off , Williamson comes forward and defends it into the on-side with a straight bat 21.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , length delivery on off , Williamson comes on the front foot and blocks 21.4 Lakmal to Ross Taylor , 1 run , on middle and leg stump line this time , Taylor moves across a little and works it past a diving short mid-wicket for a single 21.3 Lakmal to Williamson , 1 run , on a good length and just around off , Williamson pushes at it , the ball rolls away towards the backward point region off the outside half of the bat Two slips and a gully in place 21.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery on off and middle , Williamson blocks 21.1 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , on a length and on middle and leg line , Williamson flicks it to short mid-wicket off his pads Suranga Lakmal [ 6.0-2-18-1 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , stifled appeal from the Sri Lankans , but the ball was going down leg. It was angled in on the pads , Taylor ca n't put it away and wears it on his pad , not sure whether he got an inside edge there as the ball loops up off the pad and falls back over the pitch , ca n't be given lbw as the ball ws definitely going down leg 20.5 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , fullish on off , Taylor bunts it to mid-on from the crease 20.4 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , angles this one on middle and leg , Taylor gets behind the line and blocks it into the leg-side 20.3 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , fuller in length and tailing in on middle stump line , Taylor works it through mid-wicket and the batsmen run two comfortably 20.2 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor covers the stumps and blocks 20.1 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , FOUR , half volley on off , Taylor comes on the front foot and punches it through the mid-off region , the ball races away to the fence in no time 19.6 Mathews to Williamson , no run , fullish just outside off , Williamson jams it out to gully with gentle hands 19.5 Mathews to Williamson , no run , on a length and shaping back in around off , Williamson blocks with his bat and pad close together 19.4 Mathews to Williamson , no run , similar delivery as the last one , Williamson gets behind the line and defends 19.3 Mathews to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and on off and middle , Williamson says 'Wait on ' as he defends it into the on-side off the back foot 19.2 Mathews to Williamson , no run , on middle and leg this time , Williamson blocks from the crease 19.1 Mathews to Williamson , FOUR , fullish outside off , Williamson pushes at it with soft hands , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away through the gap between second slip and gully , Williamson gets four for that 18.6 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , FOUR , half volley outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and drives it to the sweeper cover fence to get off the mark 18.5 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , bumper at the batsman , Taylor ducks underneath 18.4 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Taylor gets behind the line and blocks 18.3 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery coming back in towards the batsman , who jumps up and looks to turn it into the on-side , he ca n't connect properly and the ball hits his around the thigh area , Taylor sits down as he looked in some pain there 18.2 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , good delivery from Pradeep , it was on a length and nips back in on middle and leg , Taylor ca n't work it fine and hits him on the pads , there was an appeal , but the umpire says 'Not Out ' , Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was clipping the leg stump 18.1 Pradeep to Ross Taylor , no run , fuller and just outside off , Taylor defends 17.6 Mathews to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Williamson shouts a loud 'No ' as he defends this into the off-side with soft hands 17.5 Mathews to Williamson , no run , angles this one on off , Williamson blocks solidly 17.4 Mathews to Williamson , 2 runs , on a length and on middle and leg , Williamson works it through mid-wicket for a couple 17.3 Mathews to Williamson , FOUR , on a good length and outside off , Williamson looks to drive , but the length was not there , he ends up getting a thickish outside edge that runs away in the gap between the second slip and gully , the ball crashes into the fence in no time Two slips and a gully in place 17.2 Mathews to Williamson , no run , a little straighter in line this time around , Williamson turns it to short mid-wicket 17.1 Mathews to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery angling in on off , Williamson dead-bats it Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.6 Pradeep to Rutherford , out Caught by P Jayawardene ! ! Rutherford is gone now. So , both the openers are back in the hut. It was on a good length and angling away outside off , Rutherford thought that the ball will nip back in off the seam , but the ball holds its line as Rutherford pushes at it , he gets an outside edge and the keeper takes another simple catch. Rutherford c P Jayawardene b Pradeep 37 ( 53 ) [ 4s-5 ] Pradeep to Rutherford , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.5 Pradeep to Williamson , 3 runs , on a good length and shaping away outside off , Williamson takes a good stride forward and drives it through the covers for three , good running from Williamson , who charges back for the third 16.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and nips back in from outside off , Williamson was looking to defend , gets an inside edge back on the leg 16.3 Pradeep to Rutherford , 1 run , in the channel just outside off , Rutherford bunts it in front of mid-off and the batsmen steal a quick single 16.2 Pradeep to Rutherford , 2 runs , length delivery angling away outside off , Rutherford leans forward and drives it wide of mid-off for a brace 16.1 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and shaping in on off and middle , Rutherford blocks it to mid-on after coming on the front foot 15.6 Mathews to Williamson , 2 runs , angles this one on the pads , Williamson tucks it away through mid-wicket for a couple of runs 15.5 Mathews to Williamson , no run , fullish outside off , Williamson lifts his bat and shoulders arms 15.4 Mathews to Williamson , no run , touch fuller just around off , Williamson comes on the front foot and blocks with soft hands 15.3 Mathews to Rutherford , 1 run , on a good length and slightly wide outside off , Rutherford slashes it to sweeper cover and gets to the other end 15.2 Mathews to Rutherford , no run , length delivery outside off , Rutherford leaves and the ball goes on the bounce to the keeper 15.1 Mathews to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and angling away outside off , Rutherford pushes it to cover off the front foot 14.6 Pradeep to Williamson , 2 runs , on a good length and outside off , Williamson leans forward and drives it past a diving short cover for a brace 14.5 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Williamson stays back and dabs it towards gully with gentle hands 14.5 Pradeep to Williamson , wide , bumper that sails way over the batsman 's head , wided by the umpire 14.4 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Williamson blocks 14.3 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , fullish and on middle and leg , Wiliamson defends it into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 14.2 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson punches it into the off-side 14.1 Pradeep to Williamson , no run , another good delivery to start his new spell with , it was 140kph length delivery that nips back in from around off , Williamson was pushing at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls behind , Williamson had no idea about where the ball went Nuwan Pradeep [ 2.0-0-8-0 ] is back into the attack Double bowling change as Pradeep comes in place of Dhammika Prasad Not an ideal start from Mathews , who sprayed it around after bowling a great first delivery 13.6 Mathews to Williamson , 1 run , on a good length and closer to the off stump , Williamson pushes it into the off-side with bat and pad close together , he rushes to the other end and he will keep the strike 13.5 Mathews to Williamson , FOUR , fullish just outside off , Williamson drives it past the non-striker and the ball races away to the long-on fence 13.4 Mathews to Williamson , FOUR , too straight again , Williamson nurdles it fine enough to beat the fielder at fine leg , gets off the mark and collects four for that 13.3 Mathews to Williamson , no run , sprays this one down leg , Williamson ca n't put it away , the keeper collects 13.2 Mathews to Rutherford , 1 run, 13.1 Mathews to Rutherford , no run , that was a good ball from Mathews , it was on a length and shapes back in on middle , Rutherford was pushing at it , the ball takes the inside edge , goes through the legs and is lucky that the ball did n't go on to hit the stumps Angelo Mathews , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Captain Mathews comes onto bowl for the first time today Drinks are on the field now 12.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , on a good length and angling in on off , Williamson pushes at it , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and dies down on its way to gully 12.5 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around the off stump line , Williamson tucks it away into the on-side after moving across 12.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , a yorker on off , Williamson stays inside the crease and squeezes it out back to the bowler 12.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Williamson waits for it and blocks it with gentle hands 12.2 Dhammika to Rutherford , 1 run , full and just outside off , Rutherford drives it to the right of mid-off and the batsmen steal a quick run 12.1 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , very full and just outside off , Rutherford drives it to mid-off 11.6 Lakmal to Rutherford , 1 run , angles this one across off , Rutherford bunts it front of mid-off and gets to the other end , he will keep the strike 11.5 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , banged in short and outside off , Rutherford sways away from the line and lets it go 11.4 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Rutherford stands tall in the crease and blocks solidly 11.3 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , angles this one down the leg-side , Rutherford fails to glance it fine and wears it on his pad 11.2 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , slightly back of a length and angling in on off , Rutherford blocks it to the left of the bowler 11.1 Lakmal to Rutherford , 2 runs , full and angling in on off , Rutherford drives it through mid-on off the inside half of the bat , the batsmen take two Lakmal will continue from round the wicket 10.6 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , length delivery shaping back in from outside off , Williamson dabs it towards gully with gentle hands 10.5 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , on a good length and on off , Williamson gets behind the line and defends 10.4 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , good bouncer from Dhammika , Williamson was a little late to get away from the line of fire , he falls over as he evades the bumper 10.3 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , touch fuller and swinging back in on off , Williamson bunts it to mid-off 10.2 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery that seams back in on middle and leg , Williamson ca n't connect and the ball hits him high on the thigh pad , the bowler thought about appealing , but knew that it was too high and maybe , it was going down leg as well 10.1 Dhammika to Williamson , no run , fullish delivery outside off and shapes back in as well , Williamson leaves 9.6 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , angles this one down the leg-side , there was a faint noise as it went past the batsman and because of that a few Sri Lankans were interested , but the umpire is not 9.5 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Rutherford stands tall in the crease and blocks 9.4 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and angling in on off , Rutherford blocks it back to the bowler 9.3 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , banged in short and a little wide outside off , Rutherford leaves it for the keeper to collect 9.2 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rutherford bunts it down to mid-off 9.1 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , angling into the pads , Rutherford tucks it away to mid-on 8.6 Dhammika to Rutherford , 1 run , that could have been very close , it was short of length delivery on off , Rutherford drops his wrists and sets off for a single , the fielder runs forward towards the shortish point region and has a shy at the stumps , Williamson has to put in the dive to get inside the crease 8.5 Dhammika to Rutherford , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Rutherford jumps in the crease and punches it past a diving gully , the ball reaches the fence in no time 8.4 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , bowls this one wide outside off , Rutherford leaves it for the keeper 8.3 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , just short of a good length and aoutside off , Rutherford punches it off the back foot , the fielder at short cover dives to his right and stops the ball 8.2 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , slightly back of a length delivery angling away just outside off , Rutherford punches it to cover 8.1 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , yorker on the stumps , Rutherford jams it out 7.6 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , shapes this one back in towards off , Williamson gets behind the line and defends 7.5 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , on a good length and on off , Williamson blocks solidly 7.4 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , slightly back of a length delivery around off , Williamson blocks it to cover off the back foot 7.3 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , full and shaping in on off and middle , Williamson drives it to mid-on 7.2 Lakmal to Williamson , no run , on a length and in the channel outside off , Williamson leaves it alone Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease Three slips and a gully in place 7.1 Lakmal to Latham , out Caught by P Jayawardene ! ! First wicket of the morning for Sri Lanka. That was a poor shot from the Kiwi opener. It was a back of a length delivery outside off , it straightens a touch after coming in with the angle , Latham pokes at it away from his body , gets an outside edge and the keeper swallows it. Lakmal is happy to see the back of Latham. Latham c P Jayawardene b Lakmal 6 ( 21 ) Lakmal to Latham , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 6.6 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , another one that 's banged in short and at the batsman , Rutherford was late to sway away from the line , but does so in time 6.5 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , banged in short and outside off , Rutherford sways away from the line 6.4 Dhammika to Rutherford , FOUR , overpitching outside off , Rutherford leans forward and drills the drive to the long-off fence 6.3 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and shapes back in just outside off , Rutherford was looking to drive with laden feet , the ball goes past the inside edge and through to the keeper 6.2 Dhammika to Rutherford , 2 runs , straying on the pads and was fuller in length , Rutherford works it through mid-wicket for a brace 6.1 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Rutherford goes back and blocks solidly 5.6 Lakmal to Latham , no run , angling in from outside off , Latham leaves as the ball was never coming back enough to hit the stumps 5.5 Lakmal to Rutherford , 1 run , short of length delivery from Lakmal , Rutherford blocks it into the off-side with gentle hands , the batsman take a quick single Comes round the wicket now 5.4 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , in the channel outside off and shapes back in a little , Rutherford leaves 5.3 Lakmal to Latham , 1 run , just short of a good length and around off , Latham goes on the back foot and punches it through the cover region 5.2 Lakmal to Latham , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Latham stays back and blocks it into the off-side 5.1 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and around off , Latham blocks Suranga Lakmal [ 2.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 4.6 Dhammika to Rutherford , no run , full and down leg from Dhammika , Rutherford failed to work it into the on-side and the ball hits him on the pad , there was an appeal , but the ball was going down leg 4.5 Dhammika to Latham , 1 run , lot of confusion in running , Dhammika strays on the pads , Latham tucks it away through mid-wicket and sets off for a single , Rutherford was a little slow to get off the blocks , the fielder gets around and throws at the non-striker 's end , had he thrown it towards the striker 's end , it could have been close 4.4 Dhammika to Latham , no run , slightly back of a length outside off , Latham gently runs it down towards the slip cordon 4.3 Dhammika to Latham , no run , in the channel of uncertainty , Latham shoulders arms 4.2 Dhammika to Latham , no run , good length delivery on off and middle , Latham blocks it towards point off the front foot 4.1 Dhammika to Rutherford , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle stump line , Rutherford opens the face of the bat and guides it through the slip region for a single Dhammika Prasad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 3.6 Pradeep to Rutherford , 1 run , too straight from Pradeep , Rutherford works it into the on-side and gets to the other end 3.5 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , in the channel just outside off , Rutherford defends it to mid-off 3.4 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and around off , Rutherford blocks it to mid-off 3.3 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , bumper outside off , Rutherford has nothing to do with it and leaves it for the keeper 3.2 Pradeep to Latham , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Latham stays back and bunts it to mid-off , the batsmen take a quick run 3.1 Pradeep to Latham , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Latham opens the face of the bat and looks to guide it through the gap between the slips and the gully region , the fielder at gully dives and prevents the batsmen from taking a single 2.6 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , on a length outside off , Rutherford was in two minds whether to play at it or not , he leaves it for the keeper at the end 2.5 Lakmal to Rutherford , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for Rutherford , this one was on a length outside off , Rutherford slaps it hard through the gully region and collects four 2.4 Lakmal to Rutherford , FOUR , on a good length and outside off , Rutherford goes hard after it and gets an outside edge that flies through the slip cordon and crashes into the third man fence 2.3 Lakmal to Rutherford , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Rutherford sways away from the line 2.2 Lakmal to Latham , 3 runs , another length delivery outside off , Latham drives it square of the wicket and there was enough time to take three before the ball is hunted down 2.1 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and on off , Latham comes on the front foot and defends it towards the gully region 2.1 Lakmal to Latham , no ball , Lakmal needs to find his footing right as he oversteps once again , the umpire signals a no-ball 1.6 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , on a good length and around off , Rutherford blocks it into the off-side 1.5 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , full outside off , Rutherford was looking to drive , the ball takes the outside edge , but bounces short of the fielder at third slip 1.4 Pradeep to Rutherford , 2 runs , too straight from Pradeep , Rutherford works it away to deep backward square leg and gets back for the second run 1.3 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , full outside off , Rutherford lets it go 1.2 Pradeep to Rutherford , FOUR , fullish in length and just outside off , Rutherford comes on the front foot and drives it through the cover for the first boundary of the morning 1.1 Pradeep to Rutherford , no run , just short of a good length and there was good bounce on it , Rutherford manages to stay away from the line Nuwan Pradeep , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and in the channel outside off , Latham shoulders arms 0.5 Lakmal to Latham , no run , angles this one away from the batsman , Latham leaves 0.4 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and outside off , Latham lets it go 0.4 Lakmal to Latham , no ball , oversteps this time around 0.3 Lakmal to Latham , no run, 0.2 Lakmal to Latham , no run, 0.1 Lakmal to Latham , no run , on a good length and outside off , Latham leaves it alone Latham and Rutherford are at the crease. Latham is on strike. Lakmal will open the attack It is a little overcast and windy at the Basin Reserve. This is Sri Lanka 's opportunity to make good use of the conditions. Can they take a few quick wickets ? Let 's find out . Sri Lanka have made three changes - Chandimal , Herath and Pradeep come in place of Dickwella , Kaushal and Eranga. For New Zealand , Bracewell replaces Wagner . Teams : New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Tom Latham , Hamish Rutherford , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , James Neesham , BJ Watling ( w ) , Mark Craig , Tim Southee , Doug Bracewell , Trent Boult Sri Lanka ( Playing XI ) : Kaushal Silva , Dimuth Karunaratne , Kumar Sangakkara , Lahiru Thirimanne , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Dinesh Chandimal , Prasanna Jayawardene ( w ) , Rangana Herath , Dhammika Prasad , Nuwan Pradeep , Suranga Lakmal Sri Lanka have won the toss and have opted to field The pitch is greener than the one at Christchurch and both teams would ideally want to win the toss and bowl first , in order to utilize the early assistance available from the pitch. Toss and teams coming up in a short while. Stay tuned . Talking about the team composition , both teams have injury worries. Rangana Herath 's fitness is still an issue and it is still not clear whether he will play or not. For New Zealand , Tim Southee is nursing an ankle injury and his participation in the game remains a question. Both teams will probably take a final call just before the toss , depending on whether these bowlers can prove their fitness. Also , Sri Lanka might play Dinesh Chandimal in place of Niroshan Dickwella , who failed to impress in the first Test . Talking about the team composition , both teams have injury worries. Rangana Herath 's fitness is still an issue and it is still not clear whether he will play or not. For New Zealand , Tim Southee is nursing an ankle injury and his participation in the game remains a question. Both teams will probably take a final call just before the toss , depending on whether the bowlers can prove their fitness. Also , Sri Lanka might play Dinesh Chandimal in place of Niroshan Dickwella , who failed to impress in the first Test . The Kiwi bowlers did really well in the first innings at Christchurch , bundling out the Sri Lankans for 138 and making them follow-on after the Lankans conceded a lead of over 300. However , it was Brendon McCullum 's superb 134-ball 195 that set up the game nicely for them. In the end , New Zealand emerged as winners and they deserved it as well . Hello and welcome to day 1 of the second and final Test between New Zealand and Sri Lanka at Wellington. Sri Lanka will be looking to turn things around in this series , especially after being thumped by 8 wickets in the first Test. For them , they will have to give it their all as losing by a 1-0 or a 2-0 margin hardly matters , but it will be great for them if they can manage to square the series . Preview Concerns Friday over injuries to Tim Southee and Rangana Herath disrupted preparations for New Zealand and Sri Lanka on the eve of the second Test in Wellington. Both camps have given their key bowlers until just before the Test starts on Saturday to prove their fitness. With yet another green wicket promising plenty of bounce , the toss will be crucial with New Zealand and Sri Lanka both looking to bowl first . Sri Lanka have signalled they now have a plan to combat the dominance of the hosts ' captain Brendon McCullum , who set up the Black Caps ' eight-wicket win in the first Test in Christchurch when he blasted 195 in the first innings. Wellington 's Basin Reserve is a favourite ground for McCullum where last year he led New Zealand to victory over the West Indies by an innings and 73 runs , and scored 302 in a match-saving knock to draw a Test against India . " We have a few plans ( for McCullum ) so we will look to try and execute that and perfect it , " Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews said. " When a guy smashes you all over the park and gets almost a double hundred it 's quite hard to set fields because he was not orthodox. We have to be patient and wait for his mistakes , which will come. " Left-arm leg spinner Herath is central to Sri Lanka 's strategy , having removed McCullum in three of the four innings when they last met in a two-Test series just over two years ago. He finished that series with 21 wickets at 13.90 and was sorely missed by Sri Lanka when he did not play in the Christchurch Test because of a hamstring injury that continues to be troublesome . " He has to go through a fitness test in the morning and then we 'll see , " Mathews said . McCullum said being personally targeted by Sri Lanka was " a good challenge " , and was more concerned about whether strike bowler Southee would recover from an ankle knock. " Tim 's probably the major concern at the moment. We 'll see how he scrubs up in the morning and if we think he 's a risk that 's not worth taking , then we wo n't take it , " he said . Doug Bracewell will share the new ball with Trent Boult should Southee be ruled out , but otherwise New Zealand are likely to field an unchanged lineup even though Kane Williamson is nursing a sore shoulder. The first Test win completed a golden year for New Zealand in which they won five Tests for the first time , and McCullum wants to continue the momentum to push them up the world rankings with fifth spot beckoning. Despite moving up only one place to seventh in their stellar year just gone , the Black Caps have closed the gap on India and Sri Lanka immediately ahead of them . Sri Lanka , meanwhile , considered shoring up their batting with the possible inclusion of Dinesh Chandimal in the middle order in place of Niroshan Dickwella , as Mathews said they would leave nothing to chance to square the series . " We 've got no choice other than going out there and playing positive cricket. If you lose 1-0 or 2-0 it does n't really matter as long as you play good cricket , so we 're looking to turn things around by winning this game. " Teams : Sri Lanka ( From ) : Dimuth Karunaratne , Kaushal Silva , Kumar Sangakkara , Lahiru Thirimanne , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Dinesh Chandimal , Prasanna Jayawardene ( w ) , T Kaushal , Dhammika Prasad , Shaminda Eranga , Suranga Lakmal , Rangana Herath , Nuwan Pradeep , Niroshan Dickwella , Dilruwan Perera , Dushmantha Chameera New Zealand ( From ) : Tom Latham , Hamish Rutherford , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , James Neesham , BJ Watling ( w ) , Mark Craig , Neil Wagner , Doug Bracewell , Trent Boult , Tim Southee , Dean Brownlie Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
