Graphs That 's it from this match. After losing the first game , Sri Lanka have rebounded to restore parity. Many thanks for your company today. Do join us back for the third ODI on Saturday. It will also be a D/N affair. Until then , take care and bye ! Dilshan : " It was a good surface. The ball came nicely onto the bat. I am also enjoying bowling. It is not easy to bowl here - it does not turn like it does back home. I was trying to put it in the right areas and make the batsmen play. " Dilshan is the Man of the Match for his 127-ball 116 Brendon McCullum : " Four run-outs are not good enough. Probably , panic set in and we gave Sri Lanka an opportunity. It was a good wicket. It was a 290-300 wicket. It was tough to bowl against players like Dilshan. We still have some time to make improvements. It would have been nice to bat on and get to the powerplay and make a big total. " Mathews : " I am pretty pleased with the way the boys went about things. Brendon ( McCullum ) batted well , but we pulled things back. We were brilliant on the field. The wicket looked slow and we wanted to bring in a spinner. We have been working very hard. As soon as Dilshan got off to a good start , he made sure he would bat through and that 's what we want. " Earlier in the day , Brendon McCullum led the way for the hosts with a blazing 99-ball 117 , before four run-outs saw Sri Lanka snatch the advantage. Do stick around for the presentation . Matt Henry steamed in and operated with zest , picking up a couple of wickets. However , he did not get much assistance from the other bowlers. Dan Vettori was mean and miserly - he could have made a bigger impact though had he snapped up wickets . After the Lankan bowlers and fielders pegged back the Kiwis , Dilshan and Karunaratne built a soild platform thanks to a 64-run opening stand. Though Karunaratne was pinned lbw by a Nathan McCullum slider , Dilshan kicked on , combining power with timing to bring up his 19th ODI century. Sanga and Mahela played the supporting acts to perfection before Mathews finished it off as Sri Lanka taste their first win of the tour. Dilshan perished at the doorstep of victory , but it did not take much sheen off their emphatic 6-wicket win . 47.4 Matt Henry to Mathews , FOUR , Sri Lanka bounce back to square the series 1-1. Banged in short again , Mathews is ready to rock back and pulls it away to the deep mid-wicket fence to seal the game in style for the visitors 47.3 Matt Henry to Thirimanne , 1 run , banged in short and on the stumps , Thirimanne waves it to deep square leg. Scores are level now 47.2 Matt Henry to Thirimanne , no run , another lifter outside off , Thiri has his eyes on the ball before swaying away from the line of harm 47.1 Matt Henry to Thirimanne , no run , bouncer outside off , Thirimanne arches his back and lets it sail through to the keeper 46.6 Boult to Mathews , no run , fuller and straighter , worked to mid-on , straight to the fielder 46.5 Boult to Mathews , no run , low full toss around off , gently driven to cover 46.4 Boult to Mathews , FOUR , shortish and down leg , Mathews swivels on the back foot and pulls it away fine. Boult is a disappointed man 46.3 Boult to Mathews , no run , full and on the stumps , nudged to the leg-side 46.2 Boult to Mathews , FOUR , on a length and on middle , Mathews comes down the track and lashes a drive past the covers , the ball sped away to the fence 46.1 Boult to Mathews , no run , good length delivery outside off , Mathews pushes it to mid-off Trent Boult [ 9.0-1-44-0 ] is back into the attack Sri Lanka just require 10 runs in 24 balls . 45.6 Matt Henry to Mathews , 1 run , back of a length and on off , Mathews turns it to mid-on and will keep strike 45.5 Matt Henry to Thirimanne , 1 run , Matt Henry drifts onto the hips , clipped down to fine leg 45.4 Matt Henry to Thirimanne , no run , bouncer angled across , Thirimanne drops his wrists and lets it go Lahiru Thirimanne , left handed bat , comes to the crease 45.3 Matt Henry to Dilshan , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Dilshan perishes , but Sri Lanka are almost home and dry ! Matt Henry bangs this bouncer and directs it at the throat of Dilshan , who top-edges the pull. The ball loops to Ronchi , who moves to his left to snaffle the take. The opener goes for a magnificent 116. Dilshan c Ronchi b Matt Henry 116 ( 127 ) [ 4s-17 ] Matt Henry to Dilshan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.2 Matt Henry to Dilshan , no run , very full and on off , Dilshan pushes at it , gets an inside-edge that sneaks away to the leg-side 45.1 Matt Henry to Mathews , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , wristed wide of mid-wicket Matt Henry [ 8.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack Baz has a chat with Henry . 44.6 Milne to Dilshan , no run , friendly low full toss on off , Dilshan though is kind enough to push-drive it to the man at mid-off 44.5 Milne to Dilshan , no run , on a fuller length and outside off , flayed to mid-off , straight to the fielder 44.4 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , on a length and outside off , Dilshan drills it over the bowler 's head for a hat-trick of fours. Dilshan has cut loose after reaching three figures 44.3 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , dug in short , Dilshan roars again , pulling it to the deep mid-wicket fence 44.2 Milne to Dilshan , no run , back of a length and outside off , Dilshan swings and misses 44.1 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , banged in very short and on the stumps , Dilshan rocks back and nails the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence 43.6 Vettori to Mathews , no run , flighted ball on the stumps , defended back to the bowler 43.5 Vettori to Mathews , no run , flatter on the stumps , kept out 43.4 Vettori to Mathews , no run , blocked back to the bowler 43.3 Vettori to Mathews , no run , Vettori drags his length back outside off , punched towards cover 43.2 Vettori to Mathews , no run , pushed to cover 43.1 Vettori to Dilshan , 1 run , full and outside off , driven down to long-off 42.6 Milne to Mathews , no run , shortish and outside off , Mathews is up on his toes to fend this onto the pitch 42.5 Milne to Mathews , 2 runs , on a length on middle and leg , clipped to deep mid-wicket for a brace 42.4 Milne to Dilshan , 1 run , full toss on middle , tucked to mid-wicket 42.3 Milne to Dilshan , no run , yorker from Milne , Dilshan jabs his bat down and keeps it out 42.2 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , Dilshan gets to his hundred in style ! 19th ODI century for the senior pro ! This was on a length and outside off , Dilshan drives it past the covers , the ball skims away to the fence 42.1 Milne to Dilshan , no run , back of a length and outside off , pushed to mid-on 41.6 Vettori to Mathews , no run , worked in front of mid-wicket 41.5 Vettori to Dilshan , 1 run , flighted delivery , push-driven to long-off 41.4 Vettori to Mathews , 1 run , Mathews uses his feet and drives it down to long-off 41.3 Vettori to Mathews , no run , full and straight , nudged to square leg 41.2 Vettori to Mathews , no run , slower through the air and Vettori pulls his length back as Mathews comes well forward and takes it on his pad 41.1 Vettori to Dilshan , 1 run , Dilshan uses his feet and drives it down to long-on 41.1 Vettori to Mathews , 2 wides , darted down leg , the keeper also fails to glove the ball cleanly 40.6 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , pitched up and outside off , Dilshan drives it on the up and gets it in the gap between cover and mid-off. This was not a half volley , but Dilshan executed the shot well. He moves onto 96 now 40.5 Milne to Dilshan , no run , good length ball on off , Dilshan comes on the front foot and drives it back at the bowler 40.4 Milne to Dilshan , no run , back of a length and on middle , pushed to short cover 40.3 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , half volley outside off , Dilshan takes full toll of it and thrashes a drive past the covers , the ball sped away to the fence 40.2 Milne to Dilshan , no run , shortish and hurries just outside off , jabbed to the man at point 40.1 Milne to Dilshan , no run , back of a length and outside off , Dilshan pushes hard with no feet movement and gets beaten Adam Milne [ 5.0-0-34-1 ] is back into the attack The batting PP yielded 26 runs. Sri Lanka need 46 runs from 10 overs. And drinks are on the field now . 39.6 Vettori to Mathews , no run , fraction short and wide outside off , Mathews cuts and finds point 39.5 Vettori to Mathews , no run , jammed back at the bowler 39.4 Vettori to Mathews , no run , full and straight , Mathews steps out and works it to short mid-wicket 39.3 Vettori to Dilshan , 1 run , Vettori drags his length back , played to sweeper cover 39.2 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , pushed to mid-off 39.1 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , flatter ball , pushed to extra-cover 38.6 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , pitched up and outside off , Dilshan rocks forward , dives it to mid-off and keeps strike 38.5 Boult to Dilshan , FOUR , full and wide outside off , Dilshan throws his hands at it and lashes it between cover and mid-off 38.4 Boult to Mathews , 1 run , full and straighter , tucked to deep backward square 38.3 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , shortish and on the stumps , pulled to deep square leg 38.2 Boult to Dilshan , no run , on a length and outside off , driven to cover 38.1 Boult to Dilshan , no run , short and outside off , Dilshan is beaten on the cut 37.6 Vettori to Mathews , SIX , Boult had nearly pulled off a screamer. Mathews backs away and lifts it inside-out in the air over mid-off. Boult , who was at the edge of the long-off boundary , gets his hands onto the ball , takes the catch but skips over the fence in the process. Realising that he was going over the playing area , he lobs the ball back. The TV umpire checks for it and deems it was not a clean save and it is a six. Full marks to Boult for the commitment though 37.5 Vettori to Mathews , no run , floated up outside off , driven to short cover 37.4 Vettori to Dilshan , 1 run , punched off the back foot to sweeper cover 37.3 Vettori to Mathews , 1 run , Vettori drags his length back on middle and leg , Mathews nurdles a single in front of mid-wicket 37.2 Vettori to Mathews , no run , arm ball on off , pushed to short cover 37.1 Vettori to Mathews , no run , quick turn outside off , Mathews prods and gets beaten Daniel Vettori [ 6.0-1-25-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Boult to Mathews , 1 run , fuller and straighter , picked away to deep square leg 36.5 Boult to Mathews , no run , bouncer outside off , beaten on the hook is Mathews 36.4 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , push-and-run to mid-off for a quick single. The fielder ( Brendon McCullum ) effects a direct hit at the bowler 's end , but Dilshan had slid his bat in 36.3 Boult to Mathews , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , punched down the ground to mid-off 36.2 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Dilshan cuts it hard into the ground over point 36.1 Boult to Mathews , 1 run , back of a length and on the leg stump , tucked to fine leg 35.6 Matt Henry to Dilshan , no run , short of length and just outside off , angled to point 35.5 Matt Henry to Mathews , 1 run , Matt Henry bangs this short ball outside off , Mathews controls the pull , rolls his wrists and plays it wide of mid-wicket 35.4 Matt Henry to Mathews , no run , full and outside off , Mathews goes for a booming drive and finds the man at mid-off 35.3 Matt Henry to Mathews , no run , pushed down to mid-off from the crease 35.2 Matt Henry to Mathews , no run , banged in short and rises on off , Mathews gets on top of the bounce and quells it to cover. Meanwhile , the bowler collapses in his follow-through. No harm done though for Henry 35.1 Matt Henry to Mathews , FOUR , seeing Mathews give the charge , Matt Henry digs it short , yet Mathews pulls it away to the long-on boundary Batting PP time ! 34.6 Boult to Dilshan , FOUR , fraction short and on the stumps , this one does not rise much as Dilshan switches his balance on the back foot and pulls it away to the deep mid-wicket boundary 34.5 Boult to Dilshan , no run , dug in much shorter and climbs on Dilshan to foil his pull. He gets a bottom-edge and the ball goes only as far as the bowler 34.4 Boult to Dilshan , no run , similar length , pushed to the right of the bowler 34.3 Boult to Dilshan , 2 runs , back of a length on the leg stump , Dilshan swivels on the back foot and helps it to fine leg. The duo hustle across for a brace 34.2 Boult to Dilshan , no run , very full and dips in on the stumps , driven back to the bowler 34.1 Boult to Dilshan , no run , back of a length and hurries on close to off , Dilshan chops it towards wide slip off an under-edge Trent Boult [ 6.0-1-26-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Matt Henry to Mathews , no run , on a length and outside off , Mathews drives it on the up to cover , who half-stops the ball and parries it to mid-off 33.5 Matt Henry to Dilshan , 1 run , on the pads again , flicked in front of square on the on-side 33.4 Matt Henry to Mathews , 1 run , very full on the pads , whipped away to deep square leg 33.3 Matt Henry to Mathews , no run , pitched up on off , driven back to the bowler with the full face of the bat 33.2 Matt Henry to Mathews , no run , rising short of length ball outside off , Mathews thought about the pull before withdrawing from it 33.1 Matt Henry to Mathews , no run , back of a length and on off , Mathews fends it to the leg-side off the back foot 32.6 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , width on offer outside off , Dilshan cracks it straight to the fielder at cover-point 32.5 Corey Anderson to Mathews , 1 run , back of a length and on the stumps , Mathews shuffles across and clips it to fine leg 32.4 Corey Anderson to Mathews , FOUR , on a length and on off , Mathews drives it neatly , wide of mid-off. There 's no stopping that , for the timing was exquisite 32.3 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , 1 run , good length ball outside off , driven down the track and past the bowler. But Baz flings to his right and stops the ball 32.2 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , fraction short and wide outside off , Dilshan gets hold of the cut now , diving save from the fielder at point 32.1 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , shortish and hurries on off , Dilshan does not have much room to play with. He chops it to cover 31.6 Matt Henry to Mathews , no run , back of a length ball on off , Mathews nudges it to square leg Angelo Mathews , right handed bat , comes to the crease 31.5 Matt Henry to M Jayawardene , out Caught by Ross Taylor ! ! Oh dear , Mahela has picked out wide slip to perfection. He is annoyed with himself for throwing it away , while the bowler is pumped. This one has some extra bounce outside off , Jayawardene late cuts it straight into the hands of Taylor at a widish slip position. MJ tried to hit the gap between the keeper and Taylor. However , it was not to be. M Jayawardene c Ross Taylor b Matt Henry 27 ( 29 ) [ 4s-5 ] Matt Henry to M Jayawardene , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 31.4 Matt Henry to M Jayawardene , no run , back of a length and skids on off , blocked in front of cover 31.3 Matt Henry to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length on off , short-arm-jabbed to the leg-side 31.2 Matt Henry to M Jayawardene , 1 run , MJ rides the bounce of this short ball and guides it down to third man 31.1 Matt Henry to Dilshan , 1 run , straighter in line on a back of a length , tucked through mid-wicket Matt Henry [ 5.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , no run , keeps it short and around off , dabbed towards backward point with an open face 30.5 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , FOUR , fraction short and width on offer as well , Jayawardene goes deep inside the crease and cuts it in front of square on the off-side 30.4 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , 1 run , good length ball outside off , pushed wide of cover , mid-off has the ball covered 30.3 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , similar length and close to off , punched to short cover 30.2 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , MJ opens the face of the bat and steers it wide of a diving point 30.1 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , 1 run , dug in short on the stumps , pulled backward of square leg 29.6 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , gets forward and defends it into the off-side 29.5 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , the ball grips and turns away from Jayawardene , he pushes at it and is beaten 29.4 Vettori to Dilshan , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Dilshan comes on the front foot and eases it to long-off 29.3 Vettori to M Jayawardene , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-off 29.2 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it towards short fine leg 29.1 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , leans forward and works it behind square on the leg-side 28.6 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , walks down the track and looks to flick this back of a length delivery , misses and is rapped on the pads , loud shout from the bowler for lbw but that was comfortably missing leg 28.5 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery on off , Dilshan gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 28.4 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , 1 run , length ball on middle and leg , Jayawardene flicks it to fine leg 28.3 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , FOUR , beautifully done by Jayawardene ! It was a short of length delivery from Corey , good width on that as well , Jayawardene stays inside the line , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 28.2 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , 1 run , good length delivery that shapes back into the batsman , Dilshan clips it to deep square leg 28.1 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , back of a length and outside off , Dilshan stays back and punches it just in front of point 27.6 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , drifts it onto the pads , Jayawardene clips it to short fine leg 27.5 Vettori to M Jayawardene , FOUR , shortish and outside off , Jayawardene makes room and guides it to the deep backward point fence 27.4 Vettori to Dilshan , 1 run , flighted on middle and off , Dilshan comes down the track and drives it to long-off 27.3 Vettori to M Jayawardene , 1 run , drifts it in on middle and leg , Jayawardene turns it towards square leg for a quick single 27.2 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , tossed up on off , Jayawardene pushes it back to Vettori 27.1 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , gets inside the line and knocks it in front of point 26.6 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery on off , Dilshan mistimes the drive back to the bowler 26.5 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , fuller ball around off , Dilshan drives it straight to cover 26.4 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , back of a length on off , Dilshan defends it back 26.3 Corey Anderson to Dilshan , no run , looks to tap into the off-side , gets an inside edge and the ball almost went onto the stumps 26.2 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , 1 run , back of a length on leg , some extra bounce there , Jayawardene moves inside the line and flicks it touch uppishly to fine leg 26.1 Corey Anderson to M Jayawardene , no run , good length on middle and off , Jayawardene blocks it with a straightish bat Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 25.6 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , flatter and touch shortish as well , Dilshan stays back and knocks it towards point 25.5 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , looks to drive this full ball into the off-side , gets an inside edge that rolls to the right of the bowler 25.4 Vettori to M Jayawardene , 1 run , full around off , Jayawardene drives it to long-off for a comfortable single 25.3 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , comes on the front foot and pushes it into the off-side 25.2 Vettori to M Jayawardene , FOUR , flighted around off , Jayawardene gets forward and drives it uppishly to the deep extra cover fence 25.1 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , flighted on middle and off , Jayawardene defends it back 24.6 Milne to Dilshan , no run , fuller and outside off , drives it to mid-on 24.5 Milne to Dilshan , no run , fuller and outside off , Dilshan mistimes the drive to cover 24.4 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , another short one and punished as well ! This is the third boundary of the over , Dilshan is quick to swivel on the back foot and muscles the pull through backward square leg 24.3 Milne to Dilshan , no run , short of length on middle and leg , Dilshan looks to flick , gets an inside edge onto the pad 24.2 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , banged in short on middle , Dilshan rocks ball and pulls it to the deep backward square leg fence 24.1 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , lovely timing from Dilshan ! It was a good length ball on middle , Dilshan presents the full face of the bat and drives it beautifully to the long-on fence , Milne got his hand on the ball and almost deflected it onto the stumps , Jayawardene was out of his crease and had the ball hit , he would have been in trouble 23.6 Vettori to M Jayawardene , FOUR , shortish and wide , Jayawardene waits for it from inside the crease and cuts it to the third man fence 23.5 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , stays back and blocks solidly 23.4 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , gets forward and looks to work it across the line , misses and the ball goes off the pads and rolls into the off-side , loud appeal for lbw but the umpire is not interested 23.3 Vettori to M Jayawardene , no run , gets forward and drives it to the left of the bowler 23.2 Vettori to Dilshan , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to long-on 23.1 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , ooohhh , almost dragged this back onto the stumps ! Dilshan walks forward and pushes at this quicker delivery , gets an inside edge onto the pads and the ball rolls back , it was pretty close to the off-stump 22.6 Milne to M Jayawardene , no run , back of a length and outside off , Jayawardene stays back and punches it in front of point Mahela Jayawardene , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.5 Milne to Sangakkara , out Caught by Latham ! ! Milne has got the big fish ! Sangakkara has picked out the deep square leg to perfection. It was a short of length delivery on the stumps , Sangakkara goes back and pulls , he has mistimed this one , finds the fielder , Latham dives forward and holds onto a good low catch. Sanga walks away in frustration. Sangakkara c Latham b Milne 38 ( 41 ) [ 4s-1 6s-3 ] Milne to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.4 Milne to Dilshan , 1 run , shortish on middle , Dilshan leans forward and tucks it to mid-wicket to bring up his 42nd ODI fifty 22.3 Milne to Sangakkara , 1 run , full on leg , Sangakkara gets forward and flicks it off the pads to deep square leg , Sanga almost fell over after playing that shot 22.2 Milne to Sangakkara , no run , short of length on middle , Sangakkara stays back and defends solidly 22.1 Milne to Sangakkara , no run , short and wide , Sangakkara knocks it to point 21.6 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter on middle , Sangakkara works it to deep square leg to bring up the fifty partnership 21.5 Vettori to Dilshan , 1 run , leans forward and clips it to deep backward square leg 21.4 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , comes down the track and pushes it to cover , where Baz McCullum dives to his left , picks up the ball and throws it towards the bowler 21.3 Vettori to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted ball , Sangakkara slogs it to deep mid-wicket 21.2 Vettori to Sangakkara , no run , stays back and pushes it towards Vettori , who slightly moves across to his left and stops it 21.1 Vettori to Sangakkara , FOUR , drifts it on leg , Sangakkara leans forward and flicks it off the inside half of the bat to the fine leg fence 20.6 Milne to Dilshan , 2 runs , shortish and outside off , Dilshan stands tall and slaps it to square third man , where Vettori slides near the rope and makes a fine stop , he saved a couple there 20.5 Milne to Sangakkara , 1 run , banged in short on the stumps , Sangakkara gets back and hooks it towards deep square leg , the ball was in the air for quite some time but drops down in no-man 's land 20.4 Milne to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length and some width there as well , Sangakkara slaps it in front of a point , wants a quick single but turns back as the point fielder moves across and stops the ball 20.3 Milne to Sangakkara , no run , short of length and outside off , Sangakkara slices it to point 20.2 Milne to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Sangakkara defends it off the back foot 20.1 Milne to Sangakkara , no run , short of length on off , Sangakkara goes back and inside edges the pull onto his body , the ball hit him on the stomach , he rubs it grimacing in pain Adam Milne [ 2.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now 19.6 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , full on off , Dilshan presses on the front foot and blocks it with an angled bat 19.5 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , gets inside the line and punches it to the right of the bowler , who dives across and makes a fine stop 19.4 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , flighted on middle and off , Dilshan defends it off the front foot 19.3 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , remains on the back foot and punches it towards cover again 19.2 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , flatter on middle and off , Dilshan stays back and punches it to cover 19.1 Vettori to Dilshan , no run , flighted on middle , Dilshan defends it back Daniel Vettori , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 18.6 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 1 run , gets inside the line and works it to deep square leg 18.5 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , 1 run , turns it to square leg for a quick single 18.4 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , SIX , lovely batting from Sangakkara , he comes down the track , gets to the pitch of this flighted ball and launches it over the long-off fence 18.3 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 1 run , tucks it through backward square leg 18.2 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 2 runs , makes room to this shortish ball and slaps it to deep point 18.1 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 17.6 Boult to Sangakkara , 1 run , fullish on middle and leg , Sangakkara tucks it to deep mid-wicket 17.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , short of length and outside off , Sangakkara cuts it straight to point 17.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length around off , Sangakkara drives it to mid-on 17.3 Boult to Sangakkara , SIX , wonderful shot ! It was a fuller delivery on middle and off , Sangakkara advances down the track and lofts it over the long-on fence for a maximum 17.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length that jags back in , Sangakkara stays on the back foot and pushes forward , misses and is rapped on the pads , loud appeal for lbw but not given. The impact was outside off 17.1 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run, 16.6 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 1 run , stays inside the crease again and punches it to long-on 16.5 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter on middle , Sangakkara goes on the back foot and punches it to long-on 16.4 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , 2 runs , gets down on one knee and sweeps hard , gets a thickish top-edge , 'catch it ' is the call but the ball falls in no-man 's land and rolls to fine leg 16.3 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 1 run , flighted around off , Dilshan walks forward and drives it to mid-off 16.2 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , 1 run , shortish and outside off this time , Sangakkara backs away and cuts it to deepish point 16.1 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 1 run , shortish on middle , Dilshan rocks back and pulls it to deep backward square leg 15.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , shortish on middle , Sangakkara gets back and tucks it towards short mid-wicket 15.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , touch fullish and outside off , Sangakkara punches it towards cover 15.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length ball on middle , Sangakkara turns it towards short mid-wicket 15.3 Boult to Sangakkara , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off , Sangakkara stays inside the line and punches it square of the wicket 15.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length around off , Sangakkara stays back and punches it towards cover 15.1 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , fuller length ball onto the pads , Dilshan leans forward and clips it to mid-wicket 14.6 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , SIX , take that ! It was a flighted delivery from Nathan , Sangakkara charges down the track and lofts it elegantly over the long-off fence for a maximum 14.5 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , 2 runs , comes down the track and looks to drive it uppishly , outside edges it to third man for a brace 14.4 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , no run , gets forward and pushes it into the off-side towards cover 14.3 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , no run , walks forward again and turns it into the leg-side 14.2 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , no run , shimmies down the track and pushes it back to the bowler 14.1 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 1 run , full on off , Dilshan gets forward and drives it to mid-off 13.6 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length that jags back in sharply , Sangakkara misses the flick and is struck on the pads. That was , however , sliding down leg 13.5 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length and outside off , Sangakkara stands tall and punches it straight to point 13.4 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , good length around off , Sangakkara defends it off the back foot into the off-side 13.3 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , short of length on middle and off , Sangakkara leans and clips it towards short mid-wicket 13.2 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , width on offer again , Sangakkara goes fishing , swishes his bat wildly but is beaten and the ball goes through to the keeper 13.1 Boult to Sangakkara , no run , short of length and outside off , Sangakkara stays back and chops it towards the keeper 12.6 Nathan McCullum to Sangakkara , 1 run , comes on the front foot andd drives to cover Kumar Sangakkara , left handed bat , comes to the crease 12.5 Nathan McCullum to D Karunaratne , out Lbw ! ! Loud shout for LBW and given straightaway ! Karunaratne waits for a while , consults with his partner but decides against taking a review. He is forced into the crease as he looks to tuck this ball that skids in straight , misses and is rapped below the knee-roll. That would have just clipped the leg-stump , the umpire does not waste much time before raising his finger. Hawk-Eye shows that the umpire 's call would have remained. D Karunaratne lbw b Nathan McCullum 21 ( 38 ) [ 4s-3 ] Nathan McCullum to D Karunaratne , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 12.4 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 1 run , flatter around off , Dilshan taps it to sweeper cover 12.3 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , no run , gets forward and turns it in front of square on the leg-side 12.2 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , FOUR , width on offer , short as well , Dilshan makes room and cuts it to the third man fence 12.1 Nathan McCullum to D Karunaratne , 1 run , lunges on the front foot and turns this flighted delivery deftly towards square leg for a quick single 11.6 Boult to D Karunaratne , 1 run , touch short of length on leg , Karunaratne tucks it off the pads through backward square leg 11.5 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , fullish on middle , Karunaratne works it towards square leg 11.4 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , short of length on middle and leg , Dilshan pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg 11.3 Boult to Dilshan , no run , gets forward and pushes this length ball on off into the off-side 11.2 Boult to Dilshan , no run , length delivery on off , Dilshan drives it straight to mid-off 11.1 Boult to Dilshan , FOUR , what a welcome for Boult from Dilshan ! He leans on the front foot and drills this back of a length delivery on middle to the long-on fence Trent Boult [ 2.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Nathan McCullum to D Karunaratne , no run , comes on the front foot and works it to short mid-wicket 10.5 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 1 run , touch shortish and outside off , Dilshan knocks it towards point for a brisk run 10.4 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , no run , lunges forward and lets the ball come onto the bat and defends it back 10.3 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , no run , floated on middle and off , Dilshan shuffles across a touch and works it to the right of the bowler 10.2 Nathan McCullum to D Karunaratne , 1 run , flighted on middle , Karunaratne clears his front leg and drives it to long-on 10.1 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 1 run , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it hard to mid-off , straight to the fielder but Dilshan is quick between the wickets 9.6 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , touch fullish and just outside off , Karunaratne gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 9.5 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , 2 runs , back of a length around off , Karunaratne gets inside the line and tucks it to mid-wicket for a brace , Vettori chases and keeps the batsmen down to two 9.4 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , touch fullish on off , Karunaratne gets forward and on-drives it to mid-on 9.3 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , fullish around off , Karunaratne drives it softly towards mid-off 9.2 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length on off , Karunaratne punches it with a straight bat towards Henry A silly mid-off is in place 9.1 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it towards mid-off 8.6 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , no run , drifts it around leg , Dilshan bends down and paddles , does not get it off the middle of the bat as the ball drops down and rolls towards short fine leg 8.5 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , no run , shortish and outside off , Dilshan slaps it straight to point 8.4 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , no run , walks down the track and jams it back to the bowler 8.3 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , no run , drifts it on leg , Dilshan gets forward and works it towards short mid-wicket 8.2 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , 2 runs , leans forward and turns it to mid-wicket for a brace 8.1 Nathan McCullum to Dilshan , no run , straighter one from Nathan , Dilshan gets forward and pushes it to the left of the bowler Nathan McCullum , right-arm off break , comes into the attack A slip in place for Nathan McCullum 7.6 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , short of length on the stumps , Karunaratne stays back and tucks it towards mid-wicket 7.5 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , beats the outside edge of Karunaratne 's bat again ! Not much feet movement from the left-hander , he pokes at this back of a length offering , the ball shapes away missing his bat and goes through to the keeper 7.4 Matt Henry to Dilshan , 1 run , half-volley on leg , Dilshan leans forward and flicks it to fine leg , Milne dives near the rope and saves a certain boundary 7.3 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , 1 run , comes on the front foot and pushes it to mid-on for a single 7.2 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , shaping away from the batsman a touch , Karunaratne is rooted to his crease as he hangs his bat away from the body and prods at it , gets beaten as the ball moves away 7.1 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , FOUR , lovely from Karunaratne ! It was a back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Karunaratne drives it off the inside half of the bat to the long-on fence 6.6 Milne to Dilshan , no run , touch fuller in length on off , Dilshan remains on the back foot and drives it to mid-off 6.5 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , short , wide and punished ! Dilshan waits for it patiently , makes a bit of a room and slaps it to the third man fence this time. Back-to-back boundaries for Dilshan ! 6.4 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , length delivery on middle , Dilshan comes on the front foot and drives it elegantly , the fielder gives a chase but the outfield is too quick for him as the ball races away to long-off 6.3 Milne to D Karunaratne , 1 run , shortish and coming back in , Karunaratne punches it past the bowler towards mid-on , another brisk single taken 6.2 Milne to Dilshan , 1 run , touch back of a length around off , Dilshan pushes it to cover and sets off for a quick single , good running between the wickets that ! 6.1 Milne to Dilshan , no run , back of a length and outside off , Dilshan stays back and slices it behind point 5.6 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Karunaratne stands tall and punches it to mid-off 5.5 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , stays inside the crease and tucks it off the pads into the leg-side 5.4 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Karunaratne gets forward and drives it softly towards mid-off 5.3 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , wide of off this time , Karunaratne knocks it behind point 5.2 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , shortish and straightening into the batsman , Karunaratne stays inside the line and prods at it with laden feet , the ball beats the inside edge and goes through to the keeper 5.2 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , wide , short of length and going down leg , Karunaratne swivels back and looks to pull , does not connect , that was far down leg 5.1 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , length delivery around off , Karunaratne taps it towards mid-off 4.6 Milne to Dilshan , no run , back of a length and moving away from the batsman , no feet movement from Dilshan as he drives at it , misses and the ball goes through to the keeper , that was pretty close 4.5 Milne to Dilshan , FOUR , beautiful straight drive from Dilshan ! It was a fullish one from Milne , Dilshan drills it past the bowler for a wonderful boundary 4.4 Milne to D Karunaratne , 1 run , length ball around off , Karunaratne drives it to mid-off for a brisk single 4.3 Milne to D Karunaratne , no run , yorker length delivery on off , Karunaratne squeezes it towards point 4.2 Milne to D Karunaratne , no run , short of length and straightens , Karunaratne covers the line and lets it go 4.2 Milne to D Karunaratne , wide , fullish and well outside off , Karunaratne just watches it closely and lets that go through 4.1 Milne to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length and angled into the pads , Dilshan tucks it to fine leg Adam Milne , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 3.6 Matt Henry to Dilshan , 1 run , shortish one , Dilshan taps it to point 3.5 Matt Henry to Dilshan , no run , keeps the length short and the ball jags back in sharply , Dilshan misses and is rapped on the pads , loud appeal for lbw but that was sliding down leg 3.4 Matt Henry to Dilshan , no run , fuller length on off , Dilshan drives it straight down the ground , the bowler gets a boot on it and saves a certain boundary 3.3 Matt Henry to Dilshan , no run , a beauty from Henry this time ! Dropped by Ronchi ! It was a back of a length delivery coming back into the batsman , Dilshan goes back into the crease and pokes at it , gets a thick inside edge and the ball flies backwards , Ronchi dives to his left , gets a glove to it but is unable to hold on 3.2 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , 1 run , short of length again , Karunaratne pulls it along the ground to fine leg 3.1 Matt Henry to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length around off , Dilshan pushes it to mid-off 2.6 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , length ball coming into the batsman , Karunaratne gets an inside edge onto the boot and the ball rolls down the wicket 2.5 Boult to Dilshan , 1 run , taps it to mid-off and sets off for a quick single , the fielder fumbles and Dilshan completes the run with ease 2.4 Boult to Dilshan , FOUR , shortish one on the stumps , Dilshan is quick to swivel on the back foot and pulls it to the fine leg fence 2.3 Boult to Dilshan , no run , short of length and outside off , Dilshan square-drives it towards point , the fielder at backward point moves across and fields it 2.2 Boult to Dilshan , no run , short of a good length and a shade outside off , Dilshan looks to cut , ends up chopping it towards the keeper , that was not all that short to warrant a cut shot 2.1 Boult to Dilshan , no run , length delivery around off , Dilshan stands tall and drives it hard , finds the man at cover 1.6 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , continues to remain inside the line and punches it towards cover 1.5 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , FOUR , beautiful shot ! This was a short of length delivery by Henry around off , Karunaratne presents the full face of the bat and punches it off the back foot straight down the ground to the long-off fence 1.4 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , in the channel outside off , Karunaratne watches it closely and lets that go through to the keeper 1.3 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , short of length on middle and off , Karunaratne stays inside the crease and bunts it in front of point 1.2 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , length ball on off , Karunaratne turns it from the inside half of the bat towards the leg-side 1.1 Matt Henry to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Karunaratne punches it off the back foot into the off-side Matt Henry , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Matt Henry to share the ball with Boult. Two slips for him as well 0.6 Boult to Dilshan , leg byes , FOUR , back of a length around leg , Dilshan looks to tuck it into the leg-side , the ball takes the thigh pad and races away to the fine leg fence. Decent start for Sri Lanka 0.5 Boult to Dilshan , no run , shortish and angled into the batsman , Dilshan stays back in the crease and fends it towards slips , the ball died down before it could reach the fielder 0.4 Boult to Dilshan , no run , short of length and outside off , Dilshan makes room and looks to cut , is beaten 0.3 Boult to D Karunaratne , leg byes , 1 run , straying on the pads yet again , Karunaratne looks to tuck , the ball goes off the pad behind square 0.2 Boult to D Karunaratne , FOUR , lovely shot to get off the mark ! Boult bowled this one onto the pads , Karunaratne just leans forward a touch and flicks it elegantly to the deep square leg fence 0.1 Boult to D Karunaratne , no run , back of a length around off , Karunaratne pushes it into the off-side , wants a single but is sent back as mid-off fields the ball D Karunaratne and Dilshan are at the crease. D Karunaratne is on strike. Boult will open the attack Welcome back. The players are already out in the middle. Boult will start proceedings. Two slips in place A late flurry from the lower-order took the score to 248 after the Kiwis lost 5 wickets in a gap of 27 runs at one stage. Now , it is upto the Sri Lankan batsmen to chase this total down and level the series. However , the likes of Boult and Milne wo n't make it easy for them. The second innings follows in a short while from now. Join us in some time . New Zealand wo n't be happy with this total , especially their captain Brendon McCullum , who raced away to a 99-ball 117. Apart from him , the batters disappointed as they could n't make full use of good batting conditions. There were 4 run-outs in this innings and the poor judgement from the Kiwis helped the Lankans pull things back . 49.6 Senanayake to Boult , out Caught by Thirimanne ! ! Final ball of the innings and the final wicket falls. It was dragged slightly short as the batsman was out of the crease again , he has another wild swing at it , but this time he ca n't clear the man at long-on , where Thirimanne takes a simple catch. Boult c Thirimanne b Senanayake 13 ( 6 ) [ 6s-2 ] Senanayake to Boult , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.5 Senanayake to Boult , SIX , another maximum from Boult , it was floated up on middle and leg , Boult steps out and slog swept it over the deep mid-wicket fence , another super shot from Boult 49.4 Senanayake to Boult , SIX , gives the charge once again to a flighted delivery angling away around off , he swings hard and hammers it over the long-on fence 49.3 Senanayake to Boult , no run , gives the charge this time to this flighted delivery , Boult tucks it away to short mid-wicket 49.2 Senanayake to Matt Henry , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , Henry works it towards deep backward square leg 49.1 Senanayake to Matt Henry , no run , goes for a pull off a shortish delivery , fails to connect and wears it on the body 48.6 N Kulasekara to Matt Henry , 1 run , yorker outside off , Henry works it towards square leg after shuffling across 48.5 N Kulasekara to Matt Henry , FOUR , low full toss from Kula , Henry drills it down to long-off , where Mahela misfields and the ball rolls over the fence 48.4 N Kulasekara to Matt Henry , no run , on a good length and outside off , Henry flashes hard , but fails to connect 48.3 N Kulasekara to Matt Henry , 2 runs , fuller in length outside off , Henry lofts it over the cover region and the batsmen take two 48.2 N Kulasekara to Matt Henry , 2 runs , full toss from Kula , Henry slices it towards the extra cover region , the fielder from sweeper cover runs in and the short cover tracks back as well , luckily for the batsmen , it falls between both of them and the batsmen take a couple 48.1 N Kulasekara to Matt Henry , no run , fullish outside off , Henry leans forward and drives it to mid-off 47.6 Senanayake to Matt Henry , 1 run , drives this flighted delivery down to long-on , he will keep the strike 47.5 Senanayake to Matt Henry , 2 runs , darted on the pads , Henry clips it towards deep mid-wicket and good running ensures that the batsmen come back for the second 47.4 Senanayake to Matt Henry , no run , angling on the pads , Henry fails to get it fine , the ball rolls away towards Sanga 47.3 Senanayake to Boult , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Boult drives it to long-off 47.2 Senanayake to Boult , no run , tossed up outside off , Boult pushes it into the off-side Trent Boult , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.1 Senanayake to Milne , out Stumped ! ! 9 wickets down now. It was floated up outside off , Milne goes for the inside-out drive , but fails to make a connection , Sanga collects it and calmly takes a bail off. Milne st Sangakkara b Senanayake 19 ( 27 ) Senanayake to Milne , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! Sachithra Senanayake [ 8.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack 46.6 N Kulasekara to Matt Henry , FOUR , another one that 's short and outside off , Henry pulls it to the deep square leg fence , the ball races away to the fence 46.5 N Kulasekara to Milne , 1 run , banged in short , Milne pulls it behind square for a single 46.4 N Kulasekara to Milne , 2 runs , full and wide outside off , Milne drives it through the covers off the front foot , the batsmen take a couple while the sweeper runs across and collects it 46.3 N Kulasekara to Milne , 2 runs , fullish outside off , Milne leans forward and drives it to deep backward point after opening the face of the bat 46.2 N Kulasekara to Milne , no run , low full toss on off , Milne toe-ends it to mid-on , he should have put that away 46.1 N Kulasekara to Matt Henry , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Henry looks to punch it through the off-side , the ball takes the outside edge and rolls away towards third man 45.6 Dilshan to Matt Henry , 1 run , tossed up around off , Henry moves across and clips it to the right of the bowler , who dives to his right , but ca n't stop the ball , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away towards long-on 45.5 Dilshan to Matt Henry , no run , floated up outside off , Henry leans forward and defends it back to the bowler 45.4 Dilshan to Milne , 1 run , short from Dilshan , Milne mistimes the pull to short fine leg , the batsmen take a quick single 45.3 Dilshan to Matt Henry , 1 run , tossed up delivery on middle and leg , Henry works it towards long-on 45.2 Dilshan to Milne , 1 run , steps out of the crease yet again and this time he manages to wrist it towards long-on for a single 45.1 Dilshan to Milne , no run , gives the charge and ends up defending this straight roller on the stumps Tillakaratne Dilshan [ 6.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 N Kulasekara to Matt Henry , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Henry leans forward and blocks it in front of cover 44.5 N Kulasekara to Milne , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , pulled to deep square leg off the back foot Matt Henry , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.4 N Kulasekara to Nathan McCullum , out Nathan McCullum Run Out ! ! Another one bites the dust and it 's another run-out dismissal. It was a short of length delivery on off , McCullum hangs back and punches it towards mid-off , he sets off for a single , but Jayawardene was quick to reach the ball and has a direct-hit at the non-striker 's end , McCullum has to walk back as he is caught short of the crease. Great bit of fielding from Jayawardene there. Nathan McCullum run out ( M Jayawardene ) 13 ( 26 ) [ 4s-2 ] N Kulasekara to Nathan McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 44.3 N Kulasekara to Milne , 3 runs , touch fuller around off , Milne drives it on the up bisecting short cover and mid-off , where Jayawardene dives to his left and gets a hand on the ball , the batsmen take three as the ball rolls away towards widish long-off region 44.2 N Kulasekara to Milne , no run , another one that 's back of a length on off , Milne punches it back to the bowler 44.1 N Kulasekara to Milne , no run , short of length delivery on top of off and middle , Milne defends off the back foot Nuwan Kulasekara [ 5.0-0-17-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , no run , tossed up on middle and leg , McCullum works it to mid-wicket 43.5 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , FOUR , gives this one mor air on off , McCullum gives the charge and lofts it over the mid-off fielder for a boundary , good use of the feet there from McCullum 43.4 Senanayake to Milne , 1 run , steps out of the crease and whips this flighted delivery on middle stump line to deep mid-wicket 43.3 Senanayake to Milne , no run , flatter delivery on off and middle , Milne moves across and wrists it into the on-side 43.2 Senanayake to Milne , no run , goes down on one knee and looks to sweep fine , finds the man at short fine and ca n't take the single as well 43.1 Senanayake to Milne , no run , quicker one on the stumps , Milne blocks it back to the bowler Sachithra Senanayake [ 7.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Herath to Nathan McCullum , no run , backs away and looks to go inside-out , ends up driving it towards short cover 42.5 Herath to Nathan McCullum , no run , darts this one on the leg stump line , McCullum blocks it back to the bowler 42.4 Herath to Nathan McCullum , no run , shortish outside off , McCullum hangs back and cuts it straight to point 42.3 Herath to Nathan McCullum , no run , pushed through quicker on the stumps , McCullum blocks it to short cover 42.2 Herath to Nathan McCullum , no run , fuller in length and on middle stump line , McCullum drives it back to the bowler , who dives to his left and parries the ball towards short cover , the batsmen ca n't take a single there 42.1 Herath to Milne , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off , Milne leans forward and drives it to sweeper cover Rangana Herath [ 9.0-0-35-2 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Dilshan to Milne , 1 run , tossed up on middle stump line , Milne wrists it to deep mid-wicket and he will keep the strike 41.5 Dilshan to Nathan McCullum , 1 run , angling into the pads , McCullum tucks it away behind square on the on-side for a single 41.4 Dilshan to Nathan McCullum , no run , darts this one on the pads after seeing the batsman step out of the crease , McCullum works it towards short fine leg 41.3 Dilshan to Nathan McCullum , FOUR , gives this one more air just outside off , McCullum employs the reverse sweep and dispatches it to the third man fence 41.2 Dilshan to Nathan McCullum , no run , floated up on the stumps , McCullum moves across and turns it towards short mid-wicket 41.1 Dilshan to Milne , 1 run , gives the charge this time and heaves this flighted delivery on middle stump line towards deep mid-wicket 40.6 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , no run , shortish outside off , McCullum hangs back and punches it to short cover 40.5 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , no run , flatter on the stumps , McCullum bunts it towards mid-off after going deep in the crease 40.4 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , no run , floated up outside off , McCullum leans forward and drills the drive back to the bowler 40.3 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , no run , tossed up around off , McCullum defends off the front foot 40.2 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , no run , flatter outside off , McCullum goes for the cut , but ends up chopping it towards short cover 40.1 Senanayake to Milne , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Milne squeezes out the drive past point , he opened the face of the bat there The batting powerplay yielded 15 runs and the Black Caps also lost 3 wickets 39.6 Dilshan to Milne , 1 run , on middle and leg stump line , Milne works it behind square and gets to the other end 39.5 Dilshan to Milne , no run , touch quicker on middle stump line , Milne works it into the on-side 39.4 Dilshan to Milne , no run , flatter this time , Milne blocks it to short cover off the back foot 39.3 Dilshan to Nathan McCullum , 1 run , pushed through on off , McCullum bunts it down to mid-off for a single 39.2 Dilshan to Milne , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Milne drives it to mid-off off the front foot 39.1 Dilshan to Milne , no run , flighted delivery on middle stump line , Milne turns it towards short mid-wicket The Kiwis lost their last 5 wickets for 27 runs 38.6 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , no run , floated up on middle , McCullum drives it back to the bowler off the front foot 38.5 Senanayake to Milne , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Milne was pushing at it , the ball rolls away towards short third man off a thickish outside edge 38.4 Senanayake to Milne , no run , floated up on leg stump , Milne works it to short mid-wicket 38.3 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , 1 run , drags this one short and at the stumps , McCullum goes deep in the crease and pulls it towards deep mid-wicket 38.2 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , no run , flatter on the pads , McCullum works it to short fine leg 38.1 Senanayake to Nathan McCullum , no run , floated up around off , McCullum looks to clip it through the on-side , but closes the bat face a little too early , he gets a leading edge but luckily for the batsmen , it just rolls away towards mid-off Sachithra Senanayake [ 5.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack Adam Milne , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.6 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , out Corey Anderson Run Out ! ! What is wrong with the running here ? The Kiwis are in a self-destruction mode. It was a flatter delivery on middle stump line , Anderson punches it towards mid-wicket and sets off for a single , Mathews dives to his right and makes a great stop , he picks the ball quickly and fires the throw at the striker 's end as Anderson was way down the track in search of a run , an easy run-out for the Sri Lankans. The dangerman Anderson is gone. Corey Anderson run out ( Mathews/Sangakkara ) 5 ( 14 ) Dilshan to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 37.5 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Anderson pushes at it , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls away into the on-side 37.4 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , no run , tossed up on middle stump line , Anderson wrists it to mid-wicket 37.3 Dilshan to Nathan McCullum , 1 run , darted on the pads , McCullum clips it to short fine leg for a single 37.2 Dilshan to Nathan McCullum , no run , flatter delivery on the stumps , McCullum bunts it back to the bowler from the crease 37.1 Dilshan to Nathan McCullum , no run , floated up just outside off , McCullum hangs back and punches it to short cover 36.6 Herath to Nathan McCullum , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , McCullum goes across and works it to short mid-wicket Nathan McCullum , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.5 Herath to Corey Anderson , out Ronchi Run Out ! ! Another one goes down and it 's Ronchi who gets out for a diamond duck. That is just poor judgement of a run. It was darted on Anderson 's pads , who works it towards short mid-wicket and calls for a single. Ronchi was watching the ball and was a little late to get off the blocks , Dilshan swoops in and throws the ball at the striker 's end , Sanga did the rest and Ronchi falls short. The running between the wickets has not been so great for the Black Caps today. Ronchi run out ( Dilshan/Sangakkara ) 0 ( 0 ) Herath to Corey Anderson , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 36.4 Herath to Corey Anderson , no run , flatter and outside off , Anderson goes deep in the crease and guides it towards backward point after opening the face of the bat Luke Ronchi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.3 Herath to Ross Taylor , out Caught by T Perera ! ! No harm done as Taylor goes now. The Kiwis are 5 wickets down. It was floated up on middle stump line , Taylor goes for the sweep , gets a top-edge and Perera at short fine takes a simple catch. The Lankans are jubilant. Ross Taylor c T Perera b Herath 34 ( 69 ) [ 4s-2 ] a Herath to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , did Taylor get an edge there ? It was darted down the leg-side as Taylor goes for a sweep after moving across , the umpire did n't call it a wide , maybe he got a faint nick or it might have brushed the pad there 36.1 Herath to Corey Anderson , 1 run , tossed up on off , Anderson drives it to long-on Rangana Herath [ 8.0-0-33-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , 1 run , quicker on the stumps , Anderson hangs back and punches it down to long-on for a single , he will keep the strike 35.5 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , no run , flatter on off and middle , Anderson goes on the back foot and pushes it back to the bowler 35.4 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Taylor works it through square leg for a single 35.3 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , FOUR , floated up on the middle and leg , Taylor goes down and plays the lap sweep , the ball goes fine and beats the short fine leg fielder to the fence 35.2 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , 1 run , drags his length back this time , Anderson rocks back and punches it to long-on 35.1 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , no run , flatter on off , Anderson goes deep in the crease and blocks Time for the batting powerplay Drinks are on the field now 34.6 Mathews to Corey Anderson , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Anderson pulls it behind square for a run 34.5 Mathews to Corey Anderson , no run , on a good length and angling in on off and middle , Anderson was in two minds whether to go forward or not , he ends up pushing at it from the crease , gets a thickish inside edge onto the pads 34.4 Mathews to Corey Anderson , no run , slower one on off , Anderson leans forward and pushes it towards cover 34.3 Mathews to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Taylor goes for the cut , but he was cramped for room there , he ends up chopping it behind point on the off-side , the batsmen take a single 34.2 Mathews to Ross Taylor , no run , on a good length and around off , Taylor defends it back towards the bowler 34.1 Mathews to Ross Taylor , no run , short and wide outside off , Taylor goes for the cut , but can only get an under edge that rolls away towards the keeper Angelo Mathews , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 33.6 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , darted on the pads , Taylor works it through backward square leg for a single , he will keep the strike 33.5 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , no run , another run-out chance , but Anderson survives , Taylor works this delivery off the pads towards mid-wicket , Anderson was charging down the wicket , but Taylor did n't respond , the fielder at mid-wicket throws the ball at the non-striker 's end as Anderson was running back , Dilshan takes the bails off , but replays show that the batsman made it in time and Anderson is safe 33.4 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , no run , angling into the pads , Taylor defends 33.3 Dilshan to Corey Anderson , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Anderson works it behind square and gets off the mark with the single Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 33.2 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , out Vettori Run Out ! ! Vettori is gone. Looks like the review call did n't have a big bearing on the game as Vettori walks back to the pavilion. It was pushed through on the pads , Taylor wrists it towards mid-wicket and sets off for a single , it was never a run as Mendis runs across , picks the ball and fires the throw at the stumps. Sangakkara also whips the bails off in a flash and Vettori falls short even though he put in the dive. Vettori run out ( J Mendis/Sangakkara ) 7 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 ] Dilshan to Ross Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 33.1 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Taylor hangs back and defends 32.6 J Mendis to Vettori , no run , floated up on middle , Vettori was looking for the reverse sweep , he failed to connect and was hit on the pads , there was a loud appeal , the Sri Lankans went for the review and are not happy about the fact that it has been given not out despite the ball hitting the stumps as the Hawk-Eye showed Sri Lanka have decided to review an lbw appeal. The original call is 'Not Out'. The front foot of the bowler is fine. There was no glove on that as well. The impact is in line , but the ball had more than 3 metres to go and hence , the onfield decision will stay 32.5 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , checks his drive off this tossed up delivery on off , it was in the air for a little while and it rolls away towards long-off 32.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , pushed through on leg , Taylor turns it to square leg 32.3 J Mendis to Vettori , 1 run , swept away behind square leg for a single 32.2 J Mendis to Vettori , no run , moves across his off-stump and looks to sweep , he ca n't connect and wears it on his thigh , there was an appeal , but the impact was outside off 32.2 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 2 wides , angles this one down leg , Taylor fails to sweep it fine , the keeper also ca n't collect it cleanly , the batsmen run for a bye as the ball rolls away towards short third man , it was called a wide as well 32.1 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , almost a catch ! Taylor plays the lap sweep again off a flighted delivery , Sangakkara predicts the batsman 's movement and moves across to his left , he almost takes the catch as well , but the momentum was taking him further away and he floors it , good try though 31.6 Dilshan to Vettori , no run , quicker one just outside off , Vettori bunts it to short cover off the front foot 31.5 Dilshan to Vettori , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Vettori leans forward and dead-bats it 31.4 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Taylor turns it towards mid-wicket and gets to the other end 31.3 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , no run , flatter just outside off , Taylor goes deep in the crease and defends it back over the track 31.2 Dilshan to Vettori , 1 run , quicker one angling on the pads , Vettori tucks it away towards mid-on 31.1 Dilshan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Taylor lofts it to the right of the bowler , Dilshan dives to his right , but ca n't get a hand on it , the ball dribbles away to long-on and the batsmen take a single Tillakaratne Dilshan , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 30.6 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , slightly quicker and fuller on middle , Taylor drives it to the right of the bowler , who misfields off his own bowling , gives the batsman an easy single and Taylor will retain strike 30.5 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on off , Taylor comes on the front foot and drives it back to the bowler 30.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , slows this one around off and middle , Taylor leans forward and blocks 30.3 J Mendis to Vettori , 1 run , drags this one a little short and at the stumps , Vettori pulls it towards deep mid-wicket and gets to the other end 30.2 J Mendis to Vettori , FOUR , googly outside off , it sat up nicely for Vettori to rock back and cut it to the deep backward point fence , a boundary to get off the mark Daniel Vettori , left handed bat , comes to the crease 30.1 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Finally , Sri Lanka will breathe a sigh of relief. It was flighted just outside off , McCullum was pushing at it off the front foot , he checks his shot and ends up chipping it towards the bowler , who dives to his left and takes a good low catch. A great knock from the Kiwi skipper comes to and end. Brendon McCullum c and b J Mendis 117 ( 99 ) [ 4s-12 6s-5 ] J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 29.6 Senanayake to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Taylor turns it towards mid-wicket 29.5 Senanayake to Ross Taylor , no run , quicker on off and middle , Taylor pushes it back to the bowler 29.4 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , angling into the stumps , McCullum works it towards mid-on , who moves to his left , but only manages to parry the ball towards the long-on region , the batsmen take a single 29.3 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , drags this one a little short and on the stumps , McCullum cuts it straight to the fielder at cover 29.2 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , slows this one just outside off , McCullum leans forward and defends 29.1 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , SIX , another maximum for the Kiwi captain , it was tossed up on leg , McCullum lofts it over the long-on fence with ease , superb timing and great hand-eye coordination from McCullum there 28.6 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , pushed through quicker on middle stump line , McCullum drives it down to long-on , he will keep the strike 28.5 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , goes for the paddle sweep off a tossed up delivery on middle and leg , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away towards short fine 28.4 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , slightly short from Mendis , McCullum heaves it to deep mid-wicket off the back foot 28.3 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , goes down for the sweep , but ca n't connect with this delivery angling on leg , there was an appeal from the bowler , but the ball was definitely sliding down leg 28.2 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Taylor bunts it to sweeper cover for a single 28.1 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up on off and middle , Taylor was looking to work it through the on-side , he closes the bat face a little too early , gets a leading edge that rolls away into the off-side Jeevan Mendis [ 7.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , touch quicker on off and middle , McCullum employs the reverse sweep and dispatches it to the third man fence , the short third man fielder had no chance of cutting that off 27.5 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , floated up on the stumps , McCullum leans forward and defends 27.4 Senanayake to Ross Taylor , 1 run , pushed through on middle stump line , Taylor eases it down to long-on 27.3 Senanayake to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery around off , Taylor defends it to the left of the bowler 27.2 Senanayake to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up on off and middle , Taylor defends off the front foot 27.1 Senanayake to Ross Taylor , no run , Ohh ! What a let-off ! It was angled on the pads , Taylor tucks it away towards short fine leg , McCullum was haring to the striker 's end for the single , but Taylor was not interested , the throw from Thirimanne was very poor and Senanayake could n't collect it properly , giving McCullum the opportunity to come back Sachithra Senanayake [ 3.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , full toss from Perera , McCullum gives the charge and takes it on the full , he lofts it straight back over the bowler 's head and the ball races away to the fence , the fielder at mid-off could only watch the ball run away to the fence 26.5 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , streaky boundary but that 's the 5th ODI hundred for McCullum , he has continued his march , it was full outside off , McCullum looks to drive it hard , he gets a thickish outside edge that rolls away to the third man fence 26.4 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , no run , gives the charge again to this fuller delivery shaping away outside off , he can only connect with thin air this time 26.3 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller in length and wide outside off , McCullum leaves it alone , it was just inside the tram line 26.2 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , full toss wide outside off , McCullum gives the charge and looks to hit it through the covers , gets a thickish outside edge that goes to the right of the keeper , who dives and gets a hand on it , the batsmen take two as the ball rolls away towards the third man region McCullum is just a six away from the three figure mark 26.1 T Perera to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Taylor works it towards mid-wicket and gets to the other end Thisara Perera [ 3.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , quicker one from Mendis , McCullum bunts it back to the bowler 25.5 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , Taylor goes down on one knee and paddles it towards short fine for a single 25.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , goes down on one knee and looks to sweep , gets a bottom edge that rolls away towards Sangakkara down the leg-side 25.3 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , angling into the pads , Taylor works it towards mid-on 25.2 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , short and slightly wide outside off , Taylor cuts it to backward point 25.1 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , slightly short and down leg , McCullum goes down on one knee and looks to sweep , gets a bottom edge but Sanga ca n't hold on as it hits his pad , the ball rolls away fine and the batsmen take a single 24.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , flatter and outside off , Taylor waits in the crease and cuts it late , the ball runs away fine , the short third man fielder gives chase and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 24.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up on off , Taylor comes on the front foot and drops it in front of cover , he was looking for a single there , but McCullum sends him back 24.4 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , slightly fuller and angling on middle , Taylor bunts it towards mid-on 24.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , gives this one more air around off , McCullum goes hard at it , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls away towards deep square leg , the batsmen take a single 24.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Taylor moves across a touch and works it to deep square leg for a single 24.1 Herath to Ross Taylor , FOUR , darted on the pads , Taylor paddles it fine , Sanga moves to his left and tries to stop the ball , he fails and the ball beats the short fine fielder to the fence 23.6 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , drags this one short , McCullum goes on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket for a couple , the fielder from sweeper cover runs across and collects it 23.5 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , steps out of the crease and defends this quicker one , he was not upto the pitch of the ball and hence , he pushed at it defensively 23.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up on middle stump line , Taylor goes down on one knee and paddles it towards short fine 23.3 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , McCullum hangs back in the crease and punches it to sweeper cover 23.2 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , McCullum comes on the front foot and defends 23.1 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , floated up on off , McCullum gives the charge and drills the drive back towards the bowler , who dives to his left and makes a stop , good effort 22.6 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle stump line , McCullum eases it to long-on , he will keep the strike 22.5 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , angling into the batsman , McCullum bunts it towards short mid-wicket 22.4 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , tossed up around off , McCullum drives it back to the bowler off the front foot 22.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , slightly quicker and on the stumps , McCullum bunts it to the right of the bowler off the back foot 22.2 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , floated up just outside off , McCullum presses forward and defends 22.1 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , on the pads , McCullum works it behind square for a brace , good running that from the batsmen 21.6 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on off , Taylor blocks it towards short cover 21.5 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Taylor leans forward and defends 21.4 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , drags this one short , McCullum rocks back and cuts it towards sweeper cover 21.3 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted delivery around off , McCullum defends it into the off-side 21.2 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , floated up on middle and leg , McCullum turns it towards square leg 21.1 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , SIX , tossed up around off , McCullum gives the charge and lofts it over the long-off fence , that was pure power from McCullum 20.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , quicker one on off and middle , Taylor blocks it back in the direction of the bowler 20.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery on off , Taylor defends off the front foot , he was looking for a single , but decides against it 20.4 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , quicker and on the stumps , McCullum hangs back and eases it down to long-on 20.3 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up on middle stump line , Taylor turns it towards mid-wicket and gets to the other end 20.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , gives this one more air around off , Taylor was pushing at it , the ball rolls away behind square on the off-side off the outside half of the bat 20.1 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , darted in on middle and leg , Taylor defends it back to the bowler 19.6 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted on off , Taylor drops it in front of cover , looks at McCullum who calls him through for a sharp run 19.5 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , nice loopy delivery , Taylor rolls his wrists and works it to mid-wicket 19.4 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , driven inside out to wide long-off , easy single 19.3 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flat and on the stumps , Taylor punches it to long-on 19.2 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , low full toss , McCullum toe-ends the loft to long-on , goes on the bounce to the fielder 19.1 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , quicker and cramps McCullum for room , he adjusts well and knocks it to cover 18.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , slower and on off , Taylor push-drives it to cover 18.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up close to off , bunted off the front foot to cover 18.4 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , once again goes inside out , but this time the sweeper gets around and keeps it to a single 18.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , drives it hard and straight to cover this time 18.2 Herath to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , fantastic shot ! Floated up around off , McCullum moves to the leg-side and lofts it beautifully inside out over extra cover , the timing on that takes it to the fence 18.1 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , goes on with the arm , Taylor defends it off the inside part to square leg , Baz calls through for a quick single Drinks are on the field now 17.6 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , pushed through just outside off , McCullum misses out on the cut as the ball bounces little extra 17.5 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , flatter and on the stumps , McCullum ekes out an inside edge to backward square 17.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , quicker and around off , Taylor punches it to the left of cover for a single 17.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , wide , full toss down leg , Taylor ca n't meet with the sweep , wided by the umpire 17.3 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , slower on middle and leg , Taylor nudges it to short mid-wicket 17.2 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted on off , driven straight to cover 17.1 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , nice loopy leg-spinner , Taylor pushes it to cover and sets off , but Baz rightly sends him back 16.6 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , flat and on off , McCullum backs away and punches it to cover , straight to the fielder 16.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , fires it on leg-stump , Taylor makes room and drives it inside out to long-off 16.4 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on off , Taylor defends it to cover A silly mid-on comes in for Taylor 16.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , quicker and attacking the stumps , McCullum knocks it to mid-on and sets off immediately 16.2 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floaty delivery around off , Taylor eases the drive past a diving Herath 16.1 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , turned away off the front foot to backward square 15.6 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , SIX , even the mishits are carrying all the way. Fraction short and on the stumps , McCullum goes deep in the crease and pulls it in the air , manages to get it over the long-on fielder 15.5 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , nice loopy delivery on off , McCullum push-drives it back to the bowler 15.4 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted on off , Taylor picks it from there and wrists it to long-on 15.3 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , nicely floated up on off , Taylor taps it to the off-side after coming forward 15.2 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , slower and close to off , blocked down the wicket 15.1 J Mendis to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted on off , Taylor drives it straight back to Mendis 14.6 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Taylor eases it through cover for a single 14.5 Herath to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted on middle , Taylor turns it with soft hands to short mid-wicket 14.4 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , toe-ends the punch down the ground to long-on 14.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , backs away to the leg-side and tries to go inside out , Herath follows him and McCullum drives it back to the bowler 14.2 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , quicker and on leg-stump , McCullum works it to backward square 14.1 Herath to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Taylor opens his account with a nice wristy clip down to long-on 13.6 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , flatter and on the stumps , McCullum punches and picks out the fielder at mid-wicket 13.6 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , wide , darts it down the leg-side , easy call for the ump 13.5 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish and on the stumps , McCullum drives it towards mid-wicket 13.4 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , McCullum works it straight to backward square 13.3 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , SIX , ca n't bowler there to any batsman let alone to McCullum. Rank long hop on the stumps , McCullum rocks back and pulls it over deep mid-wicket for a maximum. Sanga was not happy with that delivery 13.2 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , again , the line is on leg-stump , tickled away to short fine , he wanted the single but Rosco was not interested 13.1 J Mendis to Brendon McCullum , no run , starts with one on leg-stump , McCullum ca n't meet with the glance , is hit on the pads Jeevan Mendis , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.6 Herath to Latham , out Caught by Sangakkara ! ! Latham does not make use of the promotion. Quicker delivery around off , Latham tries to steer it to third man , feathers an edge to the keeper. Good take that by Sanga as the ball bounced a bit extra. Latham did n't even wait for the umpire to raise his finger. Latham c Sangakkara b Herath 5 ( 15 ) Herath to Latham , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.5 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , McCullum hangs back and nurdles it to square leg 12.4 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , fires it onto the pads , McCullum stays back and works it to mid-wicket 12.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , another compact forward defence from the New Zealand skipper 12.2 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted on off , defended solidly to the right of Herath 12.1 Herath to Latham , 1 run , goes round the sticks , tosses it up on leg-stump , Latham nudges it to square leg 11.6 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , SIX , McCullum has got stuck into that. Length delivery , was the off-speed ball as well , he spotted it early and sends it sailing over the long-off fence for the first six of the game 11.5 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , McCullum extends his purple patch , brings up his 28th ODI fifty. Slower ball that is short in length , McCullum sits back and lifts it over extra cover , the man at sweeper is a mere spectator 11.4 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , no run , misses out on a juicy full toss , drives it straight to the cover fielder 11.3 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , McCullum shimmies downthe wicket , Perera drops it short and wide , Baz had the room to free his arms , he flat-bats it over extra cover , the ball travelled to the fence at the rate of knots 11.2 T Perera to Latham , 1 run , short of length on the hips , tucked away to deep mid-wicket 11.1 T Perera to Latham , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Latham dabs it to backward point Thisara Perera [ 2.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , flatter and on middle , defended down the wicket 10.5 Herath to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , clubbed ! It was not all that short , but Baz picked up the length quickly and dispatched the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence , there was a fielder but he had no chance 10.4 Herath to Latham , 1 run , floated up on off , paddled away to long leg Goes over the wicket for Latham 10.3 Herath to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , McCullum cuts it square of the wicket for a run 10.2 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted on off , McCullum goes right back and defends it back to Herath 10.1 Herath to Brendon McCullum , no run , tossed up outside off , McCullum drives to the left of Herath , who dives and parries it to cover Rangana Herath , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 9.6 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , places the punch wider of the mid-wicket fielder and picks up the single 9.5 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , flatter and on the stumps , McCullum punches it to short mid-wicket 9.4 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , smacked ! This time the slog sweep comes out , floated up on middle and leg , McCullum kneels down and hammers it to the cow corner fence. The umpires check whether it is a four or a six , the ball bounced just before the rope 9.3 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted on off , McCullum turns it gently to mid-wicket 9.2 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , tries to repeat the previous shot , but it was slower and wider , mistimes it and gets it over the extra cover fielder for a brace 9.1 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , lovely shot ! The best shot of the innings so far. Tossed up on off , McCullum makes a bit of room and lofts it inside out over mid-off , the ball bounces only once before hitting the ad boards 8.6 N Kulasekara to Latham , no run , shortish and just outside off , Latham toe-ends the pull to mid-wicket. The ball did n't come fast enough and Latham was early into the shot 8.5 N Kulasekara to Latham , no run , back of a length just outside off , Latham punches it to mid-off , shouts a loud " no " to Baz 8.4 N Kulasekara to Latham , no run , fuller and on off , Latham drives it off the inside part to mid-on , the fielder makes a fine stop diving to his right 8.3 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , good length ball on off , McCullum push-drives it on the up and takes off for a sharp run , makes it even as the fielder hits the stumps 8.2 N Kulasekara to Latham , 1 run , back of a length on leg-stump , tucked away behind square for a single 8.1 N Kulasekara to Latham , no run , on a length close to off , Latham presses it to mid-off with the straightest of bats 7.6 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , McCullum was lining up for the big slog sweep , was deceived in the flight and ends up pushing it to cover 7.5 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , floated up on middle , McCullum works it to mid-wicket 7.4 Senanayake to Latham , 1 run , comes down the track , meets the pitch of the ball and wrists it to mid-on , where Mathews does not attack the ball 7.3 Senanayake to Latham , no run , smothers any turn on offer with a solid forward defence down the wicket 7.2 Senanayake to Latham , no run , flighted on off , Latham inches forward and defends to the left of the bowler 7.1 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , touch short and on off , McCullum uses the depth of the crease and pulls it to long-on 6.6 N Kulasekara to Latham , no run , short of length closer to the off-stump , Latham hangs back and taps it to cover 6.5 N Kulasekara to Latham , no run , slanted across the left-hander , Latham ignores it Tom Latham , left handed bat , comes to the crease 6.4 N Kulasekara to Guptill , out Caught by Mathews ! ! Poor shot from Guptill ! That was not neccessary at this stage of the innings. A fullish delivery just outside off , Guptill tries to loft it over mid-off , does n't get the elevation and hits it straight to Mathews. Guptill c Mathews b N Kulasekara 10 ( 19 ) [ 4s-2 ] N Kulasekara to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 6.3 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , back of a length on off , McCullum punches it past Guptill and sets off immediately 6.2 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , no run , shortens the length around off , McCullum steers it with an open face to short third man 6.1 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , no run , takes the pace off the ball , McCullum mistimes the cut to cover 6.1 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , wide , splays it down leg , McCullum misses out on the glance , wide signalled 5.6 Senanayake to Guptill , no run , touch quicker and full as well , Guptill drives it straight down the ground and disturbs the timber at the non-striker 's end , Sena did n't get a hand to it 5.5 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , on the leg-stump line , McCullum nurdles it in front of short fine and takes off for a quick single 5.4 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , slower and on the stumps , McCullum wrists it towards short mid-wicket 5.3 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , poor delivery , short and wide outside off , McCullum rocks back and cuts it in front of square , no one protecting the fence in the deep on the off-side 5.2 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , tossed up on off , McCullum gets well forward and knocks it to the right of Sena 5.1 Senanayake to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted on middle and leg , McCullum leans forward and turns it gently to mid-wicket Sachithra Senanayake , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Sri Lanka have already assessed the wicket to be on the slower side as Senanayake comes into the attack. He starts from round the wicket. . 4.6 N Kulasekara to Guptill , no run , hint of inward movement , Guptill defends it off the inner half of the bat to mid-wicket 4.5 N Kulasekara to Guptill , no run , Guptill comes forward to the length ball and defends it to mid-off Guptill moves away as Kula comes into bowl. The fielder was being adjusted at deep square leg and hence the batsman pulled away . 4.4 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , back of a length around off , McCullum guides it with an open face square of the wicket on the off-side 4.3 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller and just outside off , McCullum drives and picks out mid-off 4.2 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , pitched up and with some width on offer , McCullum toe-ends the inside out loft , the ball drops in no man 's land , the batsmen come back for the second 4.1 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , no run , wicket-to-wicket from Kula , McCullum moves forward and knocks it to cover 3.6 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , third slower delivery off the over , McCullum waits on the back foot and pulls it along the ground behind square leg 3.5 T Perera to Guptill , 1 run , too straight , on middle and leg , Guptill stays in the crease and nurdles it to deep square leg 3.4 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , another slower one that is dropped halfway down the pitch , McCullum pulls it hard and straight to deep square leg 3.3 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , back of the hand slower ball , McCullum is slightly deceived by the lack of pace , he mistimes the pull to deep backward square leg 3.2 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , this time he middles after coming down the track , short of length on off , McCullum flat-bats it straight over the bowler 's head , almost went the distance 3.1 T Perera to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , there goes Baz charging down the wicket , Perera pulls the length back , McCullum ends up dragging the heave to mid-wicket 2.6 N Kulasekara to Guptill , FOUR , leg-stump half volley and Guptill takes full toll of it , he leans forward and flicks it uppishly over the mid-wicket fielder for the second boundary of the over 2.5 N Kulasekara to Guptill , no run , good length ball around off , Guptill comes half-forward and blocks it in front of cover 2.4 N Kulasekara to Guptill , no run , on a length just outside off , Guptill presses it to cover after coming forward Sanga goes back for Guptill 2.3 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , shortish and outside off , McCullum cuts it powerfully to deep backward point , there is protection for Baz in the deep 2.2 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , big indipper , but it ended up on the leg-stump line , McCullum stays inside the line and tucks it wide of the short fine fielder , no chance for the deep backward square 2.1 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller and outside off , McCullum mistimes the drive to cover , he went too hard at that Sanga is already up to the stumps 1.6 T Perera to Guptill , no run , in the channel around off , Guptill is happy to let that go to Sanga 1.5 T Perera to Guptill , no run , good length ball tailing away outside off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 1.4 T Perera to Guptill , FOUR , short and just outside off , Guptill gets his front leg in the air and pulls it in front of square , the lightning fast outfield does the rest even as the mid-on fielder gives chase 1.3 T Perera to Guptill , no run , nice shape on that , moves away outside off , Guptill does not flirt with it as he shoulders arms 1.2 T Perera to Guptill , no run , Perera gets away with a half tracker , Guptill also had the width on that one , he crunches the cut straight to cover 1.1 T Perera to Guptill , no run , back of a length close to off , Guptill presents the full face and knocks it down the wicket Thisara Perera , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 N Kulasekara to Brendon McCullum , no run , pitched up on off , McCullum prefers to hang in the crease and defend it back to Kula 0.5 N Kulasekara to Guptill , 1 run , slanted in on middle and leg , Guptill nudges it to the mid-wicket and opens his account 0.4 N Kulasekara to Guptill , no run , on a length just outside off , Guptill covers the line and lets it go 0.3 N Kulasekara to Guptill , no run , again , the length is tad short and around off , Guptill gets right behind the line and blocks it to cover 0.2 N Kulasekara to Guptill , no run , short of length , bit of extra bounce , Guptill stands tall and taps it to the off-side 0.1 N Kulasekara to Guptill , no run , Kula starts off with a gentle inswinger to the right-hander , Guptill presses forward and defends it to mid-off Guptill and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. N Kulasekara will open the attack New Zealand have made three changes - Taylor , Vettori and Henry come in for Williamson , Elliot and McClenaghan. For Sri Lanka , Herath replaces Eranga . Teams : New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Martin Guptill , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Tom Latham , Ross Taylor , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Nathan McCullum , Adam Milne , Trent Boult , Matt Henry Sri Lanka ( Playing XI ) : Dimuth Karunaratne , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Lahiru Thirimanne , Thisara Perera , Jeevan Mendis , Nuwan Kulasekara , Rangana Herath , Sachithra Senanayake New Zealand have won the toss and have opted to bat The visitors would want to win this one to equalize the series. On the other hand , the hosts will look to exert their dominance with another win. The Kiwis will be hampered by Kane Williamson 's absence as he has been ruled out of the next 3 ODIs with a shoulder injury. Grant Elliot may also miss the game due to personal reasons. However , the hosts will be boosted by the return of Ross Taylor. Toss and teams coming up in a short while. Stay tuned . Corey Anderson stepped up when his team needed him and played a gritty knock. He compiled good partnerships with Ronchi and Nathan McCullum to guide the team to safer shores and the Kiwis eventually won by 3 wickets. Hello and welcome to the second ODI between New Zealand and Sri Lanka at Hamilton . The Kiwis bowling looked sharp yet again. Even though Tim Southee did n't play the game , McClenaghan and Milne were superb for the hosts , picking up 4 and 2 wickets respectively. However , New Zealand did n't find it easy with the bat in hand. Guptill got out without troubling the scorers , but McCullum was back to his blazing best , reaching his fifty in just 19 balls. He perished soon after and that lead to a small collapse as the visitors were reduced to 101/5 from 63/1 at one stage . After the 2-0 loss in the Test series , Sri Lanka found it difficult to get going in the first of the 7-match ODI series. Apart from Mahela Jayawardene , the visitors batting looked way below par. In fact , 6 of the 11 players could n't go past a single digit score . Preview : After losing the first ODI in Christchurch , the visitors would look to turnaround their fortunes in the second game to be played at the scenic Seddon Park , Hamilton. The first ODI turned out to be a see-saw encounter , with the fortunes of both sides swinging back and forth several times , before the hosts emerged victorious by three wickets . New Zealand With New Zealand 's bowlers landing blows at regular intervals in the first match , it would have gladdened the hearts of the think-tank. The left-arm seamer , Mitchell McClenaghan , who has been known for his ability to take a truckload of wickets in the end overs ever since he made his debut for Central Districts back in 2008-09 , yet again proved his worth in letters of gold by taking a four-wicket haul . It was McClenaghan 's tried and tested formula of varying his lengths that helped the left-arm pacer to snaffle four wickets. McClenaghan , sticks to bowling back of a length , but on occasions , he surprises the batsman by bowling it full and slanting it across the right-hander. He also uses the slower bouncer to good effect. In the first match in Christchurch , with those subtle changes of length , he took bushels of wickets , including three wickets in a single over . Adam Milne , who with his blistering speed can scare the wits of a batsman , played his part as well by snaring two wickets. It is always a boon to have a genuine quick in the ranks as it lifts the fielding side . However , the coaching staff would be a trifle concerned with the batting line-up. Most of their batsmen were n't able to convert starts into big scores. Brendon McCullum , with his broad blade , powered his way to another of those whirlwind fifties. However , he was dismissed after composing a crunching fifty. Only Corey Anderson down the order , showed spunk and spirit to aggregate 81 and shepherd New Zealand to win . Sri Lanka The visitors would rue the fact that they were able to notch up only 218 on the board. Only Mahela Jayawardene , with his majestic beauty of his silken smooth batsmanship , amassed a fine hundred. The rest of the batsmen , including experienced campaigner , Kumar Sangakkara , failed to come to the party . On the positive side for the Lankans , swing bowler , Nuwan Kulasekara , by picking up two wickets , showed that he could do well in Australia ad New Zealand. The delivery to dismiss Grant Elliott jagged back appreciably off the wicket and that gives an indication. Kulasekara is also good at extracting seam movement. Both sides are known as fine fielding units and that should keep the batsmen on tenterhooks , when they look to steal singles . Pitch conditions : The track at Seddon Park tended to favour the team batting second in the 1980s , but in recent times , the toss has n't been a crucial factor. On a small ground , 270-280 can be a par score . Team News : Grant Elliott may miss the second ODI due to a personal problem. Kane Williamson , New Zealand 's main batsman , has already been ruled out of the next three ODIs due to a shoulder injury. Ross Taylor is back , after sitting out of the first ODI . Quotes : It was good ( talking about his knock ) . First time , I am playing in Christchurch. It was disappointing to miss the Test match but this knock feels good. I am feeling alright with the bowling , but it gets a little hard during the middle overs. I will keep training and get my body back in shape : Corey Anderson . We were about 30-40 runs short. It was not the easiest wicket to bat on , it was a little bit two paced. We had to work hard , the batters had to hang in there but , we kept losing wickets : Angelo Mathews . Teams : Sri Lanka ( From ) : Dimuth Karunaratne , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Lahiru Thirimanne , Thisara Perera , Jeevan Mendis , Sachithra Senanayake , Nuwan Kulasekara , Suranga Lakmal , Dinesh Chandimal , Shaminda Eranga , Rangana Herath , Dhammika Prasad , Lasith Malinga New Zealand ( From ) : Martin Guptill , Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Tom Latham , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Nathan McCullum , Mitchell McClenaghan , Adam Milne , Trent Boult , Tim Southee , Daniel Vettori , Kyle Mills Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
