Graphs That 's all we have for you from this game. New Zealand ca n't lose this series now. Pakistan would ideally want to finish on a high just before the beginning of the World Cup. Will the Kiwis win another ODI series ? Or will Pakistan come back with a bang ? Join us on Tuesday to find out. Until then , take care. Ciao ! Elliott : 'I guess Trent ( Boult ) , Millsy ( Kyle Mills ) and Milne ( Adam Milne ) were outstanding. They helped us set up the game. It is very different. He is a very good bowler , playing him is like playing a trampoline. I am just enjoying the environment , great buzz in the field and it is amazing when the guys throw themselves around in the field.' Grant Elliott is the Man of the Match for his 3/26 and unbeaten 64 McCullum : 'It was a really professional performance. Our fielding was outstanding , probably the best I have seen this summer. That is always helpful. Elliott and Taylor batted well. We found today that we were able to keep it full and ask some questions. They bowled some good lengths. The boys have been playing really well. Guptill , especially in the nets , has been timing the ball sweetly. Ross has done well too. His partnership with Grant was very meticulous.' Misbah-ul-Haq : 'We just lost the wickets. Even in the first 10 overs , we were nowhere. They bowled well and we did n't have any momentum. 280-290 would have been competitive. Shahid Afridi batted really well and was good with the ball too. I batted decently in the practice games. It was difficult after a 2-month period , New Zealand bowled well , but it was good. For you to defend this total , you have to bowl well , but sometimes you give away runs.' Earlier , the Black Caps bowlers were back to their usual best as they had Pakistan reeling at 127/6 at one stage. Afridi and Misbah then got together and helped Pakistan cross 200. However , it was never enough to stop the Kiwis from taking a 1-0 lead. Stay tuned for the presentation . New Zealand win comprehensively at the end. They got off to a blazing start with Brendon McCullum going hard at the new ball. However , he perished in the fourth over after hitting four boundaries. Guptill and Latham got together and stitched a 44-run stand before the latter departed. Guptill followed soon after and it seemed at one point that they would miss the solidity of Williamson in the middle order. However , Taylor and Elliott then took on the mantle of seeing their team through. Taylor 's good form in 2015 continues and Elliott continues to justify his selection in the World Cup squad ahead of Neesham. Both registered fifties and took the hosts home. The Pakistani bowlers bowled well in patches , but nothing to really trouble the Kiwis . So , New Zealand take a 1-0 lead in the 2-match ODI series. The players congratulate each other and shake hands. Elliott and Taylor are congratulated by their teammates as they walk off . 39.3 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , FOUR , New Zealand win by 7 wickets with this boundary , it was slightly fuller and outside off , Elliott drives it square of the wicket and finds the fence 39.2 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Elliott looks to cut hard , but ends up chopping it towards backward point , where Shehzad dives and prevents the single 39.1 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Taylor leans forward and bunts it square of the wicket for a single Ehsan Adil [ 7.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Irfan to Elliott , no run , another short one to end the over , Elliott goes for the hook yet again , but this time he ca n't connect and wears it on his body 38.5 Irfan to Elliott , FOUR , good shot from Elliott , it was short from Irfan , Elliott swivels and pulls it to the deep backward square leg fence 38.4 Irfan to Elliott , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Elliott stands tall and defends it into the off-side 38.3 Irfan to Elliott , no run , angles this one away outside off , Elliott pushes at it , but ca n't connect 38.2 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , length delivery on off , Taylor pushes it to point 38.1 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , outswinger from Irfan , Taylor was pushing at it , the ball goes past the outside edge and through to the keeper 37.6 Afridi to Elliott , no run , shortish again and outside off , Elliott cuts it into the off-side , but he did n't time it right 37.5 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , shortish delivery on middle stump line , Taylor punches it to long-on for a single 37.4 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , tossed up on middle stump line , Elliott drives it to long-off 37.3 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 3 runs , floated up on the pads , Taylor works it to deep mid-wicket and the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down , this also brings up the 100-run stand between these two , both of them have batted really well 37.2 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , another flatter delivery around off , Elliott punches it to sweeper cover and gets to the other end 37.1 Afridi to Elliott , no run , flatter outside off , Elliott looks to cut , but ends up chopping it off the inside edge and the ball rolls away to short fine leg 36.6 Irfan to Elliott , 1 run , full delivery outside off , Elliott looks to drive , he gets an outside edge that runs away to third man for a single 36.5 Irfan to Elliott , no run , slower delivery from Irfan and Elliott completely misses the ball , it was angled across off , Elliott was looking to push at it , the ball goes past his outside edge 36.4 Irfan to Elliott , 2 runs , fullish delivery outside off , Elliott comes forward and drives it uppishly past cover for a brace 36.3 Irfan to Elliott , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Elliott hooks it fine and beats the fine leg fielder , this boundary also brings up the 7th ODI fifty for Elliott 36.2 Irfan to Elliott , no run , bumper from Irfan , Elliott looks to hook it , but ca n't connect and the keeper collects 36.1 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Taylor chops it square of the wicket for a single 35.6 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flatter delivery on the stumps , Taylor works it to deep square leg and he will keep the strike 35.5 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , floated on middle stump line , Elliott drives it to long-off and gets to the other end 35.4 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run 35.3 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run 35.2 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , shortish outside off , Elliott almost chops it back onto the stumps , he gets an inside edge that rolls away towards short fine leg and the batsmen take a single 35.1 Afridi to Elliott , no run , tossed up outside off , Elliott drives it to cover off the front foot Time for the batting powerplay. New Zealand would probably want to finish it off in the next 5 overs . 34.6 Irfan to Elliott , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Elliott drives it to sweeper cover and he will keep the strike 34.5 Irfan to Elliott , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Elliott dabs it to backward point 34.4 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , on middle stump line , Taylor drops it into the on-side with soft hands and sets off for a single , this run also brings up the 29th ODI fifty for Taylor , this is also his 2nd fifty in 3 innings 34.4 Irfan to Ross Taylor , wide , bowls a bumper outside off , Taylor jumps in the crease and looks to hit it over the infield on the off-side , he ca n't connect and the umpire calls it a wide as it was way over the batsman 's head 34.4 Irfan to Ross Taylor , wide , bowls this one well wide outside off , umpire calls it a wide 34.3 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Taylor punches it to cover off the back foot 34.2 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Taylor chops it into the off-side 34.1 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Taylor punches it back to the bowler Mohammad Irfan [ 7.0-2-43-1 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to mid-on 33.5 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , shortens the length again , Elliott goes on the back foot guides it square of the wicket on the off-side for a run 33.4 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Taylor tucks it away to square leg for a single 33.3 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off , Elliott leans forward and drives it to sweeper cover a run 33.2 Afridi to Elliott , no run , shortish delivery just outside off , Elliott hangs back and punches it to cover 33.1 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flatter delivery on the pads , Taylor clips it to mid-wicket Shahid Afridi [ 7.0-0-24-1 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short delivery on the stumps , Taylor rocks back and controls the pull to deep mid-wicket for a single 32.5 Bhatti to Elliott , 1 run , short of length delivery around off , Elliott shuffles across and nudges it to mid-wicket 32.4 Bhatti to Elliott , no run , length delivery angling in on off , Elliott pushes it to cover 32.3 Bhatti to Elliott , FOUR , good length delivery on off , Elliott leans forward and looks to drive , gets an outside edge , which flies past the first slip fielder for a boundary 32.2 Bhatti to Elliott , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Elliott goes deep inside the crease , stands tall and punches it to deep backward point for a brace , he split backward point and point fielder to perfection 32.1 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short of length delivery angling into the right-hander , Taylor goes back and punches it to deep backward point for a run 31.6 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 1 run , fullish delivery on the stumps , Taylor drives it to long-on 31.5 Sohail to Ross Taylor , FOUR , shortish delivery outside off , Taylor goes on the back foot and cuts it powerfully to sweeper cover , where Hafeez makes a mess of it and the ball dribbles away to the fence 31.4 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , skips down the track yet again and works this floated delivery to mid-wicket 31.3 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Taylor leans forward and turns it to the on-side 31.2 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on off , Taylor skips down the track and pushes it back to the bowler 31.1 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , comes down the track and drives this shortish delivery back to the bowler It 's time for drinks 30.6 Bhatti to Elliott , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Elliott punches it off the back foot to point 30.5 Bhatti to Elliott , no run , good length delivery jagging back into the right-hander , Elliott gets an inside edge onto the pads 30.4 Bhatti to Elliott , FOUR , good length delivery just outside off , Elliott leans forward and drives it on the up through the cover for a magnificent boundary 30.3 Bhatti to Elliott , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Elliott looks to pull but misses 30.2 Bhatti to Elliott , FOUR , short of length delivery on off , Elliott rocks back and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a boundary 30.1 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 3 runs , good length delivery just outside off , Taylor gets forward and chips over the infield towards the cow corner fence , the fielder at mid-on chases and keeps them to three 29.6 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated on middle , Taylor comes down the track and eases it to long-on 29.5 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , flighted delivery on middle , Taylor comes on the front foot and flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 29.4 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up on middle and off , Taylor turns it to mid-wicket 29.3 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Taylor leans forward and defends it down the wicket 29.2 Sohail to Elliott , 1 run , shortens the length outside off , Elliott goes back and cuts it to sweeper cover for a single 29.1 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 1 run , skips down the track for this fullish delivery and drives it to long-on 28.6 Bhatti to Elliott , no run , short of length delivery around off , Elliott punches it to cover 28.5 Bhatti to Elliott , no run , bouncer on the leg-stump , Elliott comes across and looks to hook but misses 28.4 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Taylor punches it off the back foot , square of the wicket on the off-side for a run 28.3 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , no run , fuller in length on off , Taylor pushes it to mid-off 28.2 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , no run , fullish on off , Taylor drives it back to the bowler 28.1 Bhatti to Elliott , 1 run , fuller length delivery on off , Elliott comes forward and pushes it to the right of mid-on and sets off for a quick single , Elliott 's bat got stuck in the ground , if the ball had hit direct he was a goner there Bilawal Bhatti [ 5.0-0-29-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Sohail to Elliott , 1 run , flatter once again , Elliott goes deep in the crease and cuts it to deep extra cover 27.5 Sohail to Elliott , no run , quicker one this time , Elliott defends it into the off-side 27.4 Sohail to Elliott , 2 runs , skips out of the crease and drives this flighted delivery outside off wide of long-off , the batsmen take two before the fielder from long-off can stop the ball 27.3 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Taylor works it behind square for a single 27.2 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , another shortish delivery outside off , Taylor cuts it towards backward point , did n't time it well though 27.1 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , flatter outside off , Taylor looks to cut , but ends up chopping it towards backward point off the back foot 26.6 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Elliott defends it towards point from the crease 26.5 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short delivery outside off , Taylor pulls it to deep mid-wicket , where the fielder moves to his left and stops the ball. Taylor timed it very sweetly though 26.4 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , 1 run , on a good length and on off and middle , Elliott moves across and works it to mid-wicket for a single 26.3 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Taylor pulls it and he rolls his wrists over it to send it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 26.2 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Elliott drives it to mid-off and charges to the other end , the fielder at mid-off runs forward , picks the ball up and fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end , but Elliott was well in 26.1 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , 2 runs , short and slightly wide outside off , Elliott hangs back and cuts it towards square third man , Irfan from third man runs across and dives to stop the ball , the batsmen take two 25.6 Sohail to Elliott , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Elliott eases it down to long-on and he will keep the strike 25.5 Sohail to Elliott , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Elliott bunts it back to the bowler 25.4 Sohail to Elliott , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Elliott works it off the inside half of the bat to mid-wicket 25.3 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Taylor leans forward and drives it to sweeper cover for a single 25.2 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , steps out of the crease and punches this slightly flatter delivery to cover 25.1 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up on off and middle , Taylor turns it to mid-wicket Haris Sohail , comes into the attack Sohail comes into the attack in place of Afridi 24.6 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , no run , bumper to end the over , Elliott ducks under it and leaves it for the keeper to collect 24.5 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , no run , slightly back of a length delivery on off , Elliott gets behind the line and blocks it into the off-side 24.4 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , just short of a good length and around off , Taylor works it in front of mid-on and sets off for a single 24.3 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , 1 run , length delivery on off and middle line , Elliott works it towards mid-wicket after moving across 24.2 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , angles this one on the pads , Taylor tucks it away to fine leg and the batsmen cross over 24.1 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Elliott pushes at it and gets an outside edge that dribbles away towards third man 23.6 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery around off , Taylor comes on the front foot and pushes it back to the bowler 23.5 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , drifting on the pads this time , Elliott works it to deep square leg for a single 23.4 Afridi to Elliott , no run , quicker delivery on middle stump line , Elliott looks to defend it off the back foot , gets an inside edge that rolls away towards square leg 23.3 Afridi to Elliott , no run , makes room to this short and wide delivery and cuts it towards cover 23.3 Afridi to Elliott , wide , sprays this down leg , Elliott looks to sweep , but ca n't make a connection and the umpire calls it a wide 23.2 Afridi to Elliott , no run , stays back and turns it to leg-side in front of square 23.1 Afridi to Elliott , no run , darts this one on middle stump line , Elliott defends off the front foot 22.6 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Elliott stays inside the crease , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man. He will keep the strike 22.5 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Elliott opens the face of the bat and knocks it to point 22.4 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Elliott defends it into the off-side 22.3 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Elliott drives it to cover off the front foot 22.2 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , FOUR , almost chopped it back on , length delivery outside off , Elliott pushes at it with laden feet , he gets an inside edge that runs away fine and Elliott collects four for that 22.1 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , on a good length and angling in on off and middle , Taylor pushes at it , the ball rolls away towards third man off a thickish outside edge Ehsan Adil [ 4.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack Adil comes back into the attack , replacing Irfan 21.6 Afridi to Elliott , no run , flatter and outside off , Elliott opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards backward point 21.5 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , another quicker one on the pads , Taylor was looking to work it through the on-side after giving the charge , he gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball rolls away into the on-side , the batsmen take a single 21.4 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , pushed through on off , Taylor skips out and looks to work it through the on-side , the ball bounces a touch extra and hits Taylor on the pad 21.3 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , quicker one on the stumps , Elliott bunts it to cover off the front foot 21.2 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , gives the charge and works this flighted delivery wide of mid-on , the batsmen cross over 21.1 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , floated up on off and middle , Taylor was looking to work it through the on-side , but the ball rolls away towards the bowler off the outside half of the bat 20.6 Irfan to Elliott , FOUR , poor delivery to end the over , it was fullish and angling into the pads , Elliott tickles it fine and beats the short fine leg fielder for a boundary 20.6 Irfan to Elliott , wide , bumper from Irfan that sails over Elliott 's head , Elliott was n't interested in playing at that and the umpire exercises his arms 20.5 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Irfan finally bowls a fuller one just outside off , Taylor looks to drive and gets an outside edge that dies down before Sohail at first slip , he also ca n't stop the ball cleanly and the batsmen take a single 20.4 Irfan to Elliott , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Elliott guides it towards third man after opening the face of the bat 20.3 Irfan to Elliott , no run , another short one at the batsman , the force on the ball was so much so that Elliott 's bat came out of his hands and fell over the pitch 20.2 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , another short one a little wide outside off , Taylor jumps in the crease and cuts it uppishly over the backward point fielder , the third man fielder gets around to field the ball and the batsmen take a single 20.2 Irfan to Ross Taylor , wide , down the leg-side and the umpire calls it a wide 20.1 Irfan to Elliott , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , there was extra bounce on this one , Elliott tackles it well as he manages to get it fine after playing with soft hands. In fact , his right hand came off the bat 19.6 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , floated up outside off , Elliott drives it to long-off 19.5 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , skips out to this flighted delivery on off , Taylor works it through mid-wicket for a single 19.4 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , gives the charge once again and defends it with his bat close to the pad 19.3 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , quicker one just outside off , Taylor defends it off the front foot 19.2 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , gives the charge this time to the wrong 'un from Afridi , Taylor works it towards deep mid-wicket for a brace 19.1 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , floated up around off , Elliott bunts it down to long-off 19.1 Afridi to Elliott , wide , quicker one down leg , Elliott fails to work it fine and the keeper ca n't collect it cleany as well , wided by the umpire 18.6 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Taylor again looks to cut , but the ball goes past the blade 18.5 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , another short one outside off , Taylor looks to cut it over backward point , but fails to make a connection and the keeper collects 18.4 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , snorter from Irfan ! It was another short delivery that kept climbing up towards the batsman , Taylor did well there to jump in the crease and he fends it with soft hands. This is good bowling from Irfan Grant Elliott , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.3 Irfan to Guptill , out Caught by Bhatti ! ! Guptill perishes now. It was banged in short and at the batsman , Guptill went for the pull , but checks his shot. He ends up giving a simple catch to the man at deep backward square leg. The Kiwis are three down now and Irfan is delighted with this breakthrough. Guptill c Bhatti b Irfan 39 ( 48 ) [ 4s-7 ] Irfan to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.2 Irfan to Guptill , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Guptill moves across and defends it into the on-side 18.1 Irfan to Guptill , no run , banged in short and angled across off , Guptill looks to pull it , but he gets beaten as the ball goes under his bat , maybe the ball did n't rise as much as he expected 17.6 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , quicker one just outside off , Taylor takes a step forward and punches it back to the bowler 17.5 Afridi to Ross Taylor , FOUR , comes down the track and whips hard at it , the ball runs away to the deep mid-wicket fence even though he did n't time it that well , it came off the inside half of the bat 17.4 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , pushed through on leg , Taylor fails to work it fine , he wears it on his pad , there was a loud appeal , but the ball was snaking down leg 17.3 Afridi to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Guptill drives it to deep extra cover off the front foot 17.2 Afridi to Guptill , no run , slightly flatter outside off , Guptill looks to cut it , but ends up chopping it to short cover 17.1 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Taylor comes down the track and drives it to long-off 16.6 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Irfan bangs it short , Taylor is surprsied by the bounce , hops back and fends it awkwardly towards fine leg 16.5 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , in that channel outside off , left alone 16.4 Irfan to Ross Taylor , FOUR , excellent shot from Taylor ! It was a short of length delivery wide of off , Taylor 's eyes lit up as soon as he saw the width on that one , cuts it hard to the deep point fence , that was so powerfully hit , the fielders did not even moves an inch 16.3 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length and outside off , left alone by Taylor 16.2 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , fuller and closer to the off stump , Taylor covers the stumps and leaves it alone 16.1 Irfan to Guptill , 1 run , length delivery around off , Guptill guides it to deep backward point Mohammad Irfan [ 4.0-1-27-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , full around off , Taylor gets forward and drives it towards cover 15.5 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , a googly on off , Taylor cuts it to backward point 15.4 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , gets down to sweep but misses as the ball turns away from him 15.3 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , pushed from the crease towards cover-point 15.2 Afridi to Guptill , 1 run , looks to cut but the ball takes a soft outside edge and rolls to short third man 15.1 Afridi to Guptill , no run , pushes it into the leg-side Drinks are on the field now 14.6 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , leg byes , 2 runs , banged in short again by Adil , Taylor looks to hook and misses , looks like the ball hit the helmet on its way over the keeper , not sure what it hit exactly. Will need more replays to confirm , anyway , the umpire signals it as a leg bye 14.5 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , FOUR , banged in short by Adil , Taylor gets back and drags the pull from outside off to the deep mid-wicket fence 14.4 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , no run , defends it off the back foot to the right of the bowler 14.3 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , short and wide , Taylor cuts it to deep backward point , where Shehzad fumbles allowing the batsmen to take a couple 14.2 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , no run , fuller on leg , Taylor looks to flick it off his pads , gets a thick leading edge that falls short of the man at mid-off 14.1 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length and outside off , Taylor goes hard at it , cuts it straight to the man at backward point , Shehzad has been brilliant there , saving a few boundaries 13.6 Afridi to Guptill , 2 runs , drifts it on leg , Guptill stays back and tucks it behind square on the leg-side , superb running between the wickets from the pair 13.5 Afridi to Guptill , no run , goes on the back foot and looks to punch it into the off-side , almost drags that back onto the stumps 13.4 Afridi to Guptill , no run , full around off , Guptill comes on the front foot and pushes it to short cover 13.3 Afridi to Guptill , no run , full on off , Guptill gets forward and taps it to the left of the bowler 13.2 Afridi to Guptill , no run , gets back and cuts this shortish delivery to point 13.1 Afridi to Guptill , no run , fuller and turning in a touch , Guptill leans forward and turns it into the leg-side 12.6 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , no run , Taylor presses on the front foot and looks to defend this length ball on middle and off , the ball takes the outside edge and rolls behind point 12.5 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , no run , short of length and outside off , Taylor cuts it to backward point , straight to Shehzad 12.4 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , no run , back of a length on off , Taylor stays back and turns it to short mid-wicket 12.3 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Guptill turns it towards mid-on for a quick single 12.2 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Taylor stays back and looks to work this back of a length delivery into the leg-side , gets a leading edge that flies behind point , it was in the air for a while but fell well short of the fielder 12.1 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , 1 run , full on leg , Guptill leans forward and clips it through backward square leg Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 11.6 Afridi to Latham , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! Latham walks back after a quick cameo. No feet movement from him as he pushes listlessly at this one , the ball goes on straight , taking the toe-end of the bat and travels into the keeper 's gloves. Wicket in the first over for Lala ! Latham did not wait for the umpire 's signal. The ball did not bounce as much as he expected and hence he was outfoxed. Latham c Sarfraz Ahmed b Afridi 23 ( 28 ) [ 4s-5 ] Afridi to Latham , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.5 Afridi to Latham , no run , continues to remain on the back foot and nudges it towards short mid-wicket 11.4 Afridi to Latham , no run , stays back and turns it to the left of the bowler 11.3 Afridi to Latham , FOUR , short one from Afridi and Latham has punished it ! His eyes lit as soon as he saw that , gets back and pulls it along the ground to the deep square leg fence 11.2 Afridi to Latham , no run , Latham is pushed back in the crease and looks to defend with an angled bat , the ball skids through , just missing the outside edge of his bat 11.1 Afridi to Latham , no run , Latham backs away and looks to cut , misses as the ball turns away from him Shahid Afridi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Boom Boom into the attack 10.6 Ehsan Adil to Latham , 1 run , Latham comes on the front foot to this full ball and drives it hard to deep extra cover 10.5 Ehsan Adil to Latham , FOUR , ooohhh , almost chopped that back on. It was a short of length delivery but not too wide , that was too close to cut but Latham went through with the shot , gets a thick inside edge that goes past the off stump very fine and crosses the rope 10.4 Ehsan Adil to Latham , no run , fuller and outside off , Guptill reaches out and drives it towards backward point , where the fielder dives to his right and makes a fine stop 10.3 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , 1 run , length delivery on leg , Guptill works it to deep mid-wicket 10.2 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , FOUR , Guptill is accelerating at a good pace ! He advances down the track to this full ball and launches it straight down the ground for his seventh boundary 10.1 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , back of a length around off , Guptill stays back and punches it to cover-point , finds the fielder there 9.6 Bhatti to Latham , no run , fuller on off , Latham gets forward and drives it straight to the extra cover fielder 9.5 Bhatti to Latham , FOUR , short , wide and punished. It was a cracking shot from Latham. He gets back and cuts it powerfully to the deep backward point fence 9.4 Bhatti to Latham , no run , good length delivery around off , Latham presses on the front foot and presents a solid defence 9.3 Bhatti to Latham , no run , short of length on off , Guptill gets back and turns it to the left of the bowler , who moves across and fields it 9.2 Bhatti to Guptill , 1 run , shortish on the hips , Latham tucks it towards mid-on and scampers through for a quick run Misbah is shuffling the field around a bit 9.1 Bhatti to Latham , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Latham cuts , the ball goes off the outside half towards third man 8.6 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , back of a length on off , Guptill defends it off the back foot with an angled bat 8.5 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , FOUR , length delivery on off , Guptill gets forward and drives it off the inside half of the bat to the deep mid-wicket fence. Guptill 's intention was to go over the bowler 's head but the bat turned in his hand and he ended up hitting it into the on-side 8.4 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , back of a length and outside off , Guptill punches it to backward point , Shehzad dives to his right and makes a brilliant stop 8.3 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , length delivery on middle , Guptill defends it back with a straightish bat 8.2 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , length delivery on off , Guptill drives it back to the bowler 8.1 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , back of a length and coming back in , Latham stays back and defends , the ball goes off the outside edge into the off-side Ehsan Adil , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Adil comes into the attack replacing Irfan . 7.6 Bhatti to Latham , no run , short of length and outside off , Latham defends it off the back foot towards short cover 7.5 Bhatti to Latham , no run , fuller and around off , that was too close to the off stump , Latham covers the sticks and lets it go , the ball just whistles past the off stump 7.4 Bhatti to Latham , no run , back of a length and on off , Latham defends it off the back foot , just in front of point 7.3 Bhatti to Latham , FOUR , cracking shot from Latham ! It was shorter and wide of off , Latham cuts it past a diving backward point fielder for his second consecutive boundary 7.2 Bhatti to Latham , FOUR , Latham stays on the back foot to this short of length delivery on the hips , just tucks it to the fine leg fence 7.1 Bhatti to Latham , no run , back of a length on middle , Latham hops back in the crease to defend , the bat turns in his hands and the ball goes off the leading edge into the off-side , falls well short of the backward point fielder 6.6 Irfan to Guptill , no run , slower again , Guptill gets back and flashes his bat at it but is beaten by the lack of pace on that one 6.5 Irfan to Guptill , no run , slower ball from Irfan , outside off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 6.4 Irfan to Guptill , FOUR , shorter from Irfan , Guptill gets back and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence for yet another boundary , that was almost an opportunity Dead ball signalled by the umpire as Irfan lost the control of the ball and dropped it before bowling it , Guptill ducks , he thought that was a beamer but Irfan had already lost the ball 6.3 Irfan to Guptill , FOUR , back of a length on middle , Guptill stays back and short-arm jab pulls it behind square to the deep backward square leg fence , that was the 'Nataraj ' shot as he lifted his front foot right across the line 6.2 Irfan to Latham , 1 run , fuller and coming back into the batsman , Latham leans forward and flicks it to mid-wicket , good fielding by Afridi , he has a shy at the non-striker 's end but misses , had that hit directly , Latham would have been in trouble 6.1 Irfan to Latham , no run , fuller and closer to the off stump line , Guptill easily lets that go through 5.6 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , a firm push off the front foot to cover-point 5.5 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , 'wait on ' is the call from Guptill after punching this short of length delivery towards extra-cover 5.4 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , just a hint of inswing on this short of length delivery , Guptill offers a compact back foot defence 5.3 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , back of a length and outside off stump , punched to mid-on 5.2 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , steeply rising short of length delivery outside off stump , Guptill hops and looks to cut but gets beaten. That was a much better line from the bowler Misbah is not happy with Bhatti 's line , he has a chat with him on his way to the bowling crease . 5.2 Bhatti to Guptill , wide , short and down the leg side , left alone , easy call for the ump 5.1 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery just swinging back into the right-hander , punched back to the bowler 4.6 Irfan to Latham , no run , banged in short on the stumps , Latham is surprised by the bounce on that one , he is pushed back into the crease and fends awkwardly , the ball goes off the glove towards backward short leg , the man at square leg rushes in but it falls well short of him 4.5 Irfan to Latham , no run , fuller and outside off , Latham covers the stumps and shoulders arms 4.4 Irfan to Latham , no run , back of a length on off , Latham stays back and blocks it back 4.3 Irfan to Latham , no run , bumper on the stumps , Latham ducks under it and lets it go through 4.2 Irfan to Latham , no run , length delivery around off , Latham bunts it towards point 4.1 Irfan to Latham , no run , fuller and closer to the off stump , Latham lifts his bat and lets it go 3.6 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , back of a length on middle , Guptill defends it to the right of the bowler 3.5 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , goes on the back foot to this back of a length delivery around off and pushes it to the left of the bowler , shouts 'wait on ' to his partner 3.4 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , length delivery around off , Guptill defends it to the off-side 3.3 Bhatti to Guptill , 2 runs , almost dragged on by Umar Akmal past the deep mid-wicket rope , he fumbles but manages to drag it back at the last instant to save a couple , Guptill gets back and whips it into the leg-side for a brace 3.2 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it to point Tom Latham , left handed bat , comes to the crease 3.1 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , out Caught by Ahmed Shehzad ! ! What have you done McCullum ? He was looking so good with his shots ! He skips down the track , makes room and swings hard at this fuller length delivery , the bat turns in his hands and the ball goes off the toe-end of the bat , goes over backward point , where Shehzad backtracks and holds onto a simple catch. Brendon McCullum c Ahmed Shehzad b Bhatti 17 ( 12 ) [ 4s-4 ] Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 2.6 Irfan to Guptill , no run , on a length and closer to the off stump line , Guptill covers the sticks and shoulders arms 2.6 Irfan to Guptill , wide , slides it down leg , Guptill does not connect with the glance 2.5 Irfan to Guptill , FOUR , full toss from Irfan and Guptill has put it away. It was a rank full toss around off , Guptill presses forward and crashes it to the deep extra cover fence 2.4 Irfan to Guptill , no run , in the channel outside off , left alone 2.3 Irfan to Guptill , FOUR , fuller and around off , Guptill comes on the front foot and creams the drive to the sweeper cover fence , that was a cracking shot 2.2 Irfan to Guptill , no run , fuller and outside off , Guptill covers the line and lets it go through 2.1 Irfan to Guptill , FOUR , fuller delivery coming back in on middle , Guptill leans forward and clips it to the deep mid-wicket fence 1.6 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , advances and slogs hard , but gets it on the inside half of the bat and it races away to the deep mid-wicket fence 1.5 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , shortish and outside off , McCullum goes on the back foot and cuts it powerfully square of the wicket for the second boundary of the over 1.4 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , no run , full around off , Brendon gets forward and pushes it to the left of the bowler 1.3 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , fantastic shot from Brendon ! He dances down the track and flat-bats this length delivery outside off to the extra cover fence for his second boundary Two slips in place 1.2 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller around off , Brendon gets forward and pushes it in front of point 1.1 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , no run , full on middle , Brendon drives it off the inside half of the bat back to the bowler Bilawal Bhatti , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , leans forward and flicks this back of a length on the pads to fine leg 0.5 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , no run , another loud lbw appeal but it was too high. Irfan continues to swing the ball back into the right-hander from a good length , Baz is pushed back into his crease and misses , the ball hits him high on the pad 0.4 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , no run , inswinger from Irfan , Brendon looks to flick , the ball goes off the pads into the leg-side 0.3 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of length delivery outside off , defends it to the off-side 0.2 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , full and around off , Brendon shuffles across a touch and flicks it to the deep square leg fence 0.1 Irfan to Guptill , leg byes , 1 run , it was an inswinger from Irfan , Guptill stays back and looks to defend , misses and is rapped on the pads. It was a short of a length ball and height was also an issue there. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball pitched outside leg and was missing leg stump Pakistan appeal for lbw straightaway. Around six Pakistani plays surround the bowler to decide about the review but decide against it . Guptill and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. Irfan will open the attack Irfan to start off with two slips in place . Riding on fifties from Misbah and Afridi , Pakistan have got a reasonable score on the board. At 127/6 , things were n't looking great for the visitors , but Afridi played aggressively and scored a 29-ball 67 to give the Pakistani bowlers something to bowl at. Captain Misbah too played extremely well for his fifty , but the rest of the batsmen threw their wickets away. Elliott bagged three wickets , while Boult , Mills and Anderson picked up two each. The pitch is still good to bat on. However , we saw in the 7th ODI against Sri Lanka that the ball swung around a bit in the evening at this venue. Take a break and be right back here for New Zealand 's reply . 45.3 Elliott to Ehsan Adil , out Caught by Brendon McCullum ! ! Pakistan have lost their last 4 wickets for 12 runs. Full delivery outside off stump , Adil tries to go for the big shot again , but this time he hits it straight to mid-off , who did n't have to do much. Ehsan Adil c Brendon McCullum b Elliott 6 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 ] Elliott to Ehsan Adil , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.2 Elliott to Ehsan Adil , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Adil defends Anderson is off the field with a quad strain . 45.1 Elliott to Ehsan Adil , FOUR , that 's a timely blow. Slower ball full and in the slot , Adil goes hard and lofts it over mid-off Grant Elliott [ 4.0-0-22-2 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Boult to Irfan , no run , full and outside off , Irfan pushes it to cover 44.5 Boult to Irfan , no run , full and outside off stump , Irfan is late on the drive and gets beaten. There was a sound as the ball passed the bat , but it was the bat hitting the ground New Zealand have reviewed for a caught behind appeal , but there 's nothing on the Hot-Spot to suggest that there was an outside edge . 44.4 Boult to Irfan , no run , half-volley outside off , Irfan swings hard and misses 44.3 Boult to Irfan , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , left alone 44.2 Boult to Ehsan Adil , 1 run , fuller length delivery around off , Adil drives it to mid-off for a run 44.1 Boult to Ehsan Adil , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Adil hops and defends 43.6 Milne to Ehsan Adil , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Adil drives and gets a thick edge that goes wide of slip to third man 43.5 Milne to Irfan , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Irfan was late in bringing his bat down and the outside edge rolls along the ground to third man 43.4 Milne to Irfan , no run , yorker outside off stump , Irfan tries to guide it to third man but misses 43.3 Milne to Irfan , no run , Irfan stays in the crease and keeps this out 43.2 Milne to Irfan , no run , fast and full on the off stump , Irfan defends off the front foot Mohammad Irfan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.1 Milne to Afridi , out Caught by Guptill ! ! That 's hit in the air , oh he 's hit it straight to long-on. Afridi will be kicking himself for missing out on a juicy full ball. It was right in the slot to be sent out of the ground , he cleared his front leg and swung hard , but mistimed it , Guptill settled under it at long-on and took it cleanly. Afridi goes for a well made , entertaining 67. Afridi c Guptill b Milne 67 ( 29 ) [ 4s-9 6s-3 ] Milne to Afridi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Adam Milne [ 9.0-0-41-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Boult to Ehsan Adil , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Adil hops and defends 42.5 Boult to Ehsan Adil , no run , full and outside off stump , Adil covers the off stump and shoulders arms Ehsan Adil , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.4 Boult to Bhatti , out Caught by Guptill ! ! That 's a sharp grab by Martin Guptill at backward point. Short and wide outside off stump , Bhatti cuts well , but does n't keep it down , the ball was travelling. Guptill quickly gets down low to his left and takes it with both hands. Bhatti c Guptill b Boult 0 ( 2 ) Boult to Bhatti , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.3 Boult to Afridi , 1 run , in the air but safe ! Shortish from Boult again , Afridi mistimes the pull this time , luckily for him there was no one at mid-wicket 42.2 Boult to Afridi , no run , follows the bouncer with a full ball , Afridi drives very well , but picks out the man at mid-off 42.1 Boult to Afridi , FOUR , Afridi brings up Pakistan 's 200 in style. Boult attempts a bumper , but it was n't high enough to trouble Afridi , who rocks back and pulls it over the infield , splitting fine leg and deep mid-wicket to perfection Trent Boult [ 7.0-0-19-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Elliott to Bhatti , no run , full delivery outside off stump , driven back to the bowler Bilawal Bhatti , right handed bat , comes to the crease 41.5 Elliott to Misbah , out Caught by Latham ! ! In the airrrrr and that 's straight down the throat of the fieldsman at deep mid-wicket. Full delivery around the off stump , Misbah leans forward and plays a stylish looking flick shot , does n't bother to keep it down and holes out. Misbah is livid with himself for throwing it away and he kicks the turf and gestures that he wanted to hit it much straighter. That ends a fine 71-run stand. Misbah c Latham b Elliott 58 ( 87 ) [ 4s-4 6s-2 ] Elliott to Misbah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.4 Elliott to Afridi , 1 run , full from Elliott , Afridi hits it very hard but drills it straight to long-on 41.3 Elliott to Afridi , 2 runs , plays a similar shot but this time the timing was n't alright and fine leg tidies up 41.2 Elliott to Afridi , FOUR , innovative stuff from Afridi. Slower ball from Elliott , Afridi gets down on one knee and paddles it uppishly , there was no one at short fine leg to swallow the ball and it runs away to the fence 41.1 Elliott to Misbah , 1 run , short of length from Elliott , Misbah pushes it to cover-point 41.1 Elliott to Misbah , wide , tries the slower ball but sprays it down the leg-side Grant Elliott [ 3.0-0-13-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , tossed up , Misbah flicks it away to deep mid-wicket 40.5 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , guided towards short third man 40.4 Nathan McCullum to Afridi , 1 run , easily dabbed down to short third man 40.3 Nathan McCullum to Afridi , SIX , six more and that 's 39th ODI fifty. Flighted delivery wide outside off stump , Afridi steps out , McCullum fires it wide outside off stump , but Afridi reaches out , yet manages to time it sweetly from the middle of the ball and it clears the sweeper cover boundary 40.2 Nathan McCullum to Afridi , SIX , Lala comes down the track and muscles this flighted delivery straight back over McCullum 's head and it goes all the way. That was a flat hit from Afridi 40.1 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , flatter delivery , punched down to long-on Nathan McCullum [ 5.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack Pakistan have scored 49/1 in the batting powerplay . 39.6 Corey Anderson to Misbah , leg byes , 1 run , fuller on middle and leg , Misbah shuffles across and looks to clip , the ball goes off the pad behind square 39.5 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , back of a length and outside off , Misbah wafts at it and is beaten 39.4 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Misbah gets forward and pushes it to mid-on 39.4 Corey Anderson to Misbah , wide , fuller and way outside off , Misbah just watches it closely and lets it go through , that was too wide 39.3 Corey Anderson to Afridi , 1 run , taps it to sweeper cover for a comfortable single 39.2 Corey Anderson to Afridi , FOUR , back-to-back fours for Afridi ! It was a short of length delivery from Anderson , Afridi gets back and ends up slicing it to the third man fence 39.1 Corey Anderson to Afridi , FOUR , excellent shot ! It was a full ball on off , Afridi lofts it with a straight bat over the bowler 's head straight down the ground for a one bounce four 38.6 Milne to Misbah , no run , gets forward and defends it to the left of the bowler 38.5 Milne to Afridi , 1 run , yorker length delivery on middle , Afridi leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket 38.4 Milne to Afridi , FOUR , Afridi is going to swing hard at everything I guess. He throws his bat at this back of a length delivery , the ball takes the outside edge and flies over the backward point fielder towards the fence 38.3 Milne to Afridi , no run , full on off , Afridi drives it hard , straight to the man at extra cover 38.2 Milne to Afridi , FOUR , shortish one from Milne , Afridi rocks on the back foot and pulls it to the deep backward square leg fence 38.1 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , turns it to mid-wicket for a brisk single 37.6 Corey Anderson to Afridi , no run , full ball on middle and off , Afridi drives it towards mid-on. 11 runs came off that over 37.5 Corey Anderson to Afridi , 2 runs , full ball on middle , Afridi whips it between mid-wicket and mid-on 37.4 Corey Anderson to Afridi , SIX , Afridi makes use of the reprieve and thumps Anderson for a maximum. It was a back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Afridi heaves it over the deep backward square leg fence 37.3 Corey Anderson to Afridi , 2 runs , dropped by Brendon McCullum at long-off ! Afridi backs away to this back of a length delivery and flays it over the bowler , McCullum back-pedals , clasps the ball in his hands but is not able to hold on 37.2 Corey Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , comes on the front foot and eases it to sweeper cover 37.1 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , wide of off , Misbah cuts it to backward point 36.6 Milne to Afridi , no run , fuller and shaping away just a touch , Afridi pushes at it and misses , the ball travels into the keeper 's gloves 36.5 Milne to Afridi , no run , bumper on off , Afridi stays back and looks to upper cut it towards third man and is beaten 36.4 Milne to Afridi , FOUR , nicely done by Afridi , just hangs his bat parallel to the ground and guides it to the third man fence 36.3 Milne to Afridi , no run , back of a length and outside off , good comeback from Milne , Afridi gets back and looks to launch it into the on-side , beaten by the lack of pace 36.2 Milne to Afridi , FOUR , another big hit , almost got the distance on that one ! Afridi lofts this length delivery over the mid-on fielder this time , goes on the bounce to the fence 36.1 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Misbah runs it down with an open bat face to third man Adam Milne [ 7.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Corey Anderson to Afridi , no run , angling into off and middle , Afridi defends it back with his bat close to the pad 35.5 Corey Anderson to Afridi , 2 runs , short of length and outside off , Afridi flashes it to deep backward point 35.4 Corey Anderson to Afridi , FOUR , Lala off the mark with a big hit straightaway ! It was a full delivery on off , Afridi picks the length very early and lofts it to the long-off fence Shahid Afridi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 35.3 Corey Anderson to Sarfraz Ahmed , out Caught by Latham ! ! Sarfraz goes in search of quick runs. He gets down on one knee to this length delivery on leg and slog sweeps , holes out to the man at deep square leg , who moves across to his right and snaffles it. Sarfraz Ahmed c Latham b Corey Anderson 5 ( 12 ) Corey Anderson to Sarfraz Ahmed , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 35.2 Corey Anderson to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fuller on leg , Sarfraz clips it towards short mid-wicket , they want a single but Anderson runs forward and gets to the ball , decide against it 35.1 Corey Anderson to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , reaches out and cuts a short and wide delivery square of the wicket for a brace Corey Anderson [ 3.0-0-18-1 ] is back into the attack Batting Powerplay time ! 34.6 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , loud appeal for lbw , but not given. New Zealand fielders discuss for a while but decide against taking a review. Misbah gets down on one knee and looks to sweep , misses and is rapped on the pads. However , the impact was outside off 34.5 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , stays back and whips it to the right of the bowler 34.4 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , drifts it on leg , Misbah leans forward and works it to short mid-wicket , McCullum runs forward and fields it 34.3 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , on the pads , Misbah turns it to short mid-wicket 34.2 Nathan McCullum to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , widish delivery , Sarfraz dabs it to backward point 34.1 Nathan McCullum to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , flighted on middle and off , Sarfraz turns it into the leg-side Nathan McCullum [ 4.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Elliott to Misbah , no run , gets forward and defends it towards mid-on again 33.5 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , on middle and off , Sarfraz pushes it towards mid-on for a quick single 33.4 Elliott to Misbah , 1 run , tucks it off the pads to square leg 33.3 Elliott to Misbah , FOUR , Misbah brings up his 38th ODI fifty in style ! It was a back of a length delivery outside off , Misbah opens the bat face and steers it to the third man fence 33.2 Elliott to Misbah , no run , pushes it into the off-side 33.1 Elliott to Misbah , 2 runs , straying down leg , Misbah looks to flick , the ball goes off the inside edge , brushes the pad and rolls towards fine leg , the fielder gives the ball a chase and drags it back before the rope 32.6 Milne to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length on off , Sarfraz stays back and pushes it back to the bowler 32.5 Milne to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length and outside off , Sarfraz guides it behind point 32.4 Milne to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , bumper from Milne this time , Sarfraz sinks under it and lets it go through 32.3 Milne to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , fuller and around off , Sarfraz defends it to cover-point 32.2 Milne to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , coming back in a touch , Sarfraz gets forward and drives it to the left of the bowler 32.1 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , opens the face of his bat and helps it to deep backward point for a single 31.6 Elliott to Misbah , 1 run , slower delivery again , Misbah gets forward and pushes it to long-on 31.5 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , Ahmed leans forward to this full ball on leg and nudges it to deep square leg Sarfraz Ahmed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 31.4 Elliott to U Akmal , out Bowled ! ! Wicket in the first over immediately after the drinks break. A break in concentration and Umar Akmal perishes. It was a slower ball from Elliott , almost a yorker , Akmal looks to work across the line , misses and the ball sneaks through to crash into the stumps. The middle and leg stump are rattled. U Akmal b Elliott 13 ( 25 ) [ 4s-2 ] Elliott to U Akmal , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 31.3 Elliott to Misbah , leg byes , 1 run , fuller and straying down leg , Misbah looks to clip and the ball goes off the pad behind square , loud appeal for lbw but not given , that was missing leg-stump comprehensively 31.2 Elliott to U Akmal , 1 run , length delivery on middle and of , Akmal eases it to long-on 31.1 Elliott to U Akmal , no run , fuller around off , Akmal gets forward and drives towards mid-off , McCullum runs across to his right and does well to stop it Drinks are on the field now 30.6 Milne to Misbah , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Misbah dabs it towards the point region and was looking for a single , he is sent back by his partner at the other end 30.6 Milne to Misbah , wide , banged in short and outside off , Misbah sways away from the line , the umpire calls it a wide for height and the Black Caps players are not happy with that decision 30.5 Milne to U Akmal , 1 run , fuller outside off , Akmal drives it square of the wicket off the front foot 30.4 Milne to U Akmal , FOUR , angling into the middle and leg , Akmal looks to heave it away , gets a thick inside edge that rolls away very fine and runs away to the fence 30.3 Milne to U Akmal , no run , slightly fuller this time and on off , Akmal defends after getting right behind the line 30.2 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , c2 stays back and dabs it to third man 30.1 Milne to U Akmal , 1 run , length delivery on off , Akmal was playing the wrong line and gets square up as the ball straightens a touch , he gets a thick outside edge that rolls away towards third man 29.6 Elliott to U Akmal , 1 run , just short of a good length and on the stumps , Akmal punches it down the ground to long-on 29.5 Elliott to Misbah , 1 run , short delivery from Elliott , Misbah pulls it down to long-on 29.4 Elliott to Misbah , no run , another fuller one outside off , Misbah blocks it into the off-side with soft hands 29.3 Elliott to Misbah , no run , bowls this one slightly wide outside off , Misbah dabs it to point 29.2 Elliott to Misbah , no run , another one that 's full and on off , Misbah works it to mid-wicket 29.1 Elliott to Misbah , no run , fullish delivery around off , Misbah moves across and pushes it into the on-side Grant Elliott , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Bit of medium pace now as the all-rounder Elliott comes onto bowl 28.6 Milne to U Akmal , no run , full and on the stumps , Akmal drives it in front of mid-on , Misbah at the other end was looking for a single , but is sent back by Akmal , the mid-off fielder runs forward and has a shy at the stumps , but Misbah was back before that 28.5 Milne to U Akmal , no run , 143kph length delivery just outside off , Akmal leans forward and defends it into the off-side 28.4 Milne to U Akmal , no run , good bumper from Milne , Akmal did well to drop his wrists and move away from the line of fire Just a slip in place for Milne 28.3 Milne to U Akmal , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Akmal completely mistimes the pull to mid-on , he is lucky that he did n't hit it straight to him 28.2 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Misbah guides it past a diving Guptill at backward point , who could n't stop the ball and the batsmen take a single , good try though from the Kiwi opener 28.1 Milne to Misbah , no run , on a good length and outside off , Misbah looks to run it down to third man , ends up chopping it behind the track as he was a little late this time Adam Milne [ 4.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack The physio is out there tending to Misbah as he has some issue with his right thumb. Looks like the Anderson delivery at the end of the over did thud into the gloves really hard . 27.6 Corey Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Misbah was surprised by the extra bounce on it and did well to guide it towards third man with soft hands , the ball rolled away off his gloves and he will keep the strike 27.5 Corey Anderson to Misbah , FOUR , on a good length and angling into the batsman , Misbah gets under it and launches it to the long-on fence for a boundary , the fielder was inside the circle there 27.4 Corey Anderson to U Akmal , 1 run , slightly shortish and a little wide outside off , Akmal cuts it to deep backward point 27.3 Corey Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off , Misbah looks to drive it through the covers off the front foot , he ends up dragging it towards mid-on off the inside half of the bat , the batsmen take a quick single and the fielder at mid-off has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but the batsman was comfortably in 27.2 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , length delivery just outside off , Misbah moves across and looks to push it down the ground , ca n't connect properly and the ball rolls back over the track 27.2 Corey Anderson to Misbah , wide , short and down leg , wided by the umpire 27.1 Corey Anderson to Misbah , FOUR , on a good length and angling away outside off , Misbah leans on his front foot and flat-bats it to the deep extra cover fence , the fielder at cover and mid-off were mere spectators at that time 26.6 Boult to U Akmal , no run , on a good length and the ball kicks up from the length , Akmal was looking to push at it , the ball just bounces extra and goes past the blade , even the keeper Ronchi was surprised with the bounce 26.5 Boult to Misbah , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Misbah was hurried into the pull , but did well to roll his wrists over it to send it along the ground 26.4 Boult to Misbah , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Misbah stays inside the crease and dabs it to backward point after opening the face of the bat 26.3 Boult to Misbah , no run , angles this one away outside off , Misbah is happy to leave that alone 26.2 Boult to Misbah , no run , short of length delivery angling away outside off , Misbah looks to punch , but gets a thickish inside edge that rolls away behind the track , he ca n't go through for the single 26.1 Boult to Misbah , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Misbah dabs it towards backward point after opening the face of the bat , where the fielder dives and prevents the single 25.6 Corey Anderson to U Akmal , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Akmal looks to go hard at it , but fails to make a connection and the keeper gloves it 25.5 Corey Anderson to U Akmal , FOUR , length delivery outside off , Akmal stays inside the crease and heaves it to the deep mid-wicket fence to get off the mark , the ball races away to the fence in no time 25.4 Corey Anderson to U Akmal , no run , bowls this one just outside off and was fuller in length , Akmal looks to drive it through the off-side , he gets a thickish outside edge that rolls away towards backward point 25.3 Corey Anderson to U Akmal , no run , bit straighter this time , Akmal turns it towards mid-wicket and almost falls over while playing that shot 25.2 Corey Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , fullish delivery from Anderson , Misbah drives it wide of mid-on off the inside half of the bat , the batsmen pinch in a quick run 25.1 Corey Anderson to Misbah , no run , angles this one on off from round the wicket , Misbah moves across and blocks it into the leg-side 24.6 Boult to U Akmal , no run , in the channel outside off , Akmal watches it closely and leaves it for the keeper 24.5 Boult to U Akmal , no run , back of a length delivery on middle stump line , Akmal hangs back and works it to mid-wicket 24.4 Boult to U Akmal , no run , touch fuller and angling away well outside off , Akmal lifts his bat and lets it go 24.3 Boult to Misbah , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Misbah pulls it behind square and the batsmen cross over 24.2 Boult to Misbah , no run , slightly fuller this time and outside off , Misbah leans into the drive and Nathan McCullum at cover dives to his left , he saved some good runs for his team 24.1 Boult to Misbah , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Misbah leans forward and defends it to point after opening the face of the bat Trent Boult [ 5.0-0-17-1 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Corey Anderson to U Akmal , no run , bowls this one well outside off , while trying to entice the batsman to go after it , Akmal thinks about going at it , but pulls his bat back at the end and lets it go 23.5 Corey Anderson to U Akmal , no run , in the channel outside off and slightly back of a length , Akmal bunts it into the off-side off the back foot 23.4 Corey Anderson to U Akmal , no run , short of length delivery angled across off , Akmal jumps in the crease and blocks 23.3 Corey Anderson to U Akmal , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Akmal defends off the back foot Umar Akmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.2 Corey Anderson to Sohail , out Caught by Guptill ! ! Anderson takes a wicket in his first over. It was not a wicket taking delivery , but the Kiwis will be happy to see the back of Sohail. It was short and wide outside off , Sohail cuts it hard and uppishly , Guptill at backward point dives to his left and completes a good catch. Sohail ca n't believe what he has done and stood his ground for sometime before he walked off. Sohail c Guptill b Corey Anderson 23 ( 38 ) [ 4s-3 ] Corey Anderson to Sohail , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Will come over the wicket to the left-hander 23.1 Corey Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , angles this one into off and middle , Misbah moves across and works it past backward square leg for a single Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack He will come from round the wicket first up Corey Anderson will now come onto bowl for the first time in this game 22.6 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , no run , floated up on off , Sohail leans forward and blocks 22.5 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , no run , touch flatter this time , Sohail punches it to cover 22.4 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , no run , floated up around middle stump line , Sohail pushes it to the left of the bowler 22.3 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , no run , gives the charge and punches this flighted delivery to the left of the bowler , who dives to his left and makes the stop 22.2 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , no run , yorkish length from McCullum , Sohail jams it out to mid-wicket 22.1 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , slightly flatter and on the stumps , Misbah goes deep in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover McCullum will come over the wicket now Kyle Mills finishes with superb bowling figures of 10-2-29-2 . 21.6 Mills to Misbah , 1 run , in the channel just outside off , Misbah moves across and works it to short mid-wicket for a single 21.5 Mills to Misbah , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Misbah defends it towards point from the crease 21.4 Mills to Sohail , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Sohail tucks it away towards mid-wicket off the back foot 21.3 Mills to Sohail , no run , on a good length and on middle stump line , Sohail bunts it to mid-on after moving across just a touch 21.2 Mills to Sohail , no run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Sohail blocks it towards point after opening the face of the bat Coming back to the lbw appeal in the last over , it was a great decision by the umpire as the ball pitched outside leg. Good decision by New Zealand as well to not review it . 21.1 Mills to Sohail , no run , fullish delivery around off , Sohail drives it to mid-off off the front foot Mills will bowl out his quota of 10 overs 20.6 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , 1 run , floated up on the stumps , Sohail eases it down to long-on and he will keep the strike 20.5 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , on the pads , Misbah works it to deep square leg for a single 20.4 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , pushed through on middle stump line , Misbah goes for the reverse sweep , but ca n't connect. The ball hits him on the leg and there was an appeal , the umpire says 'Not Out ' and the Kiwis discuss about taking the review , but decide against it 20.3 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Misbah leans forward and defends 20.2 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , SIX , floated up around off this time , Misbah goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it over the deep square leg fence for yet another six , this is great batting from the Pakistani captain 20.1 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , flatter on the stumps , Misbah punches it to the right of the bowler 19.6 Mills to Sohail , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Sohail defends it towards mid-off from inside the crease 19.5 Mills to Sohail , no run , angles this one across off , Sohail pushes it towards cover 19.4 Mills to Sohail , FOUR , that 's a great shot from Sohail , it was slightly shortish and a little wide outside off , Sohail waits in the crease and cuts it to the sweeper cover fence 19.3 Mills to Sohail , no run , slightly back of a length and on the stumps , Sohail defends from the crease 19.2 Mills to Misbah , 1 run , just short of a good length and around off , Misbah pushes it in front of cover and sets off for a single , Nathan McCullum comes charging in and under-arms the throw at the striker 's end , he hits the stumps , but the batsman was well in 19.1 Mills to Misbah , no run , on a good length and outside off , Misbah defends it into the off-side 18.6 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , 2 runs , darted on middle and leg , Sohail works it behind square for a quick single , the fielder runs forward and fires in the throw at the striker 's end and Ronchi could n't stop it , the batsmen take an extra run on the overthrow 18.5 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , quicker one on middle stump line , Misbah clips it towards mid-wicket for a single 18.4 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , flatter on the stumps , Misbah punches it to the right of the bowler 18.3 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , SIX , tossed up this time , Misbah reaches to the pitch of the ball and launches it over the deep mid-wicket fence for the first maximum of the game 18.2 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , quicker one from McCullum , Misbah fails to work it into the on-side , he wears it on his pad 18.1 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , 1 run , pushed through on leg , Sohail turns it towards square leg and gets to the other end 17.6 Mills to Misbah , no run , slightly back of a length outside off , Misbah stays back and dabs it towards backward point after opening the face of the bat 17.5 Mills to Misbah , no run , on a good length and on off and middle , Misbah moves across and wrists it into the leg-side 17.4 Mills to Sohail , 1 run , on middle and leg , Sohail hangs back and works it in front of mid-on , the batsmen pinch in a quick run 17.3 Mills to Sohail , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Sohail comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 17.2 Mills to Sohail , no run , just short of a good length and angled across the batsman , Sohail stays inside the crease and defends it towards cover 17.1 Mills to Sohail , no run , bit straighter in line and was a back of a length delivery , Sohail turns it into the on-side 16.6 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , 1 run , drifting on middle stump line , Sohail eases it past the non-striker , where Nathan McCullum dives and tries to stop the ball , he also takes out the batsman at the non-striker 's end , but the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away towards long-on 16.5 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Sohail bunts it to the right of the bowler 16.4 Nathan McCullum to Sohail , no run , pushed through on off , Sohail defends it back towards the bowler 16.3 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , darted on leg , Misbah tucks it away behind square and sets off for a single , makes it to the other end with ease 16.2 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , on middle and leg stump line , Misbah turns it towards mid-wicket and was looking for a single , but the fielder quickly gets across and prevents the single 16.1 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , floated up on off , Misbah pushes it to cover Nathan McCullum , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Nathan McCullum will start from round the wicket 15.6 Mills to Sohail , FOUR , just short of a good length and angling away outside off , Sohail pushes at it with laden feet , the ball takes the outside edge and bounces just short of Taylor at first slip , who was diving to his left as well. It runs away to the fence in no time and the fielder at third man had no chance of cutting that off 15.5 Mills to Sohail , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sohail gets behind the line and bunts it past the non-striker , the mid-off fielder gets around and fields it 15.5 Mills to Sohail , wide , bowls this one well wide outside off , the umpire exercises his arms 15.4 Mills to Sohail , no run , on a good length and outside off , Sohail pushes at it , the ball rolls away towards point off the outside half of the bat 15.3 Mills to Sohail , no run , almost a yorker just outside off , Sohail digs it out and hits the stumps at the non-striker 's end , the batsmen could n't take a single because of that 15.2 Mills to Sohail , 2 runs , bangs this one short and around off , Sohail pulls it wide of mid-on for a brace , he did n't time it that well and was hurried into the pull A slip and a gully in place for Mills 15.1 Mills to Sohail , no run , angles this one away outside off , Sohail shoulders arms Drinks are on the field now 14.6 Milne to Misbah , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Misbah blocks it to the off-side 14.5 Milne to Misbah , no run , short delivery outside off , Misbah sways away from the line 14.4 Milne to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Misbah shoulders arms 14.3 Milne to Misbah , 2 runs , short of length delivery on middle , Misbah goes back and nudges it to square leg , the fielder from mid-wicket comes across and has a direct hit at the striker 's end , the batsmen sneak in an extra run as the ball ricochets off the stumps towards backward point 14.2 Milne to Sohail , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Sohail jumps inside the crease and dabs it to square third man 14.1 Milne to Sohail , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sohail goes back and defends it to cover 13.6 Mills to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Misbah leans forward and knocks it to point 13.5 Mills to Misbah , no run , on a length outside off , Misbah gets forward and lets the ball go through to the keeper 13.4 Mills to Misbah , no run , good length delivery outside off , Misbah lifts his bat and lets it go 13.3 Mills to Misbah , no run , length delivery just outside off , Misbah presses forward and pushes it to backward point 13.2 Mills to Sohail , 1 run , good length delivery just outside off , Sohail gets forward and looks to drive , gets an outside edge to squarish third man for a run 13.1 Mills to Sohail , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sohail goes back and defends it to the off-side 12.6 Milne to Misbah , FOUR , good length delivery just outside off , Misbah leans forward and creams the cover drive to perfection for a boundary 12.5 Milne to Misbah , no run , on a length in the channel outside off , Misbah comes on the front foot , opens the face of the bat and guides it towards third man , Guptill dives across from backward point and saves a single 12.4 Milne to Misbah , no run , boucner at the batsman , Misbah ducks under it 12.3 Milne to Misbah , no run , good length delivery on off , Misbah presses forward and defends it to the off-side 12.2 Milne to Misbah , no run , fullish and around off , Misbah gets well forward and blocks it to cover 12.1 Milne to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Misbah leans forward and defends it to the off-side 11.6 Mills to Sohail , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Sohail pokes at it and misses 11.5 Mills to Sohail , FOUR , fuller length delivery wide outside off , Sohail drives it without much feet movement to the sweeper cover fence 11.4 Mills to Sohail , no run , good length delivery outside off , Sohail leaves it alone 11.3 Mills to Sohail , no run , bouncer just outside off , Sohail sways away from the line and lets it go Haris Sohail , left handed bat , comes to the crease 11.2 Mills to Younis Khan , out Lbw ! ! Pakistan are in all sorts of trouble here. This was a fuller length delivery angling into the right-hander , Younis comes on the front foot and looks to flick it to the on-side but misses , the ball hits him below the knee roll in front of middle and leg. The umpire raised his finger immediately. Younis had a chat with Misbah and decided to review , but Hawk-Eye suggested that the ball would have crashed into the leg-stump and Pakistan lose their only review. Younis Khan lbw b Mills 9 ( 26 ) [ 4s-1 ] Mills to Younis Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Younis has been given out LBW , but he has reviewed it. Mills ' front foot is fine , there 's no mark on the Hot-Spot which means there is no inside edge , umpire 's call says Hawk-Eye , Younis has to go 11.1 Mills to Younis Khan , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Younis defends it to the off-side Kyle Mills [ 4.0-2-9-1 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Milne to Younis Khan , 1 run , fuller length delivery shaping away a touch on off , Younis comes forward and drives it between mid-off and extra cover , Baz runs across from mid-off , dives forward and flicks it with one hand to Nathan 10.5 Milne to Younis Khan , no run , fullish in length on off , Younis gets forward and drives it again to mid-off 10.4 Milne to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Younis leans forward and drives it to mid-off 10.3 Milne to Younis Khan , no run , bouncer just outside off , Younis sways away from the line and lets the ball go to the keeper 10.2 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Misbah presses forward and defends it , the ball dribbles towards backward square leg as the batsmen sneak in a quick single 10.1 Milne to Misbah , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Misbah comes forward and defends it to mid-wicket 9.6 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Younis jumps inside and punches it to cover 9.5 Boult to Misbah , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Misbah opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man to get off the mark 9.4 Boult to Misbah , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Misbah jumps inside the crease and defends it to the off-side Misbah-ul-Haq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! Pakistan have lost both their openers now for just 29 on the board. This was a full delivery wide outside off , Shehzad makes room , comes down the track and reaches for it , gets an outside edge which is snaffled up by Ronchi. Ahmed Shehzad c Ronchi b Boult 15 ( 34 ) [ 4s-2 ] Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.2 Boult to Younis Khan , 1 run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Younis leans forward and looks to drive , gets an inside edge which rolls towards short fine leg 9.1 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , good length delivery around off , Younis comes forward and defends it to cover 8.6 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Shehzad looks to cut again and misses 8.5 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , play and a miss for the third time in a row. This was a back of a length delivery outside off , Shehzad hangs back and looks to cut and gets beaten for pace 8.4 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish in length and outside off , Shehzad leans forward and looks to drive but misses 8.3 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Shehzad looks to run it down to third man , but could n't get bat on it 8.2 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Shehzad pushes it to the on-side 8.1 Milne to Younis Khan , 1 run , fullish and around off , Younis leans forward and drives it to mid-off and completes a quick single 8.1 Milne to Younis Khan , wide , fuller length delivery very wide outside off , Younis chases but could n't connect , wide signalled by the umpire 8.1 Milne to Younis Khan , wide , good length delivery slid down the leg-side , wide called by the ump Adam Milne , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 7.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Shehzad has a poke at it and misses 7.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , back of a length delivery just outside off , Shehzad stands tall and punches it to deep extra cover , Baz from mid-off chases and stops the ball from reaching the fence 7.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , short of length delivery just outside off , Shehzad camps on the back foot and punches it in the gap between cover and point for back-to-back boundaries 7.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , fuller length delivery outside off , Shehzad comes on the front foot and drives it superbly to the sweeper cover fence for a boundary 7.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery on off , Shehzad defends it back to the bowler 7.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery around off , Shehzad goes back and defends it to the off-side 6.6 Mills to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length outside off stump , Younis looks to cut but chops it into the off-side 6.5 Mills to Younis Khan , no run , softly defends this good length ball 6.4 Mills to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length , blocked from the crease 6.3 Mills to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , full toss on middle , Shehzad slaps it wide of mid-on and sets off for a quick single , the fielder quickly comes across and has shy at the bowler 's end but misses. Shehzad would have been in trouble if it was a direct-hit as he did not ground his bat 6.3 Mills to Younis Khan , no ball , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Younis stays inside the crease and cuts it hard in the air towards square third man , where Milne takes a low catch , but the umpire wanted to check Mills ' front foot , replays suggest that Mills had overstepped , Younis survives 6.2 Mills to Younis Khan , FOUR , fuller length delivery outside off , Younis leans forward and drives it brilliantly through the cover for the first boundary of the match 6.1 Mills to Younis Khan , no run , length delivery around off , Younis comes on the front foot and pushes it to mid-on 5.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Shehzad goes back and defends it to the off-side 5.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery just outside off , Shehzad comes forward and drives it to cover 5.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of good length delivery outside off , Shehzad lifts his bat and lets it go 5.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , fullish again outside off , Shehzad leans forward and slices the drive just over the backward point fielder , Anderson from third man comes across , puts in a dive and saves two runs for his side 5.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery outside off , Shehzad gets his front foot forward and shoulders arms 5.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shehzad is happy to let it go 4.6 Mills to Younis Khan , no run , short of good length on off , Younis stays inside the crease and blocks it to the off-side 4.5 Mills to Younis Khan , no run , fullish and outside off , Younis gets forward and taps it to point 4.4 Mills to Younis Khan , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Younis goes on the back foot and blocks it to cover 4.3 Mills to Ahmed Shehzad , leg byes , 1 run , fuller in length on the pads , Shehzad leans forward and misses the flick , the ball goes off the pads to square leg 4.2 Mills to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fullish again and swinging away from just outside off , Shehzad gets forward and drives it to cover 4.1 Mills to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery shaping away a touch on off , Shehzad looks to defend off the front foot , the ball goes off the outside half of the bat to point 3.6 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , back of length much closer to off , Younis defends it to the off-side 3.5 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , good length delivery angling away from the right-hander , Younis lifts his bat and lets it go 3.4 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , short of good length delivery around off , Younis goes back and defends it to point 3.3 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Younis gets well forward and leaves it alone 3.2 Boult to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Younis shoulders arms 3.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Shehzad punches it to cover 2.6 Mills to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , run-out chance missed ! Length delivery on off and shaping away , Shehzad presses forward and drives it down the ground , Mills gets his foot to it and deflects it towards mid-on , where Anderson comes across , puts in the dive and stops the ball , he has a shy at the non-striker 's end but misses , if he had hit , Shehzad was a goner as he was only halfway down the track. Anderson had a lot of time to throw it , but he threw it very quickly and Shehzad survives 2.5 Mills to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of good length ball outside off , Shehzad is happy to leave it alone 2.4 Mills to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and shaping away just outside off , Shehzad comes forward and blocks it to cover 2.3 Mills to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , length delivery outside off , Shehzad shoulders arms 2.2 Mills to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery on off , Shehzad gets forward and defends 2.1 Mills to Younis Khan , 1 run , good length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Younis comes forward to defend , gets an outside edge which flies past the diving second slip fielder to third man for a run 1.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a length and outside off , Shehzad lifts his bat and lets it go 1.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , another delivery down the leg-side , wide called 1.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Shehzad leans forward and drives it to mid-off 1.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , length delivery swinging down the leg-side , Shehzad misses the glance , wided by the ump 1.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery outside off , Shehzad lifts his bat and lets it go 1.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a length outside off , Shehzad lets it go to the keeper 1.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Shehzad comes forward and watches the ball go through to the keeper 1.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , good length delivery angling away from the right-hander , Shehzad is happy to let that go Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Mills to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Younis leans forward and defends it to the off-side Younis Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.5 Mills to Hafeez , out Bowled ! ! Brilliantly set up by Mills. This was a good length delivery which holds its line , Hafeez comes on the front foot and looks to defend , he was playing for the outswinger , but the ball jags back in slightly , sneaks through the bat-pad gap and hits the top of off. Great start for New Zealand. Hafeez b Mills 0 ( 5 ) Mills to Hafeez , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 0.4 Mills to Hafeez , no run , on a length just outside off , Hafeez comes forward and lets it go through to the keeper 0.3 Mills to Hafeez , no run , good length delivery much closer to off , Hafeez leaves it alone 0.2 Mills to Hafeez , no run , good length delivery swinging away a touch from outside off , Hafeez shoulders arms 0.1 Mills to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery shaping away outside off , Hafeez lifts his bat and lets it go Hafeez and Ahmed Shehzad are at the crease. Hafeez is on strike. Mills will open the attack The Pakistani openers Hafeez and Shehzad are in the middle , Hafeez will be on strike. Kyle Mills will start the proceedings for New Zealand with two slips in place.. . Bilawal Bhatti and Ehsan Adil return for Pakistan Teams : Pakistan ( Playing XI ) : Mohammad Hafeez , Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Umar Akmal , Haris Sohail , Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Shahid Afridi , Bilawal Bhatti , Ehsan Adil , Mohammad Irfan No news on the Pakistan playing eleven yet . New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Tom Latham , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Nathan McCullum , Kyle Mills , Trent Boult , Adam Milne Vettori , Southee and McClenaghan have been rested for this game , Williamson misses out due to a sore shoulder. Brendon McCullum , Nathan McCullum , Trent Boult and Adam Milne are back in the playing eleven . New Zealand have won the toss and have opted to field In the final game of the series against Sri Lanka , Brendon McCullum was rested and Kane Williamson lead the side in his absence. McCullum is back for this ODI and so should be Adam Milne , who was out with a side strain. Toss and teams coming up in a short while. Stay tuned . The Pakistani team lost both their warm-up games prior to this game. It will be interesting to see how they cope up with this confident Black Caps side as the build-up for the World Cup continues . Coming back to the form of both teams , New Zealand are coming here after beating Sri Lanka 4-2 in a 7-match series , where one game was washed out. Pakistan have not played any international cricket after both these teams played each other in the UAE last month . The last time these two sides met in an ODI series , in December 2014 , it was a very close affair. New Zealand might have won the ODI series 3-2 , but Pakistan were not completely outplayed. Hello and welcome to the first ODI match between New Zealand and Pakistan that is being played at Wellington . Teams : Pakistan ( From ) : Mohammad Hafeez , Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Umar Akmal , Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Shahid Afridi , Bilawal Bhatti , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Mohammad Irfan , Haris Sohail , Ehsan Adil , Yasir Shah , Sohaib Maqsood New Zealand ( From ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Tim Southee , Kyle Mills , Trent Boult , Mitchell McClenaghan , Tom Latham , Nathan McCullum , Adam Milne Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
