Graphs That 's it from this game. We are 10 days away from the World Cup and the only other cricketing action are the warm-up games. Do join us for the first match between India and Australia on February 8. Until next time , take care and Cya ! Due to some technical issues , we could not bring you the post-match presentation . Kane Williamson is the Man of the Match for his 88-ball 112 It was a disciplined bowling performance by the hosts. Even though they did n't strike early , the spin duo of Vettori and Nathan McCullum put the brakes on scoring in the middle overs and put the pressure back on Pakistan. Once they gave the opening , the fast bowlers came back well and rolled them over for 250. Stay tuned for the captain comments.. . Another comprehensive victory for New Zealand. Pakistan started off well through Shehzad and Hafeez , who added 111 runs for the opening stand. Both batsmen got to their respective fifties before the former threw it away. Hafeez kept going , but the climbing run-rate got the better off him. Misbah came out with an attacking mindset , but did n't get any support from the other end. None of the other Pakistani batsmen tried to play themselves in as they all fell while looking for runs . 43.1 Boult to Ehsan Adil , out Caught by Ronchi ! ! All over ! New Zealand clinch the series 2-0 ! Boult among the wickets as well , its his first of the game. Comes round the sticks , keeps it full and around off , Adil swings hard and gets a thick outside edge , Ronchi behind the stumps does the rest. Ehsan Adil c Ronchi b Boult 1 ( 2 ) Boult to Ehsan Adil , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.6 Southee to Irfan , no run , fuller and on off , Irfan knocks it back to the bowler 42.5 Southee to Irfan , no run , Southee goes up for an lbw , but umpire Tucker is not interested. Full and tailing in , Irfan stays on leg-stump and fails to dig it out , is rapped on the pads , but it was heading down leg Mohammad Irfan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.4 Southee to Misbah , out Caught by Ross Taylor ! ! Southee takes the second wicket of the over ! Misbah 's vigilance comes to an end. He was always troubled by the short delivery and finally succumbs to one. Short and hurries onto the batsman , Misbah goes back and mistimes the pull to square leg , Taylor runs forward and collects it. Misbah c Ross Taylor b Southee 45 ( 51 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Southee to Misbah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.3 Southee to Ehsan Adil , 1 run , fullish and on off , Adil stays in the crease and looks to defend , the ball squirts off the inside half to mid-wicket 42.3 Southee to Ehsan Adil , wide , drifts it well down leg , too far for Adil to reach Ehsan Adil , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.2 Southee to Bhatti , out Caught by Guptill ! ! Southee picks up his first wicket ! Pakistan lose their eight wicket. Banged in halfway down the wicket , Bhatti goes for the pull , the ball hits the splice of the bat and lobs to cover , where Guptill takes a simple catch. Bhatti c Guptill b Southee 9 ( 11 ) [ 4s-1 ] Southee to Bhatti , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.2 Southee to Bhatti , wide , splays it down leg , Bhatti ca n't lay bat on that , wide called 42.1 Southee to Bhatti , FOUR , top shot ! Length delivery close to off , Bhatti clears his front foot , lifts it over mid-on , he got enough wood on that for the ball to race away to the fence Tim Southee [ 7.0-0-45-0 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Boult to Bhatti , 1 run , cramps the batsman for room , Bhatti backs away and knocks it in front of cover for a sharp single 41.5 Boult to Misbah , 1 run , off-speed delivery on off , Misbah mistimes the pull towards long-on 41.4 Boult to Misbah , no run , another well directed yorker , Misbah jams it back to the bowler 41.3 Boult to Bhatti , 1 run , digs it in short and around off , Bhatti rocks back and pulls it to deep square leg. He was in complete control of the shot 41.2 Boult to Bhatti , 2 runs , full and angling in , Bhatti leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 41.1 Boult to Bhatti , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Bhatti wants to steer it to third man , but the ball is a bit too close to his body 40.6 Elliott to Misbah , SIX , fantastic shot ! It was another slower one from Elliott , Misbah was slightly early into the shot , but delayed his shot and whacked it straight down the ground for a maximum 40.5 Elliott to Misbah , no run , the split finger slower one , Misbah was almost deceived , but does well to push it to cover 40.4 Elliott to Misbah , 2 runs , fullish and on middle , Misbah clears his front leg , whips it wide of deep mid-wicket for a double 40.3 Elliott to Misbah , no run , in the blockhole , Misbah ca n't do much other than squeeze it to cover 40.2 Elliott to Bhatti , 1 run , 90kph slower delivery , Bhatti had to wait and wait before mistiming the pull to deep mid-wicket 40.1 Elliott to Misbah , 1 run , full toss on off and middle , Misbah drills it to long-on 39.6 Boult to Bhatti , no run , pitched up close to off , Bhatti drives it back to the bowler 39.5 Boult to Bhatti , no run , short of length on off , Bhatti rides the bounce and taps it to point 39.4 Boult to Bhatti , no run , shortens the length outside off , Bhatti flashes a cut and fails to make contact 39.3 Boult to Misbah , 1 run , yorker slanted in on the stumps , Misbah squeezes it to cover-point 39.2 Boult to Misbah , no run , takes the pace off the ball , the ball does not bounce much as Misbah fails to connect with the cut 39.1 Boult to Misbah , no run , starts from round the wicket , bowls a full toss just outside off , Misbah drives and picks out extra cover Trent Boult [ 6.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Elliott to Bhatti , no run , fuller and around off , Bhatti push-drives it to mid-off Bilawal Bhatti , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.5 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , out Caught by Brendon McCullum ! ! Elliott 's knack of picking wickets continues. It was the slower delivery outside off , Sarfraz is deceived by the lack of pace , lobs a simple catch to Baz at mid-off. It was a half tracker and Sarfraz tried to swipe it through the line. Sarfraz Ahmed c Brendon McCullum b Elliott 13 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.4 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , once again hits it back to Elliott , this time he is not happy with himself , flat-bats it straight back at Elliott 38.3 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , back of a length on off , Sarfraz punches it back to the bowler 38.2 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , full delivery on off , Sarfraz works it between deep mid-wicket and long-on for a brace 38.1 Elliott to Misbah , 1 run , nice floaty delivery on off , Misbah mishits the slog sweep to deep square leg 37.6 Milne to Sarfraz Ahmed , FOUR , fuller and just outside off , Sarfraz uses the pace on the ball and glides it to third man , the fielder was inside the ring and the ball was well wide of him 37.5 Milne to Sarfraz Ahmed , no run , lifter around off , Sarfraz gets his head out of the line and lets it pass 37.4 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , shortens the length just outside off , Misbah mistimes the cut behind square on the off-side 37.3 Milne to Misbah , no run , bumper around off , Misbah sways away from the line of the delivery 37.2 Milne to Misbah , no run , full delivery just outside off , Misbah drills it in the air just short of extra cover fielder Free-hit coming up ! 37.2 Milne to Misbah , no ball , 2 runs , Milne oversteps , a big one that too , bowls it full and on the stumps , Misbah squeezes it towards mid-wicket , the fielder has a shy at the striker 's end , he concedes an extra run. There would have been a run-out as Misbah had to stretch in to complete the second run 37.1 Milne to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , short of length on off , Sarfraz tucks it to the vacant mid-wicket region for a single 36.6 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , fullish and on off , Sarfraz presses forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 36.5 Elliott to Misbah , 1 run , follows the batsman who gives himself some room , ends up bowling a full toss , Misbah tucks it to deep square leg 36.4 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , change of pace once again , nudges it to deep mid-wicket 36.3 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 2 runs , short of length on off , Sarfraz hangs back and works it with soft hands in between deep mid-wicket and long-on for a couple 36.2 Elliott to Misbah , 1 run , another off-speed delivery , Misbah leans forward and clips it to backward square leg 36.1 Elliott to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , slower delivery on middle and leg , nurdled away behind square for a single Grant Elliott [ 1.0-0-15-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Milne to Sarfraz Ahmed , 1 run , back of a length on off , Sarfraz stays back and chops it in front of point , Misbah calls him for a brisk single 35.5 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , short of length around off , Misbah glides it with an angled bat to third man Sarfraz Ahmed , right handed bat , comes to the crease 35.4 Milne to Sohail , out Caught by Brendon McCullum ! ! Another batsman falls trying to accelerate. The growing required run-rate is getting the better off the Pakistani batsmen. On a length just outside off , Sohail looks to lift it over extra cover with laden feet , balloons it towards mid-off , Baz runs to his right and takes it calmly. Sohail c Brendon McCullum b Milne 6 ( 6 ) [ 4s-1 ] Milne to Sohail , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 35.3 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , inswinging yorker at 145kph , it was aimed at the base of middle stump , Misbah digs it out to deep backward square leg 35.2 Milne to Misbah , FOUR , Milne misses the yorker , dishes out a full delivery outside off , Misbah opens the bat face and slices it in the air to the right of backward point , the ball raced away to the fence 35.1 Milne to Misbah , no run , yorker just outside off , Misbah squeezes it to backward point The batting powerplay produced 34 runs and also 3 big wickets of Hafeez , Afridi and Akmal . 34.6 Vettori to Sohail , no run , pushed through just outside off , Sohail goes back and misses out on the cut. Another fine night with the ball for Vettori , he ends with figures of : 10-0-41-1 34.5 Vettori to Sohail , FOUR , lovely shot ! Gives this bit more air , Sohail comes forward and lofts it with the turn over mid-wicket , Elliott tries to cut across , but his effort goes in vain 34.4 Vettori to Misbah , 1 run , quicker , fuller and on the stumps , Misbah clears his front leg , mistimes the heave to mid-wicket 34.3 Vettori to Misbah , no run , skids on after pitching , Misbah backs away slightly and chops it towards point 34.2 Vettori to Sohail , 1 run , flighted on off and middle , Sohail nurdles it behind square for a single 34.1 Vettori to Sohail , no run , flatter and on off , Sohail punches it back to the bowler 33.6 Milne to Sohail , 1 run , full and drifting onto Sohail 's pads , clipped away to deep backward square leg Haris Sohail , left handed bat , comes to the crease 33.5 Milne to U Akmal , out Bowled ! ! Pakistan are falling apart here ! It was the cross-seam delivery bowled at 148kph , Akmal kneels down , looks to slog it towards cow corner , gets an under edge that crashes into the off-stump. It is the third wicket in the batting powerplay. U Akmal b Milne 4 ( 2 ) [ 4s-1 ] Milne to U Akmal , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 33.4 Milne to U Akmal , FOUR , first ball , short and Akmal takes it on. He fetches it from outside off and pulls it over mid-on , Vettori and Baz give chase , but the ball beats them 33.3 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , he is cranking it up here , this was a 147kph short of length delivery , Misbah rides the bounce and steers it to third man 33.2 Milne to Misbah , no run , 145kph short delivery , Misbah pulls and finds the square leg fielder 33.2 Milne to Misbah , wide , sprays it well wide of off , wided by the umpire 33.1 Milne to Misbah , no run , banged in short and at the body , Misbah pulls it to square leg , the ball hurried onto him , hence foiling the timing 32.6 Vettori to Misbah , 1 run , tossed up on off , Misbah eases it along the ground to long-off 32.5 Vettori to Misbah , no run , flighted on off , Misbah drops it wide of cover , looks for a single but Akmal sends him back Umar Akmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease Time for a drinks break. The match was set-up nicely before the start of the batting powerplay , but the wickets of Hafeez and Afridi might have just taken the game away from Pakistan . 32.4 Vettori to Afridi , out Caught by Elliott ! ! Top class bowling from Vettori ! He varied it in this over , did n't give Afridi any freebies and the pressure got the better off the batsman. Tosses it up outside off , Afridi moves away to the leg-side after skipping down the track , goes inside out , does n't middle it and skies it towards sweeper cover , where Elliott holds onto a nice catch. Afridi c Elliott b Vettori 11 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 ] Vettori to Afridi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 32.3 Vettori to Afridi , no run , once again darts it in on the leg-stump , Afridi was backing away , he ca n't get underneath that and jams it to the right of the bowler 32.2 Vettori to Afridi , no run , fires it in just outside off at 99kph , Afridi backs away and fails to squeeze it , good take by Ronchi 32.1 Vettori to Afridi , no run , arm-ball around off , Afridi pushes it back to the bowler Daniel Vettori [ 8.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Milne to Misbah , no run , Misbah plays a crisp looking drive , but picks out the fielder at mid-off , no chance for a single 31.5 Milne to Afridi , 1 run , 149kph delivery targeting the stumps , Afridi makes room and manages to chop it to the right of the keeper , he was hurried there 31.4 Milne to Afridi , 2 runs , fullish and just outside off , Afridi slices it off the outer half over backward point , the fielder at third man mopes around 31.4 Milne to Afridi , wide , bouncer around off , it is too short and too high , Afridi does not bother with it , wided for height 31.3 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , banged in short at 146kph , Misbah pulls it in front of square leg , he was not in control of that shot 31.2 Milne to Misbah , no run , yorker just outside off , Misbah fails to get bat on that. This is terrific bowling from Milne , bowled it at 145kph 31.1 Milne to Misbah , no run , pitched up just outside off , Misbah pokes at it feebly , the ball zips past the outside edge 30.6 Elliott to Afridi , 2 runs , full and bit too straight , Afridi flicks it through mid-wicket , calls for two and gets the required response from his skipper 30.5 Elliott to Afridi , FOUR , Afridi has made his intentions clear , backs away to the leg-side and hammers this through the packed off-side field , there was no guarding the fence on the off-side 30.4 Elliott to Afridi , 2 runs , no sighters for Afridi , he spots the slower delivery and helps it over backward square , Vettori tracks back and tries to take the catch , but the ball eludes his effort , he then throws the ball at the striker 's end , hits direct but the TV umpire was not called in. That was close as Afridi did n't ground his bat , he plonked it in. That would have looked bad if he had been out 30.3 Elliott to Misbah , 1 run , fullish and on the stumps , Misbah clips it to deep mid-wicket Shahid Afridi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 30.2 Elliott to Hafeez , out Caught by Milne ! ! The batting powerplay claims its first victim. Hafeez goes after playing a fine innings. He tries to repeat the previous shot , gets plenty of airtime than the distance , Milne runs forward and completes an easy catch. Elliott once again provides the vital breakthrough for New Zealand. Hafeez c Milne b Elliott 86 ( 89 ) [ 4s-5 6s-3 ] Elliott to Hafeez , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 30.1 Elliott to Hafeez , SIX , starts with a slower one , off-cutter on off , Hafeez bends his knee and heaves it off the top-edge over backward square , Milne did n't time his jump as he got a hand to it , had he leaped at the right time , he could have caught that. Nonetheless , Hafeez collects six Grant Elliott , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Pakistan have taken the batting powerplay ! This is will be interesting. Elliott is brought in to bowl the difficult overs. Ronchi comes up to the stumps. There is no one on the rope on the off-side. . 29.6 Milne to Misbah , no run , tucks the batsman for room with this nip-backer , Misbah stays in the crease and bunts it to cover 29.5 Milne to Hafeez , 1 run , banged in halfway down the turf , Hafeez jumps up and glides it to third man. It was in the air but well short of the fielder 29.4 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Misbah stands tall and guides it to third man 29.3 Milne to Hafeez , 1 run , Milne saves three runs , fuller and around off , Hafeez drills it hard and to the left of the bowler , Milne bends down and gets a hand to it , hence taking the pace off the ball 29.2 Milne to Misbah , 1 run , 140kph short and wide delivery , Misbah cuts it to the right of third man 29.1 Milne to Hafeez , 1 run , too full and just outside off , Hafeez opens the bat face and drives it square of the wicket Adam Milne [ 3.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack The physio is out tending to Hafeez , who looks to have some problem with his feet. It could be cramps as well as Hafeez has been batting for a long time now . 28.6 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , flighted outside off , Hafeez drives it to sweeper cover for a single 28.5 Vettori to Misbah , 1 run , fired in on leg-stump , Misbah clips it to deep mid-wicket 28.4 Vettori to Misbah , 2 runs , quicker and on the stumps , Misbah plays it with soft hands in front of long-on , calls for two and gets it easily 28.3 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , flatter and close to off , Hafeez punches it to deep backward point 28.2 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , slider on middle , Hafeez knocks it to the right of Vettori 28.1 Vettori to Hafeez , 2 runs , nice use of the feet , Hafeez shimmies down the track and caresses the drive between deep extra cover and long-off , Boult runs across from long-off , slides and saves two runs for the team 27.6 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , high full toss , it might have been the attempted yorker , Hafeez works it to the right of mid-on and calls for a quick single 27.5 Southee to Misbah , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Misbah leans into the drive , places it wide of mid-off 27.4 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , change of pace , the back of the hand slower delivery , Hafeez spots it well and nudges it past mid-wicket 27.3 Southee to Misbah , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the pitch , Misbah awkwardly pulls it to square leg. The ball hit the splice of the bat 27.2 Southee to Misbah , no run , good comeback from Southee , keeps it in the corridor of uncertainty , Misbah pokes at it and the ball holds its line to beat the outside edge 27.1 Southee to Misbah , FOUR , fabulous shot ! It was a length delivery in the slot , Misbah clears his front leg and tonks it straight back over Southee 's head. Even though he did n't middle it , the ball scooted away to the fence 26.6 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , comes down the track and knocks it back to the bowler 26.5 Vettori to Misbah , 1 run , stays back and nurdles it behind square on the leg-side 26.4 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , arm-ball that drifts back in , Hafeez just about manages to bring his bat down and chop it towards point 26.3 Vettori to Hafeez , FOUR , drops it short and on leg-stump , poor delivery from Vettori considering the fielder at backward square was inside the circle , Hafeez goes back and pulls it between the two fielders 26.2 Vettori to Misbah , 1 run , fraction short and just outside off , Misbah eases it to sweeper cover 26.1 Vettori to Misbah , no run , flighted around off , Misbah pushes it to the left of the bowler Daniel Vettori [ 6.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Southee to Hafeez , no run , shortens the length around off , Hafeez goes back and across , defends to the off-side 25.5 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length on off , Hafeez knocks it to cover 25.4 Southee to Misbah , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Misbah takes a step forward and slices it towards sweeper cover , it lands just in front of the fielder 25.3 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Hafeez drills the drive to sweeper cover , it went to the fielder in no time 25.2 Southee to Hafeez , FOUR , banged in halfway down the wicket , Hafeez is onto it in a flash , he transfers his weight back and pulls it in front of square. The ball raced away to the fence 25.1 Southee to Misbah , 1 run , almost dragged on ! It was tad short and around off , Misbah looks to steer with an angled bat , the ball takes the inside edge and goes past leg-stump. That was not far away 24.6 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , McCullum comes from round the wicket and tosses one on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 24.5 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , 1 run , Hafeez gets a good stride forward and drives a well flighted delivery towards deep cover 24.4 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , 1 run , tossed up and on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 24.3 Nathan McCullum to Misbah , no run , Misbah stays back to a well flighted delivery and nudges it towards the on-side Misbah-ul-Haq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.2 Nathan McCullum to Younis Khan , out Caught by Southee ! ! McCullum strikes for the second time ! This was tossed up slower and on the off-stump channel , Younis went for the big swipe across the line , does n't get hold of the shot. Southee runs across from long-on , keeps his eyes on the ball and pulls out a blinder. Younis Khan c Southee b Nathan McCullum 11 ( 14 ) [ 4s-1 ] Nathan McCullum to Younis Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 24.1 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , 1 run , flighted and just outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 23.6 Southee to Younis Khan , no run , pitched up and in that channel outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 23.5 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven to the left of mid-off for a single 23.4 Southee to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Hafeez closes the face of the bat and drives it back towards the bowler , it was in the air for a while but goes to the bowler on the bounce 23.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven without any timing , the ball rolls away towards cover 23.2 Southee to Younis Khan , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Younis swivels across on the pull and gets a single to deep mid-wicket 23.1 Southee to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with an angled bat towards point Tim Southee [ 4.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Nathan McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-on for a single 22.5 Nathan McCullum to Younis Khan , no run , McCullum slows one on middle , turned towards mid-wicket , Younis wanted a single but Hafeez spots the danger and sends him back 22.4 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , 1 run , tossed up and just outside off , dabbed away with an open face towards point McCullum changes to round the wicket 22.3 Nathan McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , worked past square leg for a single 22.2 Nathan McCullum to Younis Khan , FOUR , that 's nicely played , fraction shorter and wider outside off , Younis backs away and cuts it square on the off-side , beats cover and races away to the fence 22.1 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , 1 run , full toss from McCullum , punched down towards long-on for a single 21.6 Vettori to Younis Khan , 2 runs , tad shorter and wider outside off , Younis makes room and cuts it square on the off-side , back for the second run 21.5 Vettori to Younis Khan , no run , pushed through by Vettori , nudged away straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 21.4 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , slower and wider from Vettori , punched down towards long-off for a single 21.3 Vettori to Younis Khan , 1 run , tossed up and on Younis ' pads , worked past mid-wicket for a single 21.2 Vettori to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Younis gets forward and drives it to the right of cover , the fielder makes a tumbling stop 21.1 Vettori to Younis Khan , no run , flighted and just outside off , Younis prods forward in defence 20.6 Nathan McCullum to Younis Khan , 1 run , McCullum tosses one on off , whipped away past mid-wicket for a single 20.5 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , 3 runs , pushed through flatter and quicker , Hafeez uses the width and chops it past short third man , Williamson gives a good chase and drags the ball in front of the ropes , saves a run for his team 20.4 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Hafeez reaches out and pushes it towards cover Younis Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 20.3 Nathan McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , out Caught by Milne ! ! Pakistan have lost their opening wicket ! Shehzad falls after a good hand , McCullum saw him coming down the track , slows down the pace and drops it wider , Shehzad ended up slogging across the line , he does n't get the desired distance or elevation. Simple catch to Milne at deep mid-wicket. Good comeback from McCullum after an expensive first over. Ahmed Shehzad c Milne b Nathan McCullum 55 ( 62 ) [ 4s-8 ] Nathan McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 20.2 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , 1 run , flighted and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 20.1 Nathan McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Shehzad will feel disappointed at not having made the most of the full-toss , heaved away towards mid-wicket for a single 19.6 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , that was very close ! This was drifted flatter and quicker by Vettori , Hafeez was looking to pull and missed , the ball bounces over the top of the stumps 19.5 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , pushed through by Vettori , worked in front of long-on for a single 19.4 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler 19.3 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , Vettori tosses one outside off , punched down towards long-off for a single 19.2 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , flatter and well outside off , Shehzad makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 19.1 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , full and well outside off , Shehzad goes down on his knees and misses the sweep Daniel Vettori [ 4.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , no run , the sweep from Hafeez , does n't get on the top of the bounce and gets an inside edge on the sweep , the ball rolls away towards short fine leg 18.5 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , no run , Hafeez almost yorked himself as he came down the track , does well to get his bat down in time and jams it out 18.4 Nathan McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , slower and on off , worked towards long-on for a single 18.3 Nathan McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up and on off , driven towards mid-off 18.2 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , 1 run , 23rd ODI fifty for Hafeez , 2nd fifty plus score against NZ , nudges a length ball behind square on the on-side 18.1 Nathan McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Shehzad comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch of the ball and slices it to the left of point for a single Drinks are on the field now. This has been a solid start from Pakistan , but they have a long way to go still . 17.6 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , 10th ODI fifty for Shehzad , 2nd fifty plus score against NZ , short of a length and well outside off , steered away square on the off-side for a single 17.5 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at short extra cover 17.4 Milne to Hafeez , leg byes , 1 run , Hafeez has been hit on his helmet , this was a quick bouncer from Milne , Hafeez was late on the pull , the ball clatters onto his helmet and rolls away towards third man 17.3 Milne to Hafeez , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Hafeez leans forward and caresses it to the right of sweeper cover , comes back for the second run 17.2 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Shehzad drops it to the right of point for a quick single 17.1 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , appeal for a caught behind , Shehzad was pushing at one that shaped away , missed it by a long distance 16.6 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , FOUR , big over for Pakistan , McCullum fired this one full and well outside leg , Hafeez gets down on his knees , uses the pace on the ball and sweeps it behind square on the on-side for a boundary 16.5 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , SIX , massive , fraction shorter and on the stumps , Hafeez rocks back and pulls this one high and deep into the mid-wicket stands 16.4 Nathan McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 16.3 Nathan McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Hafeez has been elbowed out here , this was pushed through by McCullum , Shehzad pushes it back towards the bowler , McCullum stops it and barges into Hafeez on his followthrough 16.2 Nathan McCullum to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , McCullum drifts one onto the middle stump line , driven to the right of the bowler , he dives and deflects the ball away towards mid-wicket 16.1 Nathan McCullum to Hafeez , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , nudged away in front of long-on for a single Nathan McCullum , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 15.6 Milne to Hafeez , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Hafeez leans forward and drives it past cover for a single 15.5 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Milne keeps it short and in that channel outside off , cut away square past point for a single 15.4 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Milne shortens his length outside off , Shehzad was looking to run it down towards third man and missed 15.3 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Shehzad leans forward and punches it past mid-off , runs hard and gets back for the second run 15.2 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , that 's a lovely shot , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Hafeez leans into the drive and eases it past cover , the timing is sweet and the ball races away to the fence 15.1 Milne to Hafeez , 1 run , short and holding its line outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 14.6 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , Vettori keeps it full and on the stumps , Hafeez comes down the track and eases it down towards long-on for a single 14.5 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , slower and just outside off , Hafeez dabs it in front of point and set-off for a quick single , Ahmed Shehzad is quick to send him back 14.4 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , this one is tossed up on off , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 14.3 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Vettori drifts one on off , defended with a straight bat 14.2 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , pushed through by Vettori , worked towards long-on for a single 14.1 Vettori to Hafeez , FOUR , that 's excellent placement from Hafeez , fraction short and wide outside off , Hafeez makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a boundary 13.6 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Shehzad creams it straight to the fielder at short extra cover 13.5 Milne to Hafeez , 1 run , another short ball from Milne , pulled away towards deep mid-wicket for a single 13.4 Milne to Hafeez , FOUR , that 's a magnificent shot , way too short from Milne , Hafeez is quick to rock back , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of mid-wicket for a boundary , his first in this innings 13.3 Milne to Hafeez , no run , short and just outside off , Hafeez swivelled across on the pull , gets a thick inside edge onto his thigh pad 13.2 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , short and wide from Milne , Shehzad stays back and cracks it square on the off-side for a single 13.1 Milne to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Shehzad stays inside the line and pushes it towards the off-side Adam Milne , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 12.6 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , close call for Hafeez , this was tossed up and held its line outside off , Hafeez went for the big sweep , misses and Ronchi is quick to whip the bails off , replays were n't crystal clear , but it looked like Hafeez had a bit of his foot back behind the line. He survives Appeal for a stumping. Ronchi and Vettori look confident. This looks pretty tight. Has Hafeez managed to drag his feet back in time ? Will he get the benefit of doubt ? This looks touch and go , but on the evidence so far , Hafeez might have just got a smidgen of his toes back in. NOT OUT is the call 12.5 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , Vettori drifts one on middle , a puff of dust as the ball landed on the pitch , worked in front of mid-wicket for a single 12.4 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , pushed through by Vettori , tucked towards the on-side 12.3 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , flighted and on Hafeez 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 12.2 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run, 12.1 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Shehzad stays back and chops it straight to the fielder at short third man 11.6 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Hafeez gets half forward and defends it towards cover 11.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , on a good length and around the off-stump channel , Shehzad makes room and drives it towards deep cover for a single 11.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Shehzad leans forward and drives it straight to the fielder at extra cover 11.3 Boult to Hafeez , 1 run , on a length and angling into Hafeez 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 11.2 Boult to Hafeez , SIX , top-edge and six , short and angling into Hafeez , he was looking to help it on its way , closed the face of the bat and gets a thick edge , gets enough bat to help it sail into the crowd at the long leg boundary 11.1 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single Boult continues from round the wicket 10.6 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , good use of the feet from Shehzad , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it down towards long-off for a single 10.5 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , appeal for LBW , but Shehzad was way outside the crease , he came down the track to a well tossed up ball and missed the flick 10.4 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , flighted and on off , Hafeez goes deep into the crease and works it in front of mid-wicket for a single 10.3 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , pushed through by Vettori , Hafeez goes back and defends it with an angled bat 10.2 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , Hafeez comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and defends it back towards the bowler 10.1 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , flatter from Vettori , Hafeez cuts it in the air , gets a thick edge towards short third man 9.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad presses across and defends it 9.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , that 's nicely done by Shehzad , predictable from Boult , bangs it short and on the stumps , Shehzad makes room , waits on it , opens the face of the bat and ramps it over the keeper , one bounce and over the ropes for a boundary 9.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Boult keeps it short and on the stumps as Shehzad backs away , there 's no room for Shehzad as he flashed and missed 9.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Boult shortens his length as Shehzad made room outside leg , he does n't have the room to free his arms , defended back towards the bowler 9.2 Boult to Hafeez , 1 run , risky from Hafeez , comes down the track to a length delivery , was n't anywhere near the pitch , goes through with the lofted shot , just about clears cover , went high off the bat 9.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , short of a length and straightening from an angle , Hafeez was looking for the dab towards third man , there was a sound as the ball went past the bat , but there 's no bat involved 8.6 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Vettori tosses one around the off-stump channel , Shehzad nudges it in front of cover , wants a single and is sent back 8.5 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , slower and wider from Vettori , pushed towards the off-side 8.4 Vettori to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , this one is drifted onto Shehzad 's pads , nudged in front of square on the on-side for a single 8.3 Vettori to Hafeez , 1 run , Hafeez comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and drives it to the right of cover , there 's a slight misfield and that allows the batsmen to get across for a single 8.2 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , fraction too short and just outside off , Hafeez backs away and chops it straight to the fielder at backward point 8.1 Vettori to Hafeez , no run , flighted and on Hafeez 's pads , turned towards square leg Daniel Vettori , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Time for spin , Vettori comes into the attack. A slip and a leg slip in place 7.6 Boult to Hafeez , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , steered away without much timing , the ball goes behind square on the off-side for a single 7.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , steered away square on the off-side for a single , Boult came from round the wicket on that occassion 7.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Boult keeps it full and in that channel outside off , Shehzad was way too early on the drive , gets an inside edge towards the on-side 7.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad prods across and defends it 7.2 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , cracking shot , width on offer from Boult , Shehzad was leaning backwards , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and guides it square on the off-side , bisects the two men in the ring at cover-point and point , races away to the fence in a hurry 7.1 Boult to Hafeez , 1 run , full and on Hafeez 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 6.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad presses forward and defends it towards cover 6.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Shehzad was looking to make room outside leg , Southee spotted it and digs this one short , Shehzad sways away from the line and lets it go 6.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad leans forward and drives it crisply towards short cover 6.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , nicely played by Shehzad , this was full and on the stumps , Shehzad makes room and slugs it high and over mid-wicket , bounces just in front of the ropes 6.2 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , steered down towards third man for a single 6.1 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Hafeez gets on top of the bounce and defends with an angled bat towards backward point 5.6 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of a length and angling back into Shehzad , he was making room outside leg , gets cramped on the shot and only manages to push it back towards the bowler 5.5 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , that 's a lovely shot , full and wide from Boult , Shehzad bends down onto his knees , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and slices it square behind point , no chance for the man getting across from the deep 5.4 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and slanting across Shehzad , he leans into the drive but ca n't get it past the man at extra cover 5.3 Boult to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Boult shortens his length and gets this one to angle across Shehzad , left alone 5.2 Boult to Hafeez , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Hafeez swivels across on the pull , gets a single to fine leg 5.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping back into Hafeez , he presses across , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it to the right of the bowler , he gets a hand onto it , Vettori gets across from mid-on and saves a run 4.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , short and angling into Shehzad , he swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs 4.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Shehzad presses across , makes some room and defends it towards cover-point 4.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for Shehzad , this is much better , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Shehzad makes room and goes back over the bowler 's head , couple of bounces and over the ropes for another boundary 4.3 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , Shehzad gets enough bat and manages to clear McCullum at mid-off , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Shehzad cleared his left leg and lifts it over mid-off , just about gets enough to clear Brendon McCullum 's head 4.2 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Hafeez shuffles across on the whip , Elliott puts in the dive at mid-wicket , gets a hand onto it and saves three runs for his team 4.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Shehzad leans into the drive and gets it to the left of mid-off. McCullum gets across , puts in the dive and keeps them down to a single 3.6 Boult to Hafeez , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Hafeez prods across and defends it 3.5 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Hafeez reaches out for the drive and ends up slicing it towards backward point , goes to the fielder on the bounce 3.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , that 's risky from Hafeez , Boult keeps it full and just outside off , gets a bit of late movement back into the batsman , Hafeez was looking for the ambitious drive , the ball beats his inside edge on the way to the keeper 3.3 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and in that corridor outside off , Hafeez lunges forward in defence , the bat was well in front of the body , gets a thick inside edge onto the pads 3.2 Boult to Hafeez , 2 runs , fraction short and just outside off , Hafeez rocks back and pulls it wide of mid-wicket , he did n't get hold of the shot , Vettori gives chase and keeps them down to a couple of runs 3.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , short of a length and angling across the right-hander , Hafeez covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 2.6 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , FOUR , nicely played by Shehzad , comes down the track , makes room as he does so and drives a well pitched ball back past the bowler , beats the fielder at mid-off and races away to the fence in a hurry 2.5 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Southee , pitched up and in that channel outside off , gets it to hold its line , Shehzad pushes at that and is beaten 2.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Shehzad is squared up as he looked to defend , gets a thick edge towards the off-side 2.4 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , Southee pushes one wider and well outside off , Shehzad is happy to let it go , wide called 2.3 Southee to Hafeez , 1 run , too straight from Southee , ends up drifting onto Hafeez 's pads , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 2.2 Southee to Hafeez , no run , back of a length and just outside off. Hafeez gets behind the line and defends it towards the off-side 2.1 Southee to Ahmed Shehzad , 1 run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , Shehzad was looking to work it towards the on-side , closed the face of the bat and gets a thick edge past the slip cordon 1.6 Boult to Hafeez , no run , run-out chance , Williamson was the man with the shy , a direct hit and Hafeez was a goner. He pushed a well pitched up ball in front of cover-point and set off , Ahmed Shehzad sends him back , Hafeez puts in the dive but that would n't have been enough 1.5 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Hafeez leans forward and pushes it towards cover 1.5 Boult to Hafeez , wide , the bumper from Boult , too short and too high though , called as a wide 1.4 Boult to Hafeez , no run , Boult shortens his length outside off , Hafeez gets across and mistimes the punch towards cover point 1.3 Boult to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 1.2 Boult to Hafeez , no run , Boult shortens his length and angles one onto Hafeez 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball slips off the pads 1.1 Boult to Hafeez , no run , Boult shortens his length outside off and shaping away further , left alone Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Southee to Hafeez , leg byes 1 run , short of a length and on Hafeez 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads 0.5 Southee to Hafeez , 2 runs , Hafeez gets away with one ! This was pitched up and held its line outside off , Hafeez came waltzing down the track , looks to go over the top , does n't get hold of the shot , gets a lot of height and just about clears the man running back from mid-off 0.4 Southee to Hafeez , no run , tad fuller and shaping away from well outside off , another easy leave for the batsman 0.3 Southee to Hafeez , no run , Southee goes fuller and gets this one to nip away a fraction , Hafeez is happy to let it go 0.2 Southee to Hafeez , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 0.1 Southee to Hafeez , 2 runs , gentle loosener on Hafeez 's pads , worked away backward of square on the on-side for a couple of runs. Hafeez will be relieved , he was out for a duck in the first ODI Hafeez and Ahmed Shehzad are at the crease. Hafeez is on strike. Southee will open the attack Welcome back.. Tim Southee will start for New Zealand. Two slips in place. . The Pakistani bowlers looked very ordinary. Their problems with the fifth bowler continues. To add to their worries , Bhatti conceded 93 runs in his 10 overs. In fact , Sarfraz 's poor work behind the stumps , did n't help Pakistan 's cause either. Now , it is upto their batsmen to try and chase this mammoth total town. Can they do it ? Or will the Black Caps bowlers run through the visitors batting line-up ? Join us in a short while to find out . New Zealand started off brightly as Brendon McCullum came out all guns blazing. Even though he departed in the 8th over , Williamson and Guptill stitched a 128-run partnership to steady the innings. Guptill , who started off slowly , picked up pace and alongwith Williamson , took the attack to the opposition. Williamson was brilliant with the bat yet again , notching up his 6th ODI ton , also his 13th 50-plus score in 18 innings. After Guptill got out , Taylor joined him at the crease and he looked in ominous touch as he also went on to score his hundred. Elliott and McCullum also chipped in at the last and helped the team reach 369/5 in their 50 overs . Taylor and Nathan McCullum walk off the field and the Black Caps must be delighted with the score on the board. Taylor 's century was also the 100th ODI ton by a New Zealand player. It was a special knock for Taylor as this is 150th ODI game . 49.6 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , FOUR , Taylor gets to his 12th hundred with the last ball off the innings , it was a length delivery outside off , Taylor flashes hard and gets an outside edge that flies past the keeper and crashes into the third man fence , Taylor takes off his helmet and waves his bat to the crowd in delight 49.5 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , SIX , on a length and outside off , this time Taylor slices it over the sweeper cover fence for a maximum , he is on 98 now 49.4 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , no run , what is Taylor doing here ? Misses out on another full toss outside off , Taylor moves right across , but again fails to connect , Taylor is angry with himself after missing that ball 49.3 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , no run , yorker just inside the tramline , Taylor tries to squeeze it out into the off-side , but fails to lay bat onto it , the keeper collects 49.2 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , no run , Taylor must be feeling that he has missed out on a freebie here , it was a full toss wide outside off , Taylor looks to go hard at it , but ca n't make a connection 49.1 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Taylor goes right across his stumps and reaches out for it , he gets an outside edge that flies over the short third man fielder and runs away to the fence Bilawal Bhatti [ 9.0-0-79-0 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Ehsan Adil to Nathan McCullum , SIX , poor delivery to end the over , full toss on the pads , McCullum flicks it over the fine leg boundary to end the over with a six 48.5 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , on a length and outside off , Taylor slogs it to deep square leg , where the ball goes on the bounce to the fielder , luckily for Taylor , it did n't carry to the fielder 48.4 Ehsan Adil to Nathan McCullum , 1 run , slower fullish delivery outside off , McCullum drives it wide of mid-off for a single 48.3 Ehsan Adil to Nathan McCullum , leg byes , FOUR , it was just short of a good length and around off , McCullum shuffles across and looks to work it into the leg-side , but fails to connect , the ball runs away to the third man fence after clipping the pad , the fielder at short third man was appealing there and did n't save the ball from running to the fence Pakistan have decided to review an lbw call. The onfield decision is not out. Adil 's front foot is fine. Was the impact outside off ? HotSpot shows that there was no inside edge on that. Hawk-Eye shows umpire 's call on the impact and McCullum survives 48.2 Ehsan Adil to Nathan McCullum , no run , slower and fuller just outside off , McCullum pushes it back to the bowler 48.1 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , length delivery around off , Taylor slogs it to deep mid-wicket , where there is protection and the batsmen take a single 47.6 Irfan to Nathan McCullum , 2 runs , on a good length and outside off , McCullum waits for it , intentionally opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man , the batsmen take a couple Nathan McCullum , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.5 Irfan to Ronchi , out Caught by Sarfraz Ahmed ! ! Ronchi departs now. It was on a length and outside off , Ronchi flashes hard at it , he gets a faint edge and the keeper takes it easily. Ronchi was not happy as he walks off shaking his head. Ronchi c Sarfraz Ahmed b Irfan 0 ( 1 ) Irfan to Ronchi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Pakistan decide to review a caught behind appeal. Ronchi is the man in question. The onfield decision is Not Out. There 's no problems with Irfan 's front foot. Snicko shows that there was a faint tickle and the onfield decision has been changed. The umpire says , 'Luke , you 're out' . 47.4 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , comes from round the wicket and bowls this on a length on off and middle , Taylor pushes it to the left of the bowler , who slides and makes a mess of the fielding , the ball rolls away towards mid-off and the batsmen sneak in a single 47.3 Irfan to Ross Taylor , FOUR , third consecutive boundary for Taylor , Taylor hangs back to this short and wide delivery , he plays the upper cut and gets it square of the wicket , the fielder at sweeper cover watches it crash into the fence 47.2 Irfan to Ross Taylor , FOUR , banged in short , Taylor stays back and pulls it to the fine leg fence for back-to-back boundaries 47.1 Irfan to Ross Taylor , FOUR , a boundary to start the over , it was fullish outside off , Taylor lofts it over mid-off for another boundary , the mid-off fielder gives chase , but the ball beats him to the fence 46.6 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , bit straighter in line , Taylor works it behind square for a single 46.5 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , FOUR , fullish delivery outside off , Taylor opens the face of the bat and guides it down towards third man , splitting backward point and third man , the ball runs away past a diving backward point , who dived too early. Poor fielding effort costs Pakistan another four Luke Ronchi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 46.4 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , out Caught by Sohail ! ! Elliott persishes for the cause. It was short of a length delivery outside off , Elliott stays inside the crease and looks to slog it over the leg-side after clearing his front leg. He miscues it and ends up skying it high , Sohail at deep square leg gets under it and takes a good catch. Elliott c Sohail b Ehsan Adil 28 ( 21 ) [ 6s-2 ] Ehsan Adil to Elliott , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 46.3 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , almost a yorker outside off , Taylor squeezes it out towards mid-off for a single 46.3 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , wide , down the leg-side , Taylor fails to tickle it fine , the umpire exercises his arms 46.2 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , FOUR , another beautiful shot from Taylor , it was full outside off , Taylor leans forward and drills the drive past extra cover , the fielder at sweeper cover had no chance of cutting that off as the ball runs away to the fence 46.1 Ehsan Adil to Elliott , 1 run , gives the charge and pulls this back of a length delivery to deep mid-wicket Ehsan Adil [ 6.0-0-47-0 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Irfan to Elliott , 1 run , tries to bowl a yorker , but ends up bowling a low full toss , Elliott helps it down to long-on and he will keep the strike 45.5 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , Taylor drops his wrists on this back of a length delivery and the batsmen go through with a quick single as the ball dribbles away into the off-side 45.4 Irfan to Elliott , 1 run , slightly back of a length outside off , Elliott goes across and looks to work it through the on-side , but gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball rolls away to the right of the track , the batsmen take a quick single 45.3 Irfan to Elliott , 2 runs , gives the charge this time and bunts this delivery on the pads towards the long-on region , the batsmen run for a brace 45.2 Irfan to Elliott , no run , just short of a good length and angling away outside off , Elliott looks to run it down tho third man , but ca n't make a connection 45.2 Irfan to Elliott , wide , splays this one down leg , wided by the umpire 45.1 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , tucks away behind square on the leg-side for a single 44.6 Bhatti to Elliott , SIX , this is poor bowling from Bhatti , he bowls another full toss and Elliott pulls it over the deep square leg fence , 21 runs came off that over 44.5 Bhatti to Elliott , 2 runs , Bhatti bowls this one well outside off seeing Elliott go across his stumps , he was looking to help it over the short fine leg fielder , but ends up dragging it towards the deep backward square leg region for a brace 44.4 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 1 run , full delivery on middle and leg , Taylor clips it to deep mid-wicket for a single , brings up 300 for the Black Caps 44.3 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , FOUR , third consecutive boundary for Taylor , great sound came off the bat as Taylor pulls one hard to the deep mid-wicket fence , this is poor bowling from Bhatti who bowls a high full toss this time , Taylor just muscles it to the fence 44.2 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for Taylor , it was fullish outside off , Taylor goes across and reaches to the pitch of the ball , he lofts the drive to the sweeper cover fence , the fielder in the deep had no chance of cutting that off , great shot from Taylor 44.1 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , FOUR , Taylor brings up his 30th ODI fifty with this streaky boundary , he wo n't mind the runs though , it was on a length and outside off , Taylor flashes hard and gets a thick outside edge that runs away to the third man fence 43.6 Irfan to Ross Taylor , leg byes , 1 run , slower short ball outside off , Taylor looks to pull , but fails to make a connection , the ball rolls away past a diving keeper off the shoulder of the batsman , the batsmen take a leg bye 43.5 Irfan to Elliott , 1 run , yorker on leg , Elliott jams it to his pad off the toe-end of the bat , the batsmen pinch a single as the ball rolls away next to the track 43.4 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , good short ball at the batsman , Taylor pulls , but gets a top-edge that falls in no man 's land behind square on the on-side , the batsmen take a single 43.3 Irfan to Ross Taylor , FOUR , length delivery angled across off , Taylor lofts it wide of long-off , he did n't time it that well , but the ball had enough legs to reach the fence 43.2 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , yorker on middle stump line , Taylor pushes it back to the bowler , who throws the ball back at the striker 's stumps , Taylor has to rush back inside the crease , Irfan gets a direct hit , but the batsman was in 43.1 Irfan to Elliott , 1 run , yorker on the stumps , Elliott squeezes it out into the off-side and the batsmen take a quick single , it was a very good ball from the tall bowler Mohammad Irfan [ 7.0-0-23-1 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , no run , yorker length delivery outside off on the tramline , Taylor reaches out for it , but failed to make a connection , the keeper gloves it 42.5 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , SIX , monstrous hit from Taylor ! It was full and wide outside off , Taylor slogs it out of the park over the deep mid-wicket fence , the ball landed on the roof , great hit from the Kiwi batsman , the umpires will now have to find another ball 42.4 Bhatti to Elliott , 1 run , full just outside off , Elliott stays back and lofts it to the right of the mid-off , where the fielder puts in the dive and stops the ball , he fires in a throw at the non-striker 's end , but Elliott was in , good fielding effort though 42.3 Bhatti to Elliott , SIX , another short one from Bhatti and Elliott latches onto it in a flash. He pulls it hard after moving across and the ball goes over the deep backward square leg fence for a six 42.2 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 1 run , yorker around off , Taylor jams it out to third man and gets to the other end 42.1 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , dropped ! It was banged in short and at the batsman , Taylor pulls hard towards the deep mid-wicket region , where Adil runs forward and across to his left and puts in the dive , he gets his hands on it , but ca n't hold onto it , the bowler applauds the effort of the fielder , but I do n't understand why 41.6 Sohail to Elliott , 2 runs , darted on the pads once again , Elliott gives the charge and clips it past mid-wicket for a brace 41.5 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 1 run , pushed through on the pads , Taylor works it to mid-wicket and the batsmen take a single 41.4 Sohail to Elliott , 1 run , this time he connects with the inside-out loft off a flighted delivery , the ball rolls away towards sweeper cover for a run 41.3 Sohail to Elliott , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Elliott looks to sweep , but the ball turns past his bat and the keeper collects 41.2 Sohail to Elliott , no run , gives the charge and looks to go inside-out over the cover region , he gets an outside edge that rolls away to short third man 41.1 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flatter outside off , Taylor cuts it square of the wicket Haris Sohail [ 5.0-0-42-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Taylor taps it to point and he will keep the strike as the batsmen sneak in a quick single 40.5 Bhatti to Elliott , 1 run , too straight this time , Elliott hangs back and tucks it away behind square for another run 40.4 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Taylor cuts hard , but cuts straight to the fielder at deep point , the batsmen take a single 40.3 Bhatti to Elliott , 1 run , yorker on middle stump line , Elliott squeezes it out to sweeper cover and gets to the other end 40.2 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and drives it wide of mid-off , where Afridi dives to his left and saves three runs for his team 40.1 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , no run , shortish delivery outside off , Taylor looks to cut , but ca n't connect Bilawal Bhatti [ 6.0-0-37-0 ] is back into the attack 32 runs came off the batting powerplay and New Zealand lost the wicket of Williamson as well 39.6 Afridi to Elliott , no run , floated up on off and middle , Elliott leans forward and defends 39.5 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , steps out of the crease and eases it down to long-on 39.4 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , pushed through on the pads , Taylor looks to work it fine , but fails to connect , the ball clips the pad and rolls away into the on-side 39.3 Afridi to Elliott , 1 run , drifting on the pads , Elliott works it behind square for another run 39.2 Afridi to Elliott , no run , tossed up outside off , Elliott drives it to the left of the bowler , Afridi dives and makes the stop 39.1 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Taylor pushes it through the covers for a single Grant Elliott , right handed bat , comes to the crease 38.6 Irfan to Williamson , out Caught by Sohail ! ! Williamson is gone after a superb innings. Taylor acknowledges the effort and congratulates him as he walks off. It was a slower short of length delivery outside off , Williamson goes across and looks to help it past the short fine leg fielder , but ends up hitting it straight to him. Williamson c Sohail b Irfan 112 ( 88 ) [ 4s-14 6s-1 ] Irfan to Williamson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.5 Irfan to Williamson , no run , full toss outside off , Williamson backs away and looks to force it through the off-side , fails to make a connection and the keeper collects 38.4 Irfan to Williamson , SIX , super shot from Williamson , it was banged in short again , Williamson muscles the pull over the deep backward square leg fence for a maximum , great batting from him 38.3 Irfan to Williamson , no run , length delivery on the stumps , Williamson backs away and looks to loft it over mid-off , he mistimes it and the ball goes on the bounce to Afridi at mid-off , who fires in a throw at the non-striker 's end as Taylor was backing up , there was a direct hit , but Taylor made his ground in time 38.2 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , short and at the batsman , Taylor pulls it to deep square leg , the ball goes on the bounce to the fielder 38.1 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , just short of a good length and on the stumps , Taylor defends it towards the point region , the batsmen decide against the single 37.6 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated on middle , Taylor mistimes the sweep to backward square leg , he will keep the strike 37.6 Afridi to Ross Taylor , wide , stumping chance missed ! Seeing the batsmen give charge , Afridi pushes one down the leg-side , Taylor fails to connect with it and Sarfraz too ca n't glove it cleanly behind the stumps , he misses the stumping chance and Afridi is not at all happy , Sarfraz gives the ball back to Afridi , who kicks it in anger 37.5 Afridi to Ross Taylor , FOUR , Afridi darts this one slightly short and outside off , Taylor adjusts well as he is not up to the pitch of the ball and cuts it past backward point for another boundary 37.4 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , looks to work this one through the on-side , closes the bat face early and gets a leading edge that rolls away to the left of the bowler 37.3 Afridi to Williamson , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Williamson goes deep in the crease and punches it to long-off for a single 37.2 Afridi to Williamson , FOUR , gives the charge once again and lofts this flighted delivery on middle inside-out over extra cover for another boundary 37.1 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated on off , Taylor bunts it to long-off for a single 36.6 Irfan to Williamson , no run , shuffles across and looks to work it through the on-side , ends up turning it straight to the square leg fielder 36.5 Irfan to Ross Taylor , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Taylor looks to dab it towards third man , he gets an outside edge that rolls away to third man 36.4 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Taylor gets behind the line of the ball and defends 36.3 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , just short of a good length and on middle , Taylor defends it into the off-side off the back foot 36.2 Irfan to Ross Taylor , no run , another one that 's shortish and wide outside off , Taylor looks to cut hard , but fails to make a connection and the keeper takes 36.1 Irfan to Williamson , 1 run , shortish and wide outside off , Williamson jumps in the crease and upper-cuts it , the ball goes on the bounce to third man Mohammad Irfan [ 5.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , quicker one on the stumps , Taylor manages to gets his bat down just in time and cuts it , the ball rolls away towards backward point 35.5 Afridi to Ross Taylor , no run , works this flighted delivery to mid-wicket 35.4 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , shortish outside off , Taylor hangs back and cuts it hard , he splits the fielder at backward point and short third man , the batsmen take a couple before the ball is hunted down 35.3 Afridi to Williamson , 1 run , Williamson brings up his 6th ODI hundred with this single , he has batted superbly , getting to the landmark in just 80 balls , it was a flighted delivery on off , Williamson eases it to long-off for a single , he is delighted , takes off his helmet and waves his bat to the applause from the crowd and his teammates 35.2 Afridi to Williamson , FOUR , Williamson moves to 99 with this boundary , it was a flighted delivery on the stumps , Williamson comes down the track and whips it over mid-wicket for another boundary 35.1 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up on leg , Taylor drives it to long-on Shahid Afridi [ 7.0-0-34-1 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay. Afridi will bowl now . 34.6 Sohail to Williamson , FOUR , it does n't matter if he 's in the nineties , Williamson is still going for it. It was floated up just outside off , Williamson comes down the track and lofts it inside-out over extra cover for another boundary 34.5 Sohail to Williamson , no run , floated on off , Williamson presses forward and dead-bats it 34.4 Sohail to Williamson , 2 runs , pushed through on middle and leg , Williamson wrists it wide of long-on for a brace 34.3 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 1 run , very full on leg , Taylor jams the drive to long-on and gets to the other end 34.2 Sohail to Ross Taylor , 2 runs , comes down the track and works this flighted delivery on the pads to deep mid-wicket , the batsmen come back for the second 34.1 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , floated around off , Taylor pushes it to cover off the front foot Haris Sohail [ 4.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. The Kiwis have batted really well to reach this mark. They should easily go past 300 now , but can they get more ? Or will Pakistan fight back ? With the batting powerplay left , it could well help New Zealand launch. Let 's see how they go after the drinks break with Williamson nearing his century . 33.6 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , 2 runs , slower delivery outside off , Williamson drives it wide of mid-off , where the fielder dives to his left and makes a half-stop , the batsmen take the second run as the ball rolled away further towards the deep 33.5 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , FOUR , this is great batting from Williamson , he comes down the track to this length ball and lofts it wide over mid-on for another boundary , the fielder was inside the circle and hence , it was a great shot 33.4 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , fullish delivery on off , Taylor bunts it to long-on after moving across 33.3 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , 1 run , angling in on off and middle , Williamson eases it down to long-on for a single 33.2 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , FOUR , length delivery on middle stump line , Williamson backs away and lofts it past the bowler for another boundary , the fielder at mid-off had no chance of cutting that off 33.1 Ehsan Adil to Ross Taylor , 1 run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Taylor moves slightly across and punches it in front of mid-on for a single , 200 up for New Zealand Ehsan Adil [ 5.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Bhatti to Williamson , FOUR , a boundary to end the over , it was short and wide outside off , Williamson jumps in the crease , upper cuts it over the infield and the ball dribbles away to the square third man fence , good short that from the Kiwi vice-captain 32.5 Bhatti to Williamson , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Williamson backs away and bunts it towards cover , that did n't come off the middle of the bat 32.4 Bhatti to Williamson , no run , banged in short and outside off , Williamson was lining up for the pull , but leaves it for the keeper at the end 32.3 Bhatti to Williamson , no run , length delivery just outside off , Williamson waits inside the crease , opens the face of the bat and taps it towards point , he was looking for the single there , but decides against it after the fielder was quickly onto the ball 32.2 Bhatti to Ross Taylor , 1 run , slightly fuller and outside off , Taylor looks to drive and gets an outside edge that runs away to third man , the batsmen take a single 32.1 Bhatti to Williamson , 1 run , bowls this one slightly short outside off , Williamson punches it to sweeper cover from inside the crease Bilawal Bhatti [ 5.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Ahmed Shehzad to Williamson , 1 run , drags this one short , Williamson hangs back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , he will keep the strike 31.5 Ahmed Shehzad to Ross Taylor , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Taylor eases it down to long-off for a single 31.4 Ahmed Shehzad to Ross Taylor , no run , floated on middle stump line , Taylor wrists it to the right of the bowler , who fields after running across to his right 31.3 Ahmed Shehzad to Ross Taylor , no run , flighted delivery on off , Taylor pushes at it off the front foot , the ball rolls away towards the point region off the outside half of the bat 31.2 Ahmed Shehzad to Williamson , 1 run , steps out once again and drives it to long-on for another run 31.1 Ahmed Shehzad to Williamson , FOUR , floated up just outside off , Williamson comes down the track and lofts it inside-out over the cover region , the ball runs away to the fence in no time 30.6 Sohail to Ross Taylor , FOUR , slightly flatter outside off , Taylor hangs back and looks to dab it into the off-side , he gets an outside edge that runs away to the third man fence , Irfan at short third man jogs towards the boundary to fetch the ball back 30.5 Sohail to Ross Taylor , no run , full toss on middle and leg , Taylor helps it towards mid-wicket 30.4 Sohail to Williamson , 1 run , worked through mid-wicket for a single 30.3 Sohail to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Williamson was looking to run it down to third man , but pulls out at the last moment and leaves it for the keeper 30.2 Sohail to Williamson , no run , shortish outside off , Williamson hangs back and cuts it to backward point , who dives and stops the ball 30.1 Sohail to Williamson , no run , floated up outside off , Williamson mistimes the drive back to the bowler Haris Sohail [ 3.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Ahmed Shehzad to Williamson , 1 run , another full toss from Shehzad , Williamson pulls it to deep mid-wicket 29.5 Ahmed Shehzad to Williamson , no run , gives the charge this time , Shehzad darts it in on leg , Williamson turns it to backward square 29.4 Ahmed Shehzad to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , Taylor works it to mid-wicket for a single 29.3 Ahmed Shehzad to Williamson , 1 run , floated up on off and middle , Williamson looks to work it through the leg-side , he closes the bat face a little early and gets a leading edge that rolls away to long-off , it was a little uppish but no harm done 29.2 Ahmed Shehzad to Ross Taylor , 1 run , full toss just outside off , Taylor drives it wide of long-off , the batsmen were looking for the second , but the fielder in the deep was quick to get around and hence , they decided against it 29.1 Ahmed Shehzad to Ross Taylor , no run , tossed up outside off , Taylor drives it to the left of the bowler , who dives to his left and stops the ball 28.6 Afridi to Ross Taylor , 1 run , pushed through just outside off , Taylor bunts it down to long-on and retains strike 28.5 Afridi to Williamson , 1 run , slider on the pads , Williamson works it to deep mid-wicket for another single 28.4 Afridi to Williamson , no run , flatter on middle and leg , Williamson stays back and punches it to mid-wicket 28.3 Afridi to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Williamson drives it towards cover , where the fielder slides to his left and prevents the single 28.2 Afridi to Williamson , no run , floated up just outside off , Williamson leans forward and gently drives it to cover 28.1 Afridi to Williamson , no run , quicker one on the stumps , Williamson hangs back and defends 27.6 Ahmed Shehzad to Williamson , 1 run , flatter delivery just outside off , Williamson hangs back and punches it to cover , who dives to his right and makes a half-stop , the ball rolls away past the vacant mid-off region , Williamson will keep the strike 27.5 Ahmed Shehzad to Ross Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery on the pads , Taylor turns it past mid-wicket for another run 27.4 Ahmed Shehzad to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up on middle stump line , Williamson works it to mid-wicket for a single 27.3 Ahmed Shehzad to Ross Taylor , 1 run , floated up outside off , Taylor drives it back towards the bowler , who dives to his left , but misfields. The batsmen take a single easily Ross Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.2 Ahmed Shehzad to Guptill , out Caught by Bhatti ! ! What has Guptill done here ? He has hit the full toss straight to the man at long-off. It was a poor ball from Shehzad , a full toss outside off , Guptill looks to go big , but the bat turns in his hand while he looks to loft. He ends up hitting it towards long-off , where the fielder moves slightly to his right and completes the catch. Guptill ca n't believe it and is very disappointed. He held his ground for sometime before walking off dejected. Guptill c Bhatti b Ahmed Shehzad 76 ( 88 ) [ 4s-8 6s-1 ] Ahmed Shehzad to Guptill , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 27.1 Ahmed Shehzad to Guptill , 2 runs , floated down leg , Guptill goes down on one knee and sweeps it fine , the fielder from short fine gives chase and the batsmen take a couple 26.6 Afridi to Williamson , 2 runs , slows this one around off , Williamson stays inside the crease and bunts it wide of long-off , the batsmen come back for the second 26.5 Afridi to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Guptill drives it to cover-point for a single 26.4 Afridi to Guptill , no run , flatter just outside off , Guptill hangs back , opens the face of the bat late and dabs it towards short third man 26.3 Afridi to Williamson , 1 run , Afridi drags this one slightly short seeing Williamson give the charge , he works it to mid-wicket and gets to the other end 26.2 Afridi to Williamson , no run , flatter delivery around off , Williamson punches it to cover from the crease 26.1 Afridi to Guptill , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Guptill drives it to sweeper cover off the front foot 25.6 Ahmed Shehzad to Guptill , 3 runs , another one that 's shortish outside off , Guptill goes deep in the crease and cuts it to the deep extra cover fence , where Hafeez fumbles and allows the batsmen to take the third run 25.5 Ahmed Shehzad to Guptill , no run , flatter outside off , Guptill cuts it to point off the back foot 25.4 Ahmed Shehzad to Guptill , 2 runs , floated up on middle and leg , Guptill works it wide of long-on for a brace 25.3 Ahmed Shehzad to Guptill , no run , full from Shehzad , Guptill digs it out back to the bowler , who dives to his right and makes the stop 25.2 Ahmed Shehzad to Guptill , SIX , tossed up just outside off , Guptill takes a step forward and lofts it over the long-off fence for a maximum 25.1 Ahmed Shehzad to Williamson , 1 run , floated up outside off , Williamson gives the charge and drives it to long-on Ahmed Shehzad , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 24.6 Afridi to Guptill , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Guptill comes on the front foot and looks to work it to the on-side and misses , the ball bobbles off the pads and falls in front of the batsman 24.5 Afridi to Williamson , 1 run , shortens the length a touch , Williamson goes back and punches it to long-on 24.4 Afridi to Williamson , 2 runs , floated on off , Williamson leans forward and drives it between extra cover and long-off for a brace 24.3 Afridi to Williamson , FOUR , short and around off , Williamson rocks back and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence for yet another boundary 24.2 Afridi to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Guptill lunges forward and drives it to long-on 24.1 Afridi to Guptill , no run , flighted delivery on off , Guptill leans forward and defends it to the off-side 23.6 Younis Khan to Williamson , FOUR , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Williamson comes on the front foot and flicks it uppishly between mid-wicket and long-on to bring up his 16th fifty in ODIs , this boundary also brings up the 100-run partnership 23.5 Younis Khan to Williamson , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Williamson gets forward and dabs it to short third man 23.4 Younis Khan to Williamson , 2 runs , short again on off and middle , Williamson pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 23.3 Younis Khan to Williamson , FOUR , short delivery on off , Williamson goes on the back foot and pulls it to the deep backward square leg fence for another boundary 23.2 Younis Khan to Guptill , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Guptill slaps it to sweeper cover for a run 23.1 Younis Khan to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery on middle , Williamson whips it off the back foot to mid-wicket 22.6 Afridi to Guptill , FOUR , quicker short delivery just outside off , Guptill waits inside the crease , opens the face of the bat and guides it to the third man fence 22.5 Afridi to Williamson , 1 run , floated across off , Williamson leans forward and drives towards Afridi , who half stops it , the ball dribbles to mid-off for a run 22.4 Afridi to Williamson , no run , comes on the front foot works it to mid-wicket 22.3 Afridi to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Guptill gets down on one knee and looks to sweep , gets a top-edge which falls well short of the long leg fielder 22.2 Afridi to Guptill , no run , quicker delivery on middle , Guptill gets forward and drives it back to the bowler 22.1 Afridi to Guptill , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Guptill leans forward and pushes it back towards the bowler Shahid Afridi [ 3.0-0-13-1 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Younis Khan to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Guptill pulls it to deep mid-wicket and retains strike 21.5 Younis Khan to Guptill , no run , short of length on off , Guptill hangs back and works it to mid-wicket 21.4 Younis Khan to Guptill , no run , length delivery just outside off , Guptill drives it to cover 21.3 Younis Khan to Guptill , 2 runs , good length delivery on the pads , Guptill tucks it to deep backward square leg for a couple 21.2 Younis Khan to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery on off , Guptill punches it back to the bowler 21.1 Younis Khan to Guptill , 2 runs , good length delivery on the pads , Guptill shuffles across and tickles it to fine leg for a brace to bring up his 21st fifty in ODIs Younis Khan , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 20.6 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Guptill gets forward and drives it to long-on 20.5 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Williamson dabs it with an angled bat to third man for a single 20.4 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , FOUR , fuller length delivery on middle , Williamson comes on the front foot and flicks it between mid-wicket and mid-on for a boundary 20.3 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson goes back and dabs it to backward point 20.2 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Guptill presents the full face of the bat and drives it to long-on for a run 20.1 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , FOUR , short and just outside off , Guptill stays inside the crease and cuts it hard to the deep backward point fence 19.6 Sohail to Guptill , 1 run , tossed up on off , Guptill leans forward and drives it to long-off 19.5 Sohail to Guptill , 2 runs , short and wide outside off , Guptill hangs back and cuts it to deep backward point for a brace 19.4 Sohail to Guptill , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Guptill drills the drive to cover 19.3 Sohail to Williamson , 3 runs , flighted delivery wide outside off , Williamson skips down the track and flashes , gets an outside edge which flies past the vacant slip region , they run hard and complete the third run easily 19.2 Sohail to Guptill , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to long-on for a run 19.1 Sohail to Williamson , 1 run , flatter and shorter on off , Williamson goes back and punches it to long-on 18.6 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , length delivery on off , Guptill knocks it to the on-side 18.5 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Guptill pushes it to mid-off 18.4 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , length delivery on off , Guptill gets forward and looks to drive it through the off-side , but ends up miscuing it towards mid-on 18.3 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , FOUR , short of good length delivery just around off , Guptill gets on top of the bounce and drives it on the up to the deep extra cover fence for a delightful boundary 18.2 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , good length delivery on off , Guptill shuffles across and works it to mid-wicket 18.1 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Guptill drives it to mid-on 17.6 Sohail to Williamson , no run , skips down the track to this tossed up delivery and gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball dribbles away to the on-side 17.5 Sohail to Williamson , FOUR , half-tracker on off , Williamson says thank you and pulls it between mid-wicket and mid-on for a one bounce boundary 17.4 Sohail to Guptill , 1 run , shortens the length a touch on off , Guptill goes back and punches it to long-on 17.3 Sohail to Williamson , 1 run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Williamson leans forward and drives it to long-off to bring up the 50-run stand between these two 17.2 Sohail to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson blocks it back to the bowler 17.1 Sohail to Guptill , 1 run , flatter and shorter on the pads , Guptill tucks it to backward square leg for a quick single Drinks are on the field now 16.6 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Guptill cuts it off the back foot to sweeper cover 16.5 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , FOUR , good length delivery on off , Guptill comes on the front foot and flicks it in the air between mid-wicket and mid-on for a brilliant boundary 16.4 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Guptill leans forward and drives it hard to the left of the bowler , Adil sticks his left foot out and deflects it towards mid-off , he saved a certain boundary there 16.3 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson jumps inside the crease and dabs it to third man 16.2 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery on off , Williamson punches it to cover 16.1 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , no run , good length delivery on off , Williamson pushes it to mid-on Ehsan Adil [ 2.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Sohail to Guptill , FOUR , flatter and outside off , Guptill goes back and cuts it uppishly , past the diving backward point fielder for a boundary 15.5 Sohail to Williamson , 1 run , shortish delivery on off , Williamson punches it to long-off 15.4 Sohail to Guptill , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Guptill cuts in the air towards sweeper cover for a run , he was not in total control of that shot 15.3 Sohail to Guptill , FOUR , tossed up on leg , Guptill gets down on one knee and sweeps it to the deep backward square leg fence for a boundary 15.2 Sohail to Williamson , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Williamson leans forward and pushes it to the right of the bowler , Misbah chases it from mid-wicket as they take a single 15.1 Sohail to Williamson , 2 runs , short and wide outside off , Williamson cuts it off the back foot to deep backward point Haris Sohail , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 14.6 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Guptill leans forward and drives it to mid-off 14.5 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , on a length around off , Guptill comes on the front foot and defends it to cover 14.4 Bhatti to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson punches it off the back foot to sweeper cover 14.3 Bhatti to Williamson , no run , good length delivery on off , Williamson gets well forward and blocks it back to the bowler 14.2 Bhatti to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Williamson pokes and misses 14.1 Bhatti to Guptill , 1 run , short delivery just outside off , Guptill hangs back and pulls it straight to deep mid-wicket 13.6 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , FOUR , length delivery outside off , Williamson skips down the track and drives it through the line to the long-off fence , the timing was not that great but the ball had enough to still reach the fence 13.5 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Williamson punches it to the left of cover 13.4 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , no run , fullish on off , Williamson gets forward and blocks it towards cover 13.3 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Williamson comes on the front foot and pushes it to backward point 13.2 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , 1 run , short of length delivery around off , Guptill punches it off the back foot to deep point for a run 13.1 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , short of good length delivery on off , Guptill gets behind the line of the ball and defends it back to the bowler 12.6 Bhatti to Guptill , 1 run , short delivery just outside off , Guptill hangs back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 12.5 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , good length delivery on off , Guptill presses forward and across , defends it to mid-on 12.4 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , fuller in length on middle , Guptill leans forward and drives it towards mid-on 12.3 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Guptill goes on the back foot and punches it to cover 12.2 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Guptill hangs back and punches it back to the bowler 12.1 Bhatti to Williamson , 1 run , straighter delivery on off , Williamson goes back and tucks it past the diving mid-wicket fielder for a single 11.6 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , 1 run , back of a length on the pads , Williamson tucks it to fine leg 11.5 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , FOUR , short of length delivery around off , Williamson stays inside the crease and punch-drives it to the deep extra cover fence , the timimg on that was magnificent 11.4 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , 2 runs , short of good length delivery just around off , Williamson opens the face of the bat and pushes , the ball bounces over the backward point fielder for a brace 11.3 Ehsan Adil to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Williamson punches it to the off-side 11.2 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Guptill punches it off the back foot towards mid-on for a quick single 11.1 Ehsan Adil to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Guptill flicks it straight to mid-wicket Ehsan Adil , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 10.6 Bhatti to Williamson , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Williamson goes back and punches it to mid-off 10.5 Bhatti to Guptill , 1 run , good length delivery on the pads , Guptill shuffles across and clips it to deep square leg 10.4 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery on off , Guptill gets behind the line of the ball and blocks it 10.3 Bhatti to Guptill , no run , back of length delivery just around off , Guptill punches it past a diving cover to mid-off , Guptill wanted a single there , but the fielder at mid-off was quick to reach the ball 10.3 Bhatti to Guptill , wide , good length delivery slanting down the leg-side , wide signalled 10.2 Bhatti to Guptill , FOUR , short again just outside off , Guptill hangs back and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a boundary 10.1 Bhatti to Williamson , 1 run , short delivery around off , Williamson goes on the back foot , controls the pull to deep square leg Bilawal Bhatti [ 2.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Afridi to Guptill , no run , flighted delivery on off , Guptill comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 9.5 Afridi to Guptill , no run , another short delivery just outside off , Guptill goes back and punches it to cover 9.4 Afridi to Guptill , no run , slider on middle and leg , Guptill leans forward and looks to defend , the ball goes off the pads to the on-side 9.3 Afridi to Guptill , no run , flatter and shorter on off , Guptill punches it back to the bowler 9.2 Afridi to Williamson , 3 runs , slightly short and outside off , Williamson goes deep inside the crease and cuts it to square third man for a brace 9.1 Afridi to Williamson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Williamson comes forward and smothers it to the off-side 8.6 Irfan to Guptill , no run , on a length on off , Guptill comes forward and pushes it back to the bowler 8.5 Irfan to Guptill , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 8.4 Irfan to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Guptill goes on the back foot and blocks it to cover 8.3 Irfan to Williamson , 1 run , length delivery on the pads , Williamson flicks it to mid-wicket for a run 8.2 Irfan to Williamson , no run , good length delivery around off , Williamson comes on the front foot and defends it to the off-side 8.1 Irfan to Williamson , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Williamson blocks it off the back foot to cover 7.6 Afridi to Williamson , 1 run , short delivery around off , Williamson punches it to sweeper cover to get off the mark Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.5 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , out Bowled ! ! Lala gets the breakthrough for Pakistan. This was a slider just outside off , McCullum goes on the back foot and looks to punch , but only manages to chop it back onto his leg-stump. Afridi raises his arms in delight. McCullum walks back disappointed. Sarfraz breathes a sigh of relief. Brendon McCullum b Afridi 31 ( 27 ) [ 4s-5 6s-1 ] Afridi to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 7.4 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , no run , slider on off , McCullum goes deep inside the crease and looks to punch , gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball almost went onto hit the stumps , but luckily for McCullum , it rolls past the leg stump 7.3 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , short and width on offer , McCullum camps on the back foot and cuts it past the backward point fielder for back-to-back boundaries 7.2 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , short delivery around off , McCullum goes on the back foot and cuts it in front of square on the off-side for a magnificent boundary , the fielder at cover dived to his left , but the ball went past him and crashes into the fence 7.1 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , no run , flatter delivery just outside off , McCullum goes back to the off-side 6.6 Irfan to Guptill , no run , slightly back of a length delivery on leg , Guptill turns it into the on-side 6.5 Irfan to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 6.4 Irfan to Guptill , no run , bouncer at the batsman , Guptill ducks under it 6.3 Irfan to Guptill , no run , good length delivery outside off , Guptill blocks it to the off-side 6.2 Irfan to Guptill , FOUR , back of a length delivery on the hips , Guptill shuffles across and helps it along the ground to the fine leg fence for his first boundary 6.1 Irfan to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery around off , Guptill goes back and tucks it to the on-side 5.6 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , no run , tossed up delivery on the pads , McCullum misses the flick , the ball goes off the pads to the on-side 5.5 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , no run , shortens the length a touch , McCullum camps on the back foot and pushes it to the on-side 5.4 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , no run , flighted delivery on off , McCullum defends it to cover 5.3 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , no run , stumping chance missed by Sarfraz , quicker and flatter on off , McCullum skips down the track , looks to heave and misses , Sarfraz could n't glove the ball cleanly either and Afridi is not happy with the effort , McCullum survives for now 5.2 Afridi to Brendon McCullum , no run , shortens the length a touch just outside off , McCullum goes back and cuts it to backward point 5.1 Afridi to Guptill , 1 run , fullish on off , Guptill leans forward and drives it to long-off Shahid Afridi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Boom Boom into the attack. He has a slip and a short mid-wicket in place 4.6 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , no run , bumper at the batsman , McCullum ducks under it 4.5 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , short of length delivery on off and middle , McCullum camps on the back foot and mistimes the pull to deep backward square leg for a brace 4.4 Irfan to Guptill , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle , Guptill leans forward and drives it to mid-on and sets off for a quick single 4.3 Irfan to Guptill , no run , good length delivery around off , Guptill pushes it to cover 4.2 Irfan to Guptill , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Guptill looks to pull initially , but sways away at the last moment , the ball goes over his head and Sarfraz fumbles , but they decide against taking a bye 4.1 Irfan to Guptill , no run , good length delivery outside off , Guptill shoulders arms 3.6 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , no run , shortens the length a touch just outside off , McCullum hangs back and knocks it to point 3.5 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , SIX , full and straight ball on off , McCullum leans forward and swings through the line for the first maximum of the match , the ball goes over the long off fence , effortless hit 3.4 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , short delivery on off , McCullum goes on the back foot and pulls , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat to the deep mid-wicket fence 3.3 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , no run , back of a length delivery around off , McCullum hangs back and pushes it to point 3.2 Bhatti to Guptill , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Guptill goes on the back foot and pulls it to deep square leg 3.1 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , leg byes , 1 run , length delivery on the pads , McCullum misses the glance , the ball takes the pads and runs towards short fine leg , where Irfan dives to his right and stops the ball , the batsmen take a leg bye 2.6 Irfan to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery angled across off , Guptill gets on top of the bounce and blocks it to the off-side 2.5 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , McCullum hangs back and pulls it to fine leg 2.4 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , no run , short of length delivery at the batsman , McCullum jumps inside the crease and defends it back towards the bowler 2.3 Irfan to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Guptill goes back and cuts it to square third man for a run 2.2 Irfan to Guptill , no run , on a length slanted across off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 2.1 Irfan to Guptill , no run , good length delivery outside off , Guptill shoulders arms 1.6 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , fuller length delivery on off , McCullum comes on the front foot and lofts it straight down the ground for a one bounce four 1.5 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , short of length delivery outside off , McCullum goes on the back foot and cuts it between cover and point for the first boundary of the innings 1.4 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , no run , good length delivery around off , McCullum presses forward and defends it towards mid-off 1.3 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , no run , fullish on middle , McCullum leans forward and drives it back to the bowler 1.2 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , no run , on a length on off , McCullum gets well forward and blocks it back to the bowler 1.1 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , McCullum comes on the front foot and drives , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat to mid-on 1.1 Bhatti to Brendon McCullum , wide , good length delivery down the leg-side , wide called by the ump Bilawal Bhatti , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Irfan to Guptill , no run , short of length delivery on the pads , Guptill goes back and misses the glance , the ball dribbles away off the pads towards square leg , Guptill wanted a single but McCullum sent him back 0.5 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , short of length delivery on the hips again , McCullum goes on the back foot and tucks it to backward square leg for a quick single 0.4 Irfan to Guptill , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Guptill jumps inside the crease and nudges it to fine leg 0.3 Irfan to Guptill , no run , good length delivery angling away outside off , Guptill lifts his bat and lets it go 0.2 Irfan to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , short of length delivery angled across the right-hander , McCullum goes back and guides it to square third man 0.1 Irfan to Guptill , 1 run , full and on the pads , Guptill comes across and flicks it to deep mid-wicket to get off the mark Guptill and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Guptill is on strike. Irfan will open the attack Brendon McCullum and Martin Guptill are in the middle , Guptill will be on strike. Irfan will start the proceedings for Pakistan. He has two slips in place... Here we go.. . New Zealand have made three changes - Williamson , Vettori and Southee come in place of Latham , Anderson and Mills. Pakistan are unchanged for this game . Teams : Pakistan ( Playing XI ) : Mohammad Hafeez , Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Umar Akmal , Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Shahid Afridi , Mohammad Irfan , Bilawal Bhatti , Ehsan Adil New Zealand ( Playing XI ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Daniel Vettori , Nathan McCullum , Tim Southee , Adam Milne , Trent Boult New Zealand have won the toss and have opted to bat Pakistan 's problems are not limited to their batting. With Junaid Khan ruled out of the World Cup , their bowling just became weaker. For the Black Caps , Kane Williamson 's participation in the game is still doubtful. The team management will take the decision on his inclusion before the start of play. Toss and teams coming up in a short while. Stay tuned . This is the final international game before the World Cup warm-ups start. For Pakistan , it is important that they get back in some sort of form before their World Cup campaign kicks off against India on February 15. Shahid Afridi and Misbah-ul-Haq looked in good touch in the last game , while the rest of the batting line-up failed . In the last game , Pakistan were completely outplayed by an all-round show from the New Zealand team. Currently , New Zealand have a 1-0 advantage , but expect Pakistan to come hard at them. Hello and welcome to the final ODI between New Zealand and Pakistan. For New Zealand , a win here would mean another series win , their third consecutive ODI series triumph. Can Pakistan stop them ? We will find out soon . Preview The second and final ODI between New Zealand and Pakistan in Napier is the last chance for both teams to settle into the groove before the 2015 ICC World Cup. For Pakistan , this match assumes greater importance after their loss in Wellington. They were rusty in all departments and with the World Cup just 12 days away , Pakistan will be desperate to shake of the rust and win the second ODI in order to build confidence . For New Zealand , everything is clicking into place. Skipper Brendon McCullum is happy with the way the team is shaping up before the World Cup. Both the batting and bowling is performing consistently and the bench strength is strong. A win in Napier will give them the ideal boost just before the tournament . Team news New Zealand New Zealand coach Mike Hesson said the team will continue their rotation policy depending upon the opponents and the conditions. " We 're fairly well advanced in terms of what we think we 've got with the bowling. But until we see the conditions , we wo n't make that call , " he said. Kane Williamson , who had missed the first ODI with a shoulder injury , is in doubt for this match and a call on his inclusion will be taken just before the start on Tuesday. Martin Guptill , after two golden ducks , showed glimpses of returning to good touch by scoring 39 in Wellington while Brendon McCullum will be hoping to sign off with a big score . Probable XI 1 Martin Guptill , 2 Brendon McCullum ( c ) , 3 Tom Latham/Kane Williamson , 4 Ross Taylor , 5 Grant Elliott , 6 Corey Anderson , 7 Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , 8 Daniel Vettori/Nathan McCullum , 9 Tim Southee , 10 Kyle Mills , 11 Trent Boult Pakistan With Mohammad Hafeez failing with the bat , Pakistan 's top order remains fragile. Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi saved Pakistan the blushes but the rest of the batting failed as a unit. Younis Khan 's poor ODI form continues to be a problem. The bowling is also handicapped by the absence of Junaid Khan. With the batting in poor form and the bowling thin on experience , it will take a monumental effort from Pakistan to win in Napier . Probable XI 1 Mohammad Hafeez , 2 Ahmed Shehzad , 3 Younis Khan , 4 Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , 5 Haris Sohail , 6 Umar Akmal , 7 Sarfraz Ahmed ( wk ) , 8 Shahid Afridi , 9 Bilawal Bhatti , 10 Ehsan Adil , 11 Mohammad Irfan Stats Shahid Afridi averages 37.25 in New Zealand , his best in ODIs overseas . Since his 117 against Sri Lanka in Hamilton , Brendon McCullum has managed only 81 runs in five games at an average of 16.2 . Teams : Pakistan ( From ) : Mohammad Hafeez , Ahmed Shehzad , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Umar Akmal , Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Mohammad Irfan , Bilawal Bhatti , Ehsan Adil , Sohaib Maqsood , Yasir Shah New Zealand ( From ) : Brendon McCullum ( c ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( w ) , Nathan McCullum , Kyle Mills , Adam Milne , Trent Boult , Mitchell McClenaghan , Tom Latham , Tim Southee , Daniel Vettori Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
