Graphs That 's it from here. Sri Lanka have returned to winning ways. Can England figure out the right combination and strike back in the second ODI ? Do join us back on Saturday to find out. Until then , take care and good night . Dilshan : " I was disappointed with my performance in India. In the last six months I have got 80s and 90s. It 's time to convert. Kusal batted really well. He took his time and then played his shots. Great start from Kusal and myself. I am enjoying the fielding. I am enjoying every single moment on the field. It is an important first game. We will have to come back again in two days and start from the first ball. " Dilshan is the Man of the Match . Mathews : " That was a good game of cricket. It was one of those days where we ticked all the boxes. The fielding was superb. It was one of the things we highlighted after the Indian tour. I am very happy. I thought batting was brilliant. Good to see Kusal back in form. Mahela and Dilshan batted well. Thiri and Jeevan finished it off. " Cook : " The first few overs were rusty. We bowled better than that in the practice match. We dragged it back in the middle , but leaked runs at the end. Moeen played well but we lost wickets at regular intervals. You could put that down to lack of match practice. Sri Lanka are battle hardened. Moeen played a superb innings and showed us the way. When somebody scores the 3rd fastest ODI hundred , you have to win. We have done well in patches. We thought 300 was a par score. We gave away too many wides and that was disappointing. We have to pick ourselves up and get savvy with the ball. As always , runs at the top of the order are massively important and we have to do that. " Presentation time : Thisara Perera was the pick of the bowlers for Sri Lanka with three wickets , while Rangana Herath and Ajantha Mendis bagged two each. Dhammika Prasad had a forgettable day at the office as he was thrashed to all corners. So how crucial was that onslaught from Jeevan Mendis late in Sri Lanka 's innings ? Chris Woakes will rue the fact that his last , the penultimate over of the innings , went for 21 runs . England had their chances in the run chase. If Moeen Ali 's maiden ODI hundred kept them in the hunt earlier , Ravi Bopara , as always , batted exceptionally well lower down the order and almost stole the match from Sri Lanka 's bag. Captain Alastair Cook struggled at the top , but Ali was simply unstoppable. He timed the ball so sweetly but unfortunately for him and Bopara , none of their team-mates were willing to spend time out in the middle. Ali registered England 's 3rd fastest ODI hundred , but it could n't get them past the line . Dilshan grabs a stump and almost smashes the camera that was brought onto the field to capture the celebrations. Well , it was all done in joyous spirit though . So , Sri Lanka draw first blood in the 7-match series. Firstly , credit to the groundsmen for preparing a fine ODI track , despite all the rain in the build up to this match . 47.1 T Perera to Bopara , out Caught by K Perera ! ! Oh that 's gone very high in the air , Kusal Perera comes under it and ohhhh he hangs onto a stunning catch. He had to dive forward to complete the catch as he misjudged it slightly and in the end , it stays that no team has chased down 300 in Sri Lanka. In joy , Thirimanne jumps on Kusal , who was lying on the ground after taking the catch. Bopara will be very disappointed at missing out on this juicy full ball. He swung so hard at it but mistimed it completely and deep square leg ran forward to take a fine catch. Bopara c K Perera b T Perera 65 ( 62 ) [ 4s-4 6s-2 ] T Perera to Bopara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Can Bopara get England past the line ? 26 needed off 18 balls . 46.6 A Mendis to Gurney , no run , slowish outside off stump , Gurney simply lets it go. That 's a shocking ball from Mendis , considering that it was the last man in. He could have fired it on the stumps and tested the batsman out. Obviously , Gurney will not bother play at anything that 's not at the stumps at this stage No one in the ring on the on-side . 46.5 A Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Bopara slog-sweeps it to deep mid-wicket , Bopara does n't want the run but Gurney forces him to take one. Maybe he told him he can handle the last ball 46.4 A Mendis to Bopara , FOUR , excellent shot ! Flighted delivery outside off stump , Bopara gets down on one knee and sweeps it hard to the deep mid-wicket boundary. The fielder in the deep was very square 46.3 A Mendis to Bopara , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Bopara lofts it to long-off , but he denies the single 46.2 A Mendis to Gurney , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Gurney lofts the drive over cover Harry Gurney , right handed bat , comes to the crease A slip and a short leg in place . 46.1 A Mendis to Tredwell , out Bowled ! ! Bingo ! The ball hits the middle stump and that gets the crowd going. The quicker delivery on the stumps , Tredwell rocks back and tries to cut , but the ball was too quick for him and it hit the top of middle stump. Can Gurney give good support to Bopara , who is determined to win this for England ? Tredwell b A Mendis 6 ( 11 ) A Mendis to Tredwell , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Ajantha Mendis [ 8.0-0-49-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 T Perera to Bopara , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Bopara gets an inside edge onto pad , he takes off for the run but Tredwell says no as the ball went nowhere 45.6 T Perera to Bopara , no ball , FOUR , oops ! A high full toss over the waist and it 's called a no-ball. Perera puts his hand out and sends down an apology to the batsman. Bopara did extremely well to whip it over backward square leg 45.5 T Perera to Bopara , 2 runs , no one in the deep over extra-cover and wisely , Bopara goes leg-side to loft this inside-out , it was the slower ball and hence Bopara could n't get enough bat on it. The ball went high in the air and almost plugged in the deep 45.4 T Perera to Bopara , 2 runs , so much bottom hand power in the pull shot , but Jeevan Mendis does extremely well running to his right from long-on and he saves two runs with a tumbling save 45.3 T Perera to Bopara , no run , Bopara tries to help it around the corner but the short of length delivery jags back in , takes the inside edge and hits him on the thigh pad 45.2 T Perera to Bopara , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Bopara defends off the back foot 45.1 T Perera to Tredwell , 1 run , full and on the leg stump , Tredwell flicks it to deep mid-wicket 44.6 Herath to Tredwell , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Tredwell lofts it , Mendis tries to get to the ball running back from extra-cover , but it just evades him 44.5 Herath to Tredwell , no run , shortish and outside off stump , punched to cover 44.4 Herath to Bopara , 1 run , full and on the leg stump , Bopara drives it down to long-on 44.3 Herath to Bopara , SIX , 13th ODI fifty. Full and in the slot , Bopara clears his front leg and slogs it high over wide long-on. Not much of celebrations from Ravi , he knows the job is not done yet 44.2 Herath to Bopara , no run , Bopara exposes all the stumps , Herath fires it in and the batsman drives it straight to cover 44.1 Herath to Tredwell , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Tredwell flicks it to deep mid-wicket 43.6 T Perera to Bopara , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Bopara drives and picks out cover 43.5 T Perera to Tredwell , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Tredwell turns it to square leg 43.4 T Perera to Bopara , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Bopara turns it to backward square leg 43.3 T Perera to Tredwell , 1 run , good length delivery on the leg stump , Tredwell defends and gets a thick inside edge that rolls to mid-wicket 43.2 T Perera to Tredwell , no run , full outside off stump , squeezed out , Dilshan throws himself to his left at backward point to save a few 43.1 T Perera to Tredwell , no run , full and just swinging away outside off stump , Tredwell was lazy on the drive and the ball beat him comfortably 42.6 Herath to Bopara , FOUR , nice hit ! Flighted delivery just outside off stump , Bopara dances down the track and lofts it inside out over extra-cover 42.5 Herath to Tredwell , 1 run , shortish outside off stump , Tredwell cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side 42.4 Herath to Tredwell , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Tredwell slashes and misses James Tredwell , left handed bat , comes to the crease 42.3 Herath to Woakes , out Stumped ! ! Brilliant ball and it 's a brilliant stumping as well. This flighted delivery pitched outside leg and turned square , Woakes came down the track but the turn beat him all ends up , Sanga was blinded by the batsman , but he did extremely well to move his hands to his right , collect the ball and take the bails off. Woakes st Sangakkara b Herath 7 ( 11 ) [ 4s-1 ] Herath to Woakes , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 42.2 Herath to Woakes , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Woakes defends off the front foot 42.1 Herath to Bopara , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Bopara pushes it wide of long-on Rangana Herath [ 7.0-0-43-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 T Perera to Woakes , no run , shout for caught behind , not given. Good length delivery outside off stump , Woakes drives away from the body and gets beaten 41.6 T Perera to Woakes , wide , short and wide outside off stump , Woakes slashes and gets beaten 41.5 T Perera to Woakes , FOUR , top edge just evades a jumping Sangakkara behind the sticks. This was a steep bumper from Perera , Woakes looks to hook , but gets an edge and got just enough to clear the keeper 41.4 T Perera to Woakes , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Woakes defends off the front foot 41.3 T Perera to Woakes , no run , this good length delivery jagged back off the deck and beat Woakes ' inside edge as he played away from the body 41.2 T Perera to Bopara , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Bopara taps it wide of point for an easy run 41.1 T Perera to Woakes , 1 run , short delivery just outside off stump , Woakes rocks back and helps it through backward square leg Thisara Perera [ 6.0-1-24-2 ] is back into the attack 40.6 J Mendis to Woakes , 1 run , a rank long hop and Mendis is very lucky that Woakes hits it straight to deep backward square leg 40.5 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , shortish and on the leg stump , Bopara rocks back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 40.4 J Mendis to Bopara , FOUR , the bat made a sweet sound as it made contact with the ball. Flighted delivery well outside off stump , Bopara fetches the sweep and it rockets to the deep mid-wicket boundary 40.3 J Mendis to Woakes , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Woakes drives it down to long-on 40.2 J Mendis to Woakes , no run , tossed up on the off stump , Woakes defends off the front foot 40.1 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , googly on the leg stump , Bopara punches it down to long-on Jeevan Mendis [ 5.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Herath to Woakes , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , blocked Chris Woakes , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.5 Herath to Stokes , out Stumped ! ! Stokes is livid with himself. Clever bowling from Herath , on seeing Stokes advance , he fires it wide outside off stump , Stokes yorks himself up and the ball sneaks through. Sanga stays low to collect the ball and he whips the bails off in a flash. Stokes st Sangakkara b Herath 16 ( 27 ) Herath to Stokes , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 39.4 Herath to Stokes , 2 runs , swept uppishly over square leg , the fielder in the deep does well to relay to his partner 39.3 Herath to Stokes , no run , advances and digs it back to the bowler 39.2 Herath to Stokes , no run , that almost shaved the leg stump. Stokes went across the stumps to sweep but missed it 39.1 Herath to Stokes , no run , advances and flicks the flighted delivery into the on-side , mid-wcket does well to stop the ball 38.6 A Mendis to Stokes , 3 runs , risky reverse sweep but he 's connected that very well , Kusal dives to his right at deep backward point and flicks the ball , but it goes towards the rope again. Kusal quickly recovers and puts in another dive to save one for his side 38.5 A Mendis to Stokes , no run , quicker delivery on the off stump , blocked 38.4 A Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , a direct-hit would have been interesting. Shortish outside off stump , punched wide of mid-off , Mahela quickly releases the ball but just could n't get the throw on target 38.3 A Mendis to Bopara , no run , on the leg stump , pulled straight to backward square leg 38.2 A Mendis to Stokes , 1 run , on the stumps , driven to long-on 38.1 A Mendis to Stokes , no run , this carrom-ball spins back in sharply and almost goes through Stokes ' defences , he just about manages to fend it into the on-side 37.6 Herath to Stokes , 1 run , low full toss down the leg-side , Stokes sweeps well , but Mathews makes an acrobatic save diving to his right 37.5 Herath to Stokes , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Stokes misses the sweep 37.4 Herath to Bopara , 1 run , advances and punches the flighted delivery wide of long-off 37.3 Herath to Bopara , no run , full on the stumps , worked towards mid-wicket 37.2 Herath to Bopara , SIX , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Bopara launches it over wide long-on 37.1 Herath to Bopara , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Bopara defends 36.6 A Mendis to Stokes , 2 runs , flighted delivery on the off stump , Stokes flicks it to mid-wicket 36.5 A Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , punched back towards the bowler , who fumbles 36.4 A Mendis to Stokes , 1 run , slower and shorter on the stumps , Stokes pulls it to deep square leg 36.3 A Mendis to Stokes , no run , quicker delivery on the off stump , Stokes punches it to cover 36.2 A Mendis to Stokes , no run , down the leg-side , Stokes fails to flick and is hit on the pad 36.1 A Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , shortish on the off stump , Bopara works it to long-on Ajantha Mendis [ 6.0-0-38-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Herath to Bopara , 1 run , on the leg stump , worked to mid-wicket 35.5 Herath to Bopara , no run , down the leg side , swept to backward square leg 35.4 Herath to Bopara , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , defended By the way , the batting powerplay is in progress . 35.3 Herath to Bopara , 2 runs , down the leg-side , Bopara sweeps it to fine leg 35.2 Herath to Bopara , no run , picks out the man at mid-wicket 35.1 Herath to Stokes , 1 run , fullish outside off stump , pushed to sweeper cover 34.6 J Mendis to Stokes , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Stokes flicks it to mid-wicket 34.5 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Bopara pushes it to sweeper cover 34.4 J Mendis to Stokes , 1 run , in the gap again , easy run 34.3 J Mendis to Stokes , no run , punches it straight to the fielder 34.2 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , easily nudged away for a run 34.1 J Mendis to Bopara , 2 runs , flighted delivery from Bopara , worked away into the gap for two 33.6 Herath to Stokes , no run , Stokes gives the charge , but the bowler drags his length back to keep him calm 33.5 Herath to Stokes , no run , stunning piece of fielding by Dilshan at mid-wicket. He stuck his left hand out and stopped the ball. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Stokes flicked it into the on-side , but could n't get it past the fielder 33.4 Herath to Bopara , 1 run , tossed up on the off stump , driven down to long-off 33.3 Herath to Stokes , 1 run , low full toss on the leg stump , flicked to deep mid-wicket 33.2 Herath to Stokes , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Stokes defends it to cover 33.1 Herath to Bopara , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Bopara defends it to point Rangana Herath [ 3.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack Herath is back now. He has a slip in place . 32.6 J Mendis to Stokes , no run , quicker ball tight around the off stump , Stokes defends off the back foot. The ball hurried onto him on that occasion 32.5 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , shortish just outside off stump , Bopara punches it to sweeper cover 32.4 J Mendis to Stokes , 1 run , googly too short outside off stump , Stokes rocks back and cuts it powerfully to sweeper cover 32.3 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , tossed up just outside off stump , driven down to long-on 32.2 J Mendis to Bopara , no run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , swept to backward square leg Jayawardene has hurt his left hand and is off the field now . 32.1 J Mendis to Bopara , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Bopara defends off the front foot 31.6 Dilshan to Bopara , 1 run , legbreak dragged short , pulled to square leg , who makes a diving save 31.5 Dilshan to Bopara , no run , pushed through , Bopara sets up for a sweep , the ball runs off the face of the bat. Sanga anticipated well , moving to his left , but ca n't glove it 31.4 Dilshan to Stokes , 1 run , driven towards deep point. Stokes looks for the second , but Thiri was quick to get to the ball 31.3 Dilshan to Stokes , no run , on a length and on the fourth stump , forward and defended to the covers 31.2 Dilshan to Bopara , 1 run , Bopara bends down , takes it from outside off and paddles it fine for a single 31.2 Dilshan to Bopara , wide , darted down leg , Bopara misses the glance 31.1 Dilshan to Bopara , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker outside off , keeps low as well. Bopara is beaten on the defensive push Ben Stokes , left handed bat , comes to the crease Time for the final drinks break. Now that Ali 's gone , the hosts are in the box seat . 30.6 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , out Caught&Bowled ! ! End of a sterling knock from Ali. Nicely tossed up on middle , grips in the pitch as well. Moeen Ali was a touch early into the push and lobs it back to the bowler , who claps his hands around it. Moeen Ali c and b J Mendis 119 ( 87 ) [ 4s-11 6s-5 ] J Mendis to Moeen Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 30.5 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , SIX , fraction short on the leg stump , Moeen Ali pulled it high and over deep backward square leg. For a moment , the fielder was in the picture but the ball whistled over him 30.4 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , dragged short and just outside off , Bopara forehands it to long-off 30.3 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , Moeen Ali makes room outside leg , but the bowler follows Ali. Jammed out to long-off 30.2 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , blocked back to Mendis 30.1 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , tossed up and fuller on middle , driven between extra-cover and mid-off for a couple of runs 29.6 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Moeen Ali plays a whippy drive to long-on 29.5 Dilshan to Bopara , 1 run , flicked off the pads towards fine leg 29.4 Dilshan to Bopara , no run , flatter and fired quicker , Bopara hangs back and punches it to mid-off 29.3 Dilshan to Bopara , no run , slides on with the arm on off , squirted towards square leg off an inside-edge 29.2 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , 1 run , floated on off , Moeen Ali comes forward and eases it to sweeper cover 29.1 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , no run , an animated appeal for lbw , but ump Simon Fry shakes his head. Pushed through on the leg stump , Ali misses the sweep and is struck on the pad. Luckily for Ali , the ball was slipping down leg 28.6 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , googly outside off , Moeen Ali pushes at it and gets an outside edge towards short third 28.5 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , Moeen Ali closes his bat face early on the flick , gets a leading edge in front of point 28.4 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , forward and driven to long-off 28.3 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , lady luck continues to smile on Ali. Dug in quicker on middle , hurries onto Moeen Ali , who top-edges the pull. The ball just loops over a back-pedaling bowler 28.2 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , tap-and-run to the covers 28.1 J Mendis to Bopara , no run , drifting just outside leg , Bopara misses the sweep. How did that not clip the leg stump ? 27.6 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , no run , forward and defensively pushed to the covers 27.5 Dilshan to Bopara , 1 run , looped up generously , Bopara goes for a drive , ekes out an inside-edge that evades the sticks and runs away behind square leg 27.4 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , 1 run , dips in on middle on a fuller length , driven down to long-on 27.3 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , FOUR , dropped fraction short and on off , Moeen Ali switches back and powers a pull to the deep mid wicket boundary. The ball just rocketed away 27.2 Dilshan to Bopara , 1 run , shortish on middle and off , Bopara goes back and punches it , beating silly mid-on 27.1 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , 1 run , flatter on middle and leg , jammed to long-on Tillakaratne Dilshan [ 3.0-0-18-1 ] is back into the attack 26.6 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , maiden ODI ton for Moeen ! 3rd fastest century by an English player , behind Buttler and KP , in ODIs. Full toss on off , push-driven down to long-off. He removes the helmet off his head and salutes the applause. Moeen now helps himself to some drinks and a banana 26.5 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , pushed through outside off , Moeen Ali feels for it and gets beaten. Sanga whipped the bails off , but Moeen 's back foot was grounded 26.4 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , dug in short and outside off , Moeen Ali cuts and finds point 26.3 J Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , fullish and outside off , eased to long-off 26.2 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , slides on with the arm on middle and leg , worked to mid-wicket for a hasty single. Ali moves onto 99 26.1 J Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , flatter and quicker outside off , looks like the googly , cut to extra cover off the back foot Jeevan Mendis , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 25.6 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , 1 run , back of a length and hurries onto the hip , Moeen Ali manages to pull it towards fine leg 25.5 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , SIX , very very wristy ! Slower ball on middle , Moeen Ali waits on it and flicks it high and over deep mid-wicket 25.4 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , no run , back of a length and down leg , Moeen Ali misses the glance , the ball brushes the thigh and is snaffled by Sanga , diving to his right. The muffled caught behind appeal amounts to nothing 25.3 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , only a harsh man would call that a drop ! Fuller on middle , Moeen Ali drills it back at the bowler , who can only get a fingertip to it and parry it over himself. In fact , Dhammika collapsed on his follow-through 25.2 Dhammika to Bopara , 1 run , back of a length and around off , punched to point for a single 25.1 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , 3 runs , back of a length and outside off , Moeen Ali drags a pull between mid-wicket and mid-on. Thisara runs back and hauls the ball back in. Moeen was a bit slow on the third. A direct hit could have been tight. Is Moeen suffering from cramps ? 24.6 A Mendis to Bopara , no run , flatter and attacking the stumps is Mendis , defended back to the bowler 24.5 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , straight roller on middle , knocked towards cover-point 24.4 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , pitching outside leg , Moeen Ali misses the defensive push and is hit on the pad 24.3 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , punched off the back foot to mid-wicket. This Mendis offering skidded onto the batsman 24.2 A Mendis to Bopara , 1 run , nice and loopy outside off , Bopara stretches forward and drives it to sweeper cover 24.1 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , pushed through around off , dabbed to short third man for a quick single 23.6 Dhammika to Bopara , no run , shortish and on off , Bopara fends it carefully 23.5 Dhammika to Bopara , no run , pitched up and outside off , forward and blocked in front of short cover Ravi Bopara , right handed bat , comes to the crease Ali walks up to Bopara and has a few words with the latter . 23.4 Dhammika to Buttler , out Bowled ! ! Buttler slays himself , he has chopped on. Cuts back in on a back of a length , Buttler aims to dab it down to third man. But the ball rebounds off the inside-edge of an angled bat and rattles the stumps. England are in a fix at 159/5. Buttler b Dhammika 21 ( 21 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Dhammika to Buttler , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 23.3 Dhammika to Buttler , FOUR , short of length on off , sits up to be hit. Buttler obliges pulling it to the deep mid-wicket boundary , beating the slide of a chasing Mathews 23.2 Dhammika to Buttler , no run , back of a length and around off , Buttler pokes it towards point after getting squared up a touch 23.1 Dhammika to Buttler , no run , very full and on off , Buttler goes hard on the drive and drags it to mid-on off the inside half of the bat Dhammika Prasad [ 3.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack Ali sips on some drinks. He needs to kick on if England are to overhaul 317 . 22.6 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , there is the riposte from Mendis. Slider across Ali , who ca n't lay bat onto it. Good take from Sanga on that occasion 22.5 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , SIX , wonderful strike from Moeen. A Mendis veers onto the pads , Moeen Ali picks it from there and launches it over deep mid-wicket 22.4 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , Moeen Ali stays back , picks it from an off stump line and wrists it to mid-wicket 22.3 A Mendis to Buttler , 1 run , punched past silly mid-on off the back foot 22.2 A Mendis to Buttler , no run , flatter and on off , Buttler pushes at it and gets an inside-edge back to the bowler 22.2 A Mendis to Buttler , 3 wides , darted down leg at 93.2kph , left alone. Sanga ca n't glove the ball cleanly 22.1 A Mendis to Buttler , 2 runs , positive running between the wickets after paddling it round the corner towards fine leg 21.6 T Perera to Buttler , 1 run , short of length and on off , pulled off the back foot over mid-wicket. Only a single results as there is protection in the deep 21.5 T Perera to Buttler , no run , back of a length and jags back in close to off , Buttler looks to force it off the back foot. However , he meets only with thin air 21.4 T Perera to Buttler , SIX , fuller length ball and width on offer as well - in the slot as they say - Buttler just sits back and tonks it over long-off 21.3 T Perera to Buttler , 2 runs , pitched up and outside off , Buttler rocks forward and plays a punchy drive to sweeper cover , where KJP runs across and makes a sliding save 21.2 T Perera to Buttler , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Buttler dabs it softly in front of point and half-waves his bat to Moeen Ali 21.1 T Perera to Buttler , no run , good length ball straightening outside off , Buttler has a dabble at that and is beaten on the outside edge 20.6 A Mendis to Buttler , 1 run , punched off the back foot to long-on 20.5 A Mendis to Buttler , 2 runs , much slower through the air , Buttler pushes it past square leg for a couple of runs 20.4 A Mendis to Buttler , no run , slower through the air on middle and leg , clipped to mid-wicket 20.3 A Mendis to Buttler , no run , fired flatter on off , Buttler stands tall and punches it back to the bowler 20.2 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , pushed through by Mendis , swept away to fine leg 20.1 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , slides on with the arm , flatter as well , Moeen Ali looks to force it off the back foot but has to settle with an inside-edge onto the pad 19.6 T Perera to Buttler , no run , slanted across on a back of a length , Buttler lets it pass to Sanga 19.6 T Perera to Buttler , wide , wided for height ! Bumper , sails over a half ducking Buttler 19.5 T Perera to Buttler , no run , short and sliding across Buttler , who has swish at it and misses 19.4 T Perera to Moeen Ali , 1 run , full and wide outside off , Moeen Ali steers it down to third man with an open bat face 19.3 T Perera to Moeen Ali , no run , back of a length and outside off , toe-ends the cut to the covers 19.2 T Perera to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Ali drives it in the air , but places it wide of the covers. The ball may have gripped in the pitch , foiling his timing 19.1 T Perera to Buttler , 1 run , yorker at the base of middle and off , Buttler jabs his bat down and squirts it in front of point 18.6 A Mendis to Buttler , 1 run , forward and driven to sweeper cover as Buttler gets off the mark Jos Buttler , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.5 A Mendis to Eoin Morgan , out Bowled ! ! Fourth pin down for England. This was the carrom ball from Mendis. Tossed up nicely outside off , Eoin Morgan goes for a booming drive through the covers but can only drag it back onto the stumps off an inside-edge. Eoin Morgan b A Mendis 1 ( 3 ) A Mendis to Eoin Morgan , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 18.4 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , another sweep , Moeen Ali inside-edges it towards fine leg 18.3 A Mendis to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , poor review from the hosts. Pushed through outside leg , Eoin Morgan switches an attempted reverse paddle into a conventional paddle. The ball brushes the pad and runs away fine. May have taken an inside edge as well. Missing leg and pitched outside leg to go with it An appeal for lbw. The on-field decision is NOT OUT. Sri Lanka want to challenge the decision. Ajantha 's footing is fine. Did the ball pitch outside leg ? Pitched well outside leg , missing leg. Time to move on 18.2 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , what a clanger ! Jeevan is the culprit at deep mid-wicket. Flatter and outside off , Moeen Ali plays a flat slog sweep. The fielder rushes in , perhaps went with hard hands and spilled it. His namesake - Ajantha Mendis - will be disappointed 18.1 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , no run , slow through the air on middle , Moeen Ali steps out and pushes it back to the bowler Ajantha Mendis [ 2.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 T Perera to Eoin Morgan , no run , pitched up and leaving Morgan in the channel outside off. The new man has a iffy poke at it and gets beaten neck and crop. Thisara is making the ball talk at the RPS Eoin Morgan , left handed bat , comes to the crease Two slips welcome Morgan . 17.5 T Perera to J Root , out Caught by Sangakkara ! ! Thisara leaps for joy , he is pumped. Teasing good length ball with a little bit of movement outside off , Root drives loosely and edges it through to Sanga. This means two in two overs for the all-rounder. J Root c Sangakkara b T Perera 2 ( 8 ) T Perera to J Root , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.4 T Perera to J Root , no run , bouncer from Thisara ! Climbs high and defeats Root 's pull/hook 17.3 T Perera to J Root , no run , back of a length and outside off , Root comes forward and crunches it to point , where Dilshan flings to his right and makes a top stop 17.2 T Perera to J Root , no run , back of a length and outside off , mistimed cut towards extra-cover. The ball skewed off the bottom of the bat 17.1 T Perera to J Root , no run , dug in shortish and on the fourth stump , Root stands tall and punches it into the covers This is Moeen 's highest ODI score now . 16.6 Herath to Moeen Ali , no run , Herath turns to the arm ball on the stumps , Moeen Ali dead-bats it 16.5 Herath to Moeen Ali , no run , low full toss on the leg stump , flicked to mid-wicket 16.4 Herath to Moeen Ali , SIX , another slog-sweep and it sails over deep mid-wicket now. Ali is on a roll 16.3 Herath to Moeen Ali , SIX , massive from Moeen ! Fuller on middle and off , Moeen Ali skips out , meets the pitch of the ball , gets underneath it and slog sweeps it over cow corner 16.2 Herath to Moeen Ali , no run , much quicker , slides on with the arm. Moeen Ali though keeps it out 16.1 Herath to J Root , 1 run , slower through the air and turning away , Root waits on it and drives it to sweeper 15.6 T Perera to Moeen Ali , no run , bumper on the leg stump , sails over a ducking Ali. End of a successful over from Thisara 15.5 T Perera to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller and outside off , Moeen Ali does not get hold of the drive as the ball goes only as far as mid-off 15.4 T Perera to Moeen Ali , no run , pitched up on middle , Moeen Ali rocks forward and drives it crisply to the covers. Good stop from Thiri there 15.3 T Perera to J Root , 1 run , nip-backer from Perera , keeps a touch low as well , squirted towards fine leg off an inside-edge 15.2 T Perera to J Root , no run , good length ball , tight offering on the off stump line , defended to the off-side Joe Root , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 15.1 T Perera to Bell , out Caught by M Jayawardene ! ! The ball was doing something off the deck for Perera and that has seeded enough doubts in Bell 's mind and he was n't sure with his footwork. Short of a length delivery just bouncing a touch extra , Bell ends up poking at it and a thick outside edge is snaffled by the man at first slip. Credit to Mathews for employing a slip. That ends a fine 56-run stand and England will have to rebuild again. Bell c M Jayawardene b T Perera 35 ( 35 ) [ 4s-3 ] T Perera to Bell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.6 Herath to Bell , 1 run , tossed up just outside off stump , Bell defends it to cover-point and keeps strike 14.5 Herath to Moeen Ali , 1 run , uppish but safe ! Oh it 's a dropped chance , but a very tough one indeed. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Ali drives in the air , Herath dives to his left and just manages to get a fingertip on it 14.4 Herath to Moeen Ali , no run , tossed up just outside off stump , Ali defends off the front foot 14.3 Herath to Bell , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Bell drives it to long-on 14.2 Herath to Bell , 2 runs , shortish flatter delivery outside off stump , Bell rocks back and cuts very late and sends it wide of backward point 14.1 Herath to Moeen Ali , 1 run , round the wicket , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Ali drives it down to long-on Rangana Herath [ 1.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack Time for spin again . England took 36 balls to score the first 50 runs , while the second took 47 balls . 13.6 T Perera to Moeen Ali , 1 run , walks right across the stumps and works the fuller length delivery to mid-on. That 's the 50-run stand as well 13.5 T Perera to Bell , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Bell guides it down to third man and that 's the 100 up for England 13.4 T Perera to Bell , no run , this short of length delivery jags away off the deck , Bell drives away from the body and gets beaten 13.3 T Perera to Moeen Ali , 1 run , Moeen Ali is very lucky that it hit the toe-end of the bat. He wanted to cut this off the back foot , it went straight towards the sweeper cover fielder and a bit a more wood on that would have taken it to the fielder 13.2 T Perera to Moeen Ali , no run , half-hearted shout for caught behind. Just a bit of outswing on this fuller length delivery , Ali drives and misses 13.1 T Perera to Bell , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Bell defends and gets an inside edge onto pad , the ball rolls towards point and they steal a sharp run 13.1 T Perera to Bell , wide , 'do n't act too smart , Thisara Perera, ' says the umpire and turns down his appeal for a catch down the leg-side. What 's more , he calls it a wide as well 12.6 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , no run , cuts the short ball very late and tries to get it past backward point but picks out the fielder 12.5 Dilshan to Bell , 1 run , shortish outside off stump , Bell drives it off the back foot down to long-on 12.4 Dilshan to Bell , no run , on the stumps , turned to square leg 12.3 Dilshan to Bell , no run , flatter delivery on the off stump , defended straight back to the bowler 12.2 Dilshan to Bell , FOUR , oopsy ! He 's spilled the ball ! Short and on the leg stump , Bell rocks back and pulls it over wide mid-on , Dhammika runs to his right , gets to the ball but does n't manage to stop the ball 12.1 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Ali drives it to sweeper cover 11.6 T Perera to Moeen Ali , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Ali guides it to square third man 11.5 T Perera to Moeen Ali , no run , a lazy poke as he tries to run this short of length delivery down to third man , but the ball moves away after pitching to beat him all ends up 11.4 T Perera to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , nicely driven off the back foot and the man at sweeper cover runs to his left to save two 11.3 T Perera to Moeen Ali , no run , Ali was early into this cut shot and hence he ended up feeling for this short of length delivery outside off stump 11.2 T Perera to Bell , 1 run , a tap-and-run single. Bell softly defends this short of length delivery beside the pitch and Moeen Ali was very quick to take off. It was his call and he made it easily in the end 11.1 T Perera to Bell , no run , fullish and on the off stump , Bell looks to drive , the ball nips back and takes the inside edge before thudding into Bell 's front pad Thisara Perera , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Dilshan to Bell , 1 run , shortish and outside off stump , Bell rocks back and punches it to sweeper cover 10.5 Dilshan to Bell , no run , driven nicely off the front foot but Dilshan moves his right in his followthrough to grab the ball 10.4 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , 1 run , short and spinning away outside off stump , Ali rocks back and drives it to sweeper cover 10.3 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , no run , round the wicket to Ali , flighted delivery outside off stump , pushed to cover 10.2 Dilshan to Bell , 1 run , shortish on the leg stump , Bell punches it down to long-on 10.1 Dilshan to Bell , 2 runs , flighted delivery on the off stump , Bell scoops it past the keeper to fine leg Tillakaratne Dilshan [ 1.0-0-7-1 ] is back into the attack This is a great beginning for England. If they can hold their composure in the next 15 overs , they could well be making history tonight by chasing a total in excess of 300 for the first time in Sri Lanka. Remember , they bat deep as well ! 9.6 A Mendis to Bell , 1 run , a direct hit would have been interesting ! Flighted delivery from Mendis , Bell drives it to mid-off and sets off for a sharp run 9.5 A Mendis to Bell , 2 runs , nice looking sweep shot ! Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Bell gets down on one knee and sweeps it along the ground to deep backward square leg 9.4 A Mendis to Bell , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , blocked 9.3 A Mendis to Bell , no run , oopsy ! The bottom edge just bounces over the stumps. Bell was on the back foot to cut this ball and he got away with the edge 9.2 A Mendis to Bell , FOUR , this is some display from Bell and Ali ! Not easy to advance and loft again Mendis , but got to the pitch of the ball and easily lofted this over mid-off 9.1 A Mendis to Bell , no run , shortish on the off stump , Bell punches it towards cover By the way , I forgot to mention that Herath switched to over the wicket for the left-hander 8.6 Herath to Moeen Ali , FOUR , he can play spin , mind you ! Well done , a 25-ball fifty , his third in the 50-over format. Second fastest ODI fifty for England. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Ali gets down on one knee and slog-sweeps it over backward square leg 8.5 Herath to Bell , 1 run , this short ball keeps low a touch , Bell rocks back and cuts it through cover-point 8.4 Herath to Bell , 2 runs , off the glove , but the man at leg gully , rather , not short fine leg as I earlier mentioned , was too fine. Bell wanted to sweep this flighted delivery down the leg-side , luckily for him it did n't pop straight up in the air 8.3 Herath to Bell , no run , the slider from Herath , Bell misses the flick and is hit on the pad. The ball was going down the leg-side 8.2 Herath to Bell , no run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , punched back to Herath 8.1 Herath to Bell , no run , 'bowling, ' is the call from Sanga as Herath gets his first ball right on target , Bell pushes it to the right of the bowler Rangana Herath , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack More spin , in the form of the returning Herath this time. One slip and a short fine leg in place . 7.6 A Mendis to Bell , 1 run , a 90kph quicker ball on the leg stump , Bell nudges this into the on-side for an easy run 7.5 A Mendis to Bell , no run , the carrom-ball outside off stump , driven towards cover-point 7.4 A Mendis to Bell , 2 runs , outside edge but there was no one at gully ! Flighted delivery outside off stump , Bell drives and gets a thick edge to third man 7.3 A Mendis to Bell , FOUR , a rank long hop , Bell had so much time on the back foot , in fact he had to wait ages for the ball to arrive. Eventually , he pulled it over mid-wicket to pick up his first boundary 7.2 A Mendis to Moeen Ali , 1 run , careful Moeen Ali , this bloke is a mystery spinner ! Flighted delivery around the off stump , Ali advances and mistimes the loft towards mid-on 7.1 A Mendis to Bell , 1 run , shortish delivery outside off stump , Bell punches it to cover-point , who fumbles to allow the run Ajantha Mendis , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Spin at both ends now . 6.6 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , no run , advances and tries to muscle this over the infield but drives it straight to mid-on 6.5 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , flatter and a touch shortish on the leg stump , Ali mistimes the pull over mid-wicket for a couple of runs 6.4 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , FOUR , wow ! He was so quick to rock back to this short ball and he nailed the pull to perfection , there was no one in the deep at mid-wicket to stop the ball 6.3 Dilshan to Bell , 1 run , Bell punches this along the ground to long-on to open his account 6.2 Dilshan to Bell , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Bell cuts and misses Ian Bell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.1 Dilshan to Cook , out Lbw ! ! Is Cook going to review it again ? It 's Palliyaguruge , the umpire again and Cook simply walks back. What an inspired bowing change by Mathews. Dilshan strikes first ball and that looked absolutely plumb. After both of his decisions were overturned , the umpire thought for a long time but this time he was spot on. Nothing but a flighted delivery on the stumps from the round the wicket , Cook fails to defend , the ball hits him in line with middle and the Hawk-Eye suggests that the ball would have brushed the stumps. Cook lbw b Dilshan 10 ( 17 ) Dilshan to Cook , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Tillakaratne Dilshan , right-arm off break , comes into the attack A bad day at the office so far for Dhammika , he 's leaked 34 runs in his three overs. Mathews decides to take pace off the ball , Dilshan into the attack . 5.6 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , FOUR , the inside edge this time , Sri Lanka ca n't believe it. England race to 50 in no time. Short of a length close to the off stump , Ali swings hard and edge just misses the sticks 5.5 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's frustrating for Sri Lanka ! Full and outside off stump , Ali throws his bat at it and gets a thick edge , it was just wide of the man at fly slip 5.4 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , FOUR , excellent hit ! That is poor bowling , I would have to say. Full and wide outside off stump , Ali had enough width to free his arms , he drives with an open face and it flies over point 5.3 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , FOUR , powerful shot ! Not much of feet movement , but this was full and right in the slot from Dhammika , Ali drives it from the sweet spot of the bat and sends it wide of mid-off 5.2 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , no run , bad shot ! That 's was n't all that short to play the pull shot , the ball beat the inside edge en route to the keeper 5.1 Dhammika to Cook , 3 runs , friendly full toss outside off stump , Cook leans forward and drives it past short cover , Jeevan Mendis gives chase and just pulls it back in time 4.6 Mathews to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's poor fielding by Ajantha Mendis at third man. He could have easily stopped that , but he 's let it go through. Good length delivery outside off stump , Ali looks to guide , but the ball runs away off the outside edge 4.5 Mathews to Moeen Ali , no run , top nut from Mathews ! The off-cutter from the bowler , he draws the batsman forward and beats the outside edge as the ball nips away off the deck 4.4 Mathews to Moeen Ali , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ali looks to cut hard but the ball beats the inside-edge 4.3 Mathews to Moeen Ali , FOUR , he 's a classy player ! The margin of error is so less against this bloke. Mathews offered a nothing short of length delivery outside off stump , Ali waits on the back foot and drives it through cover-point 4.2 Mathews to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off stump , Ali slashes hard , gets a bottom edge but third man tidies up 4.1 Mathews to Moeen Ali , FOUR , nice hit ! Slower delivery right in the slot for Ali , who drives it easily over extra-cover to pick up a one-bounce four. That 's Ali 's second boundary 3.6 Dhammika to Cook , 2 runs , short and wide outside off stump again , cut to sweeper cover 3.6 Dhammika to Cook , wide , hugeeee cry for caught behind , but the umpire shakes his head and calls a wide. Short and wide outside off stump , need not play at those , but Cook opts to play , only to get beaten 3.5 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , 3 runs , Kusal Perera rockets towards the boundary and pulls it off just inside the rope. Well done ! Ali flicked that nicely off the hips , the man at square leg quickly set off and he saved one 3.4 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , no run , nice punch off the back foot , but Ali picks out short cover 3.3 Dhammika to Cook , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , easily glanced away to fine leg 3.2 Dhammika to Cook , no run , an ugly poke and the ball zooms past the outside edge. Short of a length delivery nipping away outside off stump , Cook had no clue about it , he was late in trying to defend and the ball beat him comfortably 3.1 Dhammika to Cook , no run , that 's a widish ball but Cook has chased it. Luckily , he did n't kiss it to the keeper 2.6 Mathews to Moeen Ali , no run , back of a length and angling away from the left hander , Ali swipes across the line , only to get beaten 2.5 Mathews to Moeen Ali , no run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Ali defends it into the on-side 2.4 Mathews to Moeen Ali , no run , oopssyy ! Almost dragged it back ! Oh dear ! That hit the stumps , but the bails did n't jump ! Very lucky for Moeen Ali. Short of a length delivery close to the off stump , Ali under-edges a pull , the ball rolls onto the stumps off the thigh pad but he escapes 2.3 Mathews to Cook , 1 run , wo n't say that 's a convincing shot but he gets it in the gap past cover. Cook was trying to drive off the front foot but the ball runs away off a thickish outside edge 2.2 Mathews to Cook , no run , gets his front foot across the stumps and easily shoulders arms 2.1 Mathews to Cook , 2 runs , fullish and just moving back into the left-hander , Cook drives it past the bowler to long-off 1.6 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , no run , teasing fullish delivery outside off stump , Ali simply lets it go through to the keeper 1.5 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , the slowish outfield denies Ali a boundary. It was a wonderful punch from the crease , he opened the face of the bat slightly to find the gap between point and cover 1.4 Dhammika to Cook , 1 run , tentatively leans forward towards this short of length delivery and fends it to short mid-wicket , there was a lot of gap between bat and pad 1.3 Dhammika to Cook , no run , this time Dilshan flies to his left at backward point to save four runs. Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Cook cuts but could n't hit the gap 1.2 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , 1 run , brilliant save from Mathews at mid-off. Fullish delivery outside off stump , Ali punches it off the front foot wide of mid-off , Mathews flies to his right and has a shy at the striker 's end , he was off balance while throwing the ball but he hit the stumps. Cook was well home though 1.1 Dhammika to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's a freebie , just what a batsman wants first ball. Short and outside off stump , Ali rocks back and easily guides it over point and he opens his account in style Dhammika Prasad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack End of an eventful maiden over from the Sri Lankan skipper. He almost had his counterpart twice in it . 0.6 Mathews to Cook , no run , full and just shaping back into the right-hander , Cook drives it towards mid-off 0.5 Mathews to Cook , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Cook cuts to the right of cover-point , who dives and stops the ball 0.4 Mathews to Cook , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , again Cook is beaten by the inward movement , he tries to push it towards mid-on this time , the ball hits him in line with middle but that prod forward towards the bowler is saving Cook Again Cook 's been given OUT LBW and again he 's reviewed it. I think this is much closer than the previous one. Let 's see ! No issues with Mathews ' footing , pitching in line and again Hawk-Eye says it 's going over the stumps. What drama ! 0.3 Mathews to Cook , no run , good length delivery nipping back in , Cook leans forward and tries to block , misses and is hit in line with middle and off. He was a long way forward and that saved him Cook has been given out LBW , but he 's sent it upstairs. That looked pretty close. Height is the only issue. Here we go. It 's a fair delivery , ball pitching in line , remember the onfield call is OUT , so the ball has to only clip the stumps. Well , Hawk-Eye says it bounced too much and he survives . 0.2 Mathews to Cook , no run , good length delivery around the off stump , Cook hangs back and blocks this into the on-side 0.1 Mathews to Cook , no run , just a bit of outswing on this short of length delivery close to the off stump , Cook defends off the back foot Cook and Moeen Ali are at the crease. Cook is on strike. Mathews will open the attack Just one slip in place . Welcome back for the second innings. England need to create a record if they are to win this game. No team has chased down 300 in Sri Lanka . Do join us back in a short while for the second half. And let us hope that the weather stays fine . The English bowlers sprayed the ball all over the shop and messed up by overdoing the slower balls. They bowled as many as 17 wides - an indication of their ill-discipline. Will it come back to haunt England ? A daunting chase awaits Cook and Co. Dilshan and KJP set up the platform with a strong 120-run opening union before MJ scored a fifty of his own. England pegged things back briefly through Tredwell 's double strike , but Thiri and Mendis summoned the big hits at the death , powering the hosts past the 300-mark . 49.6 Gurney to Thirimanne , 1 run , pin-point yorker on middle. A little too late for England ? Thiri angled his bat and jammed it out to cover point. Sri Lanka finish at an imposing 317/6 49.5 Gurney to J Mendis , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Mendis shuffles across and sweeps it in the air over short fine 49.4 Gurney to Thirimanne , 1 run , full ball , mistimed drive to long-on 49.3 Gurney to J Mendis , 1 run , Mendis comes down the track and yorks himself. But jams it out through mid-on 49.2 Gurney to Thirimanne , 1 run , 111.3kph back of a length ball on middle , Thirimanne looks to punch it , ekes out an inside-edge to fine leg 49.2 Gurney to Thirimanne , wide , yet another cutter is sprayed down leg 49.1 Gurney to Thirimanne , 2 runs , Thirimanne creates room outside leg , Gurney follows him with the yorker. Gets an inside-edge that runs away fine 48.6 Woakes to J Mendis , 2 runs , pitched up on the leg-stump , clipped past a diving short fine leg for a couple. Profitable over that - 21 from it 48.6 Woakes to J Mendis , wide , slanting down leg , wided by the umpire 48.5 Woakes to J Mendis , SIX , Mendis is on a roll ! Picks the slower ball outside off , bends down and flat-bats it straight over the head of Woakes 48.4 Woakes to J Mendis , FOUR , Woakes misses the yorker , dishes out a full ball on the stumps , drilled wide of mid-off for another four 48.3 Woakes to Thirimanne , 1 run , slower short ball on the leg stump , Thirimanne stays back , waits on it and pulls it neatly to fine leg 48.2 Woakes to J Mendis , 1 run , Mendis backs away , Woakes delivers a near yorker around off , the former reaches out and slices it to sweeper cover 48.1 Woakes to J Mendis , SIX , away she sails over the fence ! Banged in short on the leg stump , pulled over deep fine leg. He elicits applause from the SL change room Chris Woakes [ 9.0-0-47-2 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Gurney to Thirimanne , FOUR , low full toss on the leg stump. Thirimanne says thank you very much as he whips it to the backward square leg fence. Easy pickings ! 47.5 Gurney to Thirimanne , 2 runs , hurled fuller on middle and leg , whipped away to long-on 47.4 Gurney to Thirimanne , no run , follows it up with another back-of-the-hand slower delivery wide outside off , Thirimanne reaches out and plays it back to the bowler off the bottom of the bat 47.3 Gurney to Thirimanne , 2 runs , another off-speed delivery , foxes Thirimanne for the change of pace. Dragged behind square in the end 47.2 Gurney to Thirimanne , no run , full toss on middle , mistimed flick to mid-wicket 47.1 Gurney to J Mendis , 1 run , 111kph slower delivery on middle and leg , milked to mid-wicket for a single Harry Gurney [ 8.0-0-49-0 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Moeen Ali to J Mendis , 1 run , darted flatter on the leg stump , Mendis aims to sweep , gets it off an inside-edge. The fumble at short fine helps SL pinch a single 46.5 Moeen Ali to Thirimanne , 1 run , flat darter outside leg as Thirimanne backs away , played out to the leg-side 46.4 Moeen Ali to J Mendis , 1 run , fuller on middle , nudged to mid-wicket. The region is still unmanned 46.3 Moeen Ali to Thirimanne , 1 run , slid through on the leg-stump , worked towards mid-wicket 46.2 Moeen Ali to Thirimanne , FOUR , top shot from Thiri. Quicker and flatter on off , Thirimanne makes room and drives it inside-out over extra cover 46.1 Moeen Ali to J Mendis , 1 run , full on middle , knocked to vacant short mid-wicket for a single. Moeen follows the ball and hunts it down himself 45.6 Woakes to Thirimanne , no run , Thirimanne seeks to step away and make room , but Woakes delivers a back of a length ball. Top-of-middle line , Thirimanne can only push it in front of point with an open bat face 45.5 Woakes to J Mendis , 1 run , back of a length and close to off , J Mendis steers it down to third man 45.4 Woakes to J Mendis , FOUR , short of length and outside off , Mendis rocks back and pulls it away to the deep mid wicket boundary. Nice way to get off the mark 45.4 Woakes to J Mendis , wide , Woakes errs down leg again. Will these extras come back to haunt the touring party ? 45.3 Woakes to J Mendis , no run , rising short of length delivery on off , Mendis yanks his bottom hand off the bat and fends it safely 45.2 Woakes to Thirimanne , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , cut down to third man Jeevan Mendis , left handed bat , comes to the crease 45.1 Woakes to T Perera , out Caught by Cook ! ! Smart catch from Cook , Woakes has his second scalp. He bends his back and bangs this one short and outside off , Perera has to drag the forehanded pull. He has to settle with a slice that balloons in the air. Cook runs back from mid-off , dives and takes a smart catch. T Perera c Cook b Woakes 4 ( 6 ) Woakes to T Perera , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.6 Moeen Ali to Thirimanne , FOUR , straighter on middle , Thirimanne bends down and slog sweeps it over mid-wicket to ruin what started as a good over from Ali 44.5 Moeen Ali to T Perera , 1 run , darted in on leg , squeezed out behind square leg off the inside half of the bat 44.4 Moeen Ali to Thirimanne , 1 run , Ali pulls his length back outside off , punched to sweeper cover 44.3 Moeen Ali to Thirimanne , no run , fired on middle and leg , the yorker is dug back to the bowler 44.2 Moeen Ali to Thirimanne , no run , straight roller on middle , Thirimanne aims to work it to the leg-side. The leading edge drops in front of short cover Morgan passes on some tips to Mo Ali . 44.1 Moeen Ali to T Perera , 1 run , on the pads , whipped through backward square leg Moeen Ali [ 8.0-0-50-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Woakes to T Perera , 1 run , back of a length and on the hips , Perera helps it along to fine leg 43.5 Woakes to Thirimanne , 1 run , banged in short and homing in on the rib-cage area , but does not have enough pace to pose a threat to Thiri , but controls the pull over mid-wicket. There is protection in the deep 43.4 Woakes to Thirimanne , no run , back of a length and slanted across , Thirimanne is beaten on the cut. No feet movement at all from Thiri 43.3 Woakes to Thirimanne , no run , fuller and straighter , Thirimanne whips it to mid-wicket , where the fielder puts in a diving save to consign it as a dot 43.2 Woakes to T Perera , 1 run , banged in short and rears up on the leg-stump , Thisara fends it to square leg off the glove 43.1 Woakes to T Perera , no run , pitched up on off , forward and push-driven to the covers Chris Woakes [ 7.0-0-37-1 ] is back into the attack Lahiru Thirimanne , left handed bat , comes to the crease 42.6 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , out Caught by Buttler ! ! An appeal for caught behind. Buttler was convinced straightaway and as was the ump. SL have exhausted their review and MJ has to trudge back to the hut. He wears a disappointed expression on his face. Slid down leg , MJ looks to help it fine. But can only feather it to the keeper. Double strike from Tredwell. He ends 10-0-52-2. M Jayawardene c Buttler b Tredwell 55 ( 58 ) [ 4s-5 ] Tredwell to M Jayawardene , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Thisara Perera , left handed bat , comes to the crease 42.5 Tredwell to Mathews , out Caught by Stokes ! ! Rush of blood from Mathews ? He searches for another meaty blow , but holes out to long-on. This was tossed up close to off again , Mathews gives the charge again , lofting it high in the air. Stokes settles under it at long-on and snags a fine catch. Nevertheless , it was a sparkling cameo from Mathews. Mathews c Stokes b Tredwell 33 ( 24 ) [ 4s-1 6s-3 ] Tredwell to Mathews , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.4 Tredwell to Mathews , SIX , back-to-back sixes for the skipper. Tredwell gives this more air outside off , Mathews steps out and launches it over the bowler 's head with some authority 42.3 Tredwell to Mathews , SIX , that 's meat and drink for any batsman. Full toss from Tredwell , Mathews bends down and slogs it high and over long-on 42.2 Tredwell to Mathews , 2 runs , darted quicker and shorter , Mathews slogs it to long-on. The misfield in the deep gives SL an extra run 42.1 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , flattish outside off , Jayawardene picks it from there and sweeps it firmly to deeo backward square Bopara has a chat with Tredwell . 41.6 Stokes to Mathews , no run , full on off , Mathews backs away and hacks it into the covers , straight to the fielder 41.5 Stokes to M Jayawardene , 1 run , change of pace - back of a length and close to off. Jayawardene is cramped for room as he awkwardly dabs it in front of point 41.4 Stokes to Mathews , 1 run , on a length and on off , Mathews presses across and nurdles a single to short fine leg 41.3 Stokes to Mathews , FOUR , pitched up and outside off , Mathews reaches out and lofts it handsomely over the covers , the ball skips away to the fence , beating the deep fielder 's dive 41.2 Stokes to Mathews , no run , fraction short and outside off , Mathews pushes it to point , ca n't beat the fielder 41.1 Stokes to Mathews , no run , hurled in very full and outside off , squirted out to the covers 41.1 Stokes to Mathews , wide , back of a length and dragged down leg. Mathews has nothing to do with it. England 's profligacy is hurting them Ben Stokes [ 3.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , no run , flighted and mighty full , jammed back at Tredwell. That offering was not far away from a yorker 40.5 Tredwell to Mathews , 1 run , Tredwell shortens his length on off , milked behind square leg 40.4 Tredwell to Mathews , 2 runs , tucked away to deep mid wicket. The duo push for a brace and collect it without much trouble 40.3 Tredwell to Mathews , no run , darted flatter and hurries onto the batsman , who swats it to mid-wicket 40.2 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , fetches this from outside off and sweeps it to fine leg , finds the fielder. Not all that well-timed compared to the previous hit 40.1 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , FOUR , what a way to bring up a fifty ! Flatter and around off , Jayawardene bends down and nails the slog sweep to fine leg. He raises his bat and acknowledges the cheers from the crowd 39.6 Moeen Ali to Mathews , no run , quicker through the air on off again , Mathews is nearly cramped for room as he pokes it out in front of the covers 39.5 Moeen Ali to Mathews , 2 runs , fired fuller on the stumps , drilled straight down the ground 39.4 Moeen Ali to Mathews , SIX , clubbed ! Pushed through on off , Mathews takes a step forward and launches it high and over mid-wicket. The ball has enough to go over the ad skirting 39.3 Moeen Ali to M Jayawardene , 1 run , fullish on off , milked past square leg. The duo seek two , but decide against it 39.2 Moeen Ali to Mathews , 1 run , nice loop on this outside off , eased down to long-on 39.1 Moeen Ali to M Jayawardene , 1 run , floated on middle , gently glanced to short fine leg for another of those urgent singles Moeen Ali [ 7.0-0-39-1 ] is back into the attack Mo Ali is back , which means spin from both ends . 38.6 Tredwell to Mathews , no run , skids off the deck and hurries onto Mathews , who squirts it to short fine off the inside part of the bat 38.5 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , looped up on off , Jayawardene shuffles across a touch and milks it behind square leg 38.4 Tredwell to Mathews , 1 run , Mathews bends down , takes this from outside off and paddles it neatly to fine leg 38.3 Tredwell to Mathews , no run , pushed through flatter and outside off , Mathews stands tall and punches it back to the bowler 38.2 Tredwell to Mathews , no run , worked to square leg off the back foot 38.1 Tredwell to Mathews , no run , slower through the air just outside off , nudged to the right of the bowler James Tredwell [ 7.0-0-27-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Woakes to M Jayawardene , FOUR , hands-on-head time for Woakes. Jayawardene marches down the track , takes it on the full. The ball runs away to the deep third man boundary off an outside edge. Not deliberate from MJ , I can assure you that 37.5 Woakes to M Jayawardene , no run , short of length and outside off , Jayawardene steers it to short third , where Tredwell makes a diving save 37.4 Woakes to Mathews , 1 run , shortish and aimed at the ribs , Mathews hops up and dabs it in front of mid-wicket for a speedy single 37.4 Woakes to Mathews , wide , another bumpy delivery sails over a ducking Mathews. 13th wide of the innings 37.3 Woakes to Mathews , no run , pitched up and just outside off , Mathews drives it to mid-off 37.2 Woakes to Mathews , no run , Woakes greets Mathews with a steepler outside off , Mathews drops his wrists and evades it safely Angelo Mathews , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.1 Woakes to Dilshan , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Another off-speed ball , this one consumes Dilshan. Sharp one-handed return catch. No hundred for the opener. Dilshan was early into the flick , the ball pops back to the bowler off a leading edge. Woakes stretches his right hand and plucks it out before tumbling onto the ground. Dilshan c and b Woakes 88 ( 98 ) [ 4s-10 ] Woakes to Dilshan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 36.6 Gurney to M Jayawardene , FOUR , slower ball , which is parcelled up and dispatched. On a length and on the fourth stump , Jayawardene lifts it over cow corner , the ball trickles into the boundary 36.5 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , very full and close to off , Jayawardene squeezes it to mid-wicket , ca n't beat the fielder 36.4 Gurney to M Jayawardene , FOUR , classy from MJ. Dug in short and outside off , Jayawardene swivels on the back foot and pulls it in the air over backward square leg for the first four of the batting PP 36.3 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , might have been another good length cutter , the line is on the fourth stump , Dilshan stays back and dabs it to point 36.2 Gurney to M Jayawardene , 1 run , slower one - lowish full toss on off , Jayawardene is early into the shot and ends up dragging it to mid-on 36.2 Gurney to M Jayawardene , wide , bumper from Gurney , sails over MJ after beating his attempted pull/hook. The ump did not like the height on it 36.1 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , fuller on middle and leg , eased down to fine leg 35.6 Woakes to Dilshan , leg byes , 1 run , Woakes strays down leg again. Dilshan ca n't help it fine. I think Dilshan may have gloved it , the ump though disagrees , deeming it a leg bye 35.5 Woakes to M Jayawardene , 1 run , banged in short on middle , MJ sets up for a pull. Mis-controls it in the air. The ball lands in front of deep fine leg 35.4 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , fuller and straighter , Dilshan clips it through backward square leg 35.4 Woakes to Dilshan , wide , wayward delivery - darted down leg - Dilshan ca n't lay bat onto it. Some exercise for the umpire 35.3 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , shorter one again , Dilshan misses out on that , cutting it straight to the fielder at point 35.2 Woakes to M Jayawardene , 1 run , shortish and climbing over middle , MJ steps away , gliding it down to third man 35.1 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , tucked easily backward of square leg. The duo cross over for a single 34.6 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , friendly full toss on off , Dilshan heaves it away to deep mid-wicket. Not much power behind that shot from the opener 34.5 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , change-up. Slower fuller one on off , flicked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 34.4 Gurney to M Jayawardene , 1 run , banged in short and rises on off , MJ takes his eyes off the ball for an instant before pulling it in the air in front of deep fine leg 34.3 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , back-of-the-hand slower offering outside off , MJ aims for a booming drive , but miscues it to short cover 34.2 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , MJ makes room outside leg , but the bowler is alert enough to follow the former. Dropped onto the pitch , nothing more than that 34.1 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , very fuller and on off from round the stumps , pushed to mid-on for a brisk single. MJ responded in kind as well Harry Gurney [ 6.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now . 33.6 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , slower delivery to end the over , Dilshan works it past mid-wicket for a single 33.5 Woakes to M Jayawardene , 1 run , shortens the length outside off , Jayawardene guides it with an open face to third man 33.4 Woakes to M Jayawardene , no run , short delivery on the stumps , Jayawardene arches back and tries to ramp it over the keeper , he does n't make contact and he is disappointed with himself 33.3 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , full and on leg-stump , clipped away to fine leg 33.2 Woakes to M Jayawardene , 1 run , back of a length on off , Jayawardene drops it in front of mid-wicket and calls for quick single 33.1 Woakes to M Jayawardene , no run , short of length on off , Jayawardene hangs back and jabs at it , he drags it back onto his pads and luckily drops near his feet Chris Woakes [ 4.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay 32.6 Stokes to Dilshan , no run , on a length just outside off , Dilshan dabs it towards backward point 32.5 Stokes to M Jayawardene , 1 run , pitched up around off , Jayawardene drives it to mid-off and sets off , Cook was slightly deep which allowed MJ to make his ground 32.4 Stokes to M Jayawardene , no run , good length ball on off , defended off the front foot to cover 32.3 Stokes to M Jayawardene , FOUR , terrible bowling from Stokes , short and down leg , that would have been a wide if Mahela had not gone after it , he pulls it to the fine leg fence , well away from the fielder 32.2 Stokes to Dilshan , 1 run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Dilshan swivels and pulls it towards fine leg 32.1 Stokes to M Jayawardene , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , steered away to third man 32.1 Stokes to M Jayawardene , wide , repeat of the previous delivery , he might be slipping while landing in his follow-through. Cook gets some sawdust and sprinkles it on the landing area 32.1 Stokes to M Jayawardene , wide , horrible delivery to start a new spell , short and way down leg , easy call for the ump Ben Stokes [ 2.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , another easy single down to long-on 31.5 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , fires it in around off , Dilshan leans forward and works it past Morgan at mid-wicket 31.4 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , slightly short and on leg-stump , Jayawardene helps it on its way to long leg with a pull 31.3 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , touch quicker , Dilshan stays back and nurdles it to deep backward square leg 31.2 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 31.1 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , no run , leans forward and turns it to square leg 30.6 Bopara to M Jayawardene , 1 run , good length ball just outside off , Jayawardene glides it down to third man 30.5 Bopara to M Jayawardene , no run , fullish and outside off , Jayawardene misses the drive and looks at the umpire for a wide , Bopara got away with one as it was just outside the tram-line 30.4 Bopara to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length on off , Dilshan pulls it to deep square leg 30.3 Bopara to M Jayawardene , 1 run , pulls the length back outside off , Jayawardene hangs on the back foot and steers it to third man 30.2 Bopara to M Jayawardene , no run , fuller and on off , Jayawardene pushes it to mid-off 30.1 Bopara to M Jayawardene , no run , on a length close to off , Jayawardene goes for the late cut , gets an under-edge to the off-side 29.6 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , pushed through on off , Dilshan punches without much timing to the right of Tredwell 29.5 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , again , waits for the ball to spin and milks it to backward square leg 29.4 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 2 runs , sharp turn on off and middle , Jayawardene tickles it fine and sprints back for the second 29.3 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Dilshan eases it towards extra cover 29.2 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , floated up outside off , Jayawardene kneels down and paddles it to long leg , Buttler anticipates it and moves to his left , but the ball is too far away from him 29.1 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , slightly short and on off , Dilshan gets inside the line and nurdles it to square leg 28.6 Bopara to M Jayawardene , 2 runs , drags the length back just outside off , Jayawardene waits for the ball to arrive and then plays a deft late cut to third man 28.5 Bopara to M Jayawardene , no run , fullish and around off , Jayawardene pushes it past cover , but there is mid-off tiding up 28.4 Bopara to M Jayawardene , no run , change of pace of on middle , Jayawardene defends down the wicket 28.3 Bopara to M Jayawardene , 2 runs , fullish and outside off , Jayawardene drives it past extra cover and hares back for the second 28.2 Bopara to M Jayawardene , no run , hint of seam movement , Jayawardene tries to steer it down to third man , fails to make contact 28.1 Bopara to M Jayawardene , no run , good length ball close to off , Jayawardene knocks it towards cover Ravi Bopara [ 2.0-0-8-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Tredwell to Dilshan , FOUR , excellent shot ! It is very difficult to play against the turn , but Dilshan made it look very easy. Tossed up outside off , Dilshan shimmies down the track and lofts it inside out over extra cover and mid-off 27.5 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , works it with the spin to mid-wicket 27.4 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , mistimes the cut and the ball dribbles to cover 27.3 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , dropped ! It was a tough chance though , Morgan almost pulled off a stunner. Floated up on off , Jayawardene comes down the track and whips it in the air to the left of mid-wicket , Morgan flies to his left and gets a hand to it , he ca n't hold on and the ball rolls to long-on 27.2 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , no run , slower and around off , Jayawardene pushes it to the right of the bowler 27.1 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , tossed up on off , Dilshan works it to square leg , wanted two but Bopara does well to run in quickly and keep them down to one James Tredwell [ 4.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , fuller and from round the wicket , Dilshan push-drives it to mid-off and takes off , Bopara has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but he is off target 26.5 Gurney to M Jayawardene , 3 runs , pitched up outside off , Jayawardene bends his front knee and drives it to sweeper cover , the sluggish outfield does not allow the ball to reach the fence , Root gives chase and pulls it back 26.4 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , off-cutter that gripped and turned away , Jayawardene was deceived by that , he goes searching for it and is beaten 26.3 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , back of a length around off , Jayawardene gets behind the line and blocks it to cover 26.2 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , change of pace outside off , Dilshan opens the bat face and steers it to third man 26.1 Gurney to M Jayawardene , 1 run , full and on the pads , Jayawardene clips it past mid-wicket 25.6 Moeen Ali to M Jayawardene , 1 run , leans forward , meets the pitch of the ball and milks it to deep square leg 25.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn and then nurdles it behind square leg 25.4 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , drives it back to the bowler 25.3 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , floated up outside off , Dilshan looks to flay at it , gets an inside edge onto the pads , nearly dragged it back onto the stumps 25.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , tossed up on off , Dilshan turns it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 25.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Flighted delivery just outside off , Dilshan sashays down the wicket and lofts it beautifully over the bowler 's head , the ball goes on the bounce to the rope 24.6 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , back of a length and angled across off , Jayawardene lifts his bat and lets it go Switches to over the wicket for Mahela 24.6 Gurney to Dilshan , 2 wides , slower delivery goes wrong , slips it way down leg , Buttler makes a half stop and Moeen Ali cleans up at fine leg 24.5 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , Gurney goes up for a caught behind appeal , but gets no support from Buttler. Good length back that holds its line , Dilshan pokes at it and is beaten all ends up 24.4 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , takes the pace off the full delivery , Dilshan spots it well and push-drives it to cover 24.3 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , short of length on middle , Dilshan turns it softly towards mid-wicket Changes to round the wicket 24.2 Gurney to M Jayawardene , 1 run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Jayawardene drops it in front of mid-wicket and sets off 24.2 Gurney to M Jayawardene , wide , another one down the leg-side 24.2 Gurney to M Jayawardene , wide , short and sprayed down leg , Jayawardene misses the glance and wide signalled by the umpire 24.1 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , back of a length on off , Jayawardene taps it backward point Harry Gurney [ 4.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Moeen Ali to M Jayawardene , 1 run , floated up on the stumps , Jayawardene nudges it to square leg and opens his account 23.5 Moeen Ali to M Jayawardene , no run , Moeen Ali is making things happen , flighted on middle and leg , Jayawardene glances it to leg slip , that almost carried to Cook , who has his hands on his head after fielding the ball Mahela Jayawardene , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.4 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , out Lbw ! ! Back-to-back wickets for England. It was a peach of a delivery from Moeen Ali , tosses it up and pitches it on leg-stump before getting it to turn away , Sangakkara played down the wrong line and was hit on the back pad. The umpire took his time before raising his finger , Sanga opted for the review and the Hawk-Eye showed that it was hitting off-stump. Sangakkara lbw b Moeen Ali 2 ( 4 ) Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Sanga has been given out lbw. He is going to review the decision. Moeen Ali is fine with his front foot , it is a legal delivery. Did it pitch outside leg-stump ? Was it turning too much ? Pitched in-line and is hitting off-stump. Sangakkara has to go . 23.3 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , works it off the front foot to long-on 23.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , FOUR , crunched ! That almost took the umpire with it. Dances down the pitch , converts it into a full toss and hits it uppishly straight down the ground , the umpire was ducking for cover as the ball races to the fence 23.1 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , 1 run , full delivery on off , Sangakkara drives it to long-off 22.6 Bopara to Dilshan , no run , back of the hand slower delivery , Dilshan did n't pick it , he checked his shot and lobs it to the right of the bowler 22.5 Bopara to Dilshan , no run , fullish and just outside off , Dilshan mistimes the drive to cover 22.4 Bopara to Sangakkara , 1 run , short and well wide of off , Sangakkara toe-ends the cut to square third man 22.3 Bopara to Sangakkara , no run , walks down the wicket , converts it into a full delivery and drives it to short cover 22.3 Bopara to Sangakkara , wide , splays it down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire Kumar Sangakkara , left handed bat , comes to the crease 22.2 Bopara to Dilshan , out K Perera Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. A huge mix-up leads to Perera being stranded at the same end as Dilshan. This was the only way England would have taken a wicket. The slower delivery just outside off , Dilshan kneels down and sweeps it wide of deep mid-wicket , he called for two and was late to say no. Perera was almost at the bowler 's end , when Dilshan tried to send him back , Root threw the ball to Bopara , who inturn lobbed it to Buttler to take the bails off. K Perera run out ( J Root/Bopara/Buttler ) 59 ( 74 ) [ 4s-5 6s-1 ] Bopara to Dilshan , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 22.1 Bopara to Dilshan , no run , yorker well wide of off , Dilshan does not squeeze it out , good take by Buttler 21.6 Moeen Ali to K Perera , no run , slower and on off , Perera leans forward and drops it into the off-side 21.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , Dilshan nurdles it behind square leg for a single 21.4 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , FOUR , floated up on off and middle , Dilshan shimmies down the track and lofts it over the bowler 's head , Bopara runs across from long-on , slides and lets the ball go past him. He should have done better 21.3 Moeen Ali to K Perera , 1 run , pushed through on off , Perera drives it to sweeper cover 21.2 Moeen Ali to K Perera , no run , full and into the blockhole , Perera brings his bat down and jams it to cover 21.2 Moeen Ali to K Perera , wide , fired down the leg-side , Perera ca n't lay bat on ball , wided by the umpire 21.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , flighted on off , Dilshan leans forward and nudges it to deep square leg 20.6 Bopara to K Perera , no run , slower delivery on middle and leg , Perera misses the sweep shot and is struck on the pads , stifled appeal for lbw , but the umpire is not interested. The ball was sneaking down leg 20.5 Bopara to K Perera , 2 runs , dropped ! Tredwell did well to get a hand to it , it was a tough chance. Full delivery close to off , Perera he whips it in the air towards mid-wicket , Tredwell jumps up and goes with one-hand , the ball hits it and goes wide of long-on 20.4 Bopara to Dilshan , 1 run , Dilshan registers his 40th ODI fifty , seams away just outside off , Dilshan looks to force it off the back foot , the ball squirts off the inside edge to short fine leg 20.3 Bopara to K Perera , 1 run , change of pace around off , Perera kneels down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 20.2 Bopara to K Perera , no run , good length ball on the stumps , defended back to the bowler 20.1 Bopara to Dilshan , 1 run , wobbly delivery on off , Dilshan drives it to long-on Ravi Bopara , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 19.6 Moeen Ali to K Perera , no run , flighted on off , Perera presses forward and blocks 19.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , drops it half way down the track , Dilshan cuts it square of the wicket 19.4 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , appeal for lbw , but the umpire remains unmoved. It was tossed up on middle and leg , Dilshan fails to nail the sweep and is rapped on the pads , the ball was turning enough to miss leg-stump 19.3 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , turns it gently to mid-wicket 19.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , too full and on off , Dilshan digs it to the right of the bowler , Moeen Ali parries it to mid-wicket 19.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , FOUR , half tracker outside off and Dilshan latches onto it. He goes deep in the crease and cuts it powerfully to deep backward point , the fielder dives in vain 18.6 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , stays round the wicket and darts it onto the pads , Dilshan nurdles it behind square leg and keeps strike 18.5 J Root to K Perera , 1 run , sliding onto the pads , Perera milks it off the front foot to backward square leg 18.4 J Root to K Perera , FOUR , tosses it up gently on off , Perera bends down on one knee and sweeps it in the air to deep fine leg , the fielder was at deep backward square and had no chance of stopping that 18.3 J Root to K Perera , no run , slower and on off , Perera comes half forward and knocks it in front of cover 18.2 J Root to K Perera , no run , flighted on off , Perera presses forward and taps it to the off-side 18.1 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , quicker and attacking the stumps , Dilshan gets inside the line and works it to deep mid-wicket 17.6 Moeen Ali to K Perera , 2 runs , drops it short and outside off , Perera cuts square of the wicket and gets back for the second. It is his 4th ODI fifty and it should be a relief after a disastrous India tour 17.5 Moeen Ali to K Perera , no run , flatter and outside off , Perera chops the cut towards cover 17.4 Moeen Ali to K Perera , no run , slower and on middle , Perera comes down the track and drives it to cover. He does well to cover the spin and then play the shot 17.3 Moeen Ali to K Perera , no run , flighted on off , defended back to the bowler 17.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , touch quicker and on middle , Dilshan nudges it wide of mid-wicket 17.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , flighted on middle and leg , Dilshan does not connect with the sweep , the ball lobs off the pads to the left of leg slip , he thinks about the single but Perera is not interested Drinks are on the field now 16.6 J Root to K Perera , no run , slider down leg , Perera sweeps it to short fine leg , ca n't beat the fielder 16.5 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , quicker and on off , Dilshan stays leg-side and punches it wide of cover , slight confusion between the batsmen but no harm done 16.4 J Root to K Perera , 1 run , pushed through from Root , Perera makes room and punches it off the stumps to sweeper cover 16.3 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , easily done , comes down the track and works it down the ground to long-on 16.2 J Root to K Perera , 1 run , goes straight on from round the wicket , Perera milks it off the back foot to deep mid-wicket 16.1 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Dilshan dabs it to point and gets to the bowler 's end Joe Root , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 15.6 Moeen Ali to K Perera , no run , pushed through on leg-stump , Perera steps out of the crease and almost yorks himself , he manages to squeeze it back to Moeen Ali 15.5 Moeen Ali to K Perera , no run , nice floaty delivery on off , Perera lunges forward in defence 15.4 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , flighted on off and middle , Dilshan presses forward and nudges it between mid-wicket and square leg 15.3 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 2 runs , quicker delivery which is bowled at 93.4kph , Dilshan kneels down and plays the scoop , the ball takes the glove and runs down to fine leg 15.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 2 runs , too much turn on that , ends up on leg-stump , Dilshan helps it away on its way to long leg for a brace 15.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , tosses it up outside off , Dilshan leans forward and works it off the inside part to square leg 14.6 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , floated up just outside off , Perera lunges forward and pats it to backward point 14.5 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , a beauty ! There is enough turn on offer to keep the spinners interested. This was slightly quicker , the ball grips and turns , Perera hangs back to defend and is lucky not to have got an edge on that. The England players go up for a caught behind appeal , but the ump turns it down . 14.4 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , flighted on middle , Dilshan skips out of the crease and eases it to long-on 14.3 Tredwell to K Perera , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , Perera hangs back and cuts it to sweeper cover 14.2 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , slider on middle and leg , Perera sweeps and hits it straight to short fine , either side and it would have been a boundary 14.1 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , defended off the front foot to cover 13.6 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , straight roller just outside off , Dilshan guides it towards backward point , he wanted the single but Perera rightly sends him back 13.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , nudges it with the spin and picks out the square leg fielder 13.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , wide , turning down leg , Dilshan does n't get bat or pad on that , wided by the ump 13.4 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 2 runs , quicker and on leg-stump , Dilshan tickles it fine to long leg and comes back comfortably for the second 13.3 Moeen Ali to K Perera , 1 run , drops it short and outside off , cut away to sweeper cover A slip in for Kushal Perera 13.2 Moeen Ali to K Perera , no run , driven straight back to the bowler 13.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , taps it with soft hands to the left of square leg and takes off immediately for the single Moeen Ali , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 12.6 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , throws this up gently on off , Perera leans forward and dead-bats it to the off-side 12.5 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , floated up on middle , Dilshan uses his feet , gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 12.4 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , pushed through outside off , Dilshan presses it cover after coming forward 12.3 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , floaty delivery on middle , Dilshan turns it softly to mid-wicket 12.2 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , tossed up outside off , Dilshan comes down the track and drives it back to the bowler 12.1 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , slower and close to off , Dilshan is neither forward nor back as he bunts it to cover 11.6 Stokes to K Perera , no run , drags the length back around off , Perera hops up and drops it in front of backward point 11.5 Stokes to K Perera , no run , pitched up on off , Perera does n't get hold of the drive , hits it straight to mid-off 11.4 Stokes to K Perera , no run , fuller and on off , Perera tries to defend , the ball squirts off the outside edge to backward point 11.3 Stokes to K Perera , FOUR , third boundary in a row and Perera is turning it on here. Length delivery just outside off , Perera gets underneath it and tonks it over the bowler 's head , there was no protecting the rope at long-on 11.2 Stokes to K Perera , FOUR , poor bowling from Stokes , sprays it down leg , Perera needed to get some bat on that , he gets more than some , the ball runs away to the fine leg fence , the fielder was inside the circle 11.1 Stokes to K Perera , FOUR , how good a shot was that ? It was banged in mid-way down the pitch , Perera does n't bother to transfer his weight on the back foot , he pulls it off the front foot wide of long-on , the ball almost carried the distance 10.6 Tredwell to K Perera , 1 run , too full and on off , Perera squeezes the drive to long-off 10.5 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , slower and outside off , Dilshan meets the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 10.4 Tredwell to K Perera , 1 run , fraction short and on off , Perera pulls it to deep mid-wicket 10.3 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , throws this up gently on off , Perera presses forward and defends 10.2 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , flighted on off , Dilshan shuffles across and paddles it to long leg 10.1 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , tossed up just outside off , Dilshan prefers to go back and work it to mid-wicket 9.6 Stokes to K Perera , no run , keeps it back of a length around off , Perera turns it gently to mid-wicket 9.5 Stokes to K Perera , SIX , superb shot ! Just a bit short in length , Perera picks the length up quickly and pulls it over mid-wicket , the ball just cleared the rope. That stroke had a touch of Jayasuriya in it 9.4 Stokes to K Perera , no run , back of a length on off , Perera gets behind the line and blocks it to the left of Stokes 9.3 Stokes to K Perera , no run , good length ball on off , Perera defends solidly to short cover 9.2 Stokes to K Perera , 2 runs , back of a length just outside off , Perera pulls it in front of square and gets back for two before the ball is fielded 9.1 Stokes to K Perera , no run , tucks the batsman for room with a short of length on middle , Perera fends it to mid-wicket off the back foot Ben Stokes , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 8.6 Tredwell to K Perera , 1 run , slower and on off , Perera comes down the track and drives it to long-off 8.5 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , slider down leg , Perera tickles it and picks out the short fine leg fielder 8.4 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , floated up on off , Perera leans forward and dead-bats it to the off-side 8.3 Tredwell to K Perera , 2 runs , short and outside off , Perera cuts to deep extra cover and scampers back for the second 8.2 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , lovely delivery ! That was flighted on off , it drifts and turns away from Perera , who prods forward and is beaten comprehensively A slip in place for the left-hander 8.1 Tredwell to K Perera , no run , tosses it up on off , Perera presses forward and defends to the off-side James Tredwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 7.6 Gurney to K Perera , 1 run , fuller and around off , Perera works it past mid-wicket and retains the strike 7.5 Gurney to K Perera , no run , length ball on the legs , Perera misses the clip and is hit on the pads , the ball rolls towards mid-wicket 7.4 Gurney to K Perera , FOUR , three similar deliveries and this time Perera gets the four he was looking for. Full on middle and leg , Perera whips it in the air over short fine , Stokes ca n't get around to stop that 7.3 Gurney to K Perera , 2 runs , again , full and straight on the stumps , Perera flicks it uppishly to the right of Stokes this time Again some issue with the sightscreen. The umpire runs all the way down there and sorts it out . 7.2 Gurney to K Perera , 2 runs , full and on the pads , Perera plays the pick up shot to deep backward square leg , Stokes does to get around and keep the ball well inside the rope , he save a couple for the team 7.1 Gurney to K Perera , no run , good length ball on off , Perera is neither forward nor back as he bunts it to cover 6.6 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , low full toss on off , Dilshan clips and finds the mid-wicket fielder 6.5 Woakes to K Perera , 1 run , fuller and too straight , Perera checks his shot and works it to the left of mid-on 6.4 Woakes to K Perera , no run , short of length on the hips , Perera jumps up and misses the nudge , the ball thuds into the thigh pad and drops in front of square 6.3 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , fullish and outside off , Dilshan goes hard at the drive , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls towards short fine 6.2 Woakes to K Perera , 1 run , back of a length on leg-stump , Perera nurdles it to fine leg 6.1 Woakes to K Perera , no run , Perera misses out on a nice juicy full toss , he mishits it to cover 5.6 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , back of a length and shapes back in , Dilshan was late on the shot , he misses and is struck on the inner thigh 5.5 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , good length ball and straightens slightly , Dilshan moves forward and ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls back down the wicket 5.5 Gurney to Dilshan , wide , splays it down leg , Dilshan ca n't lay bat on it and wide called by the ump 5.4 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , fullish and just outside off , Dilshan mistimes the drive to cover 5.3 Gurney to Dilshan , FOUR , not all that short , but Dilshan was onto it in a flash. He goes deep inside the crease and pulls it behind square leg , the ball races away to the boundary 5.2 Gurney to K Perera , 1 run , on a length and hint of away movement , Perera plays away from the body and gets an inside edge to short fine leg , Dilshan wanted the single and hares across to the keepers end 5.1 Gurney to K Perera , 2 runs , drops it short and outside off , Perera jumps up and cuts it uppishly over backward point , the third man fielder tidies up and keeps it to a couple 4.6 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery on off , blocked off the front foot to the bowler 4.5 Woakes to Dilshan , 2 runs , short of length on middle and leg , Dilshan tucks it behind square , he called for two straightaway and Perera responded to his call 4.4 Woakes to Dilshan , FOUR , too short and not much pace on that delivery , Dilshan fetches it from outside off-stump line and pulls it to the deep square leg fence 4.3 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , pitched up and inviting the batsman to go after it , Dilshan takes on the challenge and only connects with thin air , the ball was close to the inside edge as well as the off-pole 4.2 Woakes to K Perera , 1 run , touch fuller and around off , Perera plays a crisp drive towards mid-off , Bopara runs across , dives to his left and parries the ball to the mid-on fielder. He saved three runs there 4.1 Woakes to K Perera , no run , holds the length back around off , Perera stays in the crease and taps it to cover The floodlights are already on and have started to effect . 3.6 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , good length ball on off , Dilshan presents a straight bat and defends to the right of Gurney 3.5 Gurney to K Perera , 1 run , tucks the short of length delivery behind square and crosses over to the other end 3.4 Gurney to K Perera , no run , shortens the length on the fourth stump , Perera gets behind the line and bunts it to cover 3.3 Gurney to K Perera , no run , too full and on off , Perera squeezes the drive to mid-off 3.2 Gurney to K Perera , no run , shaping from short of length , Perera blocks off the inside section of the bat to square leg 3.1 Gurney to K Perera , no run , back of a length on off , defended back to the bowler 2.6 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , fuller and angling in , Dilshan tries to flick , the bat turns in his hands and hits it straight to mid-on 2.5 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , on a length close to off , Dilshan comes half forward and knocks it to cover 2.4 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , good length ball around off , Dilshan presses it to cover after coming forward Dilshan looks in some sort of discomfort. The physio is working on his neck. He collided with Woakes while running. Both players were ball-watching. Dilshan rammed into Woakes ' shoulder. He is ready to go now 2.3 Woakes to Dilshan , FOUR , low full toss and Dilshan takes full toll of it. He leans forward and clips it past mid-wicket , Stokes gives chase and comes second 2.2 Woakes to K Perera , 1 run , fullish and on off , Perera drives it to cover , Stokes misfields and allows the single to be taken 2.1 Woakes to K Perera , no run , yorker just outside off , Perera was late to bring his bat down and fails to dig it out. Luckily for him it was not on the stumps 1.6 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , fuller and targeting the stumps , Dilshan turns it gently to mid-on 1.5 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , back of a length on off , Dilshan comes half forward and taps it to cover 1.4 Gurney to K Perera , leg byes , 1 run , straying onto the leg-stump , Perera misses the flick and the ball dribbles off the thigh pad to square leg 1.3 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , on a length around off , Dilshan comes forward and tries to defend , the ball takes the edge and drops well short of the second slip fielder , Tredwell fumbles and the duo sneak a single. Dilshan did well to play it with soft hands 1.2 Gurney to Dilshan , FOUR , overtpitches and Dilshan cashes in on it. He gets a good stride forward and drives it wide of mid-off , he did n't middle that , but had enough for the ball to reach the fence Some issue with the sightscreen. The umpire is having it sorted out . 1.1 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , slightly short in length and outside off , left alone Harry Gurney , comes into the attack 0.6 Woakes to K Perera , 2 runs , fuller and close to off , Perera goes for the drive , the ball hits the inside part of the bat and rolls through the vacant mid-wicket region 0.5 Woakes to K Perera , no run , jags in from back of a length , Perera stays rooted to the crease and misses the back foot defence , the ball hits him on the thigh pad 0.4 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , dug in half way down the wicket , Dilshan swivels and pulls it along the ground to fine leg 0.3 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , Woakes gets away with a half volley on leg-stump , Dilshan leans forward and fails to nail the flick , wears it on the pads. There is a stifled appeal for lbw , but the ball was heading down leg 0.2 Woakes to Dilshan , FOUR , again , the ball bounces more than Dilshan expected. This one nips back in from short of length , Dilshan looks to force it off the back foot , the ball squirts off the inside edge and runs down to the fine leg fence 0.1 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , straightaway some extra bounce for Woakes , it was a short of length delivery that climbs up sharply , Dilshan was surprised by the bounce , but does well to fend it with soft hands to the off-side Dilshan and K Perera are at the crease. Dilshan is on strike. Woakes will open the attack The national anthems of both teams are being played. England gather around in a huddle. Cook has a pep talk before they disperse to their fielding positions. Woakes to bowl the first ball of the series. He has two slips in place to assist him. . There was a bit of confusion as to which Perera was playing , it is Thisara and not Dilurwan , who gets a game today . Mathews : " We would have bowled first as well. There will be something in the wicket , especially in the first 10 overs. It was a tough tour in India , we need to flush that out of our system. After the India tour , we have an idea as to who is going to the World Cup. The bowlers are inexperienced , but we have Rangana Herath back in the side. " Cook : " We are going to have a bowl. It is hard to tell about the forecast. The pitch seems tacky , hence we will bowl first. First of all we have to concentrate on this game. Dropping Alex was a tough decision , we needed an extra bowler in these conditions. Finny could not pass the fitness test this morning. We need to adapt to these conditions and then think about the World Cup. " Pitch Report : " The groundsmen have done a great job. It is cloudy and the forecast is for rain. The pitch is nice and hard. The captain winning the toss will want the insert the opposition in " , says Russel Arnold Teams : Sri Lanka ( Playing XI ) : Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kushal Janith Perera , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Lahiru Thirimanne , Jeevan Mendis , Thisara Perera , Dhammika Prasad , Rangana Herath , Ajantha Mendis England ( Playing XI ) : Alastair Cook ( c ) , Moeen Ali , Ian Bell , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Ravi Bopara , Ben Stokes , Chris Woakes , James Tredwell , Harry Gurney England have won the toss and have opted to field Good news folks ! Play will start at 15 : 30 local time , which means the toss is 10 minutes away. There are no overs reduced and it will be a 50-over game . England players are out in the middle warming up. The groundstaff are working relentlessly to clear the water logged on the covers. The covers from the square have been removed and the rest are being taken off slowly . And if the game begins but ca n't be finished today , the proceedings will resume from that stage tomorrow. Hmmm , looks like its going to be that kind of a day . The rain has ceased and the covers are being peeled off. The two umpires are out in the middle , discussing the playing conditions with Cook and Mathews. No official word on the starting time , yet. If rain ruins this day , play will begin tomorrow and overs will be docked depending upon the conditions . Toss and start of play have been delayed. Stay tuned for more updates. . The horrendous injury to Phil Hughes has shook the cricketing fraternity. The news is that he is still in a critical condition. Our thoughts and prayers are with Hughes . The latest update is that the entire ground is covered. Tomorrow 's a reserve day. With more rain forecast during the series , Sri Lankan officials have set aside reserve days for five of the seven matches . This could possibly be Sanga 's last series at home. By the way , England are further depleted with Finn picking up a groin strain . Weather Watch : Colombo has experienced showers in the past couple of days and the north-east monsoon continues to be a cause for concern. It may be recalled that the second tour game was abandoned. As Mahela tweeted overnight , let us hope that the rains stay away . The hosts have dropped Kula and Chandimal for the first 3 ODIs while Kandamby makes a comeback after a three-year hiatus. Meanwhile , opening the batting for England , Mo Ali cracked a breezy fifty in the tour game , but Hales continues to be the front-runner to partner Alastair Cook at the top of the order. James Taylor , who was n't in the picture for the India ODIs will be looking to make a statement and firm up his spot for the World Cup. With Jimmy and Broad missing out due to injury , the onus is on Steve Finn to lead the attack. During his first media briefing in Colombo , Cook spoke of this being a 'revenge ' series. Yes , there is quite a lot to look forward to . This long-drawn 7-match series offers an opportunity for both sides to analyse their talent pool and sort out the ideal combination for the World Cup. Greetings and welcome to the series opener . After suffering an ignominious 5-0 whitewash at the hands of India , Sri Lanka return to home comforts. England have n't done all that well either in ODIs. Cook and Co. floundered against the Islanders before the Indians gave them more food for thought with an emphatic 3-1 series win . Preview : England will look to settle scores against Sri Lanka after their bad-tempered clash earlier this year when the two sides meet in a pre-World Cup one-day series from Wednesday. The seven-match tour has been spiced up by comments from England captain Alastair Cook that his team will try to exact revenge for the Test and one-day defeats at home . Cook 's status as captain came under heavy pressure after the 1-0 Test defeat , and tempers frayed in the ODIs when off-spinner Sachithra Senanayake controversially ran out Jos Buttler before delivering a ball. " There is a World Cup at the end of it , but we are here to try and win this series , " Cook said on arrival. " I think we owe you ( Sri Lanka ) a little bit of revenge. " The 'Mankaded ' dismissal by Senanayake , since suspended for an illegal bowling action , is considered to be against cricket 's spirit of fair play. But Sri Lanka insisted Buttler was earlier warned for backing up , and senior pro Mahela Jayawardene lashed out at Cook for questioning Senanayake 's run-out . Meanwhile Sri Lanka are smarting from this month 's 5-0 thrashing in India in a series that was hastily arranged after the West Indies abandoned their Indian tour over a pay dispute. Sri Lankan captain Angelo Mathews insisted the matches will be used to recover from the morale-sapping loss and find the right combination for the World Cup starting in February . " We need to get back into our groove , " Mathews said. " We want to look at players whom we think need to be looked at and whom we think will go on the World Cup. It 's very important that we sort out our bowlers and also the batting order. By the end of the series we should have a very clear idea of whom we want to take to the World Cup. " Both teams are grouped together in the preliminary stage of the World Cup and will feature on the opening day on February 14 , with Sri Lanka playing New Zealand and England facing Australia. The upcoming series , which opens in Colombo , provides both teams a chance to strike form -- provided the weather does not play spoilsport . The prevailing north-east monsoon over the island has already forced one of the two warm-up matches to be abandoned , leaving the tourists short of match practice. With more rain forecast during the series , Sri Lankan officials have set aside reserve days for five of the seven matches. " It 's not ideal , is it ? " England batsman Ian Bell said. " But I suppose , on this tour , we 're going to get interrupted by rain all the way through. " England have lost 11 of 18 one-dayers this year , including a 4-1 drubbing in Australia which co-hosts the World Cup with New Zealand in February-March . Teams : England ( From ) : Alastair Cook ( c ) , Moeen Ali , Ian Bell , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , James Tredwell , Steven Finn , Harry Gurney , Alex Hales , Chris Jordan , Ben Stokes , James Taylor Sri Lanka ( From ) : Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kushal Janith Perera , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Lahiru Thirimanne , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Thisara Perera , Jeevan Mendis , Rangana Herath , Shaminda Eranga , Dhammika Prasad , Thilina Kandamby , Lahiru Gamage , Ajantha Mendis , Dilruwan Perera Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
