Graphs Looked like Sangakkara was completely forgotten by Arnold as he closed down the presentation. The trophy has been presented to Mathews and the rest of the team join in. That ends Sri Lanka 's home preparations for the World Cup. They will now travel to New Zealand for a full series , beginning December 26th. On the other hand , England have a small break before travelling to Australia for the triangular series. Cricket is n't going anywhere though , India will take on Australia in the second Test at the Gabba tomorrow. Do join us for all the action. For now , cheers and bye. . Mahela Jayawardene : 'I was n't prepared for this , but thank you very much ( addressing the crowd ) . You have been behind us all the time , it 's an emotional time , but I have some fond memories. I am thankful to my parents as well as my family members.' Russel Arnold now calls upon Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara onto the stage. Mahela will speak first. . Mathews : 'It was a great effort from the guys after we won the toss. Dilshan has been a great influence for us as an all-rounder. He is simply getting better and better. We will celebrate this win before thinking about the New Zealand series. Thankful to the crowd for all the support. A sad day for us , we will miss both Mahela and Sangakkara.' Dilshan : 'Great way to finish the year with a hundred. I missed out on a few early on. I am very happy. The entire bunch is clicking just before the World Cup , especially the seniors. I will miss Sanga and Mahela. Sri Lanka will miss them as well. Still some more matches with them until the World Cup. We will enjoy being with them. Looking good with the World Cup coming up , happy with my own form.' Dilshan is the MoM and MoS for his all-round show Cook : 'We were n't up to it today. They batted superbly , just too much runs to chase. We have some positives. Joe Root has had an outstanding tour , Chris Woakes and Jordan were excellent , I thought. We worked incredibly hard over the last five weeks , ca n't blame them for the effort. We enjoyed our time out here , we are thankful for our fans for supporting us all along.' Coming back to the match , England were never in the chase. They lost the big hitting Moeen Ali and Alex Hales cheaply. Cook 's luck ran out at 32. Taylor and Morgan soon followed as the visitors slumped to 78/5. Joe Root , the lone bright spot of the series for the visitors made a fighting 80 , but it just helped delay the inevitable. Sri Lanka have won the series by a convincing 5-2 margin. They will now travel to New Zealand with their confidence back , although the conditions would vary vastly . Jayawardene takes a stump as they walk off. He and Sangakkara are now taking a stroll across the stadium as they soak in all the applause. Both men have made Sri Lanka proud and as a banner says 'Class never retires'. A fitting farewell to two of the biggest legends of Sri Lankan cricket. There 's a tinge of sadness but as the saying goes 'Every good thing must come to an end'. The Sri Lankan team are in the midst as well , although the moment solely belongs to the two men. There 's a sea of emotions at the R Premadasa Stadium . 45.5 M Jayawardene to Tredwell , out Stumped ! ! Jayawardene has a wicket to finish things off , a fitting end to a superb career. He is thrilled to bits , Mathews gets across to celebrate. It was fitting that Sangakkara had a role in the dismissal. This was tossed up on off and spun away , Tredwell charged down the track , was completely beaten in the flight as he swished across the line. Simple stumping for Mahela 's mate. Tredwell st Sangakkara b M Jayawardene 17 ( 21 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] M Jayawardene to Tredwell , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 45.4 M Jayawardene to Gurney , 1 run , Jayawardene gives this one more air , Gurney comes down the track and gets a thick edge towards cover point 45.3 M Jayawardene to Gurney , no run , tossed up and on off , defended back towards the bowler 45.2 M Jayawardene to Gurney , no run , slower and on Gurney 's pads , he looks to nudge it towards the on-side and misses 45.1 M Jayawardene to Tredwell , 1 run , flatter and outside off , Tredwell makes room and slaps it towards long-off 44.6 Dilruwan Perera to Gurney , 2 runs , Perera gives this one more air , Gurney gets a good stride forward and chips it over mid-off for a brace 44.5 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , 1 run , flatter and wider from Perera , Tredwell makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 44.4 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , no run , slower and on off , Tredwell looks to clout it over mid-wicket and misses 44.3 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , no run , Perera drifted one across Tredwell from around off , Tredwell was looking for the big drive through cover , misses it by a distance. Sangakkara whipped the bails off , but Tredwell was well in Appeal for a stumping , but Gurney looks to be SAFE. Not much excitement amongst the Sri Lankan fielders , Tredwell is well in 44.2 Dilruwan Perera to Gurney , 1 run , slower and on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 44.1 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , 1 run , tossed up and on off , Tredwell goes for the heave and gets an inside edge behind square 43.6 M Jayawardene to Tredwell , 1 run , Jayawardene drifts one on the leg-stump line , eased down towards long-on for a run 43.5 M Jayawardene to Tredwell , no run , Jayawardene gives this one more air , driven back at the bowler 43.4 M Jayawardene to Gurney , 1 run , turn for Jayawardene , Gurney was looking to cut and gets an inside edge past the leg-stump 43.3 M Jayawardene to Gurney , no run , tossed up and on off , defended back towards the bowler 43.2 M Jayawardene to Tredwell , 1 run , tossed up and on the pads , driven down towards long-on for a single 43.1 M Jayawardene to Tredwell , no run , slower and on off , Tredwell defends it towards the off-side Mahela Jayawardene , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Mahela Jayawardene comes onto bowl in his final match in his home ground. . 42.6 S Prasanna to Gurney , no run , Prasanna drifts one on off , turned towards the on-side 42.5 S Prasanna to Gurney , no run , tossed up and on off , Gurney gets his bat in front of the pads in defence 42.4 S Prasanna to Tredwell , 1 run , Prasanna drifts one on middle , nudged towards long-on for a single 42.3 S Prasanna to Tredwell , no run , slower and spinning away from off , Tredwell prods forward and misses 42.2 S Prasanna to Gurney , 1 run , pushed through flatter and wider , Gurney makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 42.1 S Prasanna to Gurney , no run , flighted delivery and on Gurney 's pads , defended towards the on-side 41.6 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , no run , slower and just outside off , Tredwell presses forward and defends it 41.5 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , SIX , Tredwell wants to have some fun here ! He gave this one plenty of air and wider outside off , Tredwell gets a big stride forward , gets underneath the ball and sends it high and over long-on for a maximum 41.4 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , no run , flatter and quicker from Perera , skids through after pitching , Tredwell makes room for the cut and misses 41.3 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , no run , slower and spinning away from off , Tredwell goes for a big heave and misses 41.2 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , no run , flighted and on off , Tredwell prods half forward in defence 41.1 Dilruwan Perera to Tredwell , FOUR , flighted delivery and on off , Tredwell gets a big stride forward and lofts it over mid-on , just about gets enough to clear the fielder there Harry Gurney , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.6 S Prasanna to Jordan , out Lbw ! ! Another wicket falls ! Sri Lanka are all over England like a rash. This was pushed through quicker and on the stumps , Jordan was looking to nudge it towards the on-side , ends up playing all around it. The impact was around middle and the ball would have been crashed into the middle stump. Another easy call for umpire Tucker. Jordan lbw b S Prasanna 0 ( 1 ) S Prasanna to Jordan , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 40.5 S Prasanna to Tredwell , 1 run , the leg-break now , Tredwell watches it all along and drivs it towards long-on 40.4 S Prasanna to Tredwell , no run , another wrong 'un from Prasanna , once again Tredwell is dragged into the drive and misses 40.3 S Prasanna to Tredwell , no run , the wrong 'un from Prasanna , Tredwell did n't have much idea about that , he pushes forward and is beaten James Tredwell , left handed bat , comes to the crease 40.2 S Prasanna to J Root , out Lbw ! ! Root falls after a excellent hand. Prasanna gave this one plenty of air , the line was around middle , Root went down on his knees for the reverse sweep , misses and was caught on the back-foot. The impact was on off and middle and the ball was going on to crash into the leg-stump. Simple decision for umpire Tucker and the Hawk Eye vindicates him. J Root lbw b S Prasanna 80 ( 99 ) [ 4s-5 ] S Prasanna to J Root , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Root has been given out LBW , he wants a review. The ball definitely pitched in line , there 's no bat or glove for sure. Root might be in big trouble here. Three Reds. He is OUT 40.1 S Prasanna to J Root , no run , the leg-break from Prasanna , gave this one plenty of air , Root went for a big swipe and missed Seekkuge Prasanna [ 6.0-0-32-1 ] is back into the attack Chris Jordan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.6 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , out Bowled ! ! Woakes has been cleaned up ! Perera fired this one quicker and flatter as Woakes gave the charge , the batsmen ends up missing it completely and the leg pole is knocked out of the perch. Woakes falls after a useful contribution but England slump further. Woakes b Dilruwan Perera 34 ( 37 ) [ 4s-2 ] Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 39.5 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , 2 runs , Perera drops this one short and on Woakes ' pads , pulled away behind square on the on-side for a brace 39.5 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , wide , Perera drifts one well down leg-side , wide called 39.4 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , no run , pushed through flatter and well down leg-side , Woakes clips it straight to short fine , J Root wanted a single and is sent back 39.3 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , 2 runs , flatter and on Root 's pads , clipped in front of square on the on-side for a brace 39.2 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , 1 run , worked towards long-on for an easy single 39.1 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , no run , Perera fires one down leg-side as J Root came down the track , he looks to flick and misses 38.6 Lakmal to J Root , 1 run , short and on the stumps , J Root swivels across and pulls it to deep square leg for a single 38.5 Lakmal to J Root , FOUR , nicely played by Root , low full toss from Lakmal , Root clears his left leg and drills it past mid-on for a boundary 38.4 Lakmal to Woakes , 1 run , full toss on Woakes ' pads , flicked past square leg for a single 38.3 Lakmal to Woakes , no run , Lakmal bangs one short and just outside off , Woakes looks to pull and misses 38.2 Lakmal to Woakes , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 38.1 Lakmal to Woakes , no run , low full toss from Lakmal , Woakes looks to help it on its sway and misses , flicks the pad on its way to the keeper 37.6 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , no run , Root comes down the track and mistimes the drive back towards the bowler 37.5 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , no run , the reverse sweep from Root , does n't get hold of the shot as the ball rolls away towards point 37.4 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , 1 run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , Woakes works it towards long-on 37.3 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , FOUR , lovely shot from Woakes , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and goes inside out over extra cover for a boundary 37.2 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , no run , was that a chance ? Sangakkara certainly thought so , this was tossed up and held its line outside off , Woakes pushed at that , was there a edge on that ? Sangakkara grabbed at the ball and missed 37.1 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , 1 run , pushed through by Perera , Root comes down the track and works it behind square on the on-side for a single Dilruwan Perera [ 5.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Lakmal to Woakes , no run , yorker length delivery and just outside off , squeezed out towards the off-side 36.5 Lakmal to J Root , leg byes , 1 run , high full toss from Lakmal , was angling down leg as well , Root looks to flick and misses , a mild appeal for LBW is turned down 36.4 Lakmal to J Root , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Root rocks back and mistimes the pull towards mid-on 36.3 Lakmal to Woakes , 1 run , the slower ball from Lakmal , rolled his fingers around it , Woakes dabs it to the right of Sangakkara , the ball bounces well in front of him 36.2 Lakmal to J Root , 1 run , yorker length delivery and just outside off , Root squeezes it out towards point. Dilshan shies at the bowler 's end , hits the stumps and concedes an unnecessary single 36.1 Lakmal to J Root , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Root gets a good stride forward and drills it past extra cover for a brace Suranga Lakmal [ 6.0-1-15-2 ] is back into the attack Lakmal is back into the attack . Drinks are on the field now 35.6 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , easily done , comes well forward and eases it down to long-on 35.5 Dilshan to Woakes , 1 run , turning into the pads , Woakes works it with the spin to deep square leg for the fifth single off the over 35.4 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , floated up on off , Root turns it wide of mid-wicket for a quick single 35.3 Dilshan to Woakes , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Woakes clips it off the back foot to deep mid-wicket 35.2 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , slower through the air , Root leans forward and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 35.1 Dilshan to Woakes , 1 run , flighted on off , Woakes eases it down to long-on Tillakaratne Dilshan [ 9.0-0-31-3 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay . 34.6 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Woakes whips it to deep mid-wicket 34.5 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , 2 runs , slower and on leg-stump , Woakes paddles it to long leg and comes back for the second 34.4 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , no run , flighted on off , Woakes knocks it back to the bowler Goes round the wicket 34.3 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , 1 run , low full toss on off , Root sweeps it to deep backward square leg 34.2 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , no run , flighted outside off , Root comes down the track and pushes it back to the bowler 34.1 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , no run , tossed up on off , Root bottom-edges the sweep to short fine leg 33.6 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , plays a nice on-drive down to long-on 33.5 S Prasanna to J Root , no run , floated up close to off , Root push-drives it to the right of the bowler 33.4 S Prasanna to Woakes , 1 run , short and turning away , Woakes cuts it to sweeper cover 33.3 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , googly which is too full , Root kneels down and sweeps it to deep mid-wicket 33.2 S Prasanna to Woakes , 1 run , too full and on off , Woakes digs it out to long-on 33.1 S Prasanna to Woakes , no run , flighted outside off , Woakes drives and finds cover to perfection 32.6 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , 1 run , flatter and on off , punched down to long-on 32.5 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , 1 run , floated up on off , Root comes down the track and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 32.4 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , no run , flighted on off , Root reverse sweeps and picks out short third man 32.3 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , no run , slower and on off , Root works it with the spin to square leg 32.2 Dilruwan Perera to Woakes , 1 run , quicker and on off , Woakes punches it to long-on 32.1 Dilruwan Perera to J Root , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Root plays the late cut onto Sanga 's pads , the ball deflects towards short third man Dilruwan Perera [ 3.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack Root , who was struggling with his leg while fielding is getting some treatment from the physio . 31.6 S Prasanna to Woakes , no run , works the straight delivery to the on-side , picks out the mid-wicket fielder 31.5 S Prasanna to Woakes , no run , slower and on off , Woakes knocks it to cover 31.4 S Prasanna to Woakes , FOUR , drags the length back , it ends up being a half tracker , Woakes goes deep in the crease and pulls it in front of square , the fielder at deep mid-wicket could only go and retrieve the ball 31.3 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , fired into the blockhole , Root squeezes it out to sweeper cover 31.2 S Prasanna to Woakes , 1 run , drives it off the outside half of the blade to the vacant point region 31.1 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , shortens the length , Root hangs back and punches it to long-on 30.6 J Mendis to Woakes , no run , throws this up on off , Woakes leans forward and turns it to mid-wicket 30.5 J Mendis to Woakes , no run , googly on middle and leg , Woakes misses the clip and is hit on the thigh pad 30.4 J Mendis to J Root , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Root paddles it to long leg for a single 30.3 J Mendis to Woakes , 1 run , flighted on middle , driven along the ground to long-on 30.2 J Mendis to J Root , 1 run , tucks the flatter delivery to mid-wicket 30.1 J Mendis to J Root , FOUR , tossed up on off , Root kneels down and sweeps it to deep mid-wicket , Chandimal does all the hard work of getting to the ball , but he overslides and lets the ball go through 29.6 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , tossed up on off , Root stays leg-side of the ball and drives it to sweeper cover 29.5 S Prasanna to Woakes , 1 run , flighted on leg-stump , Woakes drives it past the diving Prasanna to long-on 29.4 S Prasanna to Woakes , no run , floated up close to off , Woakes defends it to the off-side 29.3 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , gives this lot more air , Root comes on the front foot and drives to sweeper cover 29.2 S Prasanna to J Root , no run , flatter and on off , Root mistimes the punch to cover 29.1 S Prasanna to Woakes , 3 runs , too full and outside off , it was almost a yorker , Woakes squeezes the drive to deep extra cover , Chandimal dives and stops the ball , the pair go for a third and a better throw would have made things interesting as Root had to dive in to make his ground 28.6 J Mendis to Woakes , 1 run , pushes it through on leg-stump , Woakes whips it to deep mid-wicket 28.5 J Mendis to J Root , 1 run , punches the quicker delivery wide of cover 28.4 J Mendis to J Root , no run , too full and on the stumps , Root squeezes it down the wicket , the ball deflects off Woakes ' bat , but the batsmen do n't take the single 28.3 J Mendis to J Root , no run , tossed up on leg-stump , Root misses the clip and is struck on the pads , it was sneaking down leg 28.2 J Mendis to J Root , no run , skids on after pitching , Root goes back and works it to mid-wicket 28.1 J Mendis to Woakes , 1 run , flighted on off , Woakes nudges it to deep mid-wicket 27.6 S Prasanna to Woakes , 1 run , floated up around off , Woakes drives it to long-off and opens his account 27.5 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Root punches it to long-on 27.4 S Prasanna to J Root , no run , pushed through on off , Root ekes out an inside edge to square leg Chris Woakes , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.3 S Prasanna to Buttler , out Caught by Chandimal ! ! Sri Lanka inch closer towards victory. Nice loopy delivery outside off , Buttler wanted to hit it a lot straighter , but ends up slicing it towards deep extra cover , Chandimal settles under it and takes a fine catch. Buttler c Chandimal b S Prasanna 23 ( 23 ) [ 4s-2 ] S Prasanna to Buttler , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 27.2 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , Root registers his 7th ODI fifty , his 3rd of the series. Flighted on off , Root drives it down to long-off 27.1 S Prasanna to J Root , 2 runs , too full and on off , Root squeezes it to mid-wicket , Mathews fires a throw at the bowlers end , there was no one backing up and an extra run is conceded 26.6 J Mendis to J Root , 1 run , flatter and on off , Root backs away and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 26.5 J Mendis to Buttler , 1 run , short and turning away , Buttler cuts it to sweeper cover 26.4 J Mendis to Buttler , FOUR , half tracker outside off , Buttler goes back and slaps the cut to deep extra cover , Dilruwan was late to set off at sweeper cover , he dives in vain. Buttler brings up 1000 ODI runs 26.3 J Mendis to Buttler , FOUR , excellent improvisation , wrong 'un close to off , Buttler waits for it in the crease , plays the reverse sweep past short third man , there was no stopping that 26.2 J Mendis to J Root , 1 run , nice loopy delivery around off , Root eases it away square of the wicket on the off-side 26.1 J Mendis to Buttler , 1 run , flighted on off , Buttler reverse sweeps it to sweeper cover 25.6 S Prasanna to Buttler , 1 run , tossed up on off , Buttler squeezes the drive to long-on 25.5 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , straight roller just outside off , Root drags it back onto the stumps , the ball goes over the sticks and Sanga ca n't gather it either 25.4 S Prasanna to J Root , no run , floated up close to off , Root pushes it to backward point off the front foot 25.3 S Prasanna to J Root , 2 runs , nice friendly full toss , Root swipes it towards cow corner , Thirimanne runs across from long-on , dives and saves a couple for the team 25.2 S Prasanna to Buttler , 1 run , loopy delivery outside off , Buttler looks to go big , ends up slicing it off the outer of the bat to deep backward point 25.1 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , drives the flighted delivery down to sweeper cover 24.6 J Mendis to J Root , 1 run , stands up and punches the flatter delivery to sweeper cover 24.5 J Mendis to Buttler , 3 runs , slider down leg , Buttler gets inside the line and tickles it to long leg , Lakmal hunts the ball down and hauls it in just before the rope 24.4 J Mendis to Buttler , no run , googly on middle and leg , Buttler did not pick it , is rapped on the pads , but the ball was heading down leg 24.3 J Mendis to J Root , 1 run , shortens the length just outside off , Root punches it to long-off 24.2 J Mendis to J Root , no run , opens the face and guides the flighted delivery to backward point 24.1 J Mendis to Buttler , 1 run , tosses it up too far outside off , Buttler drives it to long-off Jeevan Mendis , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 23.6 S Prasanna to J Root , no run , flatter and on off , Root punches it back to the bowler 23.5 S Prasanna to Buttler , 1 run , nice loopy delivery around off , Buttler eases it to sweeper cover 23.5 S Prasanna to Buttler , wide , plenty of air outside off , Buttler lets it go and the umpire does some stretching 23.4 S Prasanna to J Root , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Root whips it off the back foot to deep mid-wicket 23.3 S Prasanna to J Root , no run , flighted close to off , Root sweeps and picks out the mid-wicket fielder 23.2 S Prasanna to J Root , no run , tossed up on middle , Root stays in the crease and drops it dead on the wicket 23.1 S Prasanna to Buttler , 1 run , floated up outside off , Buttler drives it past the bowler to long-off Seekkuge Prasanna , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 22.6 T Perera to J Root , FOUR , poor delivery from Thisara. It was short and well wide of off , Root comes on the front foot and slaps it to deep extra cover , no chance for the sweeper fielder to stop the ball 22.5 T Perera to Buttler , 1 run , shortens the length outside off , Buttler stands tall and punches it to sweeper cover 22.4 T Perera to Buttler , no run , back of a length on the stumps , Buttler taps it in front of mid-wicket 22.3 T Perera to J Root , 1 run , bit of width on offer , Root slashes it off the outside half of the bat down to third man 22.2 T Perera to Buttler , 1 run , short of length on middle and leg , Buttler tucks it to deep square leg 22.1 T Perera to J Root , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Root drives it on the up to sweeper cover Thisara Perera [ 2.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , flighted on middle , Root drives along the ground to long-on 21.5 Dilshan to J Root , no run , touch short and just outside off , Root chops it towards backward point 21.5 Dilshan to J Root , wide , leg-break down leg , Root ca n't bat on the tickle , wide called 21.4 Dilshan to Buttler , 1 run , bit too full and on off , Buttler works it down to long-on 21.3 Dilshan to Buttler , no run , tossed up close to off , Buttler drives and finds the mid-off fielder 21.2 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , slower and on middle , Root nurdles it with soft hands behind square , a better throw would have made things interesting for Buttler 21.1 Dilshan to J Root , no run , whips the low full toss straight to square leg 20.6 Mathews to Buttler , no run , length ball around off , Buttler gets forward and knocks it into the off-side 20.5 Mathews to J Root , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle and leg , Root leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 20.4 Mathews to J Root , no run , length delivery around off , Root presses forward and taps it towards cover 20.3 Mathews to Buttler , 1 run , shortish and down leg , Buttler swivels back and pulls it to fine leg , finds the fielder there 20.2 Mathews to J Root , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length angled on leg , Root looks to clip , the ball goes off the pads behind square 20.1 Mathews to J Root , no run , full around off , Root comes on the front foot and drives it to the left of the bowler , who fields it 19.6 Dilshan to Buttler , no run , gets forward and defends 19.5 Dilshan to Buttler , no run , remains on the back foot and tucks it to square leg 19.4 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , another fantastic legbreak from Dilshan , Root stays on the back foot and looks to play across the line , gets a leading edge to cover point 19.3 Dilshan to Buttler , 1 run , gets inside the line and punches it towards long-on 19.2 Dilshan to Buttler , no run , gets forward and pushes it towards cover Jos Buttler , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.1 Dilshan to Eoin Morgan , out Lbw ! ! England in complete state of breakdown here. They are yet to reach triple figures and have already lost half their side. It was a flighted ball from Dilshan , Morgan lunges on the front foot and looks to sweep , misses and is hit just below the knee-roll. A good review taken by Sri Lanka as the on-field umpire had given that not out. Once the third umpire deemed that no bat or glove was invloved , it was an easy call to make. Eoin Morgan lbw b Dilshan 4 ( 14 ) Dilshan to Eoin Morgan , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Sri Lanka have taken a review for a lbw call against Morgan. Dilshan looks convinced , he is fine on the front foot. Looks close. No bat or glove involved there. The third umpire is watching plenty of replays for this one. Hawk-Eye shows that the impact was in line with middle and leg and the ball would have hit leg. Bye bye Morgan ! 18.6 Mathews to J Root , no run , fullish around off , Root gets forward and defends it towards cover 18.5 Mathews to J Root , no run , length ball on off , Root leans forward and tucks it into the leg-side 18.4 Mathews to J Root , no run , back of a length delivery by Mathews , Root stays back and looks to tuck it into the leg-side , misses and is rapped on the pads. Loud appeal by Mathews , he contemplates about taking the review but then decides against it. That looked a touch high. Hawk-Eye shows that it was just slipping leg and the on-field umpire 's call would have prevailed 18.3 Mathews to J Root , no run , fullish on middle and off , Root gets forward and drives it to mid-on 18.2 Mathews to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , length delivery on middle and off , Morgan taps it to mid-on and sets off for a quick single , a throw is fired at the non-striker 's end by Jeevan Mendis , had it hit directly , Morgan would have been in trouble 18.1 Mathews to Eoin Morgan , byes , FOUR , Mathews sees Morgan advancing down the track and drags back the length , bangs it short on leg , the ball lobs off his thigh pad and flies over the keeper 's head to the fence Angelo Mathews , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now 17.6 Dilshan to J Root , no run , stays on the back foot and blocks it down the track to the right of Dilshan 17.5 Dilshan to J Root , no run , beautiful delivery , it was the classic leg-spin delivery from Dilshan , Root is forced inside the crease and he manages to defend it back to the bowler 17.4 Dilshan to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , flighted outside off , Morgan taps it past the bowler towards long-off 17.3 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , goes on the back foot on this shortish delivery and punches it to point for a quick single 17.2 Dilshan to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , full and just outside off , Morgan gets forward and drives it with soft hands to long-off 17.1 Dilshan to Eoin Morgan , no run , flatter around off , Morgan stays back and pushes it gently towards point Tillakaratne Dilshan [ 6.0-0-22-2 ] is back into the attack A slip in place for Dilshan 16.6 Lakmal to J Root , 2 runs , short of length on leg , Root leans in front and flicks it to deep backward square leg 16.5 Lakmal to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , shortish on the hips , Morgan goes on the back foot and pulls it through backward square leg 16.4 Lakmal to Eoin Morgan , no run , length ball around off , Morgan presses forward and drives it to short cover , where Thirimanne is quick to dive to his left and fields it brilliantly 16.3 Lakmal to Eoin Morgan , no run , good length and angled into the batsman from wide of off , Morgan pushes it to short cover 16.2 Lakmal to Eoin Morgan , no run , length delivery coming back in a touch , Morgan prods at it and is beaten 16.1 Lakmal to J Root , 1 run , fullish and angled in on the pads , Root clips it to deep square leg 15.6 T Perera to J Root , 1 run , shortish on middle and off , Root goes back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 15.5 T Perera to J Root , FOUR , another lovely shot ! On a good length from Perera , straighter as well , Root has no problems in driving it to the long-on fence yet again 15.4 T Perera to J Root , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it to cover 15.3 T Perera to J Root , FOUR , beautiful shot by Root ! Excellent placement , presents the full face of the bat to his good length delivery on middle and drills it past Perera 's outstretched right hand to the long-on fence 15.2 T Perera to J Root , no run , back of a length outside off , Root chops it into the covers 15.1 T Perera to J Root , no run , length ball around off , Root drives it past the bowler towards mid-off 14.6 Lakmal to Eoin Morgan , no run , back of a length around off , Morgan presses forward and defends it into the off-side 14.5 Lakmal to Eoin Morgan , no run , on a length and in the channel outside off , left alone 14.4 Lakmal to Eoin Morgan , no run , back of a length and outside off , Morgan watches it closely and lets it go through 14.3 Lakmal to Eoin Morgan , no run , length delivery shaping back in a touch , Morgan is beaten as he looks to push it into the off-side Eoin Morgan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 14.2 Lakmal to James Taylor , out Caught by Sangakkara ! ! Oh dear , England are collapsing yet again ! Lakmal gets his second ! It was banged in short by Lakmal on the hips , Taylor surprised by the bounce , looked to fend it into the on-side , the ball lobbed off the glove , offering a simple catch to Sanga. The umpire did not take much time in giving that out. James Taylor c Sangakkara b Lakmal 2 ( 4 ) Lakmal to James Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.1 Lakmal to J Root , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Root taps it to mid-on for a brisk single 13.6 T Perera to J Root , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Root punches it off the back foot to square third man 13.5 T Perera to James Taylor , 1 run , shortish and angled on the hips , Taylor tucks it to deep square leg 13.4 T Perera to James Taylor , no run , touch back of a length on middle and off , Taylor pushes it back to the bowler 13.3 T Perera to J Root , 1 run , short of length and just outside off , Root punches it to cover point and runs for a quick single , Dilshan fires a throw at the non-striker 's end but misses , had that hit directly , Root was a goner ! 13.2 T Perera to James Taylor , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Taylor opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 13.1 T Perera to J Root , 1 run , back of a length and around off , Root stays in the crease and punches it to sweeper cover Thisara Perera , right-arm medium , comes into the attack James Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.6 Lakmal to Cook , out Caught by M Jayawardene ! ! Brilliant catch by Mahela at first slip , he claimed it straightaway. Cook was asked to wait while the umpires had another look at it. And the England captain departs after a slow 32. It was a length delivery by Lakmal , Cook was drawn on the front foot as he looked to drive , gets a thick outside edge that flies to the left of Mahela , who dives and snaffles a fantastic take , just inches from the ground. Cook c M Jayawardene b Lakmal 32 ( 49 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Lakmal to Cook , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Cook has been caught at first slip. The umpires have gone upstairs to check whether the catch is clean. No problems with Lakmal 's front foot. Looks like a clean catch from Mahela. Easy decision for the third ump. Cook has to depart ! 12.5 Lakmal to J Root , 1 run , short of length on middle and leg , Root leans forward and clips it to deep square leg 12.4 Lakmal to J Root , no run , back of a length around off , Root punchs it straight to mid-off 12.3 Lakmal to J Root , no run , back of a length on off , Root stays back and defends it to the left of the bowler 12.2 Lakmal to J Root , 2 runs , shortish on middle , Root swivels back and pulls it along the ground towards deep mid-wicket 12.1 Lakmal to Cook , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Cook cuts it off the back foot to deep extra cover 11.6 Dilshan to Cook , 1 run , shortish one , Cook stays back and cuts it to sweeper cover 11.5 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , full around off , Root presses forward and drives it to sweeper cover 11.4 Dilshan to Cook , 1 run , comes forward and drives it softly to cover 11.3 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , stays in the crease and tucks it to square leg 11.2 Dilshan to Cook , 1 run , gets forward and dabs it to cover point , scampers through for a quick single , the fielder fires a throw at the striker 's end , the ball deflects off Cook 's bat and rolls into the deep , where it is fielded before the rope 11.1 Dilshan to Cook , no run , pushed slower through the air around off , Cook chops it into the off-side 10.6 Lakmal to Cook , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Cook opens the face of the bat and steers it to third man 10.5 Lakmal to Cook , no run , short and wide outside off , Cook goes on the back foot and goes for the cut but misses , that should have been dispatched to the boundary but Cook missed it 10.4 Lakmal to Cook , no run , good length delivery coming back in a touch , Cook gets forward and looks to defend , gets an inside edge onto the pads 10.3 Lakmal to Cook , no run , on a length and just outside off , Cook comes on the front foot and lets the ball go through to the keeper 10.2 Lakmal to Cook , no run , full again and outside off , Cook leans forward and drives it to mid-off 10.1 Lakmal to Cook , no run , fullish delivery wide outside off , Cook leans forward and drives it to Dilshan at backward point , who jumps and stops it 9.6 Dilshan to J Root , 2 runs , short delivery just around off , Root goes on the back foot and pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 9.5 Dilshan to Cook , 1 run , plays for the turn , the ball goes straight on , takes the inside edge and rolls wide of mid-wicket 9.4 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , comes on the front foot and eases it to long-on 9.3 Dilshan to J Root , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Root goes back and brings his bat down very late and defends it back to the bowler 9.2 Dilshan to Cook , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Cook presses forward and works it to mid-on for a run 9.1 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , leans forward and drives it along the ground to long-on 8.6 Lakmal to Cook , no run , on a length just outside off , Cook defends it to the off-side 8.5 Lakmal to Cook , FOUR , good length delivery angled across the left-hander , Cook comes on the front foot and looks to drive , gets an outside edge which flies past the diving MJ to his right and rolls to the third man fence for a streaky boundary. That went right between the keeper and wide slip , a conventional first slip would have seen the back of Cook 8.4 Lakmal to Cook , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Cook hangs back and blocks it with a straight bat back to the bowler 8.3 Lakmal to Cook , no run , good length delivery angling across the left-hander , Cook leans forward and defends it solidly to short cover 8.2 Lakmal to J Root , 1 run , length delivery on the pads , Root comes on the front foot and clips it to deep backward square leg for a single 8.1 Lakmal to J Root , no run , good length delivery on off , Root comes forward and defends it back to the bowler A wide first slip and a gully in place for Lakmal 7.6 Dilshan to Cook , no run , tossed up delivery around off , Cook leans forward , opens the face of the bat and guides it to short third man 7.5 Dilshan to Cook , no run , flighted delivery on off , Cook leans forward and blocks it to short cover 7.4 Dilshan to J Root , 1 run , flighted delivery turning in a touch , Root goes back and works it to deep mid-wicket 7.3 Dilshan to Cook , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Cook leans forward and drives it to long-off Joe Root , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.2 Dilshan to Hales , out Caught by S Prasanna ! ! England have lost their second wicket. This was a tossed up delivery on off , Hales skips down the track and looks to send it over long-on , but does not get off the middle of the bat , Prasanna at long-on takes the easiest of catches. What a match Dilshan is having ! Hales c S Prasanna b Dilshan 7 ( 15 ) Dilshan to Hales , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.1 Dilshan to Hales , no run , goes back and nudges it to short fine leg 6.6 Lakmal to Cook , no run , fuller length delivery coming into the right-hander , Cook blocks it to covers 6.5 Lakmal to Cook , no run , good length delivery which pitches on middle and straightens , Cook goes back and brings his bat very late to defend it to the off-side 6.4 Lakmal to Cook , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Cook hangs back and taps it to point 6.3 Lakmal to Hales , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery on the pads , Hales misses the glance , the ball goes off the thigh pad to the left of the keeper , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 6.2 Lakmal to Hales , no run , good length delivery shaping away from the right-hander , Hales leans forward and looks to drive , but misses 6.1 Lakmal to Hales , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Hales goes back and punches it to cover Suranga Lakmal , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 5.6 Dilshan to Cook , no run , flighted delivery on off , Cook leans forward and drives it to short cover 5.5 Dilshan to Cook , no run , fullish on off , Cook comes forward and defends it to the off-side 5.4 Dilshan to Cook , no run , shorter this time just outside off , Cook goes back and chops the cut to backward point 5.3 Dilshan to Hales , 1 run , leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 5.2 Dilshan to Hales , no run , goes back and punches it to cover 5.1 Dilshan to Hales , 2 runs , straighter on leg , Hales goes back and whips it to backward square leg 4.6 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , goes on the back foot and cuts it to point 4.5 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , SIX , comes on the front foot , gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it over the deep mid-wicket fence for a maximum 4.4 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , goes back and pushes it to short cover 4.3 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , 2 runs , straighter on middle , Cook leans forward and works it to deep mid-wicket 4.2 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , FOUR , goes on the back foot and cuts it between point and covers for a magnificent boundary 4.1 Dilruwan Perera to Hales , 1 run , goes back inside the crease and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 3.6 Dilshan to Cook , 2 runs , that was close ! This was pushed through flatter and quicker , Cook lunged forward on the defensive push , gets an inside edge that goes over the top of leg-stump , the keeper ca n't gather it either 3.5 Dilshan to Cook , no run , flighted and just outside off , driven straight to cover 3.4 Dilshan to Cook , no run , full and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler 3.3 Dilshan to Cook , no run , short and wide from Dilshan , Cook goes back and cuts it towards cover point 3.2 Dilshan to Hales , 1 run , Hales gets a big stride forward as he sweeps a well tossed up ball in front of square on the on-side , just a single 3.1 Dilshan to Hales , no run , comes down the track and pushes a well tossed up ball back at the bowler 2.6 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , short and wide from Perera , Cook cuts it straight to the man at point 2.5 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , full and just outside off , pushed towards cover-point 2.4 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , FOUR , nicely played by Cook , gets down on his knees and sweeps it behind square , the man in the deep is very square. Cook is off and running with a boundary 2.3 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , lunges forward to a tossed up ball and defends 2.2 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , tad fuller , Cook pushes it to the left of the bowler , Perera gets across and stops it 2.1 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , flighted and just around off , Cook goes back and pushes it back at the bowler 1.6 Dilshan to Hales , no run , full and just outside off , defended towards cover 1.5 Dilshan to Hales , 2 runs , goes back and chops it past backward point for a brace 1.4 Dilshan to Hales , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it to mid-wicket 1.3 Dilshan to Hales , no run , leans forward and looks to defend , but is beaten Alex Hales , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.2 Dilshan to Moeen Ali , out Bowled ! ! Golden duck for Moeen Ali. This was a slider from Dilshan , which goes on with the arm , Ali goes on the back and looks to cut , but misses. The ball crashes into the off-stump. England have lost their opener in the second over. Moeen Ali b Dilshan 0 ( 1 ) Dilshan to Moeen Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 1.1 Dilshan to Cook , 1 run , goes back and looks to cut , but only manages to get a thickish outside edge which flies past Jayawardene at first slip 0.6 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , 1 run , leans forward and drives it to long-off 0.5 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , goes back and blocks it cover 0.4 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , comes on the front foot and defends it towards point 0.3 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , leans forward and blocks it to short cover 0.2 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , goes back and chops it to cover-point 0.1 Dilruwan Perera to Cook , no run , the arm-ball to start off , Cook goes back and misses the defence , is struck on the pads on the leg-stump line , a huge shout for lbw is turned down Cook and Moeen Ali are at the crease. Cook is on strike. Dilruwan Perera will open the attack Dilruwan will start the proceedings for Sri Lanka with a slip and a short extra cover in place Another superb display from the Sri Lankan batsmen. It was a fitting finale to the two legends , although they both missed out after promising starts. Tillakaratne Dilshan made up though , with a wonderfully crafted hundred , his 18th in ODIs. He was well assisted by Dinesh Chandimal , who made a fine fifty. There were a host of records broken as well. Chandimal went past 2000 ODI runs , Dilshan became the fifth Sri Lankan batsman to complete 9000 runs while Thisara Perera put the icing on the cake with a breezy fifty , going past 1000 runs in the process. England looked ragged at times and will need to bat extremely well if they are to pull off this chase. Join us in a while. . 49.6 Jordan to Chandimal , 1 run , another brilliant inswinging yorker from Jordan , full and swinging into Chandimal 's pads , he falls across as he looked to flick , gets an inside edge onto the pads and scampers across for a quick single. Sri Lanka end on 302/6 49.5 Jordan to J Mendis , 1 run , low full toss on off , clipped towards mid-wicket for a single 49.4 Jordan to Chandimal , 1 run , full and on the stumps , slugged away towards mid-wicket for a single Jeevan Mendis , left handed bat , comes to the crease 49.3 Jordan to Chandimal , out S Prasanna Run Out ! ! Prasanna falls for a diamond duck , a sad way to be dismissed. Credit to the bowler though , he fires in the leg-stump yorker , Chandimal just about manages to dig it out. Prasanna had set-off for a single , the ball goes back towards the bowler. Jordan calmly collects it and whips the bails off at the bowler 's end. S Prasanna run out ( Jordan ) 0 ( 0 ) Jordan to Chandimal , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Seekkuge Prasanna , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.2 Jordan to T Perera , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Athletic catch from Jordan , and it ends a sparkling cameo from Perera. This was banged in short and with some venom , Perera was backing away , gets cramped for room and top-edges the pull. Jordan goes for the catch , runs across towards mid-wicket and snaffles it with ease. T Perera c and b Jordan 54 ( 26 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] Jordan to T Perera , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 49.1 Jordan to Chandimal , leg byes , 1 run , fuller length delivery and following Chandimal as he backed away , he looks for the big swing and misses , sneaks in a leg-bye as the ball rolls away towards the off-side Chris Jordan [ 9.0-0-52-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Gurney to T Perera , 2 runs , on a good length and on off , Perera makes room and drills it back over the bowler 's head. Jordan does well to gets across , puts in the dive and saves the boundary 48.5 Gurney to Chandimal , 1 run , Chandimal comes down the track and drives a full ball towards long-off 48.4 Gurney to T Perera , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 48.3 Gurney to T Perera , 2 runs , 5th ODI fifty for Perera , this has been a superb knock , full toss on his pads , whipped away wide of long-on for a brace , gets a good hug from his partner 48.2 Gurney to Chandimal , 1 run , slower short ball from Gurney , Chandimal makes room and slaps it towards cover 48.1 Gurney to T Perera , 1 run , low full toss on Perera 's pads , flicked to the right of square leg for a single , good diving stop by the fielder Harry Gurney [ 8.0-0-52-1 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Woakes to T Perera , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Perera hacks it away towards long-on for a single 47.5 Woakes to T Perera , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Perera backs away and mistimes the drive towards cover 47.4 Woakes to T Perera , 2 runs , short of a length and on the stumps , Perera heaves it away in front of mid-wicket. Chandimal wants a second run and completes it with ease 47.3 Woakes to T Perera , FOUR , nothing is working for Woakes , this was full and just outside off , Perera throws his bat at that , gets a bottom edge that races away past the keeper for a boundary Woakes changes to over the wicket 47.2 Woakes to T Perera , SIX , this is turning out to be a superb cameo from Perera , makes room to a short ball and deposits it way over the square leg fence , his first six of the day 47.1 Woakes to Chandimal , 1 run , yorker length delivery and on the stumps , Chandimal backs away and drives it towards long-on for a single 46.6 Jordan to T Perera , FOUR , Jordan has lost his line completely , offers a full toss on Perera 's pads , whipped away fine for a hat-trick of boundaries 46.5 Jordan to T Perera , FOUR , this is excellent batting from Perera , spots the slower short ball early , makes room and slaps it over extra cover for a boundary 46.4 Jordan to T Perera , FOUR , too short from Jordan , Perera makes room and swipes it away over cover-point for another boundary 46.3 Jordan to Chandimal , 1 run , 12th ODI fifty for Chandimal , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , worked past mid-wicket for a single 46.2 Jordan to Chandimal , no run , that 's a missed opportunity for Chandimal , he was shuffling across on the whip to a full toss , misses and the ball rolls away off the pads 46.1 Jordan to T Perera , 1 run , short of a length and on Perera 's pads , tucked in front of square on the on-side for a single Chris Jordan [ 8.0-0-38-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Woakes to T Perera , 1 run , on a length and on Perera 's pads , tucked in front of square on the on-side for a single 45.5 Woakes to Chandimal , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 45.4 Woakes to T Perera , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Perera , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 45.3 Woakes to T Perera , FOUR , this is even better ! Full and wide from Woakes , Perera leans into the shot and caresses it past extra cover , no chance for the man at deep cover Woakes changes to round the wicket 45.2 Woakes to T Perera , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries for Perera , width on offer again , Perera gets on top of the bounce and cuts it square behind point for a boundary 45.1 Woakes to T Perera , FOUR , nicely done by Perera , this was short and wide from Woakes , Perera waits on it , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and runs it past the keeper for a boundary Chris Woakes [ 7.0-0-42-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Gurney to Chandimal , leg byes , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and sliding onto Chandimal 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away past the keeper for a couple of runs 44.5 Gurney to T Perera , 1 run , another low full toss from Gurney , driven down towards long-on for a single , that brings up 1000 career ODI runs for Perera 44.4 Gurney to T Perera , no run , the slower ball from Gurney , Perera spots it early and defends it 44.3 Gurney to T Perera , 2 runs , Gurney bangs one short and just outside off , Perera swivels across and pulls it in front of square on the on-side , back for the second run 44.2 Gurney to T Perera , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Perera gets forward and drives it past cover for a brace 44.2 Gurney to T Perera , wide , Gurney slips in the slower ball , but ends up drifting it way down leg , wide called 44.1 Gurney to T Perera , 2 runs , yorker length delivery and on the off-stump channel , Perera works it in front of mid-wicket , runs hard and comes back for the second run 43.6 Jordan to Chandimal , no run , another full toss from Jordan , Chandimal clips it straight to mid-wicket 43.5 Jordan to T Perera , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Perera steers it away towards third man for a single 43.4 Jordan to T Perera , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Perera hops across in defence Thisara Perera , left handed bat , comes to the crease 43.3 Jordan to Dilshan , out Caught by Moeen Ali ! ! Dilshan falls after his hundred ! This was a loopy full toss from Jordan , Dilshan reaches out and looks to slug it over mid-wicket , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up holding out to Moeen , who does well to get across from deep mid-wicket. Dilshan walks off to a good ovation from the capacity crowd. Dilshan c Moeen Ali b Jordan 101 ( 124 ) [ 4s-9 6s-1 ] Jordan to Dilshan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.2 Jordan to Dilshan , no run , good comeback from Jordan , yorker length delivery and angling back into Dilshan , he does well to jam it back at the bowler Dilshan becomes the first player in the history of ODIs to score a hundred in his 300th appearence 43.1 Jordan to Dilshan , 2 runs , 18th ODI hundred for Dilshan , in his 300th ODI. He punches the air in delight , his mates are thrilled to bits. This was full and wide from Jordan , Dilshan leans into the drive and gets it wide of deep cover , comes back for the second run 42.6 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , slower delivery on off , Dilshan works it to mid-wicket , he wanted two but decides against it. He moves onto 99 42.5 Gurney to Chandimal , 1 run , full and on off , Chandimal closes the bat face early and pushes it off the outer half of the bat straight down the ground 42.4 Gurney to Chandimal , 2 runs , low full toss on off , Chandimal leans forward and flicks it towards deep mid-wicket for a couple 42.3 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length on off , Dilshan dabs it wide of backward point for a single 42.2 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , off-speed delivery just outside off , Dilshan is deceived for the lack of pace as he misses the cut 42.1 Gurney to Chandimal , 1 run , starts from round the wicket , dishes out a full toss , Chandimal drills it down to long-on Harry Gurney [ 6.0-0-38-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Moeen Ali to Chandimal , 1 run , pushed through on off , Chandimal eases it to long-on 41.5 Moeen Ali to Chandimal , SIX , floated up on off , Chandimal dances down the wicket , miscues the loft towards long-on , Jordan near the rope leaps and gets a hand to hit , but he only parries it over the rope. He did not time his jump to perfection 41.4 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , flatter and close to off , Dilshan makes room and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side , brings up 9000 ODI runs. He becomes the 5th Sri Lanka to reach the landmark 41.3 Moeen Ali to Chandimal , 1 run , gives this bit more air and drags the length back , Chandimal mistimes the slog sweep to deep mid-wicket 41.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , gets to the pitch of the ball and drills the drive to long-off 41.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , skips out of the crease , yorks himself and ends up jamming back to the bowler Moeen Ali [ 9.0-0-29-2 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , taps this tossed up delivery towards mid-wicket and keeps strike 40.5 Tredwell to Chandimal , 1 run , comes down the track and nudges it to deep square leg , only a single this time as Jordan gets there quickly 40.4 Tredwell to Chandimal , 2 runs , too full , almost a yorker , Chandimal plays it with soft hands to backward square leg , the fielder had to run in a long way and the duo get back for the second 40.3 Tredwell to Chandimal , FOUR , well placed boundary ! Flighted delivery around off , Chandimal shimmies down the track and drags the hoick wide of long-on , he splits deep mid-wicket and long-on to perfection 40.2 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , uses his feet , gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it past a diving Tredwell to long-on 40.1 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , slower and on off , Dilshan turns it to mid-wicket James Tredwell [ 6.0-0-41-0 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay yielded 38 runs. Joe Root is seen trudging off the field. He might have injured his ankle while fielding. Hopefully , it is nothing serious . 39.6 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , leans forward and works the fullish delivery wide of mid-on 39.5 Woakes to Chandimal , 1 run , back of a length on off , Chandimal stays leg-side and pulls it straight to deep mid-wicket 39.4 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , too full and around off , Dilshan squeezes it to mid-off 39.3 Woakes to Dilshan , 2 runs , short of length on middle and leg , Dilshan nurdles it behind square and pushes his partner for the second , the 50-run stand comes up between these two 39.2 Woakes to Chandimal , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Chandimal mistimes the hoick to deep mid-wicket 39.1 Woakes to Chandimal , no run , pitched up around off , Chandimal drives it to the left of the bowler , who stops in his follow-through 38.6 Jordan to Dilshan , no run , full and on the stumps , worked straight to mid-wicket 38.5 Jordan to Chandimal , 1 run , full toss on leg-stump , Chandimal clips it to deep square leg for a single 38.5 Jordan to Chandimal , wide , slower ball bouncer down leg , Chandimal ca n't make contact with the pull , wided by the ump 38.4 Jordan to Chandimal , no run , full and attacking the stumps , Chandimal digs it out to mid-wicket 38.3 Jordan to Dilshan , 1 run , again , short and on the body , Dilshan helps it down to fine leg with a pull 38.2 Jordan to Chandimal , 1 run , short of length on off , Chandimal gets inside the line and tucks it to fine leg 38.1 Jordan to Chandimal , FOUR , length delivery in the slot , Chandimal heaves it over mid-wicket , Hales leaps up and ca n't reach it. Good way to start the over for Sri Lanka Chris Jordan [ 6.0-0-27-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , slower delivery down leg , Dilshan ca n't lay bat on ball , umpire does not signal it a wide as he thought Dilshan got some pad on that , Dilshan not happy with the decision 37.5 Woakes to Chandimal , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , driven to mid-off for an easy single 37.5 Woakes to Chandimal , wide , yorker gone wrong , slips it down leg , wide signalled 37.4 Woakes to Chandimal , 2 runs , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Chandimal pulls in front of square for a couple , he was more in control of that shot 37.3 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , short and on the body , Dilshan swivels and pulls it to backward square leg 37.2 Woakes to Chandimal , 3 runs , Gurney does not dive and Chandimal survives , length delivery around off , Chandimal swings across the line and gets a thickish outside edge towards third man , Gurney runs forward and does not put in the dive as the ball lands in front of him. Woakes is not too pleased with the effort 37.1 Woakes to Chandimal , no run , bouncer just outside off , Chandimal decides to take it on , goes for the pull but ca n't connect Drinks are on the field now 36.6 Gurney to Dilshan , FOUR , another full toss , this was outside off , Dilshan comes forward and drives it towards cover , Taylor gets a bad bounce , he lets the ball go through for back-to-back boundaries 36.5 Gurney to Dilshan , FOUR , poor delivery from Gurney , nice juicy full toss , Dilshan being well set does not miss out , he drives it past the non-stirker , the long-on ca n't cut it off and it is the first boundary after 7 overs 36.4 Gurney to Chandimal , 1 run , too straight , Chandimal leans forward and clips it off the pads to deep mid-wicket 36.3 Gurney to Chandimal , no run , yorker on off , Chandimal squeezes it back to the bowler 36.2 Gurney to Chandimal , 2 runs , gives the charge , takes it on the full and drives it between extra cover and mid-off , Cook gives chase and keeps the batsmen down to two 36.1 Gurney to Chandimal , no run , on a length close to off , Chandimal drives it straight to cover 36.1 Gurney to Chandimal , wide , off-speed delivery down leg , wided by the umpire Harry Gurney [ 5.0-0-26-1 ] is back into the attack It has started to drizzle. It is not heavy enough to stop play . 35.6 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , well directed yorker , Dilshan jams onto the his boot , the ball dribbles back to the bowler 35.5 Woakes to Chandimal , 1 run , back of a length on off , Chandimal punches it to mid-on and sets off , Jordan was quite deep 35.4 Woakes to Chandimal , no run , on a length close to off , Chandimal flicks and picks out mid-wicket 35.3 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , slower delivery on off and middle , Dilshan plays it gently to the vacant mid-wicket region , he wanted two but settles with one 35.2 Woakes to Chandimal , 1 run , good length ball around off , Chandimal ekes out an inside edge to backward square leg 35.1 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , strays onto the pads , Dilshan leans forward and clips it behind square for a single Chris Woakes [ 4.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay. The groundsmen are getting ready with the covers near the boundary rope . 34.6 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , gets forward and eases it to long-on 34.5 Tredwell to Chandimal , 1 run , lunges on one knee and sweeps it to fine leg , he gets up to start running and stumbles , but get the single comfortably before the ball is fielded and thrown back 34.4 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , stays back and punches it to long-on 34.3 Tredwell to Chandimal , 1 run , gets down on one knee once again and drags the sweep from outside off , gets a slight top-edge and the ball stays in the air for a while before rolling to short fine leg 34.2 Tredwell to Chandimal , 2 runs , full and just outside off , Chandimal lunges on one knee and drags the sweep to fine leg , the ball slows down near the rope and the batsmen are kept down to two 34.1 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , stays inside the crease and tucks it to deep mid-wicket James Tredwell [ 5.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Moeen Ali to Chandimal , no run , gets forward and taps it to the right of the bowler , who runs across quickly and stops the ball , prevents a single 33.5 Moeen Ali to Chandimal , 2 runs , stays on the front foot and clips , the ball goes past the leg slip to fine leg for a brace 33.4 Moeen Ali to Chandimal , no run , gets forward and works it into the on-side 33.3 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , leans forward and paddles it to fine leg 33.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , turns this into Dilshan , who looks to turn it into the on-side , gets an inside edge onto the pads and the ball lobs off behind square 33.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , gets forward and drives it towards cover 32.6 Jordan to Chandimal , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the pads , Chandimal clips it to deep mid-wicket to get past 2000 ODI runs 32.5 Jordan to Chandimal , no run , length delivery outside off , Chandimal gets forward and drives it straight towards short cover 32.4 Jordan to Chandimal , no run , length ball on off , Chandimal drives it with the inside half of the bat towards mid-on 32.3 Jordan to Chandimal , 2 runs , shortish and on the hips , Chandimal tucks it through backward square leg , very good running between the wickets by the batsmen 32.2 Jordan to Chandimal , no run , short of length on off , Chandimal stays back and punches it back to Jordan 32.1 Jordan to Dilshan , 1 run , fullish on middle and off , Dilshan gets forward and drives it to mid-on for a quick single Dinesh Chandimal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 31.6 Moeen Ali to Mathews , out Bowled ! ! Big wicket for England ! Moeen Ali gets his second. Mathews was hitting some excellent shots but this time he paid the price for it. Ali turns this one on leg , Mathews shuffles across , gets down and looks to paddle , misses it completely and the ball goes on to crash into the leg-stump. Mathews b Moeen Ali 20 ( 27 ) [ 4s-1 ] Moeen Ali to Mathews , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 31.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , full toss on middle and off , Dilshan gets down on one knee and paddles it to fine leg 31.4 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , comes on the front foot again and defends 31.3 Moeen Ali to Mathews , 1 run , full on middle and off , Mathews pushes it to the right of the bowler , who is unable to stop the ball and it rolls to long-on 31.2 Moeen Ali to Mathews , no run , gets forward and defends 31.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , leans forward and clips it to fine leg 30.6 Jordan to Dilshan , leg byes , 1 run , straighter delivery by Jordan , Dilshan looks to work it into the on-side , misses , the ball brushes high on the pads and rolls to point. Dilshan reckoned that he might have got a bat on that one as Jordan appealed. However , Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was going way over the stumps 30.5 Jordan to Mathews , 1 run , leans forward and tucks it to square leg for a comfortable single 30.4 Jordan to Dilshan , 1 run , length ball outside off , Dilshan gets forward and knocks it to third man 30.3 Jordan to Mathews , 1 run , short and wide of off , Mathews punches it to cover point and looks to scamper through for a quick single , he is forced to turn back as the fielder fires a throw at the striker 's end , but does not hit as the ball rolls behind square. The batsmen meanwhile get that run on the overthrow. Had Taylor hit that , Mathews was a goner ! 30.2 Jordan to Dilshan , 1 run , shortish and wide of off , Dilshan cuts , gets a thick outside edge and the ball runs down towards third man , finds the fielder there 30.1 Jordan to Mathews , 1 run , back of a length on leg , Mathews tucks it to deep square leg 29.6 Moeen Ali to Mathews , 1 run , lunges on the front foot and clips it to fine leg 29.5 Moeen Ali to Mathews , no run , leans forward and works it towards short mid-wicket 29.4 Moeen Ali to Mathews , no run , stays back and defends it back towards the bowler 29.3 Moeen Ali to Mathews , 2 runs , stays back and nudges it to deep square leg , excellent running between the wickets by the batsmen to get the brace 29.2 Moeen Ali to Mathews , FOUR , beautifully done by Mathews. he gets down on one knee to smother the turn and reverse sweeps it to the deep backward point fence 29.1 Moeen Ali to Mathews , no run , loud appeal for lbw by Ali. It was turning into the batsman , Mathews presses forward and looks to work it into the on-side , misses and is hit on the pads. The umpire is not interested. That might have been sliding down leg 28.6 Jordan to Dilshan , no run , back of a length around off , Dilshan stays back and defends it to short cover 28.5 Jordan to Dilshan , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Dilshan works it to square leg 28.4 Jordan to Mathews , 1 run , straying onto the pads , Mathews tucks it to deep square leg 28.3 Jordan to Dilshan , 1 run , length ball around off , Dilshan gets forward and taps it to mid-off for a quick single 28.2 Jordan to Mathews , 3 runs , back of a length outside off , Mathews comes down the track , gives the charge , mistimes and ends up slicing it to deep backward point , where Gurney fields and saves one run A wide slip in place for him 28.1 Jordan to Mathews , no run , length delivery around off , Mathews defends it into the off-side Chris Jordan [ 3.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 2 runs , gets back inside the crease and paddle sweeps it to fine leg for a brace 27.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , comes down the track and gets an inside edge onto the pads 27.4 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , gets forward and pushes it to the right of the bowler , who moves across and fields it 27.3 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , stays back and works it towards mid-wicket 27.2 Moeen Ali to Mathews , 1 run , turns it to mid-wicket 27.1 Moeen Ali to Mathews , no run , no conclusive evidence to overturn the on-field call. The ball spun in sharply as Mathews came forward to defend. He might have got a slight nick but the third umpire was not convinced. Mathews gets the benefit of doubt England have reviewed a caught behind appeal against Mathews. Jos Butler looks convinced. No problems with Moeen Ali 's front foot. Has Mathews edged this one ? Looks close. The ball seems to have changed it 's angle. He might have got a thin nick on that one. The umpire has now asked for the split screen. Third umpire Bruce Oxenford is taking his own time on this one. He has ruled this NOT OUT . It has gone very dark and the lights are coming on . 26.6 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , wide of off , Dilshan stays inside the crease and punches it in front of point 26.5 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , stays back and turns it behind square 26.4 Tredwell to Dilshan , FOUR , another boundary for Dilshan , that was powerfully done ! He is quick to get on the back foot on this shortish ball and punches it hard to the deep extra cover fence 26.3 Tredwell to Mathews , 1 run , touch short , Mathews goes on the back foot and punches it to long-on 26.2 Tredwell to Mathews , no run , gets forward and turns it into the leg-side yet again 26.1 Tredwell to Mathews , no run , fullish on off , Mathews leans forward and works it to short mid-wicket 25.6 Moeen Ali to Mathews , 1 run , full around off , Mathews gets forward and drives it to long-on 25.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , widish delivery , Dilshan gets back and guides it to short third man 25.4 Moeen Ali to Mathews , 1 run , stays on the front foot and works it towards long-on 25.3 Moeen Ali to Mathews , no run , fullish around off , Mathews presses forward and works it towards short mid-wicket 25.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , full on middle and off , Dilshan pushes it to long-on 25.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , tossed up on off , Dilshan gets forward and jams it back to the bowler 24.6 Tredwell to Mathews , no run , flatter delivery , Mathews lunges forward and gets an inside egde onto the pads 24.5 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Dilshan drives it straight to the long-off fielder 24.4 Tredwell to Mathews , 1 run , goes inside the the crease and nudges it towards mid-wicket 24.3 Tredwell to Mathews , no run , presses on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 24.2 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , full on off , Dilshan comes forward and drives it softly to long-on 24.1 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , walks forward and taps it to the right of the bowler , who moves across and fields it 23.6 Moeen Ali to Mathews , no run , full around off , Mathews drives it to the left of the bowler Angelo Mathews , right handed bat , comes to the crease 23.5 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , out Caught by Tredwell ! ! Sangakkara departs cheaply as well like his best friend ! This was a full toss on middle and off by Moeen Ali , Sangakkara checks his shot and ends up chipping this straight into the hands of Tredwell at mid-wicket. He took off his cap and raised his bat towards the crowd as he walked off. Emotional moment that , the crowd stand up to give their hero a farewell. Sangakkara c Tredwell b Moeen Ali 33 ( 50 ) [ 4s-3 ] Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 23.4 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , no run , comes on the front foot and pushes it back to the bowler 23.3 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , no run , comes down the track to turn this into the on-side , the ball hits the back pad instead and rolls behind point 23.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , uses his feet and works it to long-on for a comfortable single 23.1 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , 1 run , makes room on this shortish ball and gently knocks it towards sweeper cover 22.6 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , leans in front and defends solidly into the off-side 22.5 Tredwell to Dilshan , 2 runs , Dilshan goes on the back foot and punches it hard to deep extra cover for a brace , where it is fielded before it reaches the rope 22.4 Tredwell to Sangakkara , 1 run , comes down the track and punches it to long-off 22.3 Tredwell to Sangakkara , no run , shortish and outside off , Sangakkara cuts it behind point 22.2 Tredwell to Sangakkara , FOUR , nicely done by Sangakkara , Tredwell bowls this one on the pads , Sangakkara is quick to get down on one knee and sweeps it to the fine leg fence , sweet timing on that ! 22.1 Tredwell to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up on middle and off , Sangakkara gets forward and works it to short mid-wicket 21.6 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , touch short and outside off , Dilshan gets back and cuts it just in front of point 21.5 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-off 21.4 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up on off , Sangakkara pushes it back to the bowler 21.3 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , no run , flatter outside off , Sangakkara dabs it towards point 21.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , comes on the front foot and comfortably works it to long-on 21.1 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , flighted around off , Dilshan presses in front and defends it with an angled bat 20.6 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , on middle and leg , Dilshan deftly turns it towards mid-wicket 20.5 Tredwell to Sangakkara , 1 run , fullish around off , Sangakkara drives it with soft hands to long-off 20.4 Tredwell to Dilshan , 1 run , walks forward to this full ball and drives it softly towards long-on A slip in place.. . 20.3 Tredwell to Sangakkara , 1 run , full and just outside off , Sangakkara eases it to long-off 20.2 Tredwell to Sangakkara , no run , stays inside the crease and punches it into the off-side 20.1 Tredwell to Sangakkara , no run , flighted around off , Sangakkara gets forward and taps it towards short cover James Tredwell [ 1.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack Stat : Dilshan has become only the fourth player to score a fifty in his 300th ODI . 19.6 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , gets forward and turns this full ball towards mid-on 19.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , uses his feet again and pushes it back to Moeen Ali 19.4 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , stays inside the crease and works it towards short mid-wicket 19.3 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , walks forward and jams this fullish delivery back to the bowler 19.2 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , 1 run , gets forward and punches it to long-off for a comfortable single 19.1 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , no run , excellent delivery by Ali. The ball stayed low and spun in , Sangakkara gets back to cut it into the off-side and almost chopped that back on Drinks are on the field now 18.6 J Root to Dilshan , 2 runs , flatter delivery on the pads , Dilshan goes back and glances it to fine leg to register his 42nd fifty in ODIs 18.5 J Root to Sangakkara , 1 run , leans forward and eases the drive to sweeper cover for yet another single 18.4 J Root to Sangakkara , no run , comes forward and pushes it to covers 18.3 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , goes back and flicks it off his pads to deep mid-wicket 18.2 J Root to Sangakkara , 1 run , leans forward and drives it along the ground to deep point fielder for a single 18.1 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , tossed up delivery outside off , Dilshan eases the drive to to long-off 17.6 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , leans forward and drives it to long-on 17.5 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , no run , straighter delivery on leg , Dilshan misses the glance , a mild appeal is turned down 17.4 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , 1 run , skips down the track to this flighted delivery on middle and drives it to long-on 17.3 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , no run , flighted delivery turning away from off , Sangakkara comes forward and looks to defend , the ball goes past the outside edge 17.2 Moeen Ali to Dilshan , 1 run , skips down the track , takes a tossed up delivery on the full and eases it to long-on 17.1 Moeen Ali to Sangakkara , 1 run , low full toss on middle , Sangakkara pushes it off the front foot to long-on Moeen Ali , right-arm off break , comes into the attack A slip in place for Ali 16.6 J Root to Sangakkara , 1 run , goes back and nudges it behind square on the on-side for a single 16.5 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , flatter delivery on the pads , Dilshan comes forward and glances it to fine leg 16.4 J Root to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle and off , Sangakkara comes down the track and drives it to long-off 16.3 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Dilshan skips down the track and eases it to long-on 16.2 J Root to Sangakkara , 1 run , leans forward and gets an inside edge to backward square leg 16.1 J Root to Sangakkara , no run , short delivery just outside off , Sangakkara goes back and cuts it to short third man 15.6 Jordan to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery on off , Dilshan leans forward and drives it to cover 15.5 Jordan to Dilshan , no run , straighter delivery on middle , Dilshan comes forward and pushes it to mid-on 15.4 Jordan to Sangakkara , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Sangakkara gets forward and drives it to the left of Taylor at cover,who gets a hand to it , the ball rolls to deep cover for a single 15.3 Jordan to Sangakkara , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on middle , Sangakkara leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 15.2 Jordan to Sangakkara , FOUR , full and wide outside off , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and creams the drive past the diving Taylor at cover , the ball reaches the deep extra cover boundary 15.1 Jordan to Sangakkara , no run , good length delivery on off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it to mid-on 14.6 J Root to Dilshan , no run , goes back and turns this shortish delivery on middle to square leg 14.5 J Root to Dilshan , no run , comes forward again and nudges it to mid-wicket 14.4 J Root to Dilshan , no run , fullish on off , Dilshan comes forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 14.3 J Root to Dilshan , no run , goes back and turns it to sqaure leg 14.2 J Root to Dilshan , no run , another short delivery on off , Dilshan goes back and cuts it to cover-point 14.1 J Root to Dilshan , FOUR , short and a touch wide outside off , Dilshan camps on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side for a boundary 14.1 J Root to Dilshan , wide , flatter delivery down the leg-side , wide called Slight hold up in play as Sanga changes his bat 13.6 Jordan to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara goes back and chops it to backward point 13.5 Jordan to Sangakkara , no run , fullish on middle and leg , Sangakkara comes on the front foot and pushes it to mid-off 13.4 Jordan to Sangakkara , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it to mid-off 13.3 Jordan to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sangakkara goes back and chops it to first slip 13.2 Jordan to Dilshan , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Dilshan comes forward and drives it to sweeper cover for a single 13.1 Jordan to Dilshan , 2 runs , short delivery wide outside off , Dilshan goes back and cuts it to deep backward point , where Hales tidies it up with a dive to keep them to just two 12.6 J Root to Sangakkara , no run , comes forward and turns it to mid-wicket 12.5 J Root to Sangakkara , no run , flighted delivery around off , Sangakkara leans forward and blocks back to the bowler 12.4 J Root to Sangakkara , no run , short delivery outside off , Sangakkara goes back and cuts to Jordan at short point 12.3 J Root to Sangakkara , no run , tossed up delivery just outside off , Sangakkara skips down the track and pushes it to mid-wicket 12.2 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , shrort delivery on middle , Dilshan goes back and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 12.1 J Root to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and eases the drive to long-off 11.6 Jordan to Sangakkara , 1 run , fuller length delivery on the pads , Sangakkara leans forward and flicks it to deep square leg 11.5 Jordan to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara goes back , opens the face of the bat and guides it to point 11.4 Jordan to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sangakkara punches it to short cover 11.3 Jordan to Dilshan , 1 run , short of length delivery around off , Dilshan comes forward and is late in bringing the bat down , the ball goes off the inside edge to backward square leg for a single 11.2 Jordan to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Dilshan turns it to mid-wicket 11.1 Jordan to Dilshan , no run , short and wide outside off , Dilshan goes back and cuts it to point Chris Jordan , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Sangakkara now has the most runs by a batsman in a calender year , all formats combined. He goes past Ponting 's record of 2833 in 2005 . 10.6 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , fullish delivery on middle , Dilshan skips down the track and wroks it to deep mid-wicket 10.5 J Root to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and drives it to long-off 10.4 J Root to Dilshan , 1 run , tossed up delivery on off , Dilshan gets forward and eases it to long-on 10.3 J Root to Dilshan , no run , fullish delivery on middle , Dilshan comes forward and turns it to mid-wicket 10.2 J Root to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Sangakkara comes down the track and drives it to mid-on for a single 10.1 J Root to Sangakkara , no run , comes forward and pushes it back to the bowler Joe Root , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 9.6 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , good length on the pads , Dilshan whips it to short fine leg 9.5 Gurney to Dilshan , FOUR , good length delivery straying on the pads , Dilshan comes forward and gets an inside edge onto the pads , which goes very fine past the short fine leg fielder for yet another boundary 9.4 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Dilshan goes back and pulls it to short fine leg 9.3 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Dilshan comes forward and lets it go through to the keeper 9.2 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Dilshan leans forward and drives it to mid-on 9.1 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery on off , Dilshan comes forward and turns it to mid-wicket 8.6 Woakes to Sangakkara , FOUR , short of length delivery outside off , Sangakkara goes back and cuts it superbly square of the wicket for his first boundary 8.5 Woakes to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Sangakkara punches it to mid-off 8.4 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , another full delivery on middle , Dilshan comes on the front foot and drives it to the left of mid-on , where Moeen Ali dives to his left and saves a certain boundary 8.3 Woakes to Sangakkara , 1 run , fuller length delivery around off , Sangakkara leans forward and flicks it to mid-on 8.2 Woakes to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara lifts his bat and lets it go Sanga who 's also playing his last game in Sri Lanka to face now 8.1 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length delivery around off , Dilshan goes back and punches it to cover-point for a single Chris Woakes [ 3.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack Kumar Sangakkara , left handed bat , comes to the crease 7.6 Gurney to M Jayawardene , out Caught by Woakes ! ! The crowd has gone completely silent in Colombo. This was a short delivery on the hips , Jayawardene swivels the pull and picks out Woakes to perfection at fine leg. A fine cameo from MJ comes to an end. The crowd gives a standing ovation for MJ. Jayawardene lifts his bat to the crowd as he walks off. M Jayawardene c Woakes b Gurney 28 ( 22 ) [ 4s-5 ] Gurney to M Jayawardene , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.5 Gurney to Dilshan , leg byes , 1 run , fuller length delivery on the pads , Dilshan comes forward and misses the flick , the ball rolls to square leg 7.4 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery on middle , Dilshan leans forward and drives it back to the bowler 7.3 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery on the hips , Dilshan turns it to short fine leg 7.2 Gurney to M Jayawardene , 1 run , fuller length delivery around off , Jayawardene comes on the front foot and drives it past the diving extra cover fielder for a single 7.1 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Jayawardene leans forward and drives it uppishly to cover 6.6 Tredwell to Dilshan , SIX , yet another flighted delivery around off , Dilshan again skips down the track and smashes it over the long-on fence. 15 runs came off the over 6.5 Tredwell to Dilshan , FOUR , flighted delivery on off , Dilshan comes down the track again and lofts it over mid-on this time for back-to-back boundaries 6.4 Tredwell to Dilshan , FOUR , tossed up delivery outside off , Dilshan skips down the track and lofts it over the mid-off fielder for his third boundary 6.3 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , shorter delivery around off , Dilshan goes back and punches it to short cover 6.2 Tredwell to Dilshan , no run , flatter on the stumps , Dilshan punches it back to the bowler 6.1 Tredwell to M Jayawardene , 1 run , fullish delivery on off , Jayawardene sweeps it to backward square leg James Tredwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 5.6 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery on the stumps , Dilshan drives it back to the bowler , who gets a hand to it 5.5 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery on the pads , Dilshan misses the flick and is hit on the pads 5.4 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Dilshan looks to pull and misses 5.3 Gurney to Dilshan , FOUR , back of a length delivery which nips back in on off , Dilshan goes back and looks to chop down to third man , gets an inside edge which rolls to the fine leg fence for a boundary 5.2 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Dilshan comes forward and drives it to extra cover 5.1 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , short of length delivery on the hips , Dilshan goes back and misses the pull , the ball hits him on the stomach region and almost went back onto the stumps , Dilshan was quick to react and stops the ball with his bat 4.6 Woakes to M Jayawardene , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Jayawardene blocks it back to the bowler 4.5 Woakes to M Jayawardene , FOUR , fuller length delivery on middle and leg , Jayawardene leans forward and flicks it off his pads to the deep backward square leg fence for yet another boundary 4.4 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , fuller length delivery on off , Dilshan comes on the front foot and clips it to deep backward square leg 4.3 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Dilshan looks to defend and misses , the ball hits him high on the thigh pad and rolls to the left of the bowler 4.2 Woakes to M Jayawardene , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Jayawardene goes back and taps it to backward square leg for a quick single 4.1 Woakes to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Dilshan opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 3.6 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery around off , Jayawardene comes forward and drives it to covers 3.5 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , good length delivery around off , Dilshan goes on the back foot and punches it to mid-off 3.4 Gurney to Dilshan , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Dilshan goes back and looks to cut , but manages to chop it to point 3.3 Gurney to M Jayawardene , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Jayawardene steers it to third man for a single 3.2 Gurney to M Jayawardene , FOUR , good length delivery outside off , Jayawardene comes forward and looks to drive it on the up , gets an outside edge which flies past the diving Jordan at wide first slip and into the third man fence 3.1 Gurney to M Jayawardene , 2 runs , good length delivery just wide outside off , Jayawardene goes back and cuts it to Morgan at backward point , who manages to get a hand to it , the batsmen run a brace 2.6 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Dilshan gets forward and defends it to the off-side 2.5 Woakes to Dilshan , FOUR , short delivery which is just wide outside off , Dilshan goes on the back foot and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence for his first boundary 2.4 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Dilshan comes forward and jams it to mid-off this time 2.3 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , yorker length delivery on middle , Dilshan digs it out to mid-on 2.2 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , straighter delivery on middle and leg , Dilshan leans forward and blocks it to mid-wicket 2.1 Woakes to Dilshan , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Dilshan comes forward and drives it to mid-on 1.6 Gurney to M Jayawardene , FOUR , MJ is some mood today ! This was another short delivery on the stumps , Jayawardene goes on the back foot and pulls it along the ground to the deep backward square leg fence for yet another boundary 1.5 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery just outside off , Jayawardene comes forward and defends it back to the bowler 1.4 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , on a length around off , Jayawardene comes on the front foot and pushes it to the right of the bowler 1.3 Gurney to M Jayawardene , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Jayawardene dabs it to point 1.2 Gurney to M Jayawardene , FOUR , beautiful shot , another short delivery aimed at the hips , Jayawardene goes back and swivels the pull to perfection , the ball bounces just once before reaching the deep backward square leg fence 1.1 Gurney to Dilshan , 1 run , length ball on middle , Dilshan leans forward and works it to wide mid-on to get off the mark Harry Gurney , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Woakes to M Jayawardene , no run , on a length around off , Jayawardene presses forward and turns it to the on-side 0.5 Woakes to M Jayawardene , 2 runs , good length delivery shaping away a touch and just outside off , Jayawardene leans forward and caresses the drive between between extra cover and mid-off for a brace 0.4 Woakes to M Jayawardene , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Jayawardene gets forward and defends it back to the bowler 0.3 Woakes to M Jayawardene , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Jayawardene leans forward and lets it go to the kepeer 0.2 Woakes to M Jayawardene , no run , short of length delivery just outside off , Jayawardene comes forward and defends it to the off-side 0.1 Woakes to M Jayawardene , FOUR , what a way to get off the mark for MJ. This was short and wide outside off , Jayawardene goes on the back foot and cuts it past the backward point fielder for a boundary M Jayawardene and Dilshan are at the crease. M Jayawardene is on strike. Woakes will open the attack Jayawardene is walking out to the middle for one last time in Sri Lanka with Dilshan , who is playing in his 300th ODI. Woakes will start the proceedings with two slips in place Teams : England ( Playing XI ) : Alastair Cook ( c ) , Moeen Ali , Alex Hales , Joe Root , James Taylor , Eoin Morgan , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Chris Jordan , James Tredwell , Harry Gurney Sri Lanka ( Playing XI ) : Tillakaratne Dilshan , Mahela Jayawardene , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Dinesh Chandimal , Lahiru Thirimanne , Thisara Perera , Seekkuge Prasanna , Jeevan Mendis , Dilruwan Perera , Suranga Lakmal Alastair Cook : " Looks like a good wicket. So does not matter what we do. 4-3 sounds a lot better than 5-2 , so we would like to finish on a winning note. It is always a huge honour to play for the country and today is no different. We have two changes - Hales and Gurney are back in. We would like everyone to get a chance. " Angelo Mathews : " We will have a bat first. Looks like a good wicket. It wo n't turn much so we would like to put runs on board. Thankful to Sanga and Mahela. They have always given the best to the team. We want them to go on a high. One change for us - Dilruwan Perera comes in for Senanayake. " England make two changes - Hales and Gurney back in , for Bopara and Finn. One change for Sri Lanka , Dilruwan for injured Senanayake . Sri Lanka have won the toss and have opted to bat There is no reserve day for today 's ODI. However , it is bright and sunny. It looks promising weather-wise and we will bring you the toss and teams in a few minutes . On the other hand , England have had another disappointing series. Nothing is going right for Alastair Cook. His poor batting form continues and he has hardly been able to inspire the team to do better. Joe Root and Moeen Ali have done well but most of the players have been inconsistent. In comparison , though their bowlers have been better , they have done little to trouble the strong Sri Lankan batting line-up . Sri Lanka have put hardly a foot wrong in the series so far. Their middle-order has been in top-notch form , especially Kumar Sangakkara , who is just 79 runs short of amassing 500 runs in the series. Their openers have got fantastic starts but have not been able to capitalize on that. Their bowling has been decent and the pacers have used the conditions pretty well. With less than two months to go for the World Cup , the hosts would hope to iron out these problems pretty soon . Sri Lanka have already won the ODI series , having emerged victorious in four games out of the six played so far. Today , they will be gearing up to bid adieu to their favourites Sangakkara and Mahela , who will take the field for the final time at home. A bumper crowd is expected at Premadasa and the hosts would like nothing more than to end this 7-match ODI series on a high . Preview : Having already clinched the series in the 6th ODI , Sri Lanka will be eager to end the series on winning note when they face England in the seventh and final ODI at the R Premadasa stadium in Colombo. Although it is a dead rubber , the match will hold a lot of significance for the hosts as this will be the final time Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara take the field in an ODI game at home. Sri Lanka will be hoping to make it a memorable farewell for the legends while England will be eager to salvage some pride in what has been yet another below-par series for them . Sri Lanka : Sri Lanka 's batting has been well-served by Sangakkara , who has been notching up one big score after another and is just 79 runs short of 500 in this series. With one hundred and four fifties in six games , Sangakkara has been in top form and Sri Lanka will be hoping that he continues in the same vein. With two half-centuries apiece , Tillakaratne Dilshan and Jayawardene have done well while Angelo Mathews and Lahiru Thirimanne have also been useful down the order. However , the batting order , apart from Sangakkara , has not shown the kind of consistency Sri Lanka would have hoped for. Sri Lanka will be eager to sort these out with less than two months to go for the World Cup . Most of the Lankan bowlers have been amongst the wickets but few of them have been on the expensive side. Dhammika Prasad has not been at his best , going at close to 7-an-over while Ajantha Mendis , despite picking up 9 wickets so far , has been leaking runs. Suranga Lakmal , who returned to the Lankan side , came up with a fine spell in the previous match , picking up with a four-wicket haul. Sachitra Senanayake , since his return to international cricket , has also been impressive. Rangana Herath too has done a decent job in this series while Dilshan 's contributions with the ball have been an added bonus for the Lankans. What the hosts will prefer is for the bowlers to be more disciplined . England : Alastair Cook , at the helm of affairs , has had a disappointing series as his poor run with the bat in ODIs has continued. With just 87 runs in 5 matches at an average of 17.40 , the England skipper 's position in the team has been frequently questioned although coach , Peter Moores , still believes that he is the right man for the job. Ian Bell , who got to play only two matches , was also average with the bat , managing just 46 runs. Ravi Bopara started the series well with consecutive fifties in the first two games. He , however , failed to come good after that. Joe Root and Moeen Ali , with a hundred and a fifty each against their names , have been the best performers for England in this series , along with James Taylor , who impressed all with his 90 and 68 in the 4th and 5th ODIs. England need more runs from the top-order batsmen , starting with skipper Cook , and they need to score well as consistently as possible in order to stand a chance in the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup next year . Chris Woakes , who picked up a six-wicket haul in the 5th ODI , is England 's top-wicket taker in the series with 14 scalps , but has has also been giving away a few runs. Chris Jordan too has been amongst the wickets , although he too has leaked runs. In fact , amongst the nine bowlers that England have used so far , James Tredwell is the only one with an economy rate of less than 5-an-over while Ben Stokes and Harry Gurney have been the most expensive , with the latter having an economy of more than 10. England 's bowling has been decent but they have not done much to bother the Sri Lankan batsmen . Numbers : 90 : The number of runs Kumar Sangakkara needs to dethrone Sanath Jayasuriya from the third spot on the list of highest run-getters in ODIs. Sangakkara presently has scored 13,339 runs . 79 : The number of runs Kumar Sangakkara requires to become the first player to score 500 runs in a bilateral ODI series. Rohit Sharma , who scored 491 runs in the series against Australia in 2013 , tops the list . 1 : The number of fifty + scores for Alastair Cook in 2014. He has played 19 innings so far this year and has scored just 491 runs at an average of 27.27 . Weather : A curtailed day is a possibility as rain is forecast in the evening and late night. With no reserve day for the final ODI , weather might play spoil-sport to Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara 's home farewell . Quotes : He is working extremely hard to get his own form right and also do the other thing that captains have to do , try and create a platform for people to play well : England coach , Peter Moores , still has faith in Alastair Cook . It 's about the right time to go and now is the right time to go. Even though we sign agreements with Sri Lanka Cricket , our real agreement is with Sri Lankan fans , and we all play for them : Kumar Sangakkara gets emotional . Teams : England ( From ) : Alastair Cook ( c ) , Moeen Ali , James Taylor , Joe Root , Ravi Bopara , Eoin Morgan , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Chris Jordan , James Tredwell , Steven Finn , Harry Gurney , Ben Stokes , Alex Hales , Ian Bell Sri Lanka ( From ) : Tillakaratne Dilshan , Mahela Jayawardene , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Dinesh Chandimal , Lahiru Thirimanne , Thisara Perera , Jeevan Mendis , Seekkuge Prasanna , Sachithra Senanayake , Suranga Lakmal , Shaminda Eranga , Lakshan Rangika , Dilruwan Perera , Dhammika Prasad , Thilina Kandamby Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
