Graphs And it would be amiss of me if I do n't thank you guys for your feedback and comments. It has been a pleasure bringing you this Test. Do join us back for the second Test , which starts on December 17th at the Gabba. Until then , goodbye and take care ! Kohli : " Well , I can not comment on my performance right now. I am really proud of the boys , we took the game till the last day and last hour. The performances of individuals is different , I would have been happy if my hundreds had come in a winning cause. I am pretty one dimensional , I know ( regarding his positive mindset ) . Before the boys went to their rooms last night , I told them that whatever happened has happened , we have to go after the target. They did that , we fell short but I am really proud of the effort. I was never going for a draw , we always wanted to win the game. It is difficult to survive by just defending. It was important to keep a positive mindset. That is what I did. I had real hopes on Jinks ( Rahane ) and Rohit , but those things happen ( on Rahane being given out ) . I still had hope when Karn came out , I just told him to give me the strike. I was only looking to be positive , my first intention is to hit a boundary and if it was a good ball , I would probably keep it out. Surprisingly , I have n't practiced the sweep a lot , it just came out and I was feeling good about it. Probably this is the first time in my life that I have swept so much ( smiles ) . I thought I had better control when I rolled my wrist over the ball rather than jab at it. I did n't sleep at all on all days of the match. If I am being honest , I probably have 12 grey hairs in my beard now , but I enjoyed captaincy. I have no regrets about the way we got out , including ourselves. We were going for the win , it did n't happen. At least we had the right approach and we are not far away. If I am playing the peace maker , you can imagine how things were there ( referring to the on-field duel between the players ) , but I knew I was the captain and had to step in , otherwise things would have turned ugly. I think I am getting more smarter and mature with age and captaincy ( smiles ) , a little bit of grey hair as well. " Do stick around folks , we have the transcript of Kohli 's conversation with Harsha Bhogle and Rahul Dravid. Trust me , it 's a beauty ! A pall of gloom fell over the game in the aftermath of Phil Hughes ' tragic demise. However , cricket has emerged out of the gloom , springing back to life. Sean Abbott is also back , bowling NSW to an innings win thanks to a 6-fer. Cricket has held our hands , patted us on our backs and guided us back to normalcy. Thank you for that ! Meanwhile , the hosts have been dealt a massive blow with Clarke ruled out of the rest of the series. In stark contrast , Dhoni is likely to return and take over the reins from Kohli . While batting looks sound , India 's bowlers will have to go back to the drawing board and shore up their accuracy , especially Aaron. It will also be interesting if Ashwin gets a look in. Sterner tests await India at the Gabba . Lyon took 5 wickets to help Australia earn a handy 73-run lead. Warner was also at it in the second innings - his 102 setting India a challenging 364-run target. India made a fist of the challenge , getting to 315. At one point of time , soon after the afternoon session , India were ahead of the game with Vijay and Kohli rotating the strike apart from finding the occasional boundary. Enter Nathan Lyon in the final session. The game turned on its head , setting the tone for the remainder of the summer . Match summary : Riding on centuries from Warner , Clarke and Steve Smith , Australia surged to 517 before the first overnight declaration. The Indian bowling lacked teeth in the absence of Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Ravi Ashwin. Karn Sharma got the odd ball to turn and bounce , but came up short. Kohli led India 's strong reply with an exquisite 115 allied to supporting acts from Che ( 73 ) , Vijay ( 53 ) and Rahane ( 62 ) . Despite some sledging , it was heartening to see both the captains acknowledge each other . Clarke , Australia captain : " The boys deserve all the credit. Virat Kohli was fantastic , that is as good a second innings hundred as I have seen. Nathan Lyon was unbelievable , so was Davey Warner and Steven Smith. A lot of credit goes to Haddin , who was outstanding with his captaincy today. This side is never afraid of losing. I always kept thinking if I declared at the right time. If India had chased 360 , then they deserved to win. I had a scan and the results are not fantastic , I will not take any further part in the series. I will be on the sidelines supporting them. I would rather not talk about because the world must be sick of seeing me cry on television. I know he will be proud of this win ( speaking about Phillip Hughes ) . " Kohli , India captain : " It was a great game of cricket , firstly. The boys put in a good effort and I am very pleased with the way we played , but Australia were the better side. I told the guys last night to go for the target , but credit to Nathan Lyon , who bowled really well. If me and Vijay had added 40 more runs , things would have been different. The momentum changed and they got back in the game. I was backing myself throughout the Test and no regrets , I would look back and think I should have played that better , I was trying to hit it more in front of square ( on his dismissal ) . I always like to play against Australia , they play cricket , the way I like to play. Congratulations to the entire Australian team for turning up and participating in this match. Credit to them on how they played after a tough last 10 days , it was a commendable effort. " Lyon , Man of the Match : " I would like to thank the crowd for coming out here and supporting us. Credit goes to Damian Hough for producing a fantastic wicket. We ( him and umpire Erasmus ) are going really well , he is a good umpire and I had to keep asking him questions. There were always going to be twists and we needed to stay in the game , our bowlers were excellent. They ( Kohli and Vijay ) are superstars and deserve the credit , but I am sticking with Australia. I certainly believed that I could win the game. I will keep on believing. " Presentation Time : We witnessed twin centuries from Warner and Kohli to go with an equally good one from Michael Clarke. Vijay dug in with a pair of fifties , Lyon 's skill came to the fore on the final day. After dragging on for the first three and a half days , the Test burst to life with the Warner-Aaron altercation. Kohli , Steve Smith and Warner also got involved in a verbal duel . Despite Clarke going off the field for scans , Haddin rallied his troops as they took the last 8 wickets for 73 runs. The Australian pacers also played their parts , supporting Lyon from the other end , even as Vijay and Kohli kept presenting the straightest of bats. Later on , the Indian tail slogged its way to doom. India were quelled. Australia won. But , what a gripping game fellas ! Take no credit away from Nathan Lyon , who is also the Man of the Match for his 12-wicket haul. He found himself at the wrong end of a couple of lbw decisions early on in the day , but interrogated the Indian batsmen relentlessly. He got the ball to topspin and generated alarming bounce , often catching the batsmen unawares . India 's hopes though were raised with Kohli reaching twin hundreds - becoming only the second player to notch up 100s in each innings of the same Test on captaincy debut. That , however , plummeted and sunk after the wickets of Rahane and Kohli himself at a crucial passage of play. Rohit Sharma lacked application and so did Saha . What a riveting finish - Test match cricket at its best. Australia held their nerve to clinch a 48-run victory. The match could not have been better poised after Vijay and Kohli added 100 runs in the middle session. Then , Vijay was done in by the 90s jinx again - 97 in Durban , 95 at Lord 's and trapped lbw by Lyon for 99 today . Oh hello ! Clarke is back and he is seen hugging Mitch. Soon after stumping Ishant , Haddin leapt up in the air , while Lyon set off on a customary celebratory run. Then , the offie walks up to the '408 ' printed on the turf , taps and runs it , honouring the late Phillip Hughes. Kohli exchanges handshakes with Clarke and gives his Aussie counterpart a thumbs-up. Shane Warne also congratulates Kohli . 87.1 Lyon to Ishant , out Stumped ! ! It 's all over for India. Australia go 1-0 up with a 48-run win ! Fittingly , it was Lyon , who rammed the final nail in the Indian coffin. Plenty of hugs exchanged in the Aussie camp. An emotional triumph for them after all that transpired in the last fortnight. Ishant skips out , Lyon drifts it down leg. Ishant misses the ball , the stand-in captain , Haddin whips the bails off in a flash. This should be heartbreaking for India , especially after brilliant knocks from Vijay and Kohli. Ishant st Haddin b Lyon 1 ( 2 ) Lyon to Ishant , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 86.6 Johnson to Karn Sharma , no run , fuller and moves in just outside off , Karn Sharma wants to drag it to the leg-side. But , ca n't lay bat onto it 86.5 Johnson to Karn Sharma , no run , back of a length and in the channel close to off , Karn Sharma pulls his bat inside the line and leaves it to Haddin 86.4 Johnson to Karn Sharma , no run , pitched up and tailing away slightly outside off , Karn Sharma hangs his bat out before withdrawing it at the last moment 86.3 Johnson to Karn Sharma , no run , good length ball outside off , Karn Sharma throws his bat at it with no feet movement and connects only with thin air 86.2 Johnson to Ishant , 1 run , fuller and on the leg stump , Ishant tickles it to fine leg. May have come off the inside edge before running away fine Ishant Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 86.1 Johnson to Aaron , out Lbw ! ! And Mitch strikes straightaway. He is flanked by his team-mates. This was mighty full and fast from Mitch at 140kph , swings back in as well. Aaron pushes at it with laden feet , the ball beats the inside edge and raps him on his back leg in front of middle. The ump raised his finger in an instant , giving Aaron the marching orders. Australia are just one wicket away from going 1-0 up. Aaron lbw b Johnson 1 ( 3 ) Johnson to Aaron , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Mitchell Johnson [ 15.0-2-44-1 ] is back into the attack 50 runs from 12 overs reads the equation. Mitch is armed with the second new ball . 85.6 Lyon to Aaron , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Aaron comes down the track and manages to squeeze out a drive past extra cover The close-in cordon has been reinforced. 4 men around the bat . 85.5 Lyon to Aaron , no run , flighted ball on off , extra bounce as well , Aaron defends it to the leg side off the splice of the bat 85.4 Lyon to Karn Sharma , 1 run , flatter and on the leg stump , worked past short leg. Aaron 's exposed to a tail-up Lyon with 3 men around the bat 85.3 Lyon to Karn Sharma , 2 runs , pushed through flatter and quicker outside off , Karn Sharma rocks back and punches it to sweeper cover for a brace 85.2 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , fullish and on off , Karn Sharma lunges forward in defence 85.1 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , tossed up on middle , Karn Sharma pokes it out wide of silly point 84.6 R Harris to Karn Sharma , 1 run , low full toss from over the wicket , glanced to fine leg This Adelaide Test throws us back to the Chennai Test in 1999 when Sachin Tendulkar braved severe back spasms and a potent Pakistan attack , but perished to a poor shot. Kohli played the hero 's role today , but holed out off a rank long hop. His wicket has now all but crushed India 's hopes of a sensational win . 84.5 R Harris to Karn Sharma , no run , pitched up with some teasing away shape outside off , Karn Sharma leaves it well alone 84.4 R Harris to Karn Sharma , no run , fraction back of a length and on off , Karn Sharma fiddles it to the left of the bowler 84.3 R Harris to Karn Sharma , no run , Karn Sharma pushes hard at a good length ball and gets an inside edge onto his pad Varun Aaron , right handed bat , comes to the crease 84.2 R Harris to Shami , out Caught by Johnson ! ! Australia are on top at Adelaide now. Shabby shot from Shami , he should have hung in there. But throws it away , much like Rohit and Saha. India 's innings unravelling at a quick pace in this final session. Length delivery on off , Shami looks to launch it out of the park , but does not get hold of it. The ball flies in the air off the bottom section of the bat. Mitch back-pedals from mid-off and pouches it safely. Shami c Johnson b R Harris 5 ( 10 ) [ 4s-1 ] R Harris to Shami , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 84.1 R Harris to Shami , no run , shortish and on the stumps , Shami is stuck to the crease as he defends it to mid-on 83.6 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , much quicker and outside off , Karn Sharma shoulders arms 83.5 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , drifts in and spins away. Lyon is one fire here. Karn is beaten on the outside edge 83.4 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , pitched on off and spins away alarmingly , Karn Sharma just watches it through to the keeper 83.3 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , much quicker and slid outside off , Karn Sharma lets it be 83.2 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , Karn is all at sea against the turning ball. Lyon rips another one across the poking bat of Karn 83.1 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , floated with sharp turn outside off from a good length , Karn Sharma pokes and misses Lyon 's back with 2 slips in . Drinks. India need 55 runs off 15 overs with only 3 wickets in hand. With Kohli gone , the visitors might shut shop and play for a draw. Lyon has performed excellently , exploiting the rough . 82.6 R Harris to Shami , FOUR , edged and skews away past the slip cordon and gully to third man. On a length and outside off , Shami slashes hard , gets a thick outside edge , which flies over gully 82.5 R Harris to Shami , no run , beaten again is Shami ! Fuller and straightens outside off , Shami pokes and misses 82.4 R Harris to Shami , no run , pitched up and straightens in the channel outside off , zips past the groping blade of Shami Lyon 's off the field now. He has definitely earned a mini breather. When Kohli dragged himself off the field , he patted Shami on the helmet. Shami also patted him back . 82.3 R Harris to Shami , no run , fuller on middle and leg , clipped feebly to mid-wicket 82.2 R Harris to Shami , no run , back of a length and around off , dabbed in front of point off the back foot 82.1 R Harris to Shami , no run , dug in shortish and on off , defended Ryan Harris [ 17.0-6-44-0 ] is back into the attack Kohli could n't believe himself that he picked out the fielder in the deep off a rank long hop. He was leaning on his bat , with head down in despair. Initially , Marsh misjudged the ball in the deep , but bent forward to reverse cup his hands around the ball. That could turn out to be the most decisive moment in the game . 81.6 Lyon to Shami , 1 run , slower through the air and turns on off , Shami makes room a touch and dabs it in front of point for a single 81.5 Lyon to Shami , no run , pushed through shortish on off , punched down the track past the bowler Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease 81.4 Lyon to Kohli , out Caught by M Marsh ! ! Lyon delivers a potentially game-changing blow. Kohli is distraught , he stays put in the middle , but has to drag himself off the field. He elicits a standing ovation. The Indian dressing room rises to salute the Indian captain as well. This was a nothing delivery though. Half tracker on off , Kohli rocks back and nails the pull. However , he hits it straight down the throat of deep mid-wicket. Australia edge ahead with this key scalp. Kohli c M Marsh b Lyon 141 ( 175 ) [ 4s-16 6s-1 ] Lyon to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 81.3 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , flatter and quicker on off , Kohli kneels down , sweeps and sends the ball past short leg to the deep square leg boundary. The man under the helmet was taking evasive action 81.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli uses his feet and drops it dead on the off-side. He was not close to the pitch of the ball on that occasion 81.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , spins in with good bounce as well , Kohli keeps it out off the back foot 80.6 Siddle to Karn Sharma , no run , fuller and on middle and leg , Karn Sharma jerkily pushes it to mid-on For those of you wondering if Australia have taken the new nut - no , not , yet . 80.5 Siddle to Karn Sharma , no run , shortish and just below chest height , Karn Sharma fends it towards mid-wicket 80.4 Siddle to Kohli , leg byes , 1 run , on the leg stump , Kohli does not get hold of the flick. Crosses over for a leg bye. The mild lbw plea is hooted down , definitely going down 80.3 Siddle to Kohli , no run , back of a length and hurries on off , Kohli looks for a forcing shot through the off-side. Mistimed to point 80.2 Siddle to Kohli , no run , pitched up on middle and leg , flicked straight to the fielder at mid-on 80.1 Siddle to Kohli , no run , good length ball around off , stops the batsman. Kohli checks his push and plays it towards mid-off Karn Sharma , left handed bat , comes to the crease 79.6 Lyon to W Saha , out Bowled ! ! Saha lived by the sword and dies by it. 10-fer for Lyon. He sets off on a celebratory run and pumps his fist. On your bike , Saha. That was a brain fade. 15 already came prior to the last ball. Yet , Saha dances down the track. He misses the big hit , the ball spins in and hits the middle stump. Ugly hack from Saha and he has to pay the price for it. I do n't think Kohli would be too pleased with that. Remember , India 's lower-order is thin in the absence of Dhoni , Jaddu and Ashwin. W Saha b Lyon 13 ( 10 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Lyon to W Saha , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 79.5 Lyon to W Saha , no run , tossed up on off , Saha gets a good stride forward and defends it well 79.4 Lyon to W Saha , FOUR , follows up the six with a four. Pushed through outside off , goes down on the sweep and places it backward of square leg 79.3 Lyon to W Saha , SIX , 'shot ' exclaims Kohli. Saha races down the track , gets close to the pitch of the ball and lifts it over mid-off for a flat six. Saha is no muck with the bat. The TV umpire checks whether it was a six or a four. Biggie it is , over the ropes 79.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , much slower through the air , Kohli closes his bat face early , getting a leading edge that pops in front of cover 79.1 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli continues to motor along smoothly. Full and width on offer as well , Kohli leans forward and plays a bottom-handed drive past cover. This one travels to the fence 78.6 Siddle to W Saha , no run , very full and hurled in at the base of off , Saha ca n't drive it properly. Eventually , he can only jam it out to mid-off 78.5 Siddle to Kohli , 3 runs , lovely shot from Kohli. Pitched up and outside off , Kohli lunges forward and drives it in the gap between cover and mid-off. Collects only three 78.4 Siddle to W Saha , 1 run , pushed wide of a diving Harris at cover for a single 78.3 Siddle to W Saha , no run , a communication breakdown from India , almost a run-out. Fullish and curls in , Saha pushes it down the track to mid-on. Kohli set off , but has to retreat. He does so in time. A direct hit could have been close , but I guess Kohli would have made it 78.2 Siddle to W Saha , no run , good length ball , tight line on off , Saha drawn forward into a defensive push to mid-off 78.1 Siddle to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up on off , that 's in the flicking radar of Kohli , played neatly to deep mid-wicket Peter Siddle [ 7.0-2-16-0 ] is back into the attack To borrow from Harsha Bhogle , is Lyon just a Lyon ? Or can he be Shane Warne ? 77.6 Lyon to W Saha , 2 runs , much fuller and outside off , Saha comes on the front foot and drives it to deep extra-cover to get off the mark 77.5 Lyon to W Saha , no run , slower through the air and around off , W Saha gets a sighter as he blocks it to the off-side Wriddhiman Saha , right handed bat , comes to the crease 77.4 Lyon to Rohit , out Caught by Warner ! ! Rohit has gloved it , throwing it away for the nth time ! Lyon strikes again. Top catch from David Warner. This was nicely tossed up by Lyon , spins into Rohit , who fiddles with it limply. The ball catches the glove and pops to the left of leg slip. Warner though follows the ball and plucks out a one-handed grab. Good extra bounce from Lyon as well. Rohit c Warner b Lyon 6 ( 18 ) [ 4s-1 ] Lyon to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 77.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated on off , Kohli leans across and flicks it past a diving mid-wicket to cow corner 77.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , looped up on off , Kohli dead-bats it calmly 77.1 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , taken from outside off and swept away to deep mid-wicket 76.6 Johnson to Kohli , 2 runs , Johnson now overpitched a bit outside off , Kohli leans well forward and drives it past cover. However , he did not time it as well as he would have wanted to. Kohli has to settle with only a couple 76.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , too straight in line , Kohli lays into a lovely flick , Steve Smith at mid-wicket , dives and makes a half stop. The ball is parried away to the off-side , but the Indians do n't want to risk a single on that occasion 76.5 Johnson to Kohli , wide , what was that from Mitch ? Short and sprayed miles down leg. Kohli does not bother with it. The ball may have slipped out of his hand. Or was that a result of pressure ? 76.4 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , banged in short and Kohli fights fire with fire ! He rocks back , rolls his wrists and pulls it away to the deep square leg boundary. Kohli even flashes a smile at Mitch. It 's tense out there , but Kohli is enjoying the pressure and responsibility 76.3 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , top placement ! This is now Kohli 's career-best score in Tests. Back of a length and outside off , Kohli waits on it and late cuts it between the slip cordon and gully. The ball runs away to the fence 76.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , drop in pace , Johnson may have rolled his fingers across this offering outside off , Kohli waits for it and then dabs it to gully with soft hands 76.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off from round the stumps , Kohli leans forward and drives it crisply. However , Marsh makes a sprawling dive at cover to consign it a dot India need 100 from 22 overs . 75.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Lyon gives this more air outside off , Rohit hides his bat behind the pad. Lyon belts out another lbw appeal , which amounts to nothing , struck outside off 75.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , much fuller and straighter , Kohli flicks it away backward of square leg off the back foot 75.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through outside off , with a bit of turn and bounce as well , Kohli stays in his crease , adjusts and dabs it on the bounce to slip. Soft hands ensured that it did not carry to the lone slip fielder 75.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Lyon gets alarming bounce now , Kohli manges to fend it off past short leg 75.2 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , Jesus Christ ! What wristwork. Kohli picks it from off and whips it away between mid-wicket and mid-on. Only one result and that was a four 75.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , floated and on off , Kohli props forward and smothers it to the leg-side Lyon 's probing away relentlessly with three men round the bat . 74.6 Johnson to Rohit , no run , 140kph good length ball outside off , Rohit does not bother with that 74.5 Johnson to Rohit , FOUR , loose delivery and Rohit puts it away. Full toss outside off , Rohit bends his knee , reaches out and drives it past the covers. Siddle chases the ball in vain 74.4 Johnson to Rohit , no run , good length ball around off , Rohit tentatively inches forward and pokes it out towards point. He has to hang in there with his captain 74.3 Johnson to Rohit , no run , pitched up and moving away ever so slightly in the channel outside off , ignored 74.2 Johnson to Rohit , no run , banged in short and rises over the leg stump , Rohit is beaten on the hook. Testing , lifting ball that 74.1 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , drifting onto the hips , whipped away through backward square leg for a comfortable single Mitchell Johnson [ 13.0-2-28-1 ] is back into the attack 73.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Kohli gently drives it into towards cover and will keep the strike 73.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , that was a good delivery from Lyon , Kohli wanted to sweep , but Lyon fired it in , the ball almost sneaked through , but somehow Kohli managed an inside edge on that and the ball rolled away past leg stump 73.4 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , what is Rohit trying to do here ? He goes for another sweep after going down on one knee , he top-edges but the ball goes over the head of a back-tracking short mid-wicket 73.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , again tries to sweep , but misses , the ball hits him on the pad and there was an appeal , but the impact was outside off and Rohit ca n't be given out there 73.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , bunts this one to the right of the bowler , Rohit was looking for a single , but Kohli sends him back and rightly so 73.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Rohit sweeps hard this time , the ball went in the air towards the FSL fielder , the ball hits him on the thigh and loops up , Haddin moves across to try and take it , but he ca n't reach there in time Kohli is the first overseas batsman to hit twin hundreds in a Test match in Australia after 53 years . 72.6 R Harris to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli is timing them beautifully , this time he moved forward and punched it past the diving cover for four runs . 72.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a good length and outside off , Kohli leans forward to get to the pitch of the ball and pushes it into the off-side with a slightly angular bat 72.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , length delivery around off , Kohli comes on the front foot and blocks 72.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , outside off with a hint of shape away , Kohli leaves 72.2 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , beautiful drive from Kohli , he leans forward and caresses this delivery outside off through the covers , the batsmen run for a couple 72.1 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , too straight from Harris , Kohli flicks it to deep backward square leg for a couple Drinks are on the field now. Australia have crawled their way back into the game. After Vijay got out , Rahane was unlucky to be given out , but as it stands , India are four wickets down. This is also the first time Kohli has hit back-to-back hundreds. It has been an amazing capataincy debut for Kohli. Before this , he missed out on achieving the feat of back-to-back hundreds in Johannesburg in 2013 , where he got out on 96 in the second innings 71.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Rohit is struggling here , he puts his front foot outside off and looks to sweep , he ca n't connect and the ball hits him on the pad , the impact was outside off 71.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tucks away to deep mid-wicket after coming down the track 71.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , looks to work it past FSL , but the fielder dives to his right and makes the stop 71.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Kohli does n't offer a shot to this one , the ball hits the thigh pad and rolls away into the on-side , he goes for a single , but since he was n't offering a shot , the umpire deemed it as a dead ball 71.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Kohli takes a step forward and looks to go hard at it , but hits it towards FSL 71.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter delivery on middle , Kohli goes on the back foot and turns it behind square on the on-side 70.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , indipper on middle and leg , Rohit was looking to work it on the on-side , he ca n't get it away 70.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , touch back of a length and straightens a touch after pitching , Rohit again pushes at it outside off , the ball beats the outside edge to the keeper 70.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , length delivery holding its line outside off , Rohit pokes at it , he is lucky that the ball did n't take outside edge to the keeper 70.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , yorker from Harris , Sharma digs it out into the off-side , Rohit takes a look at the toe-end of his bat after that ball 70.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , shapes away a touch just outside off , Rohit blocks off the outside half of the bat 70.1 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , why does Kohli have to take such a chance when India has lost two wickets in the last over ? Kohli eased it down to mid-on and sets off for a quick single , he has to put in the dive to get into the crease as the fielder has a shy at the stumps at the non-striker 's end , even if Warner had a direct-hit , Kohli would have made his ground there Rohit Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 69.6 Lyon to Rahane , out Caught by S Smith ! ! Tossed up on off and middle , the ball kicks up from a length , Rahane was looking to push at it , the ball clips the pad and loops up towards FSL , who takes a simple catch. Rahane was unlucky here as the ball only hit the pad. Rahane looked very disappointed with the decision and stayed put on the crease for a few seconds. Rahane c S Smith b Lyon 0 ( 5 ) Lyon to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Rahane has been given out here. Replays show that he never got either bat or glove on that. Poor decision from the umpire and Australia are back in the game . 69.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off and middle , Rahane turns it towards the FSL fielder 69.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Rahane turns it to leg gully 69.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , leans forward and drives it back to the bowler 69.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , takes a step forward and looks to block , the ball hits him on the pads , Lyon appealed but the umpire will never give that out Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 69.1 Lyon to Vijay , out Lbw ! ! Oh no. Vijay misses out on a century yet again. This time ump Erasmus gives him out. It was touch flatter and spins back in sharply towards middle stump , Vijay went on the back foot and looked to work it away on the on-side , he misses and the ball hits the back pad. There was a loud appeal and the umpire immediately raised his finger. Vijay did n't want to leave and stood at the crease in disappointment. Kohli went upto him , patted him on the back and on the head. Heartbreak for Vijay and the Indian fans. Vijay lbw b Lyon 99 ( 234 ) [ 4s-10 6s-2 ] Lyon to Vijay , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 68.6 R Harris to Vijay , byes , 1 run , down the leg , Vijay ca n't stop it properly , the batsmen take a bye as the ball rolls away fine 68.5 R Harris to Vijay , byes , FOUR , swings back in sharply , the ball was not far away from the off stump as Vijay left it alone , even Haddin could n't block it and the ball raced away to the fence 68.4 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , back-to-back hundreds for Virat Kohli , Kohli takes off his helmet and is pumped up after reaching his century , he also becomes the second player to score two hundreds on their captaincy debut , he waves his bat to the crowd and his team mates who applaud his effort. He kisses the India badge on the shirt , then kisses the Indian flag on the helmet. He had his arms aloft in joy. Coming back to the ball , it was good length delivery outside off , Kohli punched it wide of mid-off and races away to the single. But , the job is still half done 68.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , shaping away outside off , Kohli looks to drive , the ball goes towards short cover off the outside half of the bat 68.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Kohli gently drives it to mid-off 68.1 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , touch back of a length outside off , Kohli punches it through the covers , the batsmen come back for the second 67.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , this time he stays inside the crease and does n't offer a shot to this flighted delivery outside off , the ball comes back in and misses the pad as well as the off-stump , however , it was n't very far away from the stumps 67.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , looks to sweep from outside off , but ca n't connect , the ball hits the pad , there was an appeal , but the impact was well outside off 67.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , leans across and blocks , the ball rolls away into the off-side after taking the inside edge on the pad 67.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , goes down on one knee and sweeps , he gets a top edge , but luckily for him it does n't carry to the short fine leg fielder 67.2 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , gives the charge and whips it uppishly towards the deep mid-wicket fence , he did n't time it well , but got it in the gap 67.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , slowish delivery on the pads , Kohli tucks it away to fine leg off the back foot and gets off strike 66.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish on middle and leg , Vijay blocks it into the on-side Comes round the wicket 66.5 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length delivery coming back in at the batsman , Kohli jumps in the crease and tucks it away to deep mid-wicket 66.4 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , shouts of 'Catch ' from the Australian fielders , it was fullish and shaping in on the pads , Kohli flicks it towards short mid-wicket , who dives to his right , but ca n't stop it , the ball was in the air for a little while as well , but replays show that it did n't carry to the fielder 66.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , yorker outside off , Kohli jams it out behind square on the off-side The tape at the edge of Kohli 's bat was coming off. The umpire fixes it for Kohli with the help of a scissor . 66.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , another one that 's full and outside off , this time Kohli lets it go 66.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and drives it straight to short cover Kohli has taped the bottom of his bat. In the post-lunch session , he had some issue with the toe-end of his bat and maybe , that 's why he has done this . 65.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , floated up around off and spinning back in towards the batsman , Vijay presses forward and dead-bats it 65.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , gives the charge and blocks this flighted delivery with his bat-pad together 65.4 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli goes on the back foot and works it towards deep backward square leg to get to the other end 65.3 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , very difficult chance , it was little flatter , Vijay goes back and flicks it through the legs of FSL 65.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Kohli leans into the drive and hits it towards short cover , who misfields and that allows the batsmen to go through for a single 65.1 Lyon to Kohli , 2 runs , shortish down leg , Kohli goes back in the crease and helps it on its way to fine leg , the batsmen had ample time to go back for the second 64.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , touch fuller and outside off , Vijay does n't offer a shot , the ball dies down on its way to the keeper 64.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , angles this one on the off stump , Vijay leans forward and blocks it into the off-side Comes round the wicket now 64.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , wide outside off , Vijay does n't get tempted and sees it through to the keeper 64.3 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , too straight from Harris , Kohli stays back and flicks it off his pads to deep mid-wicket 64.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery around off , Kohli leans forward and pushes it towards mid-on 64.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , bowls this one well outside off , Kohli leaves 63.6 Lyon to Vijay , SIX , what a shot from Vijay ! It was a loopy delivery from Lyon , Vijay gives the charge and he lifts it over the wide long-on fence with ease , he moves into the nineties with this hit , great use of the feet there from Vijay 63.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up on middle stump , Kohli moves across a touch and turns it to mid-wicket to get to the other end 63.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Kohli blocks off the front foot 63.3 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , whips this one to backward square leg off the back foot 63.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , down leg , Vijay covers the stumps and pads it into the on-side 63.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , sweeps this fine , Warner at leg slip gets a hand on that , but the ball got parried away further , the batsmen take a single A leg slip is in place as well 62.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , touch back of a length and just around off , Vijay stays rooted to the crease and pushes it towards point , he was looking for a single , but the ball went straight to the fielder 62.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , full and shapes away outside off , Vijay lets it go through to the keeper after covering the stumps A slip and a gully in place 62.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , this one was right at the stumps but Vijay was right behind the delivery , he blocks it solidly into the off-side 62.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , indipper from Harris on off and middle , Vijay moves across and eases it down to mid-on 62.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish outside off , Vijay leaves 62.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fuller in length and shaping away a touch just outside off , Vijay looks to block , the ball runs away towards the slip cordon off a thickish outside edge Ryan Harris [ 11.0-5-28-0 ] is back into the attack 61.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , it was in the air for sometime , but fortunately for Vijay it does n't carry to the fielder at deep mid-wicket , it was tossed up , Vijay came down the track and went for the whip across the line 61.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Kohli whips it to deep mid-wicket 61.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , huge shout from Lyon , it was a flighted delivery spinning back in on middle and leg , Kohli looks to sweep but misses , the ball hits him on the pad , the umpire says that the height was a factor there , but Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was hitting middle stump , Kohli survives 61.3 Lyon to Kohli , 2 runs , another one on the pads , Kohli looks to sweep it fine , he ca n't time it properly , the ball rolls away fine for a couple of runs , the ball actually hit Kohli on the arm and that 's why it went that fine 61.2 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , flatter on the stumps , Vijay rocks back and clips it to deep mid-wicket Round the wicket comes Lyon 61.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , slowish delivery on leg , Kohli goes deep in the crease and works it to deep backward square leg for a single The players are making their way out to the centre. Lyon will start the proceedings after tea. There is a slip and a FSL in place. Kohli will take strike first . Welcome back. India would want these two to carry on what they have done for the last session and half. Can India chase this total down ? It will be a historic win if they manage to pull it off . But can Australia make a comeback in the final session of the match ? Or will India run away with the Test match ? Join us in a few minutes to find out. Till then , have your tea/coffee and come back fast . Both Kohli and Vijay look set to get their hundreds and if they do so , it will be special for both of them. The Australian bowlers looked threatening in patches , especially Nathan Lyon , but both the batters have tackled him well with their feet movement. Kohli , especially has been instrumental in throwing Lyon off his line and length. With Clarke also out of the field with a hamstring problem , things do n't look too bright for Australia . Tea , Day 5 : India have made a great comeback in the game. Both Kohli and Vijay played superbly to keep the Australian bowlers at bay. Now , the pressure is on the Australians as India now have the chance to push for a win. They need 159 runs from the last session to take a 1-0 lead in the series . 60.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Vijay thinks about playing at it , but pulls his bat back inside the line of the ball and lets it go through to the keeper Last delivery before tea 60.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , wayward delivery from Johnson , it was way outside off , Vijay wo n't play at those , especially when there 's just one more delivery to go before tea Comes round the wicket now 60.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , good comeback from Vijay as he bunts this one down to mid-off with a full face of the bat 60.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , good ball from Johnson , it was fullish and leaving the batsman outside off , Vijay was unsure whether to go on the front foot or not , he pushes at it , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 60.2 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , splays this slower one down leg , Kohli works it towards deep backward square leg , Kohli was playing away from his body there 60.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , fullish and angled well outside off , Kohli shoulders arms Last over before tea coming up 59.6 S Smith to Vijay , no run , too full from Smith , Vijay digs it out , the bowler moves to his right and collects it 59.5 S Smith to Vijay , no run , lunges forward in defence to this flighted delivery around middle stump 59.4 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , pushed through this time , Kohli stays back and turns it towards deep mid-wicket 59.3 S Smith to Kohli , no run , tossed up around off , Kohli drives it to mid-off off the front foot 59.2 S Smith to Kohli , FOUR , He gets his boundary this time , this was a little flatter outside off , Kohli goes back in the crease and cuts it late to the deep backward point fence , the fielder at backward point was too lazy to get down and that costs Australia four runs 59.1 S Smith to Kohli , no run , Kohli missed out on a freebie. It was a rank long hop , Kohli rocks back and looks to pull , he mistimes it towards mid-on 58.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , length delivery angling away just outside off , Vijay looks to leave , but while trying to pull out of the shot , the ball catches the bat and goes towards the second slip fielder on the bounce , no harm done 58.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fullish outside off , Vijay leans forward and squeezes it towards gully with a slightly open face , the fielder dived and prevented the batsmen from taking any runs 58.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fuller in length and moving away outside off , Vijay does n't offer a shot Back over the wicket 58.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , stays rooted to the crease and blocks it with the full face of the bat 58.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , dropped ! It was a back of a length delivery outside off , Vijay goes hard at it , he hits it in the air , Marsh at short cover dives to his left and gets a hand on it , he ca n't hold onto it and to be fair it was a very difficult chance Comes round the wicket 58.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , bumper at the batsman , Vijay sits under it and the ball thuds into Haddin 's gloves 57.6 S Smith to Kohli , no run , floated up outside off and turning further away , Kohli leaves 57.5 S Smith to Vijay , 3 runs , this is poor bowling , Smith is not learning his lessons , it was another full toss on the pads , Vijay goes down on one knee and paddle sweeps it fine , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down before the fine leg fence 57.4 S Smith to Vijay , FOUR , another full toss from Smith and it gets the treatment it deserved , Vijay goes leg side and just eases it wide of mid-on for another boundary 57.3 S Smith to Vijay , no run , tossed up outside off , Vijay mistimes the drive to mid-off 57.2 S Smith to Vijay , no run , goes back inside the crease and blocks 57.1 S Smith to Vijay , FOUR , poor delivery to start a new spell , bowls a low full toss , Vijay picks his spot and helps it on its way to the cow corner fence Steven Smith [ 1.0-0-2-0 ] is back into the attack A lot of chopping and changing in the bowling department from Australia. Now , the leggie Smith comes into the attack 56.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Kohli drives hard after opening the face a little , Siddle at backward point dives full length to his left and stops the ball , good fielding effort as the batsmen could n't even go through for a single 56.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , tempter a little wide outside off , Kohli puts his front foot across and allows it to go through to the keeper 56.4 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , fullish delivery shaping in on middle and leg , Vijay works it wide of mid-on , where Warner puts in the dive and keeps the batsmen down to a single , Vijay timed it sweetly 56.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , bumper down the leg-side , Vijay ducks under it anyway Back to over the wicket is Mitch 56.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , again Vijay goes on the back foot and plays inside the line of the ball as it shaped away after pitching 56.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , comes round the wicket first up , bangs this short outside off , the ball straightens a touch after pitching , Vijay does n't poke at it Mitchell Johnson [ 10.0-1-26-1 ] is back into the attack Mitch comes back. Can he take a wicket ? Let 's see 55.6 Siddle to Kohli , no run , full and shapes back in outside off , Kohli moves across and looks to drive , he checks his shot at the last moment , the ball rolls away towards mid-on 55.5 Siddle to Kohli , no run , full and around middle stump , Kohli moves across and tucks it away to short mid-wicket , good shot for no runs there 55.4 Siddle to Kohli , no run , moves across to this delivery tailing back in on off , blocked to the right of the bowler 55.3 Siddle to Kohli , no run , a loud appeal for a caught behind , but ump Erasmus is not interested , it was shaping down leg , Kohli looked to glance it fine , but ca n't connect , the ball flicked the thigh pad on its way to the keeper and that 's what got the Australians interested 55.2 Siddle to Kohli , no run , this time he gets right behind the line of the ball and solidly blocks it to the bowler 55.1 Siddle to Kohli , FOUR , beautiful shot from Kohli , it was on a length and outside off , Kohli leans across , gets on top of the bounce and drives it towards the sweeper cover fence , great timing on that one 54.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , that was a close leave from Vijay , this one was closer to the off stump , Vijay shoulders arms yet again , but the ball was n't too far away from his front pad as well as the off stump 54.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , outswinger outside off , Vijay shoulders arms Two slips and a gully in place for Harris 54.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery angling across off , Vijay thinks about playing at it , but decides to let it go at the end Comes round the wicket 54.3 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , nip-backer on the legs of the batsman , Kohli clips it off his pad to fine leg and gets to the other end 54.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , shaping away well outside off , Kohli shoulders arms 54.1 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , fullish delivery from Harris , Kohli shuffled across and bunts it down the ground with the straightest of bats , Harris got a hand on it , but parries it away towards mid-on , who runs after it and the batsmen take two Wasim Akram looks at the rough side of the ball and suggests that the ball is perfect for reverse swing. I do n't think the Aussies will agree to that . 53.6 Siddle to Vijay , leg byes , FOUR , gentle loosener on the pads , Vijay ca n't tickle it fine , but the ball still runs away to the fine leg fence after clipping the pad 53.5 Siddle to Vijay , no run , comes back in on middle , Vijay blocks solidly The Australians were showing the ball to the umpire. But , the umpire hands it back over to them. Maybe , a ball change is on the cards 53.4 Siddle to Vijay , no run , fuller in length and moving away outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 53.3 Siddle to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery with a hint of shape away on off , Vijay was right behind the line and blocks it with soft hands 53.2 Siddle to Kohli , 1 run , angles this one on the pads again , Kohli tucks it away to fine leg and gets off strike A slip , a gully and two short mid-wickets are in place 53.1 Siddle to Kohli , no run , poor delivery to start with , sprays this one down leg , Kohli ca n't glance it fine , the ball goes through to the keeper Peter Siddle [ 5.0-2-11-0 ] is back into the attack Siddle has been introduced into the attack to provide Australia the breakthrough. Can he do it ? Let 's find out . 52.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , full and coming in on middle and leg , Vijay knocks it towards mid-on off the inside half of the bat 52.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Vijay was thinking about playing at it , he ends up shouldering arms after he knew that the ball was never coming back in to hit the stumps 52.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , full and moving away outside off , Vijay gets drawn into the drive , the ball shapes away and beats the outside edge 52.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , gets right behind the line and blocks this back to the bowler , who looks a little frustrated and throws the ball at the stumps 52.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , very full and shaping in around off , Vijay squeezes out the drive towards cover A short cover and a short mid-wicket are in place as well 52.1 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , fullish delivery tailing back in on middle stump , Kohli moves across a touch and works it to deep mid-wicket 51.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , touch shortish and spinning back in , Kohli rocks back in the crease and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , he will keep the strike 51.5 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , steps out of the crease and drags the whip in the air towards deep mid-wicket , Vijay was lucky that he did n't time it that well , the ball goes towards the fielder after two bounces 51.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted delivery on off , Vijay again gives the charge and drills it back towards the bowler 51.3 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , goes down on one knee and plays the lap sweep towards fine leg , good running ensures that the batsmen come back for the second 51.2 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , good use of the feet , it was tossed up and spun back in towards Vijay , who steps out and reaches to the pitch of the ball , he lofts it over the mid-on fielder 's head and the ball races away to the fence 51.1 Lyon to Kohli , leg byes , 1 run , moves across and looks to sweep , the ball bounces extra and hits Kohli on the helmet , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side and the batsmen run through for a leg bye 50.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , another one that shapes away outside off , but the ball was too far away from the batsman , Vijay does n't offer a shot yet again 50.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , this time he moves it away from the batsman outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 50.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , 138kph bumper outside off , Vijay has nothing to do with it and lets it go 50.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , just short of a good length and coming back in on off , Vijay gets behind the line and blocks it back to the bowler 50.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery tailing back in on middle , Vijay drills it towards mid-on off the inside half of the bat Harris is covering the ball with his left hand to hide the shiny side 50.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , plants his front foot across and drives this delivery outside off straight to the fielder at short cover 49.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through on middle stump , Kohli works it past FSL 49.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , goes down on one knee and sweeps it towards square leg , where Warner fields and has a direct-hit at the non-striker 's end , but the batsman was inside the crease 49.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , shortish delivery spinning back in , Kohli pulls it to square leg 49.3 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , shortish outside off , Kohli rocks back and cuts it beautifully to the deep backward point fence 49.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , bounces a little extra this time , Kohli pushes at it off the back foot , the ball loops up off the face of the bat , but there was no silly point to pounce on it 49.1 Lyon to Kohli , 2 runs , moves across and tucks it away fine , Kohli comes back for the second , good running there from the Indian captain Update on Clarke : He has been sent to the hospital for scans on his right hamstring 48.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , good leave from Vijay as this one shapes back in from outside off , but it was far away from the stumps 48.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , another one that shapes back in from outside off , Vijay bunts it into the off-side Just a slip and gully in place 48.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery tailing in towards the batsman , Vijay pushes at it , the ball rolls away towards mid-on off the inside half of the bat 48.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , back of a length delivery coming back in on off , Vijay stays on the back foot and dabs it towards point 48.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , just a touch fuller than the previous delivery and this time Vijay decides to leave it , the ball shapes back in , it was n't very far away from the off stump as well 48.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , on a good length and shaping back in on off , Vijay presses forward and blocks solidly Ryan Harris [ 7.0-3-24-0 ] is back into the attack Harris comes back to exploit the reverse swing . Time for a drinks break. India have negotiated the first hour after lunch and they have approximately 50 more overs to survive. Both the batsmen have been very patient and have not been afraid to take on Lyon from time to time. Vijay has survived a few close calls , but the opener is gutsing it out in the middle. Another crucial hour coming up for both the teams. It might just decide where the match is headed . 47.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slower and on middle , Kohli gets inside the line and nurdles it to backward square 47.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , presses forward and works it to mid-wicket 47.4 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , top shot ! It is a tough shot to play , especially when the ball is pitching in the rough , Kohli made that look easy , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it beautifully to the deep extra cover fence , not a muscle moved in the field 47.3 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , fantastic shot ! He brings out the sweep shot just when you do n't expect it. Floated up outside off , Kohli kneels down and slog sweeps it over mid-wicket , there was a fielder but he was a mere spectator 47.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted outside off , Kohli defends it to the off-side , wants the single but Vijay says " no " 47.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli stays low and wrists it to short mid-wicket 46.6 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , tails back in from a length , Vijay looks to clip , gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball dribbles to the on-side 46.5 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , Marsh is getting the ball to reverse , shapes in , but drifts down leg , Vijay ca n't connect with the glance and a good take by Haddin 46.4 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , short of length outside off , Vijay hangs back and defends towards cover 46.3 M Marsh to Vijay , 2 runs , slants it into the pads , Vijay tucks it to deep backward square leg for a couple 46.2 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , back of a length just outside off , Vijay leaves and the ball goes on the bounce to Haddin 46.1 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , fuller and curling away outside off , Vijay is not interested in playing at that 45.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , waits for the ball to turn , works it with the spin to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder though 45.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slower and around off , Kohli knocks it to the right of Lyon 45.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , shortens the length , Kohli gets behind the line and defends to the off-side 45.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up outside off , Kohli drills the drive straight back to the bowler , plenty of bottom hand in that shot 45.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted outside off , Kohli gets a good stride forward and blocks 45.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , jumps up after pitching in the rough , Kohli goes right back , gets on top of it and taps it to short leg 44.6 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , pitched up on off , Vijay knocks it from the crease to mid-off 44.5 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , fuller and shaping away outside off , Vijay covers the line and shoulders arms 44.4 M Marsh to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length on the pads , Kohli flicks it behind square leg for a single 44.3 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , dug in short and just outside off , Kohli pulls it towards mid-on , Vijay wanted the single this time but Kohli denies 44.2 M Marsh to Kohli , FOUR , yorker outside off , Kohli squeezes it off the toe-end past the slip cordon , Lyon gives chase from gully , dives full length and scoops the ball back in , but he was in contact with the ad cushions. Kohli gets to his 10th Test fifty , once again it has been a captain 's innings 44.1 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Kohli punches it to point , wants the single but Vijay sends him back 43.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , floated up on off , Vijay sweeps and picks out the fielder at backward square 43.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Lyon ca n't believe that Erasmus did n't give that out. None of the Australians are pleased with the decision. Once again Vijay decides to pad the ball away , the impact was outside off , the ball was turning and would have just clipped leg-stump according to Hawk-Eye. That was close , but a good call from the ump 43.4 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , poor delivery by Lyon , half tracker outside off , Vijay goes back and cuts it past point , he did n't try to overhit it , just relied on timing and the ball raced away to the fence As soon as he fielded the ball , he hopped around. He had problems with his hammy before coming into the game. The physio is out there and he is limping off the field. Hopefully , it is nothing serious as Australia need him to lead them in this situation . 43.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted on off , Kohli punches it off the back foot to mid-wicket , Clarke swoops in and puts in the stretch to field the ball , he might have done something to his hamstring . 43.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , again aims for the rough , Kohli presses forward and ekes out an inside edge onto the pad 43.1 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , floated up outside off , Vijay kneels down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 42.6 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , peach ! Superb delivery to end the over. It was on a length and close to off , Kohli had to play at it , the ball straightens enough to beat Kohli 's bat. It has started to reverse swing ! 42.5 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , waste of a delivery , short and well wide of off , Kohli has nothing to do with it 42.4 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 42.3 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , fullish and around off , Kohli pushes it to mid-off 42.2 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , short and moving away outside off , Kohli waits for the ball to come and then cuts it towards cover , where Warner dives and stops the ball 42.1 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , full and shaping away outside off , Kohli lifts his bat and lets it go 41.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted around off , Vijay presses forward and defends solidly 41.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , much , much slower just outside off , Vijay was early into the forward defensive , the ball hits the flap of the pad and then hits his body 41.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , nice floaty delivery , Vijay comes down the track and blocks it dead on the wicket 41.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , gives this more air outside off , Kohli leans forward , does not get to the pitch , wrists it uppishly wide of mid-on 41.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tosses it up on off , Kohli knocks it towards mid-wicket 41.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted on off , Kohli stays back and works it to backward square 40.6 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , drags the length back slightly , Vijay punches and finds cover 40.5 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Vijay comes well forward and defends with the straightest of bats 40.4 M Marsh to Kohli , 1 run , good length ball close to off , Kohli knocks it in front of point , who is slightly deep and sets off for the single , good response from Vijay as well 40.3 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , on a length just outside off , Kohli defends it towards point , shouts " no , no " for the single 40.2 M Marsh to Kohli , 2 runs , full on off and middle , Kohli leans forward and flicks it between those two mid-wicket fielders for a couple Two short mid-wickets in place for Kohli 40.1 M Marsh to Vijay , 1 run , slants onto the pads , Vijay clips it behind square leg for a single Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack After the over some of the Australians went up to Erasmus and had a word with him. It seemed to be about the lbw and why it was given not-out . 39.6 Lyon to Kohli , 2 runs , bit of extra bounce on that occasion , Kohli waits for it , gets on top of it and nurdles it to long leg for a brace 39.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , floated up around off , Kohli stays back and jams it onto the pads , the ball dribbles towards point 39.4 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , top shot ! We have not seen Kohli play the sweep , but he has brought that shot in this innings to negate Lyon , he kneels down and sweeps it powerfully past square leg , no one was going to stop that 39.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slower and on off , Kohli works it to backward square 39.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , huge shout for lbw , umpire Erasmus stays unmoved. The Australians thought they had their man. It was tossed up and just did n't bounce , Kohli was back and looked to defend , the ball scooted past his defence and hits him very low on the pad , the impact was outside off and he was playing a shot. A very good decision from the ump 39.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted on off , Kohli crouches low and turns it to mid-wicket Stat : Kohli has completed 2000 Test runs. He got there when he hit that six off Lyon 38.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , good length ball on off , Vijay prefers to hang back in the crease and defend to cover , that was the way he got out in the first innings , but this time the angle was bringing the ball back into him 38.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , this angle from round the sticks is causing some problems for Vijay , the short of length ball straightens around off , Vijay pokes at it feebly and is beaten all ends up 38.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , goes wide of the crease from round the wicket , bangs it in short and on the stumps , Vijay sinks under and lets it go comfortably 38.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , pitched up around off , Vijay drives and picks out mid-off 38.2 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , " catch " was the shout from the Australians , the ball landed safely though. The sucker delivery , full and well wide of off , Vijay reaches for it and slices the drive to the left of backward point , the ball was well wide of the fielder 38.1 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Kohli plays an extended forward push to cover , Mitch Marsh dives to his right and parries it to mid-off , calls Vijay through for the single 37.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Lyon goes up for an lbw appeal , no support from the rest of his mates. Vijay pads the flighted delivery away , the impact was outside off and the ball would have gone over as it hit the flap of the pad 37.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , kneels down and sweeps it straight to the backward square fielder 37.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , slower and outside off , Vijay lunges forward in defence 37.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up on off , Kohli leans forward and whips it wide of mid-on , the fielder dives and makes a fine stop 37.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , spun back in from the rough , Kohli hangs back and jams it onto the thigh , the ball gets stuck between his legs , Haddin tries to collect when Kohli lets it go , but ca n't reach it in time 37.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted outside off , Kohli drives it to mid-on , plenty of wrist in that stroke 36.6 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , edged and four ! It was back of a length and straightens a touch , Vijay was opened up as he tried to defend , the ball takes the edge and runs down to third man. There was only a slip and gully and the ball went where a second slip would have been 36.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , good length ball just outside off , Vijay punches it to cover Johnson changes to round the wicket 36.4 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , short and on the hips , Kohli jumps up slightly and tucks it to mid-wicket , where the fielder is in the deep 36.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Kohli was shaping to play the pull , decides not to at the last instant. The ball hardly carried to Haddin 36.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , short delivery on off , Kohli sits down and lets it sail past him 36.1 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , second fifty of the match for Vijay , his 8th overall in Tests. Kohli walks up and congratulates him. Full delivery on leg-stump , Vijay clips it through the vacant mid-wicket region 35.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slower and close to off , Kohli stays low and wrists it to short leg 35.5 Lyon to Kohli , SIX , magnificent hit ! Floated up , it was touch short and Kohli picked up the length in a flash , he rocks back and pulls it over deep mid-wicket , there was a man but he was well inside the rope 35.4 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , tosses it up around off , Vijay gets to the pitch and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 35.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , continues with the line outside off , Vijay stays in the crease and blocks it towards slip 35.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , spins back in sharply , Vijay misses the defence and is hit on the body 35.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted outside off , Vijay comes down the track and pads it away 34.6 Johnson to Kohli , 2 runs , too straight in line , Kohli clips it off the pads through mid-wicket , he wanted three but Vijay sends him back rightly , they would have been trouble had they gone for the third 34.5 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , full and around off , Vijay pushes it past Kohli , he waited till the ball passed the bowler before calling through for a single 34.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , pitched up and outside off , Vijay covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 34.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fuller and angled outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 34.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , another on target short delivery , Vijay arches back , drops his gloves and lets it go 34.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , starts the session with a bouncer , Vijay sways back and gets away from the line of the delivery Johnson will resume proceedings. He is operating with two slips and a gully. . Welcome back.. After Australia declared on their overnight score , India lost Dhawan early. Vijay and Pujara steadied the innings , but the latter got out to Lyon. Kohli carried on from where he had left off in the first innings. Another big test beckons the visitors in the penultimate session of the game. Lyon will hold the key for Australia. Can the offie give his side the lead in the series ? We will find out soon as the players make their way out to the middle . Lyon has looked the most threatening of all the Aussie bowlers. He is probing away around the outside off line and with the help of the rough , he is exploiting that to the hilt. If Australia are to go on to win this , he will have a big role to play. The Aussie seamers have been consistent but do n't look like producing wicket-taking deliveries. Still a long way to go in this match and more fascinating action awaits us after the break. Do stay tuned as we take a mini breather . India have done well to be just two down at lunch. They did n't start off well losing Dhawan to a wrong decision when it flicked the shoulder. Vijay and Pujara hung around for a while , surviving a testing spell from Lyon. Vijay was very lucky to get away after padding up to Lyon , Erasmus getting it wrong. After that Warnie was on air and he predicted a wicket off Lyon 's over and bingo - next ball Pujara was dismissed ! Since then Vijay and Kohli have weathered the storm and taken their side safely through to lunch . 33.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , this time Vijay nails the sweep , but straight to the fielder at deep backward square leg. That will be lunch on the final day Last ball before lunch 33.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , punched back to the bowler 33.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , another appeal but this time for a catch at FSL , but straight off the pad. He came down and tried to smother that , no bat or glove involved 33.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay pads that away and a rousing appeal from Lyon is turned down. Turning too much 33.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay wants to sweep when it 's tossed up outside off , this time he is hit on the arm 33.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , gets back and works it past FSL for a single Nathan Lyon [ 11.0-2-46-1 ] is back into the attack 32.6 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , rank bad delivery , dragged down short , Kohli picks out deep mid-wicket , with a pull 32.5 S Smith to Kohli , no run , too full on the stumps , eased back to S Smith 32.4 S Smith to Kohli , no run , tucked to FSL 32.3 S Smith to Vijay , 1 run , whipped off the back foot to deep backward square 32.2 S Smith to Vijay , no run , rocks back and punches to mid-off Slip and a short leg in 32.1 S Smith to Vijay , no run , starts well with a tossed up delivery on middle , Vijay blocks Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 31.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , Kohli gets his front foot across and defends to mid-on , practices the shot once more 31.5 Watson to Vijay , 1 run , in the air , but well wide of the second man at short mid-wicket , single to deep backward square 31.4 Watson to Vijay , no run , Vijay wanted to punch that , but looked like it stopped on him a tad , inside edge rolls to mid-on Clarke and Watson have a chat 31.3 Watson to Vijay , no run , good length on middle , Vijay defends to short mid-wicket 31.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , length delivery on off , dead-batted by Vijay 31.1 Watson to Vijay , no run , clipped straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 30.6 Siddle to Vijay , 1 run , third time in the over Kohli has sent Vijay back. This time for the 2nd. Flicked to deep backward square and they settle for a single. Johnson was taunting the batsmen to go for the second 30.5 Siddle to Vijay , no run , turned to the right of square leg , again Kohli sends Vijay back. Looked an easy single 30.4 Siddle to Vijay , no run , Vijay shows the full face of the bat and drives to mid-off 30.3 Siddle to Vijay , no run , Vijay is looking for the quick single and is halfway down , Kohli sends him back in the nick of time. It was played to mid-off and Vijay spotted a chance for a single 30.2 Siddle to Vijay , 2 runs , Vijay shuffles across a tad and then wrists it past mid-wicket for a couple. Shouted 'yea two two ' as soon as he played that 30.1 Siddle to Vijay , no run , good length outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 29.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , turns it to mid-wicket and says 'no no ' to Vijay 29.5 Watson to Vijay , 1 run , whips that from off and middle to deep backward square leg , that nipped back slightly 29.4 Watson to Vijay , no run , short and wide outside off , should 've been put away , cut straight to the fielder at point 29.3 Watson to Vijay , FOUR , Vijay has put that away. Poor delivery from Watson , angling into the pads , Vijay glances fine and gets a boundary to the vacant fine leg fence 29.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , good length on off , Vijay looks for the quick single after tapping to cover , not there 29.1 Watson to Vijay , no run , Vijay looked to cut that and then adjusted to the bounce to stab to point Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 28.6 Siddle to Kohli , no run , good length outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and defends to cover 28.5 Siddle to Kohli , no run , shuffles across to off and calmly blocks the length delivery to cover 28.4 Siddle to Vijay , 3 runs , drifts onto middle and leg , worked past mid-wicket , aggressive running gives three 28.3 Siddle to Vijay , no run , Siddle causes some uncertainty by squaring up Vijay , the leading edge is found but dribbles to cover 28.2 Siddle to Vijay , no run , short of length on off , Vijay presses forward to block 28.1 Siddle to Vijay , no run , Siddle comes back on and there 's a loud shout for lbw first up. Reversed into Vijay and rapped on the pads as the batsman missed the flick. Going down easily. Gould has an easier decision Peter Siddle [ 3.0-2-5-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , nearly a false stroke as Vijay aims to go over cover , is n't to the pitch again and the inside edge skews away to long-on 27.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay steps out and is n't to the pitch , so pad-bats it away 27.4 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , now takes the single with a tuck off the back foot to deep backward square leg 27.3 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli has nailed that. Sees the tossed up delivery outside off and slog sweeps hard and flat to deep square , beats the fielder too. Very powerful hit 27.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , right back and defended to short leg 27.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Kohli gets well outside off and is rapped on the pads , playing a shot. Mild appeal from the Aussies brings out a smile from Kohli 26.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay shouts 'no no ' to Kohli after defending to point with an open face 26.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 146kph short delivery , this time Vijay keeps his eyes on it and ducks , to let it go 26.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , the full delivery comes now , Vijay is still on the crease and defends to mid-off 26.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , shuffles across and defends with an open face to point 26.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay is hit ! But he is smiling. Ducked under it too early and got pinged on the armguard. A couple of Aussies go up to enquire about his wellbeing. Back to business 26.1 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , another controlled pull to deep mid-wicket 25.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay stretches out and pads that away , to a tossed up delivery outside off , got outside off and kicked it. Lyon thought about an appeal and thought against it in the end 25.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , now steps out and defends to mid-off 25.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , pre-meditated sweep from Vijay and he misses the shot to a tossed up delivery outside off , too full to sweep and he misses. Does n't turn back enough to hit off 25.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , now Kohli does the same past FSL 25.2 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , shortish and on the stumps , Vijay goes back and whips it to deep backward square leg , was well in control that time 25.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay uses his feet and smothers it back to Lyon 24.6 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , Johnson 's cheekiness cost him there. He attempts to back-flick hoping to catch Kohli uwawares , but the ball misses the stumps and the batsmen steal a single 24.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , back of a length angled across on a 141kph , Vijay lets it go 24.4 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , shuffles across his stumps and clips it to fine leg 24.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , right back to that back of a length and defended to cover 24.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , 143kph tempter outside off , full , Kohli sees it and lets it go 24.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , presses forward and blocks solidly to cover 23.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay wanted to get to the pitch of that , but the ball dips and he turns it gently to short fine 23.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , right back and worked past FSL 23.4 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , uses his feet and wrists it to long-on 23.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , now Vijay gets away with an iffy sweep. Bounces in front of Warner at short fine leg. Not in control of the shot at all 23.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , goes right back and tucks it wide of FSL 23.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , almost flicked to short mid-wicket. Kohli pushed out at that and he should be more careful 22.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay shuffles across to defend and does n't keep the shot down , it pops up near his feet , nowhere close to carrying back to Johnson 22.5 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , 'go go ' says Kohli to Vijay after getting it past the left of Johnson , quick single taken 22.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , angled across on a fuller length , left alone 22.3 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , smashed by Kohli. Takes it from outside off and then swivels to pull in front of square , beats deep mid-wicket running across. Kept the shot down too , Kohli played that really well 22.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , 141kph , delivery on the stumps , Kohli blocks solidly 22.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Kohli shuffles across a tad and defends to the left of Johnson Mitchell Johnson [ 4.0-1-4-1 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , turns in sharply and takes the inside edge onto the pads , before dropping short of FSL. Vijay lunged out to meet the ball , but was n't to the pitch of it 21.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , rocks back and punches it wide of mid-off 21.4 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , swept in the air , but in the gap. Top-edged in front of square and since no fielder is there , Kohli will get his first boundary 21.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , gets forward and whips it to FSL , stopped there 21.2 Lyon to Vijay , leg byes , 1 run , looked like that went off the glove , but Erasmus has given it as leg byes after Vijay swept to a tossed up delivery outside off 21.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , goes on the back foot and nudges it wide of leg slip for a single 20.6 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , on the pads , helped to deep backward square leg , for a single 20.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , dug in short outside off , Kohli stands tall but awkwardly fends it to point , did well though not to push too hard , kept it down 20.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , yorker length on off , dug out to mid-off 20.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Kohli flags that through very late to the keeper after seeing that good length delivery outside off 20.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , iffy push off the back foot to cover , Kohli did n't get totally in line there 20.1 R Harris to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay stands tall and punches it wide of point , good enough for a single 19.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Kohli gets back and tucks it to short leg 19.5 Lyon to Vijay , 3 runs , kneels down and paddles it , Warner chases and pulls it back , but they take three 19.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay lines up for a big sweep to a tossed up delivery outside off , misses and the ball does n't turn enough to hit off. Still a risky shot 19.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli is off the mark fist ball with a trademark wristy shovel to deep mid-wicket Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.2 Lyon to Pujara , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Warnie is a genius ! Next ball and a wicket falls. Pujara should 've been forward to that , instead plays back and no conviction in the push , just a faint tickle and a fine catch by Haddin. Lyon goes on a fist pumping spree. Pujara c Haddin b Lyon 21 ( 38 ) [ 4s-4 ] Lyon to Pujara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Warnie on air says that he can feel that a wicket is coming in this over ! 19.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara stays back and defends to short leg 18.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , wide of the crease , turned to the right of short mid-wicket where the stop is made 18.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , short now , down leg , Vijay ducks under that 18.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , the attempted yorker on off , turns out to be a low full toss outside off , dabbed back to Harris. He bowled that with an off-cutting action 18.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , good leave that , rising delivery outside off , Vijay hoists his bat over his shoulder and lets it go Lyon said this to Erasmus after he reprieved Vijay : 'are you sure ? The last time you said that , it was hitting middle.' 18.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , good length outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 18.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , way outside off on a fuller length , left alone 17.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , gets out and defends it back to Lyon. Another top class over from Lyon. He is really piling on the pressure 17.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , loud shout for lbw ! Turning too much and Erasmus gets it right this time. Pujara is on the back foot and misreads the length , it spins back in sharply to rap him on the pads , too much turn saves him 17.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , skips out and defends to short mid-wicket 17.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , no silly point and that would 've been straight to him. Turned and bounced from a good length , Pujara is hit on the splice as he went back , popped in the air into no-man 's land 17.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , punched through short leg 17.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara uses his feet and defends to the right of the bowler Drinks are on the field now. The Aussies are plugging away with Lyon leading the way. He is looking very threatening despite bowling a couple of short ones to Pujara. From the other end Clarke is rotating his seamers. Gripping Test cricket and it 's only going to get better from here on . 16.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , good length outside off , left alone 16.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , Vijay blocks solidly to the left of the bowler 16.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , edged and on the bounce to Watson at slip. Vijay pushing out to a length ball on off , the edge though does n't carry 16.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , in the corridor of uncertainty , Vijay shoulders arms 16.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , dug in short down leg , Vijay ducks under it 16.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone 15.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , uses his feet and smothers it 15.5 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , sweeps it to deep backward square leg , for a single 15.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , tossed up outside off , Vijay gets outside off and then pads up , not out this time despite an appeal from the Aussies 15.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , how is that not out ? Vijay has shouldered arms and padded up. It spun back in and Vijay made an error in judgement , he must have had his heart in his mouth as Erasmus thought about it for a while , shakes his head finally after a prolonged appeal from the Aussies. Must say Vijay is a lucky man. That was crashing into the stumps. Warnie on air : 'I 'm in shock , that is a shocking decision. 1-1 now.' 15.2 Lyon to Vijay , SIX , beautiful batting from Vijay. Rushes out and whips it with strong wrists over mid-wicket , there were two men on the on-side fence , but he cleared them easily. Great use of the wrists. That will put pressure on Lyon 15.1 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , Pujara is on the back foot , sees the length is short and dabs it to the vacant point region , only a single as Siddle mops up 14.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , predictably the short ball comes from Harris , dug in down leg , Vijay sits under that 14.5 R Harris to Vijay , FOUR , Harris does n't look too pleased there. Banged in short outside off , Vijay presses forward and then steers it with an open face past gully. Second boundary in the over for Vijay 14.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , shows the full face of the bat and punches it to silly mid-on 14.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , pushes on the front foot and blocks to cover 14.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fuller length outside off , left alone 14.1 R Harris to Vijay , FOUR , Harris is welcomed back with a boundary. Width provided outside off and Vijay latched on with a drive on the rise , wide of cover. Timed well to race away to the boundary Ryan Harris [ 3.0-1-14-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , skips out and defends to short mid-wicket. Pujara neutralised Lyon well in that over 13.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , uses his feet and pad-bats it away into the covers 13.4 Lyon to Pujara , FOUR , and again. Lyon erring on the shorter side and Pujara wo n't miss out again. Back-to-back cut shots , fetches him consecutive boundaries 13.3 Lyon to Pujara , FOUR , cracking shot that. Lyon drops it short and that allows Pujara to rock back and cut it powerfully to the vacant point region. Good use of the feet there 13.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , uses his feet and since he ca n't play a shot to that one , he kicks it way from outside off 13.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , goes on the back foot and pushes it to the right of the bowler 12.6 Siddle to Vijay , no run , full and with a hint of tail back in , Vijay digs it out to mid-on. Did well not to fall over that time 12.5 Siddle to Vijay , no run , that nipped back in off the seam , Vijay looked for an ambitious drive through cover , the inside edge is found and takes it to short mid-wicket MS is seen talking to Kohli seated next to him. Kohli is seen listening and nodding intently 12.4 Siddle to Vijay , no run , stands tall and punches to cover 12.3 Siddle to Vijay , no run , rides the bounce well and rises on his toes to push to point 12.2 Siddle to Vijay , no run , tight delivery on off , Vijay 's broad blade answers 12.1 Siddle to Vijay , no run , fuller length outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 11.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , gets forward and defends 11.5 Lyon to Pujara , FOUR , that is a good shot. Pujara uses his feet and cracks that powerfully to long-off. Got to the pitch of it and then smashed it. Nice way to put some pressure on Lyon 11.4 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , takes it from outside off and sweeps powerfully to backward square leg , beat the fielder diving across 11.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay opts to play that off the back foot , ca n't ride the bounce properly on that , gets into a tangle , edges it onto the body , the ball rolls near his feet 11.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , that is a bad appeal. Vijay went outside off and missed the sweep , long way outside off and Lyon belts out an appeal , Erasmus is n't even interested Lyon will keep the umpires under pressure all day today. He is looking very dangerous with the ball. Every ball of his is an event 11.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay now offers the pad as he gets outside off , loud shout for lbw , Erasmus shakes his head 10.6 Siddle to Pujara , no run , full on off and middle , blocked back to Siddle 10.5 Siddle to Pujara , FOUR , fabulous timing on that back foot punch. It was slightly short and he put it away. Stayed beside the line of the ball and then timed it Second slip moves into a very close silly point now. Right in the face of Pujara 10.4 Siddle to Pujara , no run , Pujara stays calm and blocks to cover 10.3 Siddle to Pujara , no run , back of a length on the stumps , defended solidly to short mid-wicket 10.2 Siddle to Pujara , no run , comes on the front foot and defends to cover 10.1 Siddle to Vijay , 1 run , eased wide of mid-off for a quick single 9.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , once again pads that away , caught by short mid-wicket running in , no bat or glove 9.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , uses his feet and blocks to the right of the bowler 9.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , padded away and again Lyon appeals , highly optimistic and not given because Pujara kicked it away from way outside off 9.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , loud shout for a caught and bowled , but Pujara got only pad on that. No bat or glove as he came down the track to smother it. Erasmus gets it right 9.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , comes down the track and then pads it away , a mild appeal and nothing more. But someone said from behind the stumps : 'this is Test cricket and he is a good player.' 9.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , in the air but no leg gully ! It turned and bounced from a length , Pujara wanted to play that off the back foot , there was no fielder , so Pujara gets away 8.6 Siddle to Vijay , no run , tapped to point from the crease to quell a largely unthreatening over from Siddle 8.5 Siddle to Vijay , no run , Vijay 's bat is coming down very straight , solidly blocked to cover off the front foot 8.4 Siddle to Vijay , no run , gets forward and punches well , but mid-off gets across to cut it off 8.3 Siddle to Vijay , no run , calmly defends it back to Siddle , who fields Silly mid-on catching as well 8.2 Siddle to Vijay , no run , Vijay leans on the front foot and eases it to mid-off Only two slips and a gully in place for Siddle 8.1 Siddle to Vijay , no run , starts off with a gentle delivery on middle , pushed to mid-on from the front foot Peter Siddle , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , well bowled that by Lyon. Turned and bounced from a good length , Pujara did well too , not pushing out , smothered it there near his feet 7.5 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , shortish down middle and leg , worked away to deep backward square leg , for a single 7.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Lyon almost sneaked through there. Vijay early into the sweep and was lucky that he got a toe-end and a glove on that 7.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , on the back foot and defended to short leg 7.2 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , takes it from outside off and sweeps it to fine leg for a couple Slip and a short leg in place 7.1 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , Pujara goes on the back foot and whips that to deep mid-wicket Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 6.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 146kph full delivery outside off , Vijay hoists his bat over his shoulder and lets it go 6.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 143kph , dug in on a back of a length , Vijay shuffles across and blocks to cover 6.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , pitched up on off now , but still Vijay is rock-solid , defended to mid-off 6.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , on the stumps , comfortably defended to the right of the bowler 6.2 Johnson to Pujara , 1 run , on the hips , tucked to deep backward square leg , for a single 6.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , serious pacy short delivery outside off , Pujara did well to keep his eyes on the ball , bend his back and then lets it go. Johnson has a little stare at the batsman After Dhawan was given out , he was n't happy with the decision at all. But after that he just walked off. The Aussies celebrated wildly in his face with Johnson leading the way . 5.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , Vijay leans forward and opens the face of the bat to play it to point. Eventful over that 5.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , does well now to bend his back and leave that short delivery outside off alone 5.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , poor batting from Vijay again. Fiddles at a rising delivery outside off and nearly nicks off. The feet was stuck and he did n't have any business in playing that. Lots of chirp from the Aussies from behind the stumps 5.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , now a streaky shot ! Tries to punch a back of a length delivery outside off , edges it just in front of gully , almost carried to the man. Nervy times for the Indians 5.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , Vijay did well not to push out there , it hit the splice after holding up on the pitch , almost lobbed to silly mid-on Silly mid-on in place 5.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , Vijay presses forward and defends to point with an open face 4.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , Johnson thought it was pad first and went up for an lbw appeal , but Gould does n't reckon so. It swung back in and Pujara adjusted to defend it back to Johnson. Need a replay to see whether it hit the pad first 4.5 Johnson to Pujara , 2 runs , Pujara is off the mark with a defensive stroke past mid-off , quick two too as Vijay has to hare back to beat the throw from Clarke 4.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , back of a length on off , tapped to point from the crease 4.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , banged in short outside off , Pujara sways out of the way and lets it go Dhawan was very unlucky , but another failure for him overseas . 4.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 143kph , delivery on off stump , Pujara presses forward and defends towards mid-off Cheteshwar Pujara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.1 Johnson to Dhawan , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Superb catch by Haddin and Dhawan is unlucky. It came off the shoulder. Brilliant short delivery from Johnson , banged in short and Dhawan could n't get out of the way , he looked to sway out of the way , but did n't drop his gloves or the bat , still it missed everything and went off the shoulder. Haddin went quickly to his right and took it one-handed. Gould had the finger up in a jiffy. Wrong decision though. Dhawan c Haddin b Johnson 9 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 ] Johnson to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.6 R Harris to Dhawan , 3 runs , positive stroke from Dhawan. The front foot got across to the pitch of it and he laced the drive through cover , in the gap and another three runs. That shot should give him confidence 3.5 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , on the fourth stump line , Dhawan eases it to mid-off off the front foot 3.4 R Harris to Vijay , 3 runs , top shot that. Leans forward and just pushes it past the non-striker for three lovely runs. Long boundary that and that 's why it did n't go the fence. The feet moved really well to get to the pitch 3.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , short of length on the stumps , Vijay defends to the right of the bowler 3.2 R Harris to Dhawan , 1 run , good running , pushed in front of cover and both batsmen look at each other and set off Harris is stopped midway by Dhawan as he is n't happy with something behind the bowler 's arm. Slight delay as we get that sorted 3.1 R Harris to Dhawan , FOUR , so nearly bowled ! That was milimetres away from hitting the off stump. Yorker length outside off , Dhawan went for a big drive and under-edged it just wide of the off pole. That was ever so close 2.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 143kph good length delivery outside off , Vijay is content not to play at ones outside off early on 2.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fine leave from Vijay , he shuffles across to off and then lets one go to a ball that was on the 4th stump line 2.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , way outside off and that will be an easy leave for Johnson 2.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 143kph full delivery outside off , Vijay leaves 2.3 Johnson to Vijay , wide , effort ball from Johnson , dug in really short and that will be called a wide. Went way over the head of the batsman 2.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , dug in short by Johnson , outside off , Vijay sways away , drops his wrists and lets it go 2.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , close to off stump as Johnson angles one across , Vijay has his off stump covered and leaves well The stomper is out , doing its work. Pounding away on that rough area. Back to work as it does its job and we move on 1.6 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , good leave that , it was a tempter outside off , on a fuller length , Dhawan saw that till the last moment and left it alone 1.5 R Harris to Vijay , leg byes , 1 run , Harris has struggled this over , with his line and length , another one on the pads , it strikes the pad and runs away for an extra . 1.4 R Harris to Vijay , 2 runs , on the middle and leg line , Vijay flicks to deep backward square leg for a couple of runs , good looking shot that to get him off the mark 1.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , the attempted yorker from Harris , Vijay is up to it as he digs it out 1.2 R Harris to Dhawan , 1 run , drifting onto the pads , flicked to fine leg , Dhawan is off the mark Harris too has three slips and a gully 1.1 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , that 's a wayward delivery from Harris , swing for him , but it is well down leg and Haddin has to dives to his right to save some runs. The keeper has a smile after gloving it Ryan Harris , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , maiden from Johnson to start off with , good start from him , Vijay is back and across , before defending to cover-point 0.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 145kph , pacy delivery on middle and leg , nudged to mid-on from the crease 0.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , angled across on a fuller length from over the wicket , Vijay watches it carefully and shoulders arms 0.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 144kph , delivery on off stump , Vijay shows off his back foot defensive technique 0.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , another quick delivery on the hips , Vijay turns it to the right of square leg , looks for a quick single , but it is n't there 0.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short of length on the hips , turned softly to square leg Vijay and Dhawan are at the crease. Vijay is on strike. Johnson will open the attack The players are out there and that means only one thing - we are all ready to go. Great day in Adelaide - no problems with the weather. Superb conditions to play cricket in. Johnson has the new ball. Vijay on strike. Three slips and a gully in place. One thing is for sure - expect lots of verbals from the Aussies today. They wo n't back down at all. Fascinating day in prospect . Pitch report : 'For the fast bowlers and in the middle of the wicket , it still is a really good wicket. The area where the off-spinners pitches the ball is the critical area. You ca n't get stuck on the crease, ' reckons Rahul Dravid . The news coming in is that Australia have declared. Nothing surprising about that decision. It leaves India with 98 overs to try to bat out the day - drawing/winning/losing in the process . The curtains come down on this segment. Brace yourselves for another action-packed day . 'Ashwin was missed on a surface where Lyon had exploited the footmarks so well. India 's desperation was evident when Vijay was brought in to bowl his part-time off-spin in the 10th over ' adds Dinakar . He says , 'While the sad passing away of Phillip Hughes had a sobering effect on the teams during the first three days , the heat of the battle finally got to the players in the Border-Gavaskar series. As the dust settled on an eventful fourth day 's play that also saw Aussie off-spinner Nathan Lyon scalp five , Australia was 290 for five.' Here is S Dinakar for the Hindu with his report sporting the headline 'Warner , Lyon put Australia on top' 'The thing about Kohli is that he is not afraid on the cricket field. Neither is he afraid of confessing his relationships nor his desire to be the captain. He does n't offer excuses and says he is not a machine when asked about lack of runs. He wants people to use commonsense while discussing his girlfriend Anushka Sharma. He is not the next Tendulkar , Waugh or Pietersen. We are witnessing making of an original.' He writes , 'A couple of years ago , Shahid Afridi had asked an Indian batsman a simple question in the lobby of a Dhaka hotel : " Tell me something , what is Virat Kohli made off ? He abuses when he scores runs. He abuses when he gets out. Why ? " It was after the evening he had hit a ton against Pakistan and celebrated it by hurling few abuses. A few months earlier he had shown his middle finger to an aggressive crowd at the Sydney Cricket Ground.' Amit Gupta , writing for the Mumbai Mirror , explores the Virat Kohli chromosome . 'Lyon 's loop and kick , both effects of his pronounced topspin , recalled Ashley Mallett at his best on this ground. He probed attackingly on the off stump and found a length that made it impracticable for the Indians to play off the back foot. Strategically , Lyon 's emergence as the danger man in this Test match is manna to Michael Clarke 's plans. Where in past years Clarke would have been focused on how to preserve the strength and fitness of his pacemen , now he can give Lyon as many overs as he likes , with the confidence that the tweaker is not just holding up an end but creating chances. ' writes Malcolm Knox for the Sydney Morning Herald . 'It was Warner 's mistake , atypical this day , that he took a mighty heave at Aaron and was bowled. It was Aaron 's mistake that it was a no-ball , retrospectively detected. It was unsurprising that Aaron in his follow-through had let out an exultant " c'mon " .' He writes , 'The kid gloves came off. They had to , of course , as surely as there had to be a first bouncer , and a first instance of a batsman being hit by one. For three days , Australia and India had politely circled each other , restrained by a consciousness that any nastiness would dishonour the memory of Phill Hughes.To lose their collective tempers once in the fragile circumstances of this match was merely unfortunate , but to lose them several times over was careless. It was not Hughes who was disrespected , but the game he loved. Howsoever slightly , it leaves a tinge on a thumping Test match , whatever its outcome.' Greg Baum 's special for the Age ' has the headline 'Off with the kid gloves as heat turns up' Warner 's bat though did more talking as Australia fattened their lead to 363. It 's fair to say that India will be chasing 364 , unless Clarke wants more cushion. Good morning and welcome to the final day of the opening Test of the Border-Gavaskar series. First up , let us flick through the newspapers . The Adelaide Oval was a theatre of drama yesterday with David Warner at the center of it all. C'mon , C'mon on folks , the Test is hurtling towards a fascinating finish , worthy of the India-Australia rivalry. Aaron fired a few verbal volleys , Warner returned the favour. Kohli pacified Warner. Kohli then burst out sledging after Steve Smith got involved in a heated exchange with Rohit. Warner finally calmed things down . Day 4 was nothing short of nail-biting. Make sure you save some nails for the final day though. Thanks for your company and comments. Will there be an overnight declaration from Australia again ? Will they go 1-0 up ? Or will India salvage a creditable draw ? We will have all the answers tomorrow. Goodbye for now . Even as Warner fell to Karn , Mitch Marsh and Steve Smith lashed out at the hapless Indian bowlers to put the hosts in a strong position , from where they could force a victory. The Indian bowling was ordinary yet again , barring patches of fire and brimstone from Aaron and Shami. Karn managed to prise out two wickets , but has not done himself any favours of being an automatic pick for the next Test . India began the day badly , losing their last six wickets for only 77 runs , which negated the advantage generated by Kohli 's century on day 3. Rogers and Watson got off to decent starts only to throw them away. However , Warner put on a show again , getting bowled off a no-ball notwithstanding. The Warner-Aaron subplot was arguably the biggest highlight of an action-packed day . A cracking day of Test cricket comes to a close. The battle gathered steam with sparks flying between David Warner and Varun Aaron. Those sparks became raging fire with Kohli , Smith and Rohit joining the sledging bandwagon. As it stands , Australia lead by 363 runs built on the back of Warner 's magnificent twin ton . 68.6 Shami to Haddin , 1 run , turned behind square on the leg-side. And that 's stumps on day 4 68.5 Shami to Haddin , 2 runs , on a length and outside off , Haddin employs an open face and steers it down to third man for a couple 68.4 Shami to Haddin , FOUR , straying on the pads , glanced fine and Haddin helps himself to a four 68.3 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , on a length and on the leg-stump , whipped away to fine leg 68.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , Shami fluffs a run-out chance. Nothing is going India 's way. Shami looks at the funny side of it and wears a wry smile on his face. This was a back of a length ball on off , which is flat-batted down the track , ram-rod straight so much so that it rattles the timber at Haddin 's end. Haddin set off in search of a quick single , but is sent back. Shami runs back to gather the ball , he does so and aims to disturb the stumps. However , he ca n't pull the stump out. Might have been a case of the ball slipping out of his hand , allowing Haddin to retreat. This sort of sums up India 's day 68.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , Smith backs away , Shami digs it short on middle , foiling the cut. Chopped into the covers Mohammed Shami [ 10.0-2-34-1 ] is back into the attack 67.6 Ishant to Haddin , no run , Haddin leaves his crease , Ishant is alert to shorten his length on off. Eventually , the former can only defend it towards mid-off 67.5 Ishant to Haddin , no run , fuller and outside off , Haddin is caught pushing away from his body and gets beaten again 67.4 Ishant to Haddin , no run , good length ball outside off , Haddin aims to whiplash it over the leg-side , but misses it entirely. I guess , Haddin was trying to pull off a Helicopter of his own , but came up short and well short. The ball clipped his trouser and went through to the keeper 67.3 Ishant to Haddin , no run , angled down leg , Haddin swings hard , but does not lay bat onto ball. It kisses the pad and runs away , but Saha moves to his left to glove the ball 67.2 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , 'come back , come back ' is the cry from Smith , only one again. Smith backs away , Ishant drags his length back on middle , Smith steers it behind point for a single 67.1 Ishant to Haddin , 1 run , length delivery on off , Haddin takes the aerial route and slogs it to deep mid-wicket. There was a fumble in the deep , but Australia are content with one on this occasion Ishant Sharma [ 13.0-3-39-0 ] is back into the attack 66.6 Rohit to S Smith , no run , slower through the air and on off , Smith lunges forward and aims to force it through the off-side. Only manages to drag it onto his pads off an inside edge 66.5 Rohit to Haddin , 1 run , slid through outside off , not much flight on that and Haddin cuts it away to sweeper cover 66.4 Rohit to Haddin , no run , similar length and outside off , Haddin waits on it and dabs it to slip 66.3 Rohit to S Smith , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Smith cuts it in front of point. Follows up his ton in the first innings with a fine fifty 66.2 Rohit to S Smith , 2 runs , Smith comes down the track , meets the pitch of the ball and chips it deliberately over mid-on for a couple 66.1 Rohit to S Smith , no run , slower through the air outside off , Smith goes for a reverse sweep , feathers it onto the ground , the ball goes to Saha on the bounce 65.6 Karn Sharma to Haddin , no run , Karn Sharma serves up a full toss outside off , Haddin slog sweeps and misses. The keeper is beaten as well , but Kohli at slip has the ball covered 65.5 Karn Sharma to Haddin , FOUR , pushed through short and wide outside off , that 's easy pickings and Haddin crashes a cut to the deep point boundary 65.4 Karn Sharma to Haddin , no run , lovely loop and flight outside off , Haddin swishes at it and is beaten. His balance was put off , but he recovered and grounded his back foot by the time Saha whipped the bails off the groove TV umpire has called in for a stumping check. Saha appears confident. Haddin is the man in question. Haddin has some part of the back foot behind the crease the time when the bails came off the groove. We shall move on . 65.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 3 runs , pushed through outside off , Smith sets up for a reverse sweep , plays it towards third man. Vijay runs back , chases the ball , slides and drags the ball in just before the rope 65.2 Karn Sharma to Haddin , 1 run , on middle and leg , clipped behind square leg for a single 65.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , pushed through quicker and shorter outside off , Smith comes down the track and eases it to sweeper cover 64.6 Rohit to Haddin , no run , Rohit pulls his length back on off , Haddin turns it to mid-on , fails to beat the fielder 64.5 Rohit to S Smith , 1 run , Smith uses his feet and chips it over mid-on Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 64.4 Rohit to M Marsh , out Caught by Vijay ! ! Marsh has holed out , but he has done his job , powering the lead past 300. He elicits a healthy round of applause as well. Rohit gives this some air on off , Marsh skips out , unleashes a slog sweep but hits it straight down the throat of Vijay at long-on. M Marsh c Vijay b Rohit 40 ( 26 ) [ 4s-4 6s-3 ] Rohit to M Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 64.3 Rohit to S Smith , 1 run , slid down leg , Smith just helps it towards short fine. Rohit got away with that wayward one 64.2 Rohit to S Smith , 2 runs , flatter in trajectory and outside off , Smith waits on it and steers it wide of slip. Marsh was jogging on the first run , but the Aussies take two without any harm 64.1 Rohit to S Smith , 2 runs , tossed up on off , Smith dances down the track and goes over cover for a brace Rohit Sharma [ 10.0-2-25-0 ] is back into the attack 63.6 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , SIX , fourth biggie of the over. Fuller and on off , Marsh comes down the track , gets under it and swings it hard , clearing the long-off fence now. 24 runs came off that over 63.5 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , 2 runs , dug in short and wide outside off , sits up to be punished , Marsh does not take full toll of it , cutting it to sweeper cover 63.4 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , SIX , Mitch has switched on the T20 mode. Karn Sharma pushes this one on middle and leg , Marsh uses his feet and smokes it high and over deep mid-wicket. And that 's a crowd catch 63.3 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , Marsh steps out , Sharma drags his length back , forced to the man at mid-wicket 63.2 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , FOUR , this one is a pretty shot ! Floated up on the leg stump , Marsh backs away a bit and drives it inside-out over cover 63.1 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , SIX , away she sails over the boundary ! Tossed up and slower and outside leg , Marsh makes room , comes down the track as well and sends it sailing over the cow corner fence 62.6 Aaron to S Smith , 2 runs , very very wristy from Smith ! Fuller and around the leg stump , Smith shuffles across a bit and flicks it behind square on the leg-side before rushing back for the second 62.5 Aaron to M Marsh , 1 run , pitched up further and coming in on off , Marsh 's bat twists in his hand , yet he manages to drive it down to long-on 62.4 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , Aaron tests Marsh with a bouncer , the latter half ducks and evades it 62.3 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , back of a length and dragged down leg , Marsh swings hard , but connects only with thin air 62.2 Aaron to M Marsh , FOUR , Mitch Marsh finds the fence now. Good length ball on middle , right in the slot as they say , Marsh launches it over mid-on , the ball has enough legs to reach the fence. A declaration is on the cards 62.1 Aaron to M Marsh , 2 runs , back of a length on middle , Marsh heaves it in the air over mid-wicket. Jinks gets across from the deep and hunts it down. Not much power behind that hit Varun Aaron [ 9.0-0-34-1 ] is back into the attack 61.6 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , shortish and on the leg stump , Marsh moves back and glances it wide of short fine. Smith wanted a single and Marsh responds in kind. There was even a collision between Marsh and Karn. No harm done though. It 's all happening at Adelaide 61.5 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , FOUR , Marsh nails the gap now ! Pushed through on middle and leg , Marsh cleans his front leg and flicks it forcefully wide of mid-wicket. The ball hurtles away to the cow corner boundary. Australia 's lead nudges past 300 61.4 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , leg stumpish , Marsh makes room and whips it to mid-wicket , who makes a diving stop. Che was the fielder there 61.3 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , seeing Marsh step out , Sharma pulls his length back , defended past silly point 61.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , lowish full toss on off , bunted past cover with an open face 61.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , FOUR , slower through the air , Smith reverse sweeps it behind point , the ball travels to the fence 60.6 Rohit to M Marsh , no run , gives the charge again and blocks it to the right of the bowler 60.5 Rohit to M Marsh , no run , floated up on off , Marsh pushes hard at it , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away behind square on the on-side 60.4 Rohit to M Marsh , FOUR , steps out of the crease yet again and lifts it towards the long-on fence to collect four runs 60.3 Rohit to M Marsh , no run , floated up on off and spinning back in , Marsh goes back in the crease and blocks 60.2 Rohit to M Marsh , no run , gives the charge and gently pushes at it 60.1 Rohit to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Smith drills it back towards the bowler , who ca n't stop the ball and the ball goes through his legs , the batsmen go through for a single 59.6 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , gives the charge again , but ends up driving it back straight towards the bowler , who has a go at the striker 's end , but Marsh got back in time , and Saha was left unsighted and the throw hit him on the helmet 59.5 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , goes on the front foot and blocks this tossed up delivery on off and middle 59.4 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , a loud appeal for a catch from the Indians , but ump Gould is unmoved. Marsh came down the track and looked to work this flighted delivery into the on-side , the ball lobbed up after hitting the pad and that got the Indians interested 59.3 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , tossed up and Marsh goes for the defensive push , the ball dribbles away into the off-side after taking the outside half of the bat 59.2 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , around the leg-stump , Marsh looks to tickle it fine , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease Will the declaration get delayed further after Warner 's wicket ? We will find out soon . 59.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , out Bowled ! ! Warner is gone. Karn Sharma gets his second wicket of the innings. Another fantastic knock comes to an end. It was a tossed up delivery outside off , Warner went for the switch hit , but ca n't connect. The leg-break spins back enough and hits the off-stump. Warner b Karn Sharma 102 ( 166 ) [ 4s-11 6s-1 ] Karn Sharma to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 58.6 Rohit to S Smith , no run , goes for the sweep and misses out 58.5 Rohit to S Smith , FOUR , pushed through around off , Smith gives the charge and drives it towards the deep extra cover fence , good shot that 58.4 Rohit to S Smith , no run , leans forward to this tossed up delivery on off , blocked 58.3 Rohit to S Smith , no run , looks to cut it away after backing away , he misses and the ball goes through to the keeper 58.2 Rohit to S Smith , no run , Smith skips out of the crease and Rohit follows him on the leg-side , Smith manages to get it towards short fine , but he was n't in total control there 58.1 Rohit to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , poor delivery on the legs , Warner fails to sweep it fine , the ball rolls away towards short fine leg area after clipping the pad 57.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery spinning back in towards Smith , who covers the stumps and works it into the on-side 57.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , touch flatter this time , Warner backs away and cuts it to point , the batsmen had enough time to go through for a quick single 57.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , goes for a big slog sweep , gets an inside edge onto the pad 57.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , goes for the reverse sweep , but ca n't connect properly , the ball rolls away towards the slip 57.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , gives this one more air , Smith skips out and takes it on the full , driven to long-off 57.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , comes down the track and drives it back towards cover Karn Sharma [ 11.0-1-50-1 ] is back into the attack 56.6 Rohit to Warner , no run , flighted delivery on leg , Warner sweeps it to backward square leg 56.5 Rohit to Warner , no run , floated up on leg , Warner clips it into the on-side 56.4 Rohit to Warner , no run , flatter delivery coming back in towards the batsman from outside leg , Warner blocks off the front foot 56.3 Rohit to Warner , no run , down the leg-side , left alone 56.2 Rohit to S Smith , 1 run , skips out of the crease and works this flighted delivery from outside off towards deep mid-wicket 56.1 Rohit to Warner , 1 run , tossed up on leg , Warner goes down on one knee and sweeps it to fine leg Coming back to the heated exchange , Rohit Sharma asked Smith 'What ? ' after Smith pointed towards him that what he was appealing about. After Smith 's response , Kohli got involved and told Smith to mind his limits. Warner came and calmed Kohli down. The umpires got involved as well . 55.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , length delivery shaping back in on off , Smith blocks it into the off-side 55.5 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , 'Wait ' was the call from Smith , but he does n't need to run as the ball whistled past the short cover fielder for another boundary , it was fullish outside off , Smith leans forward and drives it to the fence 55.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , around off this time , Smith turns it into the on-side 55.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , good length delivery outside off with a hint of movement away from the batsman , Smith blocks it into the off-side after going across the stumps 55.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , fullish on off and middle , Smith flicks it into the on-side 55.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , length delivery on off , Smith comes on the front foot and bunts it into the off-side Coming back to the exchange after the lbw appeal , Kohli had a go at Steven Smith. The Indian captain told him to mind his limits . 54.6 Rohit to Warner , no run , this was comical , Warner was looking to reverse sweep , but Rohit shortens his length , at the end Warner ended up dabbing it towards behind square as if he was a right-hander 54.5 Rohit to S Smith , 1 run , comes down the track and whips this flighted delivery on off towards deep mid-wicket Things are getting heated up in the middle again. The umpires are also involved now. It happened when Rohit asked the umpire about the lbw appeal , Smith said something to him and all the players around the bat got involved. The umpires had to intervene to stop the heated exchange . 54.4 Rohit to S Smith , no run , Smith comes down the track and pads this delivery on off , Rohit appeals but the umpire says 'Not Out' 54.3 Rohit to S Smith , FOUR , comes down the track and takes it on the full , he drives it towards the deep exta-cover fence for another boundary 54.2 Rohit to S Smith , no run , tossed up outside off , Smith steps out and eases it back towards the bowler , who has a shy at the striker 's end after Kohli says 'maar ' , which meant that hit the stumps 54.1 Rohit to S Smith , no run , off-break outside off , Smith leaves 53.6 Shami to Warner , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Warner punches it off the back foot towards cover David Warner becomes only the second Australian to score centuries in both the innings of a Test match against India. The only Australian before him to achieve this feat was the legendary Sir Donald Bradman . 53.5 Shami to Warner , FOUR , Warner is ecstatic as he completes his 11th Test century , he looks at the heavens and remembers his little mate. Coming back to the ball , it was a short ball and Warner pulled it handsomely over the leaping short mid-wicket fielder , the ball raced away to the fence in no time and Warner is delighted 53.4 Shami to Warner , no run , fullish delivery shaping away outside off , the ball drew Warner into the drive , thankfully for him , the ball did n't take the outside edge there , Saha collects it 53.3 Shami to Warner , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Warner goes back in the crease and drags the whip to short mid-wicket 53.2 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , fuller this time but Smith is quick with his wrists , he works this towards deep mid-wicket and puts Warner back on strike , who is just four away from his century 53.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , tailing back in on off , Smith was first looking to work it into the leg-side after moving across , he ends up blocking it towards the bowler off the outside half of the bat Mohammed Shami [ 8.0-2-25-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. The Australians might have lost two wickets , but they still hold a considerable advantage over the Indians. India has managed to pull things back a little by putting brakes on the free flowing bat of Warner. Will Australia declare today ? Or will they continue to bat on and declare tomorrow ? The game just never ceases to interest us . 52.6 Rohit to Warner , no run , tossed up on middle and leg , Warner blocks off the front foot 52.5 Rohit to Warner , no run , flighted delivery on leg , Warner pushes it to the left of the bowler 52.4 Rohit to S Smith , 3 runs , shortish outside off , Smith backs away and cuts it towards sweeper cover , Ishant Sharma gives chase and saves a run for his team 52.3 Rohit to S Smith , no run , 'Catch it ' were the shouts from the Indian fielders , but the ball falls back on the wicket and away from any fielder , not sure whether Smith got any bat or glove on that , it was tossed up , Smith came down the track and looked to bat-pad it 52.2 Rohit to S Smith , no run , Indians appeal as Smith steps out of the crease outside off and pads the ball , no umpire will give that out A deepish mid-on , a deep backward square leg in place 52.1 Rohit to Warner , 1 run , spinning in towards the batsman from outside leg , Warner nurdles it fine towards backward square leg and gets to the other end 51.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , turned to square leg off the pads , where the fielder prevents the batsmen from taking a single 51.5 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , back of a length delivery coming back in on middle stump , Warner goes deep in the crease and works it towards mid-wicket for another single 51.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Warner punches it into the off-side off the back foot 51.4 Ishant to Warner , no ball , Ishant oversteps again , he has bowled way too many no-balls today , it was touch back of a length outside off , Warner pushes it into the off-side 51.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , fullish delivery on off , Warner blocks 51.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , outside off this time , Warner leaves 51.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , fullish delivery shaping in on middle , the ball kept a little low as well , Warner manages to jam it out at the end 50.6 Rohit to S Smith , no run , comes down the track and pads it 50.5 Rohit to S Smith , 2 runs , 'Catch it ' were the shouts , but Saha could n't catch it , Smith went down on one knee and sweeps , he gets it off his gloves and the ball runs away fine , evading the keeper , who had also moved down the leg-side , Smith collects two 50.4 Rohit to S Smith , no run , tossed up outside off , Smith comes down the track and turns it away towards short mid-wicket 50.3 Rohit to S Smith , no run , touch flatter outside off , Smith goes back in the crease and punches it back to the bowler 50.2 Rohit to S Smith , no run , steps out of the crease but was n't upto the pitch of the ball , he ends up blocking it with the help of his bat-pad A slip and a FSL in place for Rohit 50.1 Rohit to S Smith , no run , slowish outside off , Smith ca n't dab it fine enough , the ball rolls away towards the slip Rohit Sharma [ 4.0-2-3-0 ] is back into the attack 49.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , way outside off this time , Warner wo n't play at those and he lets this go through as well 49.5 Ishant to Warner , FOUR , shot from Warner ! It was full and on off , Warner latches onto it in a flash , he lofts it over the bowler 's head and over the infield , the ball raced away to the fence in a hurry 49.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , fullish delivery around off , Warner leans forward and gently pushes it towards cover Round the wicket to Warner 49.4 Ishant to S Smith , no ball , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith shuffles across the stumps and dabs it towards backward point with an open face , the batsmen go through for a single and Ishant had also overstepped , he will have to bowl an extra delivery now 49.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , bowls this one on the off stump line , Smith comes forward and knocks it back towards the bowler off the inside half of the bat 49.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fullish delivery tailing back in on off and middle , Smith defends it off the front foot The three men catching on the leg-side are still in place for Ishant as well . 49.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , length delivery outside off , Smith leans across and blocks it into the off-side 48.6 Aaron to Warner , no run , 143kph back of a length delivery shaping a touch in on middle , Warner jumps in the crease and pushes it to the left of the bowler 48.5 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , this one was a little too straight from Aaron , Smith flicks it off his pad to deep square leg 48.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith rocks on the back foot and punches it to cover 48.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , short of length delivery on off , Smith stands tall in the crease and blocks it back towards the bowler 48.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , touch fuller this time and just outside off , Smith blocks off the front foot , the ball rolls away into the off-side after taking an inside edge onto the pad 48.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , banged in short at 136 kph , the ball did n't look threatening as Smith was looking to pull it , he ca n't connect and the ball dies down towards the keeper after going over the batsman Varun Aaron [ 8.0-0-33-1 ] is back into the attack Change of ends for Varun Aaron. Can he trouble the new man Smith ? Let 's see 47.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , on a good length and on off , Warner presses forward and blocks 47.5 Ishant to Warner , no run , length delivery around off , Warner comes on the front foot and bunts it towards short cover , he shouts 'Wait on ' as the single was not there for the taking 47.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , touch back of a length and shaping away just outside off , Warner covers the stumps and defends it into the off-side 47.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , shapes away a touch from around off , Warner covers the line and blocks it towards cover 47.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , touch fuller this time and shaping away outside off , Warner lets it go 47.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , starts from round the wicket , bowls this one on a length and outside off , Warner defends off the front foot Ishant Sharma [ 10.0-2-31-0 ] is back into the attack There are three fielders on the leg-side catching : two short mid-wickets and a shortish square leg . 46.6 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , poor bowling from Shami , he sprays this down leg , Smith glances it fine and collects four from it 46.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Smith shuffles across and works it towards square leg 46.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , length delivery tailing back in outside off , Smith comes on the front foot and pushes it into the off-side 46.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , fullish on middle stump , Smith turns it into the on-side 46.2 Shami to S Smith , 2 runs , bowls this one on the legs again , not an ideal way to start against a new batsman , Smith works it to fine leg for a brace 46.1 Shami to Warner , 1 run , dropped ! It was fullish and outside off , Warner flashes hard , the outside edge flies towards gully , where Vijay can only get his right hand in the way , he was a little late to react as well and the ball went to him quickly , Shami could have had his man , but unfortunately for the Indians , Warner is still there Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease Steven Smith , the highest scorer in the first innings , comes out 45.6 Aaron to Clarke , out Caught by W Saha ! ! Aaron finally gets a wicket. It was shortish and a little wide of off , Clarke goes for the cut , he can only get an edge to the keeper , who was very close to dropping it. Nevertheless , it is a crucial breakthrough for the Indians and the Australian captain has to depart. Clarke c W Saha b Aaron 7 ( 20 ) [ 4s-1 ] Aaron to Clarke , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.5 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , 148kph delivery on the legs again , Warner works it away to deep backward square leg to get to the other end 45.5 Aaron to Warner , no ball , 2 runs , length delivery outside off , Warner dabs it towards deep backward point after opening the bat face a touch , he collects two , Aaron also overstepped this time 45.4 Aaron to Warner , 2 runs , 141kph back of a length delivery on leg , Warner jumps on the back foot and tucks it away to fine leg for a couple of runs 45.3 Aaron to Warner , no run , angles this one on middle and leg , Warner was looking to tuck it away to the on-side , he gets a leading edge and the ball rolls away towards cover 45.2 Aaron to Warner , no run , fullish delivery coming back in on off and middle , Warner drives it towards cover , he shouts 'Wait on ' and decides against the single as the ball went too quickly to him 45.1 Aaron to Warner , no run , bumper from Aaron , Warner sways away from the line this time Comes round the wicket to Warner 44.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , length delivery around off , Clarke comes on the front foot and bunts it towards cover , he shouts 'No ' for the single 44.5 Shami to Clarke , no run , bumper on leg , Clarke sits under it and lets it go 44.4 Shami to Clarke , no run , fullish delivery shaping in on middle , Clarke clips it towards the short mid-wicket fielder , who throws the ball at the non-striker 's end , but the ball hit Warner as he was going back in the crease and Warner was n't too pleased with Rohit 's throw Two short mid-wickets and a square leg in place 44.3 Shami to Clarke , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Clarke blocks 44.2 Shami to Clarke , no run , this time he gets it to shape in on middle stump , Clarke defends it into the on-side 44.1 Shami to Clarke , no run , splays this one down leg , Clarke misses the tickle and the keeper collects it 43.6 Aaron to Warner , no run , 141 kph fullish delivery around off , Warner comes on the front foot and drives it towards cover , Warner shouts a loud 'No ' to send Clarke back into the crease 43.5 Aaron to Warner , no run , touch back of a length on middle , Warner stays back and blocks it into the leg-side 43.4 Aaron to Clarke , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle stump line , Clarke looks to work it on the on-side , he closes the bat face a little too early , the ball loops over the bowler 's head after taking a leading edge , the batsmen take a single as the ball falls in no man 's land 43.3 Aaron to Clarke , no run , bumper at the batsman , Clarke ducks a little and allows it to go through to the keeper 43.2 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , full on the leg stump , Warner clips it to deep backward square leg for another single , if Aaron continues with this line , Warner will keep picking him for runs 43.1 Aaron to Warner , no run , 144kph delivery shaping a touch back in towards the batsman , Warner stays on the back foot and blocks it into the on-side 42.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , touch back of a length on off , Clarke stays rooted to the crease and bunts it into the off-side 42.5 Shami to Warner , 3 runs , another one that is too straight from Shami , Warner nurdles it behind square on the on-side , the ball rolls away fine and the batsmen take three , Aaron at the boundary managed to pull the ball back in after putting in the dive , otherwise it would have been four 42.4 Shami to Warner , no run , fullish delivery tailing in on middle and leg , Warner turns it towards short mid-wicket , the ball went to the fielder very quickly Round the wicket to Warner 42.3 Shami to Clarke , 1 run , just short of a good length and on off and middle , Clarke moves across and works it to deep square leg for another single Back to over the wicket for Clarke 42.2 Shami to Warner , 1 run , not so good bowling this time , he angles this one onto the pads , Warner tucks it away to fine leg and gets off strike 42.1 Shami to Warner , no run , comes from round the wicket and bowls a fuller one , Warner moves forward and takes it on the full , he drills it back towards mid-off 41.6 Aaron to Clarke , no run , 149kph length ball tailing back in around off , Clarke moves forward and blocks it into the off-side 41.5 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , 145 kph short ball from Aaron , Warner goes deep in the crease and pulls it to deep backward square leg 41.4 Aaron to Warner , no run , 146kph inswinger from Aaron , Warner drills it out over the bowler 's head , the fielder at mid-on quickly gets around and prevents the single 41.3 Aaron to Warner , FOUR , fullish and outside off , Warner leans into the drive and caresses it wide of mid-off for another boundary , Warner is timing them well 41.2 Aaron to Warner , no run , fullish and little wide of off , Warner drives it hard but without any feet movement as such , the ball goes straight to the fielder at cover Aaron needs to get his line right here 41.1 Aaron to Clarke , byes , 1 run , bowls this swinging delivery down leg at 147kph , Saha dives full length to his left , manages to half-stop the ball , the batsmen go through for a bye 40.6 Shami to Clarke , 1 run , this one shapes back in on middle stump , Clarke shuffles across and flicks it to deep square leg , he will keep the strike 40.5 Shami to Clarke , FOUR , this one shapes away outside off , Clarke goes on the front foot and plays a punchy drive to the deep extra cover fence , the fielder went after the ball , but the ball beat him to the fence 40.4 Shami to Clarke , no run , bangs this one short and at the batsman , Clarke manages to get out of the way in time , but he was very uncomfortable there 40.3 Shami to Clarke , no run , full and tailing back in on off and middle , Clarke jams it out 40.2 Shami to Clarke , no run , another good delivery from Shami , this time it takes the outside part of the bat and rolls away into the off-side 40.1 Shami to Clarke , no run , length delivery tailing in , Clarke moves forward and blocks it back towards the bowler 39.6 Aaron to Warner , FOUR , bowls this one a little wide outside off , Warner gets on top of it and drives it wide of mid-off , the ball races away to the fence and Warner moves onto 74 39.5 Aaron to Warner , no run , length delivery outside off , Warner looks to drive , but mistimes it into the off-side 39.4 Aaron to Warner , no run , another one outside off , Warner drives again and mid-off moves to his right and the batsmen ca n't get through for the single 39.3 Aaron to Warner , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Warner leans into the drive , the fielder at mid-off dives to his right and prevents the single 39.2 Aaron to Warner , no run , huge appeal from the Indians , but the umpire is not interested. It was a short delivery down leg , there was a faint noise as Warner looked to pull , the ball goes towards the keeper , who dives forward to take it , HotSpot showed that Warner did n't get anything on it and hence , it was a good decision , Kohli was convinced that it had hit the glove , but the umpire was unamused 39.1 Aaron to Warner , no run , very full outside off , Warner squeezes it out back to the bowler Varun Aaron will continue bowling from the other end . 38.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , another fullish delivery tailing in towards middle stump , Clarke works it to short mid-wicket off his pad Michael Clarke , right handed bat , comes to the crease Australian captain Michael Clarke walks out . 38.5 Shami to Watson , out Bowled ! ! Shami has his man. First over after tea , he gets the vital breakthrough. Great use of the reverse swing there. It was touch fullish and swung back in sharply towards the batsman , Watson was looking to drive , the ball swung past the inner half of the bat and crashes into the middle stump. The ball went through the gap between bat and pad. Shami and the other Indian players are delighted. Watson b Shami 33 ( 86 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Shami to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 38.4 Shami to Watson , no run , fullish delivery shaping back in towards the batsman , Watson drives it back towards the bowler 38.3 Shami to Watson , no run , another one angling onto the pads of Watson , Watson shuffles across a touch and turns it to short mid-wicket Just a slip in place for Watson. Two short mid-wickets in place as well . 38.2 Shami to Warner , 1 run , back of a length delivery shaping away outside off , Warner hangs on the back foot and knocks it towards point for a single 38.1 Shami to Warner , no run , starts with one on the pads , Warner ca n't glance it fine , the ball clips the pad and rolls away into the on-side , there was an appeal , but the ball pitched outside leg and was going down leg David Warner will take strike first and yes , Shami will start the bowling after tea . The players are making their way out to the centre. The Indian team is in a huddle. Will Kohli hand over the ball to Shami and Aaron ? There is enough reverse swing happening and both of them can exploit that . There was drama just before the tea break. The game has come alive with both sides showing aggression. Aaron looked a completely different bowler from the first innings. Can India break the Warner-Watson stand ? Or will Australia continue to pile on more runs ? The final session kicks off now and it should be an interesting one . Tea on Day 4. Another session that has been dominated by the Australians. They are now effectively 212/1 with four sessions remaining. Warner was superb as he registered yet another fifty. Watson was good in a supporting role. India 's bowling changes were a bit puzzling. Shami did n't bowl in the session , Aaron came only in the 31st over. He should have had Warner , if not for the no-ball , and that incident brought the Test alive. Aaron is getting the ball to reverse , but India are already in the catch-up mode. Will things change after tea ? Join us in a while. . 37.6 Aaron to Watson , no run , more reverse swing for Aaron , tails back in late , Watson was shuffling across on the flick , gets an inside edge onto the pads 37.5 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , yorker length delivery and just outside off , Warner plays with an open face and guides it to the right of point for a single 37.4 Aaron to Warner , no run , on a good length and on off , Warner gets behind the line and defends it 37.3 Aaron to Watson , 1 run , full toss on Watson 's pads , flicked away past square leg to raise the 100-run stand 37.2 Aaron to Watson , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and tailing away late , Watson went chasing after that and missed 37.1 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on off , driven to the right of mid-off for a single 36.6 Rohit to Watson , no run , Rohit gave this one more air , Watson lunges forward in defence , gets an inside edge past FSL 36.5 Rohit to Watson , no run , pushed through by Sharma , Watson shuffles across in defence 36.4 Rohit to Watson , no run , flighted and on off , Watson gets across and defends it with a straight bat 36.3 Rohit to Watson , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Watson comes down the track and jams it back at the bowler 36.2 Rohit to Watson , no run , flatter and well outside off , Watson goes back and pushes it towards the off-side 36.1 Rohit to Watson , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Watson lunges forward in defence 35.6 Aaron to Watson , 1 run , another attempted yorker from Aaron , turns out to be a low indipping full toss , Watson looks to clip and gets an inside edge behind square 35.5 Aaron to Watson , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping back into Watson , he prods across and defends it towards the on-side 35.4 Aaron to Watson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards cover point 35.3 Aaron to Watson , no run , loud loud shout for LBW , that was mighty close indeed ! This was full and tailed back sharply into Watson , he was late in bringing his bat down , gets struck in front of the leg-stump. The swing would have taken it down leg 35.2 Aaron to Watson , FOUR , too straight from Aaron , ends up drifting onto Watson 's pads , he shuffles across and flicks , bisects the two men at mid-wicket and races away to the fence 35.2 Aaron to Watson , 5 wides , this is poor bowling from Aarom , short and way down leg-side , no chance for Saha , called as wides as well 35.1 Aaron to Watson , leg byes , FOUR , the bumper from Aaron , he is fired up here. Watson was taking evasive actions , takes his eyes off the ball , it hits his shoulder and goes over the keeper , races away to the fence 34.6 Rohit to Warner , no run , Sharma drifts one on Warner 's pads , turned towards the on-side. A quiet over after all the rumblings. . 34.5 Rohit to Warner , no run , slower and holding its line outside off , left alone 34.4 Rohit to Warner , no run , pushed through on off , Warner gets forward as he blocks 34.3 Rohit to Warner , no run , slower and on the stumps , Warner lunges forward in defence 34.2 Rohit to Warner , no run , tossed up and on off , defended towards the off-side 34.1 Rohit to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Warner goes back and defends it 33.6 Aaron to Watson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side More drama here , Warner veered in the direction of the bowler as he completed that single. That sets tongues wagging again. Warner lets out a flying kiss towards Aaron. Kohli gets across and calms down the batsman 33.5 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed to the left of cover point for a single 33.4 Aaron to Warner , no run , short and angling down leg-side , Warner looks to help it on its way and misses It 's all unravelling now. Warner yells out a big come-on at the bowler. He told something else as well. Kohli was n't pleased and rushed towards the batsman. Both exchange a few words , Dhawan joins in as well. The umpires have to come to separate the two teams. . 33.3 Aaron to Warner , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 33.3 Aaron to Warner , no ball , Aaron is chuffed to bits after sending Warner back. He turns across and celebrates with his skipper. Well , he has to stop his celebrations now. He has overstepped by a massive margin. This was pitched up and nips back in slightly , Warner went for the big heave over mid-wicket and missed , the middle stump is pegged back. Aaron gives Warner a send-off , all to no avail , the crowd roar as replays suggest that Aaron had overstepped. Warner was walking back but comes back with a wide grin , has a few words to say as well to the bowler 33.2 Aaron to Watson , leg byes , 1 run , too straight from Aaron , ends up drifting onto Watson 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads towards square leg 33.1 Aaron to Watson , no run , fuller length delivery and angling intgo Watson 's pads , turned towards mid-wicket 32.6 Rohit to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone 32.5 Rohit to Warner , no run , slower and on off , Warner presses across and defends it 32.4 Rohit to Watson , 1 run , Watson takes the ball on the full , drives it to deep mid-off and jogs across for a single 32.3 Rohit to Warner , 1 run , Rohit gives this one more air , driven wide of mid-off for a single 32.2 Rohit to Warner , no run , pushed through on off , Warner lunges forward in defence 32.1 Rohit to Warner , no run , tossed up and on Warner 's pads , turned with soft hands towards mid-wicket 31.6 Aaron to Watson , no run , Aaron shortens his length on off , Watson presses across and defends it towards the on-side 31.5 Aaron to Watson , no run , fuller length and nipping back into Watson , he gets a long way across as he flicks it towards mid-wicket 31.4 Aaron to Watson , no run , appeal for LBW , but the height seemed to be the issue , this one pitched on off and tailed back in sharply , beat Watson for pace , hits him around the knee-roll. Umpire Gould reckons it was going over 31.3 Aaron to Watson , no run , Aaron sprays this one full and wide down leg , Watson looks to flick and misses 31.2 Aaron to Watson , no run , back of a length and angling into Watson , beats him for pace and thuds into the chest guard 31.1 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , no respect for India 's fastest bowler , length ball on Warner 's pads , slugged away behind square on the on-side for a single Varun Aaron , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Varun Aaron finally gets the ball , 31 overs into the innings. . 30.6 Rohit to Watson , no run , slower and on Watson 's pads , turned towards FSL 30.5 Rohit to Warner , 1 run , Rohit drifts one onto Warner 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 30.4 Rohit to Warner , no run , slower and on off , Warner prods forward and defends it with soft hands 30.3 Rohit to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and on off , defended back towards the bowler 30.2 Rohit to Warner , no run , Rohit drops one short and wide outside off , Warner makes room and cuts it to the right of extra cover. Rahane dives and saves a boundary 30.1 Rohit to Warner , no run , tossed up and on off , defended back towards the bowler Rohit Sharma , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 29.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , short of a length and well outside off , bounced a tad extra one bounce on Watson. He drops his gloves and stabs it towards gully 29.6 Ishant to Watson , no ball , another no-ball from Ishant , the bouncer , went sailing over Watson 's head. Saha dives across to his left and saves some runs 29.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with a straight bat Warner moves to 63 * , gets a healthy round of applause from the crowd at the Adelaide Oval 29.4 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Warner was looking to drive and drags it in front of mid-on , Rohit was a bit lazy and that allows Warner to sneak in a quick single 29.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Warner shuffles across and defends it with an open face 29.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , uppish and safe ! The ball dropped mid-way between the bowler and the fielder at silly mid-on. Short of a length and on Warner 's hips , looked like it stopped on the batsman , Warner was early on the flick and got a leading edge 29.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , on a good length and angling across the left-hander , defended towards the off-side 28.6 Karn Sharma to Watson , SIX , that ruins the over , bad ball from Karn , dragged it halfway down the track , Watson is quick to rock back and deposits it over mid-wicket for a maximum 28.5 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Watson lunges forward and blocks 28.4 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , Watson comes down the track to a dipping full toss and pushes it back at the bowler 28.3 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , slower and just outside off , Watson leans forward and defends 28.2 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , flighted and just outside off , Watson prods forward defensively 28.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , another full toss from Karn , swept away past square leg for a single 27.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away , Watson is on the walk as he pushes forward , gets enough bat as the ball rolls away towards cover point 27.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , that is as straight a drive can be , does n't get any runs as it clatters into the stumps at the other end 27.4 Ishant to Watson , no run , much fuller and just outside off , Watson gets a good stride forward and defends it 27.4 Ishant to Watson , no ball , another no-ball from Ishant , on a length and just outside off , defended towards gully 27.3 Ishant to Watson , no run , short of a length and angling back into Watson , defended towards cover point 27.2 Ishant to Watson , no run , that 's beautifully bowled by Ishant , comes from wide off the crease and gets this one to straighten , opens Watson up as he looked to defend , beats the outside edge 27.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , on a length and angling into Watson , defended with a straight bat towards the on-side 26.6 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , tossed up and spinning back in , Warner shuffles across and defends it back towards the bowler 26.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , 2 runs , Warner gets the sweep backward of square this time. Shami runs across from the deep , sticks his boot out and prevents the boundary 26.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and spinning back in , Warner goes back and defends it with an open face 26.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , slower and on off , Warner prods across and defends it 26.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , powerfully done by Warner , fetches this one from well outside off and drills it past the umpire at square leg , no chance for the man in the deep Change of ends for Karn 26.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off Karn Sharma [ 9.0-1-37-1 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , once again on Warner 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards square leg , the umpire reckons there was an inside edge 25.5 Ishant to Warner , 2 runs , too straight from Ishant , ends up drifting onto Warner 's pads , tucked past square leg for a couple of runs 25.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , Warner presents the full face of the bat and drives it to mid-on 25.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , loud shout for LBW , but was there an inside edge on that ? Hot-Spot confirms the edge , Warner was caught in his crease as he looked to defend one that nipped back in , the edge saved him 25.3 Ishant to Warner , no ball , another no-ball from Ishant , bit the length was much better , cramped Warner for room. He hops across and defends it back at the bowler 25.2 Ishant to Warner , 2 runs , short of a length and on Warner 's hips , he hops across and nudges it behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs Another bowling change here , Ishant has replaced Karn 25.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , fuller length delivery and on Warner 's pads , clipped towards mid-wicket Ishant Sharma [ 7.0-2-22-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. A dominant hour of play from Australia. Warner has looked in extremely good touch. But India 's bowling changes have been puzzling . 24.6 Vijay to Watson , no run , Vijay drifts this one wider outside off , Watson gets well forward and pads it away 24.5 Vijay to Warner , 1 run , fifty for Warner , his 14th in Tests , lifts his bat as he soaks in the applause , tossed up and well outside off , driven to the right of mid-off for a single 24.4 Vijay to Warner , no run , tossed up and wider outside off , driven straight to the fielder at short extra cover 24.3 Vijay to Watson , 1 run , this one kept a tad low , Watson watches it all along and nudges it past square leg for a single 24.2 Vijay to Watson , no run , sharp spin for Watson , lands on the rough and spins into Watson , hits him high on the pads 24.1 Vijay to Warner , 3 runs , poor ball from Vijay , drops this one short and wide outside off , Warner makes room and cuts it past cover , runs hard and gets back for three Murali Vijay [ 5.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack Vijay is back.. Still no Shami or Aaron 23.6 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , fraction shorter and on off , Watson makes room and cracks it straight to short extra cover 23.5 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , tossed up and on off , Watson presses forward , bends low and defends it 23.4 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , more flight and guile from Karn , Watson lunges forward defensively 23.3 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , slower and on off , Watson gets well forward as he smothers the spin 23.2 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , Watson takes a step forward and defends a well flighted delivery towards cover 23.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , tossed up and on off , Warner gets down on his knees and sweeps it behind square on the on-side for a single 22.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , looking to tempt the batsman into the drive. Watson almost fell for it , withdraws his bat at the last moment. Ishant has his hands on his head 22.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , tad fuller and on off , Watson presses forward solidly in defence 22.4 Ishant to Watson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Watson gets a big stride forward in defence , edges it onto the pads as the ball rolls back towards the bowler 22.3 Ishant to Watson , no run , fuller length delivery and on Watson 's pads , flicked straight to one of the two fielders at mid-wicket 22.2 Ishant to Watson , no run , on a good length and coming back with the angle , Watson got a long way across as he looked to work it towards the on-side , misses and is hit on the pads , the ball was sliding down though 22.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , short of a length and angling into Watson , he shuffles across and defends it Attacking field for Ishant. A slip , a silly mid-on and two mid-wickets in place , one straight and the other square 21.6 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Warner gets right across as he nudges it towards the on-side 21.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , slower and just outside off , Warner gets half forward as he defends 21.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , appeal for LBW , but Warner was struck well outside off. It was the attempted wrong 'un from Karn , Warner was in two minds , was looking to sweep initially , makes a late call to defend , gets struck on the pads 21.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , tossed up and on off , Warner prods across and nudges it towards the on-side 21.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and spinning back into Warner , he was looking to turn it down towards leg-side , misses and is struck high on the pads 21.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , stifled shout for LBW , but the impact was well outside off , Warner went for the sweep and missed The Indians seem to have a problem with the ball. The two umpires check it out and hand it back to Karn 20.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , that was mighty close ! On a good length and holding its line outside off , Watson was looking to dab it down towards third man , the bat came down with an angle , gets the inside edge and dribbles past the leg-stump 20.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , on a good length and coming back into Watson , defended with a straight bat 20.4 Ishant to Watson , FOUR , too straight from Ishant , he is targetting Watson 's pads , he lunges forward , controls the flick and gets it past Dhawan at mid-wicket , races away to the fence in a hurry 20.3 Ishant to Watson , no run , on a good length and angling back into Watson , he gets his bat in front of the pads as he defends it towards the on-side 20.2 Ishant to Watson , FOUR , India are leaking runs here. No control from Ishant , full and on Watson 's pads , flicked away fine , beats Saha and races away to the fence A slip and a silly mid-on in place 20.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , short of a length and angling into Watson , defended towards the on-side 20.1 Ishant to Warner , no ball , leg byes , 1 run , short and angling into Warner , cramps him for room as he went for the pull , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side for a leg-bye. Ishant had overstepped as well Ishant Sharma [ 5.0-1-12-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Karn Sharma to Watson , FOUR , lovely shot , a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it against the spin , finds the gap past mid-on and races away to the fence in a hurry 19.5 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , more flight and drift for Karn , Watson gets a good stride forward as he blocks 19.4 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , Sharma tosses one on off , Watson comes down the track and defends it with a straight bat 19.3 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Watson goes back and defends it with a straight bat 19.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , another full toss from Sharma , paddled away behind square on the on-side for a run 19.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Warner gets a big stride forward in defence David Warner has completed 1000 runs for 2014 , the only Australian to do so 18.6 Vijay to Watson , no run , flatter and on off , Watson prods across and turns it towards the on-side 18.5 Vijay to Watson , no run , Vijay pitches one on the rough and gets it to spin back in , Watson was pressing forward , bat and pad together , takes care of the extra bounce as he drops it down 18.4 Vijay to Warner , 1 run , Vijay gives this one more air , pushed in front of mid-on for a single 18.3 Vijay to Warner , no run , tossed up and on off , some spin there for Warner , dabbed towards the off-side 18.2 Vijay to Warner , SIX , Warner is having some fun here , this was tossed up and in that zone outside off , Warner gets a big stride forward and lofts it over mid-wicket , the timing is sweet as the ball sails over the mid-wicket fence 18.1 Vijay to Watson , 1 run , full toss from Vijay , driven back at the bowler , Vijay fumbles and allows a single 17.6 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , pushed through flatter and on the stumps , Warner shuffles across and offers a straight bat in defence 17.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , the reverse sweep from Warner , goes down on his knee , rolls his wrists and sweeps it behind square on the off-side , another boundary for Warner 17.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , much better from Karn , gives this one more air and lands it on the rough , gets the ball to spin back in slightly , Warner lunges forward and pushes it towards cover point 17.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , that 's pummelled by Warner , Karn gave this one plenty of air , Warner comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and drills it back past the bowler , races away to the fence in a hurry 17.2 Karn Sharma to Watson , 1 run , Watson shimmes down the track , takes the ball on the full and drives it towards mid-on , calls for a quick single. Warner was slow to start but makes his end with ease A slip , a leg slip and a FSL in place 17.1 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , tossed up and on Watson 's pads , he presses forward in defence 16.6 Vijay to Warner , no run , this is much better from Vijay , slows down the pace , gives it more air and gets it to drift across the left-hander. Warner was lured into the drive and is beaten 16.5 Vijay to Warner , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Warner shuffles across and defends it 16.4 Vijay to Warner , no run , Vijay drops one short and wide outside off , Warner makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at cover 16.3 Vijay to Warner , FOUR , lovely shot , Warner is slowly getting into his groove , this was flighted and on the stumps , Warner gets forward , reaches to the pitch of the ball and lofts it back over the bowler 's end , almost went all the way 16.2 Vijay to Warner , no run , slower and on off , Warner prods forward in defence 16.1 Vijay to Watson , 1 run , flatter and on Watson 's pads , tucked away past square leg for a single Murali Vijay [ 3.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack Another bowling change , Vijay is back 15.6 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , this is much better from Karn , gives this one more air and gets it to spin back into Warner , he was lunging forward , gets outside the line of off as he defends it 15.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , poor ball from Karn , drops this one horridly short and wide outside off , Warner is quick to rock back as he cracks it in front of square on the off-side , no need to run for those 15.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flatter and spinning into Warner , he shuffles across on the flick , misses and the ball rolls away towards the on-side 15.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , 2 runs , Karn Sharma drops one short and just outside off , Warner makes room and punches it square on the off-side , comes back for the second run 15.2 Karn Sharma to Watson , 1 run , good use of the feet from Watson , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it to mid-off for a run 15.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , low full toss , Warner goes down on his knees and sweeps it behind square on the on-side , just a single Karn Sharma [ 4.0-0-14-1 ] is back into the attack Change of ends for Karn. A slip and a FSL in place 14.6 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven to the right of mid-off. Aaron is slow on the ball and Warner steals a single round the wicket to Warner 14.5 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , Watson presents the full face of the bat as he punches it back at the bowler. Ishant gets a hand onto it but ca n't stop the single as the ball rolls away towards mid-off 14.4 Ishant to Watson , no run , Ishant keeps it full and just outside off , Watson gets a good stride forward and defends it towards the off-side The two slips are pretty wide , not conventional ones 14.3 Ishant to Watson , no run , on a good length and well outside off , Watson gets well forward and drives it towards cover A silly mid-on is in place as well 14.2 Ishant to Watson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Watson gets a good stride forward and defends it A short cover is in place 14.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , lovely ball first up from Sharma , it was in that corridor outside off and straightens after pitching , Watson is lured into the drive , the ball whizzes past the outside edge Ishant Sharma [ 4.0-1-10-0 ] is back into the attack Change of bowling , Ishant replaces Karn. Two slips in place 13.6 Vijay to Warner , no run , fraction shorter and on off , Warner shuffles across and tucks it in front of square on the on-side. Good containing spell from Vijay so far 13.5 Vijay to Warner , no run , Vijay gives this one more air and wider outside off , Warner drives and finds the man at cover 13.4 Vijay to Watson , 1 run , fraction shorter and on Watson 's pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 13.3 Vijay to Watson , no run , tossed up and on the stumps , Watson presses forward and turns it towards the on-side Vijay is bowling from round the wicket 13.2 Vijay to Watson , no run , flatter and spinning down leg , Watson looks to nudge it fine and misses 13.1 Vijay to Watson , no run , flighted delivery and spinning down leg , Watson allows it to go through 12.6 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , mild appeal for LBW , but there was some bat on that , Warner was caught in the crease to one that spun back in , the impact was in front of leg-stump , even if it was pad first , would have been sliding down leg 12.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , slower and sliding back into Warner , he gets forward on the defensive push , gets into a tangle but manages to drop the ball down 12.4 Karn Sharma to Watson , 1 run , nicely bowled by Karn , gives this one more air and gets it to dip onto the batsman , Watson shimmies down the track and works it wide of Aaron at mid-on , off the mark with a single 12.3 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Watson goes back and tucks it towards mid-wicket 12.2 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Watson lunges forward and smothers the spin A slip and a silly point for Watson Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.1 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , out Caught by Rohit ! ! The Sharmas have done it for India ! This was flighted and on off , Rogers has a sudden rush of blood , opts for the big slog sweep , does n't get hold of the shot , ends up spooning it in the air and offers a simple catch to Rohit at mid-wicket. Karn has broken through for India. Yet another cheap score for Rogers. Australia have lost their first wicket. Chris Rogers c Rohit b Karn Sharma 21 ( 45 ) [ 4s-2 ] Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.6 Vijay to Chris Rogers , 1 run , tossed up and on Rogers ' pads , whipped away backward of square on the on-side for a single The gully fielder moves across to silly point , right in front of the batsman 11.5 Vijay to Chris Rogers , no run , Vijay gives this one more air and gets it to spin away from off , Rogers covers the line and lets it go 11.4 Vijay to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up and holding its line outside off , left alone 11.3 Vijay to Chris Rogers , no run , Vijay gives this one more air , Rogers gets a good stride forward in defence 11.2 Vijay to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed through and on Rogers ' pads , turned towards the on-side 11.1 Vijay to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Rogers lunges forward in defence A slip and a gully for Vijay 10.6 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , Karn is aiming for the rough outside off , lands this one in that area , Warner gets a big stride forward and drives it against the spin , finds the man at mid-off 10.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Warner presses forward in defence 10.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Warner , this was well tossed up and just outside off , Warner gets a big stride forward , plays with the turn and drives it past mid-on , it was in the air but well wide of the fielder Karn shifts to round the wicket 10.3 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Sharma drifts one onto Rogers ' pads , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 10.2 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , no run , slightly shorter and on the stumps , Rogers gets across and turns it towards mid-wicket 10.1 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , Rogers prods across and defends it India to continue with the leg-spin of Karn Sharma.. A slip , leg slip and a FSL in place The Indians are in their customary huddle. Virat Kohli was the one with all the talk. . Welcome back.. Australia took the last five Indian wickets cheaply and extended their advantage to 105 runs. Unless India strike early , they will be left with a catching up job. . Earlier on India lost their five wickets quickly after Rohit Sharma was dismissed. Lyon took a deserving five-for which gave Australia a 73-run lead. There are still 66 overs scheduled to be bowled in the day and the Aussies would be , if all goes fine , looking to insert India in for an uncomfortable little stint late on. Expect this Test to gather steam as we head into the second and third sessions. We 'll be back shortly as we take a break. Do n't go anywhere. Do stay tuned . Kohli wanted to get in another over before lunch , but the umpires decided the time was up. Australia have been largely untroubled in the 10 overs that they have faced. They have n't gotten away from India like in the first innings. The reason being Ishant starting off with Shami. He kept it quiet and in the last over Vijay showed encouraging signs , beating Rogers and then producing an edge. Looking at that over , he might get a few more in the second session . 9.6 Vijay to Warner , no run , blocked and that will be that. Lunch it will be on day 4 9.5 Vijay to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , edged but wide of Kohli at slip. Gets back to guide it to third man , gets an edge that bounces in front of slip , runs away for three. Vijay bowling well 9.4 Vijay to Chris Rogers , no run , that 's a ripper ! Turn and bounce for Vijay , from round the wicket , probably hit a crack and went away , past the groping blade of Chris Rogers. Kohli ca n't believe it ! 9.3 Vijay to Chris Rogers , no run , leans forward to block 9.2 Vijay to Chris Rogers , no run , drifting down leg and that 's why the lbw appeal was shot down. Chris Rogers missed a simple tuck Matty Hayden on air after the last shot from Chris Rogers : 'He could cut his grandmother if he could. ' Pure genius ! 9.1 Vijay to Chris Rogers , FOUR , a gift from Vijay , from round the wicket , short and wide outside off , Chris Rogers laces a cut behind point , the ball races away. Poor stuff from Vijay Murali Vijay , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 8.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , another maiden from Ishant , keeps Warner quiet with a short of length delivery , the batsman is content to block 8.5 Ishant to Warner , no run , defended to the mid-wicket region , Warner sends Chris Rogers back as there was no chance of a quick single 8.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , much more solid. Presses on the front foot and defends solidly to cover 8.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , very ambitious from Warner. Tries to heave across the line and gets rapped on the pads. Going down , that 's why there was no real appeal from Ishant and co 8.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , now Warner tries to drive on the rise , mistimes it to mid-off after edging it onto the pad 8.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , once again Ishant whirs around to appeal , but he has struck the batsman too high on the pads with a nip-backer. Erasmus did n't even blink 7.6 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , down the track and eased to mid-on for an easy single Leg gully moved to a backward square leg position now 7.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , Warner goes on the back foot and then defends 7.4 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , 1 run , steps out and works it to deep backward square leg 7.3 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , no run , well stopped by Jinks at leg gully. Went down to stop the sweep and saved some runs. Appreciated by his mates 7.2 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers uses his feet and works it to short mid-wicket 7.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , kneels down and sweeps powerfully to deep backward square leg for a single 6.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , FOUR , that 's a strong tuck off the pads. Ishant bowled it too straight and got punished. Played past square leg and the ball raced away 6.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up outside off , Chris Rogers ' eyes lit up as he saw the chance for a cover drive , but he completely mistimes it , dragging it to silly mid-on off the inside edge 6.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , good delivery , brings Chris Rogers on the front foot , pushed towards mid-off 6.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , huge shout for lbw , but that was going down from round the wicket. Erasmus thought about it and then shook his head. Chris Rogers fell over and missed the flick 6.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , defended to the left of silly mid-on 6.1 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , gets forward and wrists it wide of mid-on for an easy single Ishant Sharma [ 2.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , no run , uses his feet and flicks to short mid-wicket 5.5 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , no run , gets forward and defends to short mid-wicket 5.4 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , no run , turned to short leg Now a leg gully in for Chris Rogers too 5.3 Karn Sharma to Chris Rogers , no run , still short , Chris Rogers goes on the back foot to punch to point 5.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , short and down leg , pulled to deep backward square leg Karn Sharma is bowling from round the wicket with a slip and a short leg. Pressure on the young man after a pretty poor first innings bowling performance 5.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , Karn Sharma is greeted by a reverse sweep from Warner. Gets it into the gap at point and gets a boundary Karn Sharma , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 4.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up outside off , Chris Rogers lays into a square drive on the front foot , but ca n't beat point 4.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , dug in on a back of a length , Chris Rogers shuffles across a little and blocks it back down the track 4.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , short and wide outside off , really should 've been put away , completely mistimed cut into the cover region 4.3 Shami to Warner , 1 run , punched straight back down , they decide to take the single 4.2 Shami to Warner , 2 runs , Warner wants to break free. Looked to pull off the front foot , but the ball rushed onto him and he could only mistime it into the vacant mid-off region for a couple Silly mid-off in place now. Shami loses his run-up and has to rebowl that one again . 4.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , drifts onto the pads , a slight inside edge onto the pads from Chris Rogers and they take a quick single Now the groundstaff have come on and are rectifying the landing areas of the bowlers. They are hammering away with a stomper. Slight delay 3.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , that was a good delivery and a brave leave from Warner. Ishant has his hands on his head. It nipped back in , unlike the previous one which have been going away. Warner too was playing for the one that goes away , it goes close to kissing off stump after the batsman shoulders arms 3.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , now plays a nice-looking on-drive , past the non-striker. Aaron gives chase from mid-on and the slowing down helps him keep it to three 3.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up on middle , wristed to mid-on , straight to the fielder 3.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers is already committed to the front foot push , but the bat face closes and the ball goes to mid-on 3.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed off the front foot to cover Two slips and a gully in place 3.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Ishant bowls it outside off from round the wicket and then gets it to move away , Chris Rogers pulls his bat inside the line and lets it go 2.6 Shami to Warner , no run , lovely delivery from Shami , beats Warner all ends up. Lured the batsman onto the front foot , into the push and the ball snakes away to beat the bat. That 's what he should be doing more often , or at least aiming to do so. Lots of chatter from behind the stumps , encouraging the bowler 2.5 Shami to Warner , no run , Warner was shaping for the short-arm jab , but defends to mid-off eventually as the length was n't there for the shot Back over the wicket 2.4 Shami to Warner , no run , firm punchy off-drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-off Now round the wicket to Warner 2.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , great way to get off the mark. Chris Rogers leans forward and essays a firm punch with a full face of the bat , was in the air , but well wide of Shami. The ball stops in the outfield , so they take three 2.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , good short delivery , forces Chris Rogers to rise tall and fend it into the short mid-wicket region 2.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers missed out there , on the pads and he falls over in trying to flick , the ball rushes off the pads 1.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , back to leaving is Warner as Ishant persists with his outside off line 1.5 Ishant to Warner , 2 runs , pushed firmly off the back foot into the gap at cover for a couple , off the mark 1.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , pitched up on middle , Warner closes the face of the bat and flicks to square leg 1.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , third leave in a row as Ishant bowls it outside off from round the wicket The umpire has a quiet word with Ishant regarding his landing areas 1.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , pitches outside off and jags away ever so slightly , Warner lifts his bat and lets it go Kohli has gone with Ishant here in the second innings after opting for Aaron. Good move to go with Ishant as he was India 's best bowler in the first innings 1.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , full and outside off , moving further away , left alone Ishant Sharma , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , full and angled in , Chris Rogers flicks and finds mid-on. A maiden to start off with Shami decides to come round the wicket for the last delivery 0.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , flicked to the left of square leg , they do n't risk a quick single 0.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , in the corridor of uncertainty , shaping away , Chris Rogers shoulders arms 0.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , that bounced off a length , Chris Rogers is surprised and it hits the thigh pad , lobs to the leg-side 0.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , that kissed the left-leg of Chris Rogers after he misjudged the leave. Flicked the trouser and went to Saha after he shoulders arms. Bit of shape away there for Shami 0.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , good first delivery , back of a length on off , Chris Rogers defends solidly towards cover Chris Rogers and Warner are at the crease. Chris Rogers is on strike. Shami will open the attack The Indians are in a huddle as the Aussie openers walk out. Rogers is playing for his place in the side after a poor run recently. Big innings for him. He will face off against Shami. Lots of chatter from the Indians as the quickie runs in. All set to go then . India trail by 73 and it all went downhill after Rohit got out to a soft dismissal. Karn did n't last long on debut. Saha was wrongly given out. Shami had some fun at the end , but Australia have wrapped up things in the first session. Lyon thoroughly deserved his five-for. He has been their best bowler , troubling all the batsmen with his consistent probing outside off line. Warner and co will come out with attacking intent to build on the lead. We 'll be back shortly for their reply . 116.4 Siddle to Shami , out Caught by Watson ! ! Now he is gone. Slogs and gets a thick outside edge , it was dying on Watto at slip , but he went to his left and grabbed it. End of India 's innings. Shami c Watson b Siddle 34 ( 24 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Siddle to Shami , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 116.3 Siddle to Shami , no run , that 's wild. Closes his eyes and swings , to a full one outside off , does n't connect. Looked very awkward there 116.2 Siddle to Shami , SIX , what a shot that is from Shami. Stays back on the crease and hammers a pull flat over deep square leg. There was a fielder , but the ball kept going over his head Saha was very unlucky , the ball missed the inside edge. The bat hit the ground , that noise fooled Gould 116.1 Siddle to Shami , no run , Shami shows all three stumps and then the full face before defending it back to Siddle 115.6 Lyon to Aaron , 2 runs , that 's the best shot of the over. Down the track and a clean lofted hit over Lyon , the ball plugs in the outfield , they run two 115.5 Lyon to Shami , 1 run , opts to stay back and flat-bats a pull to deep mid-wicket 115.4 Lyon to Shami , 2 runs , Shami skips out and goes inside out over cover , not off the middle of the bat , but in the gap for a couple 115.3 Lyon to Aaron , 1 run , now Aaron uses his feet and chips it over Lyon , takes the single 115.2 Lyon to Shami , 1 run , comes down the track and heaves , straight to the fielder at deep mid-wicket , just a single 115.1 Lyon to Shami , FOUR , I told you so ! Shami uses his feet and gets to the pitch , a big swing and he connects beautifully. A couple of bounces and into the straight boundary Expect more slogging and unlimited fun from Shami this over 114.6 Siddle to Aaron , no run , that 's a firm forward push , just wide of mid-off and a diving stop by the fielder. Shami puts his hand up to Aaron to tell him to stay where he is 114.5 Siddle to Shami , 3 runs , Shami swivelled to pull and gets a top edge over Haddin. They take three 114.4 Siddle to Shami , no run , Shami is on the hop and tries to whip it to leg , the extra bounce , hits Shami on the pad. Going over 114.3 Siddle to Shami , no run , wild , wild slog to a length ball , Shami connects air and the ball does n't hit the stumps 114.2 Siddle to Shami , no run , swinging yorker , into Shami who digs it out , taking his toes out of harm 's way 114.1 Siddle to Shami , 2 runs , almost caught at mid-on ! Just wide of the left-hand of the diving Clarke. Chipped in the air and Clarke despite his best efforts could n't grab it 113.6 Lyon to Aaron , no run , gets forward and drives it back to Lyon Varun Aaron , right handed bat , comes to the crease 113.5 Lyon to Ishant , out Caught by S Smith ! ! Lyon has five. He has thoroughly deserved it. That was a ripper , turned and bounced from a good length , Ishant stretched forward to smother it and it went off the bat handle to short leg. Simple catch that. He waves the ball to the crowd in celebration. Ishant c S Smith b Lyon 0 ( 2 ) Lyon to Ishant , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Ishant is gone , caught at short leg. Five-for for Lyon . Three men around the bat now for Lyon 113.4 Lyon to Ishant , no run , gets forward to defend and gets an inside edge onto the pads Ishant Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease With that wicket , drinks have been taken as well. India seemed to be in no trouble at all when Rohit and Saha were batting , but a soft dismissal has seen them lose two more after that. They still trail by 95 and the Aussies will be looking to wrap this up quickly and then pile on the runs , in order to set a 4th innings target . 113.3 Lyon to W Saha , out Caught by Watson ! ! The finger has gone up here. Gould gives it out. Replays show that it may have missed the inside edge. Saha was stretching forward to defend , the ball spun in and seemed to have missed the bat , looped off the pad to slip. But the decision is made and we will have to wait for HotSpot to confirm our fears. Lyon strikes again. W Saha c Watson b Lyon 25 ( 68 ) [ 4s-2 ] Lyon to W Saha , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 113.2 Lyon to W Saha , no run , nudged to short fine now 113.1 Lyon to W Saha , no run , sharply turns into Saha , defended to FSL 112.6 Siddle to Shami , no run , gets right behind the line that time and defends with a full face to mid-off 112.5 Siddle to Shami , 2 runs , that 's a Shami special ! He was ducking and then rolled his wrists to pull it through mid-wicket. Looked very comical 112.4 Siddle to Shami , no run , angled in on middle and leg , Shami is hanging on the back foot , defends off a thickish edge towards cover 112.3 Siddle to W Saha , 1 run , closes the face of the bat and turns it to deep backward square leg , takes the single 112.2 Siddle to W Saha , no run , short of length on off , defended well , one hand came off the bat handle but dealt with well 112.1 Siddle to W Saha , no run , gets forward and pushes it to mid-off 111.6 Lyon to Shami , no run , comes on the front foot and blocks 111.5 Lyon to Shami , FOUR , dropped ! Siddle the culprit. He was back-pedalling at deep mid-wicket to catch that slog , tried the reverse cup but the ball burst through and hit him on the face and then the hat. The hat saved him from getting hurt , the ball bobbles for a boundary. It was an easy catch , but Siddle messed it up 111.4 Lyon to Shami , no run , pushed into the cover region 111.3 Lyon to Shami , no run , pats it towards cover and shouts 'aaa jaa ' in Hindi to Saha. No chance of a quick single as Shami gets to know from Saha 111.2 Lyon to Shami , 2 runs , that was always going to happen. A wild slog after coming down the track , wide of mid-wicket , for a couple of runs 111.1 Lyon to Shami , no run , gets forward and defends to the left of the bowler That lbw appeal by Siddle against Karn was negated because it pitched outside leg as Hawk-Eye confirms. Then after taking the wicket , Siddle kissed the black armband on his shirt in celebration . 110.6 Siddle to W Saha , no run , stays back and defends it to point with an open face 110.5 Siddle to W Saha , no run , superb fielding by Mitch Marsh at cover , flung to his right and stopped it with one-hand. Lyon goes up to pat him on the back for that effort. Saved four there 110.4 Siddle to Shami , 3 runs , Shami shows all three stumps and then defends , gets a thick outside edge which runs wide of gully , they take three 110.3 Siddle to Shami , FOUR , flashed away by Shami. Width from Siddle , short and wide outside off , Shami cut it away past point to get off the mark with a boundary. Siddle sports a beaming smile Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease 110.2 Siddle to Karn Sharma , out Bowled ! ! Clean bowled ! Siddle cleans up Karn Sharma. Full on middle , Karn looked to whip across the line and missed it completely. Bowled neck and crop. End of a miserable little stay. Never looked comfortable. Was very nervy. Karn Sharma b Siddle 4 ( 8 ) Siddle to Karn Sharma , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 110.1 Siddle to Karn Sharma , no run , that was so close ! Erasmus does n't agree with the vociferous appeal of Siddle and the Aussies. Karn Sharma shoulders arms and gets rapped on the pads. The impact was in-line , but it would 've just missed off , just. Fantastic decision from the South African , but Karn should n't be doing that - very risky ploy that 109.6 Lyon to Karn Sharma , 1 run , to cover 109.5 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run 109.4 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , that 's a poor stroke. He was beaten off the previous delivery and now he tries an ambitious cover drive to turner. The ball dropped short of the shot and beat the bat , Haddin had the bails off , but Karn had not gone anywhere , even though the foot lifted for a moment 109.3 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , huge shout for caught behind , Lyon is jumping up and down , but Gould gets it right. Sharp turner , beats Karn Sharma on the defensive stroke , very close but no cigar ! 109.2 Lyon to W Saha , 1 run , makes room and dabs it to deep point , Karn Sharma was ball-watching and also Saha watching. Saha was rushing for the second , Karn sends him back. That was an easy two 109.1 Lyon to Karn Sharma , 3 runs , Karn Sharma gets off the mark in Test cricket with a wristy on-drive past mid-on. Aggressive running gives them three 108.6 Siddle to W Saha , no run , Saha looks composed at the crease , forward and dead-batted into the cover region 108.5 Siddle to W Saha , no run , short of length on off , Saha defends with a full face to cover 108.4 Siddle to W Saha , no run , Saha sees the tempter outside off and then flags it through to the keeper 108.3 Siddle to W Saha , 2 runs , short and outside off , Saha plays away from the body and cuts wide of point. For a couple of runs 108.2 Siddle to W Saha , no run , turned to short mid-wicket That was a big wicket. Now Saha is the senior partner and he has to guide India to safer shores. Karn Sharma can bat , but this is a completely different ball game in a Test match , on debut. Meanwhile , Siddle has a silly mid-on in a catching position now 108.1 Siddle to W Saha , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone 107.6 Lyon to Karn Sharma , no run , pushed through on off , Karn Sharma solidly blocks to cover. Lyon has a huge smile on his face after that last delivery Karn Sharma , left handed bat , comes to the crease 107.5 Lyon to Rohit , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Chipped back ! Very soft dismissal that. Rohit uses his feet and chips it to the right of the diving bowler , Lyon just about hangs on as the ball hits his wrist , but he controls it with the other hand and clasps it. Big breakthrough that. Rohit c and b Lyon 43 ( 89 ) [ 4s-5 ] Lyon to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 107.4 Lyon to Rohit , FOUR , not well-timed , but Rohit cleared mid-on and will get a boundary. Used his feet and lofted it over the man. That will put pressure on Lyon 107.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , 'very nice ' is the shout from behind the stumps as Lyon forces Rohit to lunge out to pad-bat , Rohit did n't get to the pitch of it , but did n't drive which would 've been dangerous 107.2 Lyon to W Saha , 1 run , makes room and punches with an open face to deep point 107.1 Lyon to W Saha , no run , goes on the back foot and defends to backward square leg 106.6 Siddle to Rohit , no run , almost got through Rohit 's iffy defence that time , did Siddle. Nipped back in and Rohit was late in covering the line , the bat came down at an angle , but managed an inside edge onto the pads 106.5 Siddle to Rohit , no run , on the front foot and pushed to cover 106.4 Siddle to W Saha , 3 runs , beautiful shot once again from Saha , leans into the on-drive and plays it with a straight bat past mid-on , the ball plugs in the outfield 106.3 Siddle to W Saha , no run , tight delivery on the stumps , Saha defends to the left of Siddle 106.2 Siddle to W Saha , no run , good leave by Saha , he bends his back and then leaves the short delivery alone , keeping his eyes on it till the last moment Slip , gully and a short mid-wicket in place 106.1 Siddle to W Saha , no run , Siddle comes on , Saha defends to short mid-wicket Peter Siddle [ 13.0-2-62-0 ] is back into the attack 105.6 Lyon to W Saha , 1 run , once again he makes room and then punches into the gap at point for a single 105.5 Lyon to W Saha , no run , leans forward and defends a tossed up delivery 105.4 Lyon to W Saha , 2 runs , well played as he rode the bounce well , turned and bounced from a length , Saha makes room and dabs it with soft hands wide of slip 105.3 Lyon to W Saha , no run , shortish , Saha goes back to nudge to backward square leg 105.2 Lyon to W Saha , no run , Saha makes room and then punches the turning delivery into the covers. Took it from middle and played it A slip and a short leg in place for Lyon 105.1 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , takes it from outside off and sweeps to deep backward square leg Nathan Lyon [ 30.0-3-103-2 ] is back into the attack 104.6 Johnson to W Saha , no run , the tempter from Johnson , outside off , full , Saha does n't play at it 104.5 Johnson to W Saha , no run , middle and leg line , Saha defends towards mid-on 104.4 Johnson to W Saha , no run , outside off , left alone 104.3 Johnson to W Saha , FOUR , fabulous stroke. The shot of the morning so far. Tad overpitched from Johnson and Saha leans into the cover drive and gets a boundary. Sweetly struck and past the off-side cordon 104.2 Johnson to W Saha , no run , tries to drive through cover , but the timing is n't there and the ball dribbles to mid-off , one hand came off the bat after the batsman played that which meant no timing 104.1 Johnson to W Saha , FOUR , was in the air but wide of cover and split mid-off too. Full toss outside off , Saha leans into the stroke and puts it away for a boundary , albeit a bit streakily Harris has been right on the money today and has been consistently threatening. Both batsmen are n't breathing easy against him at all. Top class bowling from Ryano ! 103.6 R Harris to W Saha , 1 run , nip-backer from Harris , Saha is caught in a tangle , manages to fend it away off a thick inside edge past square leg 103.5 R Harris to W Saha , no run , banged in short outside off , Saha arches his back and lets it go , swayed out of the line well 103.4 R Harris to W Saha , no run , full on off , met with a solid blade from Saha 103.3 R Harris to Rohit , 1 run , bouncer and Rohit is n't in control of the hook , but gets it down to deep backward square leg , a single taken The umpire has a word with Harris for transgressing the danger area 103.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pitched up outside off , driven off the front foot to mid-off 103.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , that was a fine delivery , nipped back in sharply and Rohit was in trouble , but got an inside edge onto the pads that saved him. Harris thought he nearly broke through 102.6 Johnson to W Saha , no run , Johnson forces Saha on the back foot with a skiddy delivery , Saha punches into the covers 102.5 Johnson to W Saha , no run , pitched up on off , Saha blocks solidly back to Johnson 102.4 Johnson to W Saha , no run , full and on the stumps , Saha shows off his tight defensive technique as he blocks it back to Johnson 102.3 Johnson to W Saha , no run , Johnson went for the yorker , it turned out to be a low full toss , Saha toe-ends the block towards mid-off 102.2 Johnson to W Saha , no run , short of length on off , Saha stands tall and punches to point , straight to the fielder 102.1 Johnson to W Saha , no run , Saha looked to drop and run into the covers , but Rohit did the wise thing by sending the batsman back as he saw the fielder charging towards the ball 101.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pitched up outside off , Rohit softly pushes to cover off the front foot 101.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , Harris pulls the length back and forces Rohit to defend 101.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , angled in on off and middle , Rohit defends to short mid-wicket 101.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , 143kph , slight nip-back on that delivery , but Rohit has judged that to a nicety and leaves 101.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , full and on off , Rohit gets forward and shows the full face of the bat to drive to mid-on 101.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , Rohit is nervy outside off. Once again he hits the pad with the bat and misses the ball. That produced the noise , no real appeal from the Aussies though as they knew it had missed the edge. Superb teasing line from Harris 100.6 Johnson to W Saha , no run , another well judged leave from Saha as Johnson cranks it up to 145kph , lifter outside off , but Saha hoists his bat over his shoulder and leaves it alone 100.5 Johnson to W Saha , no run , 143kph , lifting delivery outside off , Saha has his off stump covered and lets it go 100.4 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , Rohit does the sensible thing by dropping and running. Rose onto his toes and defended it to cover , takes a quick single as Saha obliges 100.3 Johnson to Rohit , no run , Johnson is looking for that nick off outside off and Rohit almost obliges. Fiddled at a delivery outside off which was angled across him , so nearly an edge. Johnson has a few words to say for Rohit 100.2 Johnson to Rohit , no run , going away with the angle after pitching outside off , Rohit opts to leave 100.1 Johnson to Rohit , no run , 146kph , full delivery outside off , Rohit leans into a superb cover drive , but he has timed it straight to the fielder at cover 99.6 R Harris to W Saha , no run , now gets a nice little stride forward and blocks solidly to cover 99.5 R Harris to W Saha , no run , good delivery that , lifting and rising , into Saha , but the batsman judged it well and then shoulders arms 99.4 R Harris to Rohit , 1 run , full outside off , driven wide of mid-off and that 's another easy single 99.3 R Harris to W Saha , 1 run , 'wait wait ' was the call from Saha as he wanted the ball to pass cover , it does and they take the single 99.2 R Harris to W Saha , no run , pitched up outside off , probing away is Harris , Saha lets it go 99.1 R Harris to W Saha , no run , fuller length outside off , Saha leans forward to drive towards cover 98.6 Johnson to Rohit , no run , 145kph delivery to end , slanted across Rohit who shoulders arms 98.5 Johnson to Rohit , no run , 139kph , short delivery from Johnson , Rohit ducks under it as it was down leg 98.4 Johnson to W Saha , 3 runs , streaky drive from Saha , the edge was found and it just bounced short in front of the diving gully , Steven Smith races after it and keeps it to three 98.3 Johnson to W Saha , no run , again right behind that one was Saha , as Johnson begins to click into gear 98.2 Johnson to W Saha , no run , pitched up on off , Saha gets forward to defend to cover solidly 98.1 Johnson to W Saha , no run , fuller length outside off , left alone 97.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , loud shout from Harris and the others , except Haddin for a caught behind. But a good decision. Similar delivery to the last one and the sound was bat hitting pad , the ball missed the edge and that 's why Haddin did n't appeal. Gould gets it right 97.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , beaten this time ! Harris gets that to straighten from a good length , has Rohit pushing out and the ball was so close to taking the outside edge. This is probing stuff from Harris , lovely bowling 97.4 R Harris to Rohit , 2 runs , good delivery that again , hint of movement into the batsman , Rohit gets a thick inside edge down to deep backward square leg , the feet did n't move that well that time 97.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , yorker on off , Rohit digs it out , well bowled and well played 97.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pitched up outside off , Rohit eases it with an open face to point , straight to the fielder 97.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , ooh ! That was a good delivery first up , late swing in to Rohit , who almost fell over , but managed to turn it to leg , got his front foot far too across that time The players are out in the middle. Another glorious day at Adelaide. Not a cloud in the sky as we are all set to go. Ryan Harris will start. Rohit to face off. Here we go Pitch report : 'It was a very dry wicket and that has n't changed. If you look at the centre of the wicket , it still looks good. There are a few cracks and the areas where the off-spinner will be bowling , he should get some assistance. The wicket is extremely dry as well. There is a big spot where the off-spinner can pitch it. For a left-hander , the leg-spinner has this rough area where he could pitch it. There is more help for the off-spinner than a leg-spinner, ' reckons Rahul Dravid . India 's injury woes : India 's main bowler in England , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , who was already ruled out of the Adelaide and Brisbane Tests due to an ankle injury , may not recover in time for the third Test. Dhawal Kulkarni has been drafted in as his back-up . It 's time to wrap up this segment . 'Lyon was impressive , pivoting to get more body into his action. He flighted and spun the ball into the right-hander from a teasing just-outside-off-stump line. Revolutions on the ball produced bounce ' adds Dinakar 'Kohli 's defiant 184-ball 115 in his first Test as captain was the centre-piece of a bold Indian response to Australia 517 for seven declared on the third day of the first Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy series , here , on Thursday.' He writes,'When Kohli whipped seamer Mitchell Marsh to the mid-wicket fence in the final session of the day , he had reached a rousing seventh Test century , his second at this venue.' S Dinakar 's report for the Hindu wears the headline : 'Kohli 's ton leads India 's fightback' 'A short-leg , leg-slip and Lyon was operating to a plan. The Indian batsmen known to be quality players of spin bowling were not sure how to tackle the drift , turn and bounce on offer. It was like a perfect Wankhede setting with a gentle breeze , some rough patches outside off and enough purchase to keep the bowler interested. Though the mode of Pujara 's dismissal was not that encouraging , but it was a wicket , a crucial wicket. Batting at 73 , the solid no.3 was looking set for a big daddy hundred before a delivery rolled back on to his stumps.' He writes , 'The offie was operating around a probing zone. He was very easy to the eye and pitched just around the off-stump corridor. Not only did that line take the scoring opportunities on the off-side out of the picture but also allowed him to attack with fielders in catching positions.' Sahil Malhotra , writing for the Indian Express , praises Lyon for his tight bowling . He writes , 'Kohli ( 115 ) showed why Test great Adam Gilchrist predicted a tough series leading India and could prove the genesis of the game 's premier batsman with a seventh ton in 30 Tests. Kohli reprised the pluck and passion that delivered his maiden Test ton ( 116 ) here in 2012. However , Nathan Lyon ( 2- 103 ) would also frustrate India as he did in Adelaide three years ago while Harris ( 1-49 ) was Australia 's most frugal and consistent force.' Richard Earle 's piece for the Courier Mail wears the headline : 'Kohli ton turns heat on Australia' 'Kohli , the acting India captain , led India 's fightback with a combative 115 but just before stumps he was caught hooking Johnson to fine leg , where Ryan Harris ran forward to take a sprawling catch. Johnson then greeted wicket-keeper Wriddhiman Saha with a bouncer that reared up into his glove while Saha took his other hand off the bat. He hung in there until stumps despite another couple of short balls whistling past his nose. At 5-369 , India trail by 148 and do not have their usual batting depth without MS Dhoni , who is recovering from injury , and Ravi Ashwin , who was left out of the team ' writes Chole Saltau , Chief cricket writer for the Age . 'Virat Kohli has brought his reputation as a fighter to bear on the Adelaide Test. But just when it seemed India would not wilt , a wicked spell from Mitchell Johnson as shadows crept across the Oval kept the first Test in the balance.' India will be hoping that Saha and Rohit replicate their contributions from the warm-up matches. On the other hand , Mitch and Co. will look to wrap up the Indian innings quickly and help the hosts gain a sizeable lead. As is the norm , let us have a gander at what the newspapers have in store for us , before the action resumes . Good morning and welcome to day 4 of the opening Test of the Border-Gavaskar series. Who will blink first today ? Burying the reversals in England , Virat Kohli , led India 's strong reply , becoming only the third Indian to score a century in his debut Test innings as captain. Useful fifties from Vijay , Che and Rahane carried India to 369/5. However , Kohli perished just before stumps on day 3 to Mitchell Johnson with Australia evening up things . I shall let you be the judge. Do join us back tomorrow to see which way this Test turns. And keep shooting in your feedback and comments. Goodbye for now . Nathan Lyon , who got alarming extra bounce and good turn , was the most effective of the Australian bowlers with 2 wickets , despite conceding 103. Harris and Mitch were on target in patches while Siddle looked flat and jaded. Who will be the happier of the two teams at the end of day 3 ? Against the run of play at the fag end of the day , Mitchell Johnson returned to bounce out Kohli to lift the Aussies. Rohit 's innings has been a mixed bag - streaky edges counterbalanced by crisp drives. India will look up to the Mumbai batsman and Saha to push India closer to Australia 's score . Vijay , Che Pu and Rahane got to fifties each , but failed to convert it into a big one. Kohli , returning to the venue of his maiden century , kicked on to score a sublime ton , this time on his Test captaincy debut. He started steadily , getting his eye in before unfurling his wide array of strokes - the flick from the stumps , the straight drive and back foot punch among others . If the first couple of days belonged to the hosts , day 3 was India 's , headlined by Captain Kohli 's top hundred. The game is still evenly balanced. After Australia declared on their overnight score of 517 , India began well with Dhawan scoring a flurry of fours while Vijay was his circumspect self. Then , Dhawan threw it away , dragging a Harris ball back onto the stumps . 96.6 Johnson to W Saha , no run , darted full and around off , dug out to cover. And it 's stumps on day 3 Back to over the wicket . 96.5 Johnson to W Saha , no run , searing lifter angles in , Saha arches his back and lets it fly through to the keeper. Almost brushed the glove on the way to Haddin 96.4 Johnson to W Saha , no run , back of a length and outside off , that 's an easy leave for Saha , who knows that this could possibly be the last over on day 3 Mitch switches to round the wicket . 96.3 Johnson to W Saha , no run , bouncer outside off , whizzes across a half swaying/ducking Saha 96.2 Johnson to W Saha , no run , on a length on middle at 141kph , Saha gets behind the line of the ball to block it to cover 96.1 Johnson to W Saha , no run , mighty full , near yorker at the base of off , Saha toe-ends it to the left of Johnson The crowd belts out its encouragement for Mitch . 95.6 Lyon to W Saha , 1 run , lots of oohs and aahs from Lyon and the close-in catchers as Saha mistimes the flick in the air over square leg and wide of reach of short leg 95.5 Lyon to W Saha , no run , Lyon gives this more air on off , Saha lunges forward and lobs it wide of short leg off an inside edge 95.4 Lyon to W Saha , no run , defended off the back foot , leg gully dives across to his left to keep it a dot 95.3 Lyon to W Saha , no run , looped up on off , Saha gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls on the pitch 95.2 Lyon to W Saha , no run , flighted delivery with a hint of turn on off , forward and smothered 95.1 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , a tad short on off , punched off the back foot to long-on 94.6 Johnson to W Saha , no run , pitched up on off , Saha jams out a drive to cover. End of a successful over from Mitch 94.5 Johnson to W Saha , no run , good length ball on middle and leg , tentatively defened to short leg. I guess Saha was expecting another short ball from Mitch 94.4 Johnson to W Saha , no run , short of length and angled across , Saha drops his wrists again to leave it for Haddin 94.3 Johnson to W Saha , no run , bouncer angled across , Saha drops his wrists and sinks under it 94.2 Johnson to W Saha , no run , Mitch is up and revving ! Welcomes Saha with a bouncer , Saha takes his eyes off the ball , fends at it awkwardly and gloves it onto his body before the ball drops onto the ground Wriddhiman Saha , right handed bat , comes to the crease 94.1 Johnson to Kohli , out Caught by R Harris ! ! Mitch has bounced out Kohli. Banged in short and rises steeply on Kohli , who ca n't control the pull. Only manages a top-edge on the pull that flies in the air. Harris runs in from deep backward square leg and completes a good catch , diving forward. The umpires check for a possible no-ball , but Mitch 's footing is fine and Kohli has to depart. This has been a brilliant knock from Kohli , but he has holed out at the wrong time. This may have just been the boost that the Aussies were looking for late in the day. Kohli c R Harris b Johnson 115 ( 184 ) [ 4s-12 ] Johnson to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 93.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , two is the call from Kohli but he has to settle for a single. Fullish and on off , Kohli eases it to long-on 93.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter and on off and middle , blocked to the leg-side , again off the back foot 93.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , turns in quicker , defended to short leg off the back foot 93.3 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , spinning down leg , worked to backward square leg and Rohit rushes for a quick single 93.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , fired on the stumps , Rohit squeezes it out towards mid-on 93.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , catch it was the call from Lyon. Rohit sweeps uppishly but the ball lands in front of short fine 92.6 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , another short of length ball that rises over the stumps , Rohit half pulls/flicks it towards deep square leg 92.5 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , banged in short on middle and leg , sort of hurried onto Kohli at 142kph. Yet , the Indian skipper swivelled on the back foot , pulling it backward of square leg 92.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , full and wide outside off , Kohli reaches out and lays into a good looking cover drive but the fielder dives and half stops the ball. The result is a dot 92.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , slanted across off on a full length , Kohli lifts his bat and lets it go 92.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump line , Kohli comes on the front foot and presses it to the man at mid-off 92.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , on a good length and outside off , Kohli covers his off stump and shoulders arms wisely Mitchell Johnson [ 15.0-3-88-1 ] is back into the attack Alright , one final burst from Mitch before stumps 91.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , pushed through flatter , Rohit goes for a sweep but does not get hold of it. The ball loops off the glove and over the keeper 's head. The slip fielder ca n't grab the ball either Coming back to the lbw call , Hawk-Eye shows that the ball would have kissed the top of the middle stump , which means umpire 's call . 91.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , forward and eased to long-on 91.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Kohli goes on the backfoot and works it to the leg-side 91.3 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , Rohit fetches it from outside off and swept behind square leg 91.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , spins in from outside off , Rohit offers no shot and wears it on his pad. The umpire says going down. Rohit was far forward as well. To add to that , height was an issue Siddle may be in some discomfort. He goes off the field . 91.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , slower through the air on off , Rohit comes down the track , does not meet the pitch of the ball and drops it in front of mid-wicket and wide of short leg. Rohit had the Aussies interested for a moment 90.6 Siddle to Kohli , no run , good length ball outside off at only 116kph , is Siddle tired ? Kohli yanks his bottom hand off the bat handle and blocks it to the off-side 90.5 Siddle to Kohli , no run , fuller and around off , driven back to Siddle , who semi stops the ball and deflects it in front of cover 90.4 Siddle to Kohli , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Kohli hangs back and defends it to cover 90.3 Siddle to Rohit , 1 run , banged in short and on off , Rohit controls a pull behind square on the leg-side 90.2 Siddle to Rohit , no run , pitched up and outside off , Rohit inches forward and knocks it to cover 90.1 Siddle to Rohit , no run , good length ball sort of hurries on off , Rohit gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls in front of mid-wicket 89.6 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , Rohit plays a firm sweep from outside off to deep backward square to end the over 89.5 Lyon to Rohit , FOUR , Rohit steps out , manufactures a full toss and lifts it over the bowler 's head for a one bounce four 89.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , a replay of the previous ball. Pushed through just outside off again , Rohit offers no shot and is hit on the pad. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball would have went over off 89.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , an optimistic shout for lbw , turned down. Pushed through outside off , Rohit hides his bat behind the pad. The ball was not doing much to threaten the off stump 89.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , forward and eased to long-on. Kohli says no to the call of a second 89.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through on off , turned wide of short leg to backward square 88.6 Siddle to Rohit , no run , pitched up in the channel close to off , Rohit defends it neatly to cover , head over the ball 88.5 Siddle to Rohit , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off again , Rohit angles it wide of gully to third man for a couple of runs 88.4 Siddle to Rohit , no run , back of a length and outside off , pushed towards point 88.3 Siddle to Kohli , 3 runs , fullish on middle , clipped away between mid-wicket and mid-on. He collects three 88.2 Siddle to Rohit , 1 run , on a length and outside off , dabbed backward of point with an open face 88.1 Siddle to Rohit , no run , fullish and on off , blocked back to the bowler without much feet movement Peter Siddle [ 11.0-2-55-0 ] is back into the attack 87.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through , Kohli looks to work it to the leg-side. But the ball is intercepted by the man under the helmet at short leg 87.5 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , flat and quick on the stumps , Rohit chips out and jams it out to mid-on 87.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , leg stumpish , worked backward of square. Rohit ponders over a single but decides against it 87.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flatter on middle and leg , now it 's Rohit 's turn to milk it behind square leg 87.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flicked again , this time past a diving backward square leg 87.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , spinning in on middle , Kohli milks it behind square leg Nathan Lyon [ 25.0-3-89-2 ] is back into the attack 86.6 M Marsh to Rohit , no run , straighter in line , Rohit looks to work it to the leg-side , gets a soft leading edge that dribbles in front of the bowler 86.5 M Marsh to Rohit , FOUR , dug in shortish and outside off , Marsh does not have enough pace to pose a threat to Rohit , who pulls it away over mid-wicket off the front foot. He even gets a pat from his skipper. That four brought up the 50 of the stand 86.4 M Marsh to Rohit , no run , Marsh pushes this good length ball outside off , but fails to catch the attention of Rohit. Left alone calmly 86.3 M Marsh to Rohit , FOUR , too full on the leg stump , that 's meat and drink for Rohit as he flicks it away in front of square on the leg-side 86.2 M Marsh to Rohit , no run , shortish and outside off , Rohit gets on top of the bounce and quells it to the covers 86.1 M Marsh to Kohli , 3 runs , good length ball outside off , Kohli leans forward and drives it with a full face past the bowler. Siddle back-tracks from mid-off and hunts the ball down 85.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pitched up and on off , Rohit bunts it down the track , Harris gingerly goes down on his followthrough to half stop the ball 85.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , Harris probes away on and around off , tapped wide of cover 85.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fraction back of a length and around off , dabbed to gully. Soft hands ensured that it did not carry to the fielder 85.3 R Harris to Kohli , leg byes , 1 run , sliding down leg , Kohli misses the glance , the ball clips the pad and rolls to the leg-side Sunil Gavaskar , Vijay Hazare and Dilip Vengsarkar were the other three Indians to score a ton on Test captaincy debut . 85.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , similar length and on off , Kohli defends it to cover 85.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , good length ball with a bit of away shape outside off , left alone. So , Harris has changed ends Ryan Harris [ 16.0-4-49-1 ] is back into the attack 84.6 M Marsh to Rohit , no run , fullish tempter outside off , Rohit pushes forward limply , soundly beaten on the outside edge 84.5 M Marsh to Rohit , no run , back of a length and on off , Rohit nearly falls over and taps it to the leg-side 84.4 M Marsh to Kohli , 1 run , good length ball on the stumps , worked to mid-on for a single 84.3 M Marsh to Kohli , 2 runs , flicked between mid-wicket and long-on for a brace 84.2 M Marsh to Kohli , FOUR , Played captain ! He becomes the 4th Indian to score a ton on his captaincy debut. Fuller on off , Kohli picks it from there and wrists it past mid-wicket , the ball runs away to the fence. He lifts the helmet off his head , points to the badge and lets out a roar to go with it. Rohit then embraces Kohli with a hug 84.1 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , Marsh starts his new spell with a good length ball on off , Kohli is solidly behind that Mitchell Marsh [ 9.0-4-11-0 ] is back into the attack Mitch Marsh takes over from Ryano. Two slips and a gully . 83.6 Johnson to Rohit , 2 runs , too full and outside off , allowing Rohit to rock forward and ease a drive past cover. India move on to 327/4. Kohli is on 97 83.5 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , short of length and rises on middle and leg at 142kph , Kohli fends it in front of mid-wicket and turns over the strike 83.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , bumper climbs outside off , Kohli lets it thud into the keeper 's gloves after bailing out of the hook. One for the over says the square leg ump 83.3 Johnson to Kohli , 2 runs , clipped away off the hips to deep backward square leg. Kohli wants two and his partner responds in kind as well 83.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and outside off , Kohli rides the bounce and dabs it on the bounce to gully , Warner the fielder there 83.1 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli is fighting fire with fire. Short and outside off , Kohli rocks back and powers the pull over mid-wicket for a thumping four 82.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fullish and attacking the off stump , Rohit comes forward and presses it to the leg-side 82.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , Harris tests Rohit with a bouncer that sails over off. Rohit ducked under and evaded it carefully 82.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , very and just outside off , Rohit squeezes out a drive to mid-off , straight to the fielder 82.3 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , straying on the pads , flicked to fine leg. India avert the follow-on 82.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , another false stroke ! Fullish and around off , Kohli closes his bat face early on the flick , gets a leading edge , which dies in front of point 82.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fraction back of a length and on off , Kohli aims to flick it to leg , but changes his mind and awkwardly plays it to cover off a leading edge 81.6 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , straighter in line , clipped through backward square leg. Ryano mops it up in the deep 81.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , fullish and around off , pushed to cover 81.4 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , another Kohli special. Back of a length and outside off , Kohli is on the back foot as he unfurls a solid punch to the deep extra-cover boundary 81.3 Johnson to Kohli , 2 runs , width on offer , Kohli hangs back and punches it past cover for a brace. He did not time it as well as he would have liked to 81.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Johnson drags his length back , tucked off the hips to square leg 81.1 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , pitched up and outside off from over the stumps , Kohli bends his knee and caresses it past the cover , the ball skims away to the boundary. 'Class ' written all over that stroke Mitchell Johnson [ 13.0-3-68-1 ] is back into the attack Here 's Mitch.. The crowd cheers him on . 80.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , beaten neck and crop is Rohit ! He fiddles with this full ball just outside off , zips past the outside edge 80.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fuller and straightens on fourth stump , Rohit comes on the front foot and push-drives to mid-off 80.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , Harris errs on the pads , flicked nicely but Lyon at square leg has it covered 80.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pitched up and much closer to off , Rohit feels for it and gets an outside edge in front of gully 80.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fuller and outside off with some away movement , Rohit shoulders arms Ryan Harris has 3 slips and a gully to assist him . 80.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pitched up and angled outside off , Rohit lets it be Ryan Harris [ 14.0-3-48-1 ] is back into the attack Yes , Australia go for the second new ball. Harris will make first use of it . Drinks. The second new ball is available. Will the Aussies take it straightaway ? India are still 211 runs behind . 79.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Kohli props forward and works it to mid-wicket. However , he ca n't beat the fielder 79.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , similar ball , this time to Kohli. The Indian captain dabs it in front of point 79.4 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , more flight just outside off , Rohit taps to cover point and sets off for a quick single 79.3 Lyon to Rohit , FOUR , Rohit picks this from outside off and nails the sweep to the deep square leg boundary. This should do Rohit 's confidence a world of good 79.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , this one skids off the deck , Kohli goes on the back foot and tucks it towards square leg 79.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli inches forward , gets an inside edge , it drops in front of short leg 78.6 Watson to Rohit , no run , back of a length and on off , Rohit was in a dilemma whether to punch it or defend it. Eventually , he does neither , getting an inside edge onto the pads , which rebounds to the off-side . 78.5 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , too full on middle and leg , Kohli helps himself to a flick behind square leg. The single raises the 300 for the visitors 78.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , on a length and around off , Kohli dabs it behind point via an open face 78.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and on off , Kohli gets a good stride forward and drives it back to Watto , who bends down in his followthrough to intercept the ball 78.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , full and straight , Kohli leans across and tucks it straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 78.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , a tad overpitched and just outside off , Kohli drills a drive straight down the ground , so much so that he rattles the timber at Rohit 's end. There was no deflection from Watto. Kohli though deserved a four on that occasion 77.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , pushed through on the off stump , Rohit blocks it with soft hands in front of short leg off the back foot 77.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flattish and on off , defended back to Lyon 77.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Lyon gives this ample air on off , Rohit is forward to smother it 77.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , fuller on middle and leg , turned past square leg for a comfortable single 77.2 Lyon to Rohit , 3 runs , Lyon serves up a full toss just outside off , Rohit eases it past cover. Not well-timed again , the ball is stopped by the fielder 77.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted outside off , Kohli plays a strong bottom-handed whip down to long-on 76.6 Watson to Rohit , no run , similar length and Watson probes away on off , Rohit pushes forward in an iffy manner , squirts it out in front of mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 76.5 Watson to Rohit , no run , good length ball pushed outside off , Rohit dabs it behind point by employing soft hands 76.4 Watson to Rohit , no run , full and outside off , Rohit leans forward and drives it to mid-off 76.3 Watson to Rohit , no run , pitched up further , this one drifts in , Rohit flicks and finds mid-wicket. Not well-timed by the Mumbai batsman 76.2 Watson to Rohit , no run , length ball on off , no real movement for Watto , forward and blocked to cover 76.1 Watson to Rohit , no run , tight delivery - on a good length and just outside off , Rohit plays with an angled bat , pokes it out in front of first slip off an outside edge. It did not carry to the fielder Shane Watson [ 3.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 75.6 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , Rohit goes down on one knee and sweeps this flighted delivery on off and middle to deep backward square leg 75.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , tossed up on off , Rohit blocks off the front foot 75.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , leans forward and defends this flighted delivery on off 75.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , tossed up on off , Rohit blocks it into the off-side off the front foot Rohit Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 75.2 Lyon to Rahane , out Caught by Watson ! ! Rahane is gone now. The extra bounce on this delivery did the trick. It was tossed up and Rahane was looking to defend , the ball bounces extra out of the rough and loops up after hitting the handle of the bat. Watson at slip takes an easy catch. Another lucky dismissal for the Australians , but the pitch has started to do something and Lyon gets his man , albeit with the help from the pitch. Rahane c Watson b Lyon 62 ( 76 ) [ 4s-10 ] Lyon to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 75.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , stifled appeal from the Australians , but the umpire is not interested , it was tossed up on off , Rahane pushes at it , the ball misses the bat and takes the pad , loops up for the FSL fielder to leap and take 74.6 S Smith to Kohli , no run , pushed through on middle , Kohli moves across a touch and turns it to FSL 74.5 S Smith to Rahane , 1 run , drags this one a little short and wide of off , Rahane stays back and cuts it to sweeper cover 74.4 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up around off , Kohli eases it down to mid-on and takes a single , this single also brings up the 100-run partnership between these two 74.3 S Smith to Rahane , 1 run , flighted delivery around off and middle , Rahane works it wide of mid-on 74.2 S Smith to Rahane , no run , slowish leg-break on off , Rahane leans forward and blocks 74.1 S Smith to Rahane , 2 runs , sprays this one down leg , Rahane nurdles it fine on the on-side for a brace 73.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through this time , Kohli hangs back and turns it to FSL 73.5 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , tossed up on off , Rahane moves across and eases it to mid-on for another run 73.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , touch flatter and spinning back in on middle stump , Rahane backs away a touch and punches it to cover 73.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery outside off and spinning back in , Rahane leans forward and defends it into the off-side 73.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , gives this one more air on off , Rahane prods forward and blocks it into the off-side 73.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , clipped off the pads to deep square leg 72.6 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , drags this one short and outside off , Kohli rocks back and cuts it square of the wicket to keep the strike as there is protection in the deep 72.5 S Smith to Rahane , 1 run , touch flatter outside off , Rahane goes back and punches it towards sweeper cover 72.4 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery around off and middle , Kohli wrists it to deep mid-wicket for another run 72.3 S Smith to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane stays leg side of the ball and drives it towards sweeper cover off the front foot 72.2 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery from Smith , Kohli works it to long-on 72.1 S Smith to Kohli , no run , slows this one on middle and leg , Kohli leans forward and smothers the spin 71.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Kohli goes back and flicks it to deep backward square leg , he keeps the strike 71.5 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli gets his boundary now , it was a flighted delivery on off , Kohli leans across and eases it past the mid-on region for another four , the mid-on fielder was a little wide there and that 's why the ball races away to the fence 71.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , drags this one short , Kohli rocks back and pulls it , but hits the ankle of the FSL fielder , good shot for no runs 71.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up outside off , Kohli goes forward and drills it straight towards the bowler 71.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , spinning in towards the batsman from around off , Kohli stays back and turns it into the on-side 71.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli leans forward and pushes it into the off-side , he thinks about a single , but decides against it 70.6 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , on the pads this time , Kohli works it away to deep mid-wicket for a single 70.5 S Smith to Rahane , 3 runs , another exquisite cut from Rahane , it was little shortish outside off , Rahane goes back and cuts it beautifully , Rogers runs across from deep extra cover , puts in the dive and manages to keep the ball inside the rope , he saved a single there 70.4 S Smith to Rahane , no run , lunges forward in defence to this tossed up delivery around off 70.3 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Kohli drives it towards the sweeper cover region to get off strike 70.2 S Smith to Kohli , no run , a low full toss outside off , Kohli should have put that away , he ends up hitting it straight towards short cover 70.1 S Smith to Kohli , FOUR , poor delivery from Smith to start with , he drags it very short and at his pace it is a freebie for the batsman , Kohli forehands the pulls to the long-on fence with ease Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Steven Smith is being introduced into the attack. Can he provide the crucial breakthrough ? Let 's find out 69.6 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , another beautiful drive from Rahane , it was tossed up outside off , Rahane gets forward and to the pitch of the ball , he creams the drive wide of mid-off , the batsmen take two before the ball is chased down A leg-slip in place now . 69.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up around off , Kohli eases it wide of mid-on for another quick run , this is good batting and running from the Indians 69.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , very full outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and drills it back to the bowler , who stops it with his left hand 69.3 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , this single brings up the 5th Test fifty for Rahane , it was a little shortish outside off , Rahane taps this behind square on the off-side and gets to the other end 69.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Kohli moves across a touch and turns it towards mid-on , the batsmen run through for a quick run 69.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up outside off , Kohli thought about driving it first , but ends up blocking it into the off-side 68.6 Siddle to Rahane , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Rahane dabs it towards the gap between gully and backward point , Rahane was looking for the single , but Kohli was n't ready , they end up not taking the single after the confusion in the middle 68.5 Siddle to Rahane , no run , short and outside off , Rahane sways away from the line and lets it go through to the keeper 68.4 Siddle to Rahane , FOUR , another good looking shot from Rahane , it was a slowish back of a length delivery outside off , Rahane rocks on the back foot and punches it to the deep extra cover fence 68.4 Siddle to Rahane , wide , bumper from Siddle that sails over Rahane 's head , the umpire calls it a wide because of the height 68.3 Siddle to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Kohli stays on the back foot and punches it towards mid-on , Johnson was a little deep there and Kohli was quick to go through for the single 68.2 Siddle to Kohli , no run , shortish again , Kohli pulls off the back foot , but straight to the fielder at backward square leg 68.1 Siddle to Rahane , 1 run , short one around off , Rahane drags the pull to deep square leg after rolling his wrists over it 67.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , floated up around off and spinning back in towards the batsman , Kohli turns it to FSL 67.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , good spin on that one , it was little slowish around middle , Kohli works it towards FSL , who stops the ball 67.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Kohli goes back in the crease and dabs it to the right of the slip fielder , but the batsmen ca n't take a single 67.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , drags this one short , Kohli rocks back but ends up pulling it to backward square leg 67.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Kohli stays on the back foot and turns it to FSL 67.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli goes on the front foot and smothers the spin Nathan Lyon [ 18.0-2-65-1 ] is back into the attack 66.6 Siddle to Rahane , no run , short and at the batsman , Rahane pulls but ca n't connect properly , the ball bounces in front of the backward square leg fielder , who stops it after putting in the dive 66.5 Siddle to Kohli , 1 run , it looks like that the Aussie gameplan is to bowl short at the batsman , Siddle bangs this short again , Kohli was looking to pull and then checked his shot at the last moment , the ball rolls away towards backward square leg , albeit being in the air for some time , Kohli was not in control of that shot 66.4 Siddle to Rahane , 1 run , another short one from Siddle , Rahane waits for it on the back foot , he hooks it to deep square leg for another single 66.3 Siddle to Rahane , no run , down the leg side , Rahane does n't try to do anything with it 66.2 Siddle to Rahane , FOUR , another lucky break for Rahane. It was another short one from Siddle , Rahane pulls , but was not in total control , the ball went in the air towards deep square leg , who puts in the dive , but the ball bounces just in front of him and to rub salt into the wound , the ball then runs away to the fence 66.1 Siddle to Kohli , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Kohli goes on the front foot and pulls it towards deep mid-wicket , he rolled his wrists to send it along the ground 65.6 R Harris to Rahane , no run , yorker from Harris this time , Rahane drills it out into the off-side 65.5 R Harris to Rahane , FOUR , shortish and little wide of off , Rahane gets on top of it and cuts it square of the wicket for another boundary , another good looking shot from Rahane 65.4 R Harris to Rahane , 2 runs , fullish delivery outside off , Rahane leans into the drive , the fielder at mid-off runs to his left and looks to keep the batsmen down to a single , but he ends up parrying it further away from him and that allowed the batsmen to come back for the second run 65.3 R Harris to Rahane , no run , turns this delivery around middle stump line into the on-side 65.2 R Harris to Rahane , FOUR , yorker from Harris , it was just outside off , Rahane squeezes it out through the toe-end of the bat , the ball somehow bounces over the leaping Haadin and races away to the fence , lucky for Rahane as he collects four from that delivery from Harris 65.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Rahane gets his front foot out of the line of the stumps and pushes it into the off-side 64.6 Siddle to Rahane , 1 run , gentle short ball at the batsman which was bowled at 128kph , Rahane had ample time to go back in the crease and pulls it towards backward square leg , he will keep the strike 64.5 Siddle to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli works this delivery off his pads to deep backward square leg for another run There 's just a single slip in place for Kohli , who is looking in great touch . 64.4 Siddle to Kohli , no run , full outside off , left alone by Kohli 64.3 Siddle to Rahane , 1 run , angles this one on middle stump line , Rahane moves across and flicks it towards deep backward square leg to get to the other end Siddle loses his run-up. He will have to bowl that one again 64.2 Siddle to Rahane , no run , on a length and around off , Rahane goes on the front foot and pushes it into the off-side with an angular bat 64.1 Siddle to Rahane , FOUR , beautiful drive from Rahane , it was on a fuller length and just outside off , Rahane leans forward , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it to the sweeper cover fence , the ball ran away to the fence in no time , good shot that one 63.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , full and around off , Kohli drives it a little uppishly , but straight to short cover on the bounce , the fielder at short cover had to dive to his right to make that stop 63.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on off and middle this time , Kohli wrists it to mid-on off the front foot 63.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Kohli gets drawn into the drive , the ball shapes away enough to beat the outside edge of Kohli 's bat , the keeper takes it Two slips and a gully in place for Harris 63.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a length and outside off , Kohli moves across off and pushes at it , the ball rolls away towards point off the outside half of the bat 63.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , touch fuller this time and on off , Kohli pushes it to the left of the bowler 63.1 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , little shortish and wide of off , Kohli cuts this towards the sweeper cover region , the batsmen take two Ryan Harris [ 12.0-3-36-1 ] is back into the attack 62.6 Siddle to Rahane , FOUR , splays this one on the pads , Rahane gets a little tickle on that , the ball rolls away to the fine leg fence and another four runs get added to the Indian total 62.5 Siddle to Rahane , no run , length delivery coming back in on off , Rahane goes forward and pushes it back towards the bowler 62.4 Siddle to Rahane , no run , length delivery just outside off , Rahane leans forward and bunts it into the off-side with gentle hands , he puts his hand up to tell Kohli that the single was not on 62.3 Siddle to Rahane , no run , comes on the front foot and blocks this delivery outside off into the off-side Coming back to the last ball of the previous over , Lyon got his hands on the ball , Rahane was backing up too far and had the ball hit the stumps , Rahane would have been a goner 62.2 Siddle to Rahane , no run , very full outside off , Rahane shoulders arms 62.1 Siddle to Rahane , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Rahane pushes at it after coming on the front foot , the ball rolls away towards point after taking the outside half of the bat Peter Siddle [ 7.0-2-30-0 ] is back into the attack 61.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli leans forward and pushes it back towards the bowler 61.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , defends this flighted delivery off the front foot 61.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , another one spinning in towards the pad , he looks to tuck it away on the on-side , the ball rolls away towards square leg 61.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , bowls this one down the leg-side , Kohli has nothing to do with it and lets it go through to the keeper 61.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery around off , Kohli turns it to FSL after moving across 61.1 Lyon to Kohli , 2 runs , Kohli brings up his fifty with this couple , it was tossed up outside off , Kohli leans forward and drives it through the covers , the batsmen run for a brace before the ball is hunted down Lyon will continue. Kohli will face him first after tea . Welcome back. The players are walking out to the centre. India has batted well , but they still trail by 294 runs. Australia will look to impose their dominance on the game. Can the Indian batters defy the odds and continue the good work ? We will find out . Among the Australian bowlers , Lyon has looked the most threatening as the ball has offered very little to the seamers. Lyon is getting both turn and extra bounce from the pitch. The third session promises to be even more interesting as the battle between the Indian batsmen and the Australian bowlers intensifies. Join us in a short while as we also take a tea-break here . Kohli has looked good. His wristwork has been phenomenal and along with Pujara , they both were looking set to take India to a big total. Pujara , who fell 27 short of a century , was the aggressor in their partnership. After Pujara departed , Kohli took it upon himself to fight it out along with Rahane , who has looked a little streaky , but has managed to survive . India must be happy with how things have turned up in this session. This the second consecutive session they have dominated. They scored 103 runs in this session and lost the wicket of Pujara , who got out in a very unlucky manner . 60.6 Johnson to Rahane , no run , fullish just around off , Rahane manages to bunt it into the off-side off the front foot and it is Tea on day 3 60.5 Johnson to Rahane , no run , Rahane looks to leave this , at the last moment the ball hits the bat as he pulls away from the shot and rolls away towards the slip cordon 60.4 Johnson to Rahane , FOUR , overpitched outside off , Rahane stays on the back foot and squeezes the drive behind square on the off-side , the ball raced away to the fence , but Rahane was not in total control of that one as it came off the outside half of the bat 60.3 Johnson to Kohli , 3 runs , not the right plan to bowl on the pads to Kohli , Kohli clips this off his pads towards deep mid-wicket , the batsman take three 60.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , drags this one a little wide of off , Kohli does n't offer a shot this time 60.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , touch fuller with a hint of away movement just outside off , Kohli defends it into the off-side 59.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up this time , Rahane gets on the front foot and blocks 59.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , turned to the on-side after moving across a touch 59.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , woaaahh ! A little extra bounce on that one , it must have jumped up after hitting one of the patches , Rahane was looking to cut again this time , the ball bounces extra and goes towards the keeper , who also could n't collect it and the ball eventually rolled away towards leg-slip after the keeper got a glove onto it 59.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane leans forward and gently pushes it into the off-side 59.2 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , touch shortish and little wide of off , Rahane goes on the back foot and waits for the ball to arrive , he cuts it to the deep backward point fence , good shot that one 59.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated up on off , Kohli moves across off and turns it towards deep mid-wicket 58.6 Johnson to Rahane , no run , another banged in short and angled across off , Rahane again chases this one , he is lucky that the ball did n't take the outside edge , Rahane is looking a little streaky here 58.5 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , drop and run single from Kohli , he stays on the back foot and turns this back of a length delivery towards mid-wicket , the batsmen go through for another quick single 58.4 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , bangs this one short and at the batsman , Rahane pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket , he rolls his wrists while pulling that and that 's why it went along the turf 58.3 Johnson to Rahane , no run , length delivery shaping away a touch outside off , Rahane pokes at it , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 58.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , a loud appeal from the Australians as they think that Rahane has edged this one , it was very full and wide of off , Rahane goes after it , he ca n't squeeze it out , the ball goes through the keeper and there was a faint noise , but Rahane did n't get an edge there , the sound came as the bat hit the pitch , good call from ump Erasmus 58.1 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length delivery angled across off , Kohli punches it in front of mid-off after going on the back foot , the batsmen pinch a quick single Mitchell Johnson [ 11.0-3-58-1 ] is back into the attack Mitch comes back into the attack for a burst before tea . 57.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , drags this one short and just outside off , Kohli waits for it in the crease and gently guides it past the slip fielder to retain strike 57.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , puts his front foot across and wrists this flighted delivery outside off into the on-side 57.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli leans forward and drives it uppishly towards mid-off , where Clarke puts in the dive and saves a certain boundary 57.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter on middle , Kohli moves across and turns it to FSL 57.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slows this one around off , Kohli covers the stumps after staying on the back foot , he defends 57.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , touch flatter on off and middle , Kohli goes deep in the crease and turns it to square leg , he thinks about a single , but decides against it 56.6 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , offers a compact front foot defence to this delivery around off , the ball rolls away into the off-side 56.5 M Marsh to Rahane , FOUR , just short of a good length and outside off , Rahane goes on the back foot and punches it to the sweeper cover fence , the ball was in the air for a little while , but it was in the gap 56.4 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , shortish outside off , Rahane does n't offer a shot and allows it to go through to the keeper 56.3 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , fullish delivery on middle and leg , Rahane moves across and works it towards short mid-wicket 56.2 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , length delivery coming back in from outside off , Rahane covers the line and blocks off the front foot 56.1 M Marsh to Kohli , 1 run , handy wristwork from Kohli , it was a length delivery on off and middle , Kohli goes on the back foot and wrists it to deep square leg for a single 55.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , works this one away to deep mid-wicket to keep the strike 55.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter on middle , Kohli goes back and turns it into the on-side 55.4 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane is not getting his timing right , it was floated up on off , Rahane steps out and lofts it widish of mid-on , he is lucky that the ball just about evaded the backtracking mid-on , otherwise Rahane would have been a goner 55.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Kohli goes back and works this to deep backward square leg , 200 is also up for India 55.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , touch flatter this time , Kohli goes on the back foot and wrists it towards FSL 55.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli leans across and dead-bats it 54.6 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , short again but this time it is outside off , Rahane goes for the pull again , this time he gets an under edge that falls short of the diving wicket-keeper 54.5 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Rahane looks to pull it hard , he can only drag it towards the wicket keeper , who collects it after moving down the leg-side 54.4 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , hint of away movement on this delivery outside off , Rahane bunts it to short cover 54.3 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Rahane drives it back towards the bowler off the front foot Two slips and a gully in place for Rahane 54.2 M Marsh to Kohli , 1 run , angles this one on the pads , Kohli goes on the back foot and clips it to deep mid-wicket 54.1 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery a little wide of off , Kohli drives it to cover without much feet movement 53.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , pushed through on the legs , Kohli goes on the back foot and works it to backward square leg 53.5 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , touch flatter and outside off this time , Rahane goes back in the crease and guides it behind backward point for a single 53.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane comes on the front foot and blocks it off the outside half of the bat 53.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery that bounces a touch extra as Rahane looks to block , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad , but bounces in front of FSL 53.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off and middle , Rahane blocks after getting his bat in front of the pad , his bottom hand came off the bat as he pushed at it 53.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Rahane does n't look comfortable here , it was tossed up on off , Rahane tries to get to the pitch of the ball and looks to block , it takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls away into the off-side 52.6 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , touch fuller and just outside off , Kohli leans forward and defends it towards short cover 52.5 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , probing away in the channel outside off , Kohli shoulders arms 52.4 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , bumper from Marsh around leg , Kohli sits under it 52.3 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery shaping back in towards the batsman from just outside off , Kohli covers the stumps and blocks off the inside half of the bat 52.2 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , short of a good length and coming back in on off , Kohli defends it back towards the bowler 52.1 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Kohli blocks it off the back foot 51.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane skips out of the crease , but blocks it into the on-side 51.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , a loud appeal for lbw from the Australians , but the umpire says 'No ' , it was tossed up on off , Rahane comes on the front foot and looks to block , the ball takes the inside edge and then hits the pad , a good decision by umpire Gould there 51.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off , Rahane defends off the front foot 51.3 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , shortish and little wide of off , Rahane goes deep in the crease and cuts it to the sweeper cover fence to get off the mark A slip , a FSL and a leg-slip in place for Rahane 51.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off and middle , Rahane comes on the front foot and turns it to FSL 51.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , turning in towards middle , Rahane goes on the back foot and turns it into the on-side 50.6 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , on a length and around off , Kohli blocks off the front foot 50.5 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , shortish delivery down leg , Kohli swivels and looks to pull , there was a faint noise and that got the Australians interested , Haddin appeals , but the umpire is unamused , HotSpot shows that the bat had nothing on it 50.4 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , another one that 's bowled outside the off stump , Kohli leaves this alone as well 50.3 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , shaping in towards the pad , Kohli tucks it away to short mid-wicket 50.2 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , full delivery outside off , Kohli shoulders arms 50.1 M Marsh to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Kohli stays on the back foot and pushes it into the on-side Mitchell Marsh [ 5.0-2-5-0 ] is back into the attack 49.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane goes forward and looks to block , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls away towards FSL 49.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , looks to sweep this delivery outside off , but fails to connect , the ball bounces over the stumps , not a great start for Rahane 49.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off and middle , Rahane moves across a touch and drops his wrists , the ball rolls back on the pitch Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.3 Lyon to Pujara , out Bowled ! ! Pujara is gone. What an unlucky way to get out ! It was tossed up outside off , Pujara pushes at it after coming on the front foot , the ball misses the inside edge as he looked to push , it hits the right thigh , goes between the legs and rolls back onto the stumps. Pujara was looking good , but his stay comes to an end with this unlucky break. Lyon has been rewarded for bowling some good line and length. Lucky break for the offie though. Pujara b Lyon 73 ( 135 ) [ 4s-9 ] Lyon to Pujara , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 49.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , steps out to this tossed up delivery outside off , the ball turns back in towards the batsman and Pujara ends up mistiming it towards the bowler 49.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , floated up on off and middle , Pujara stays back and blocks 48.6 Watson to Kohli , FOUR , fullish delivery shaping in on middle stump , Kohli moves across a touch and clips it past mid-wicket for another boundary , this is good batting from the Indian captain , great timing on that one as well 48.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and coming back in towards the batsman , Kohli stays on the back foot and blocks it to the right of the bowler 48.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery on middle stump line , Kohli moves across and tucks it away towards mid-on 48.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , splays this one on the pads of the batsman , Kohli gets a faint tickle on that , but Haddin dives to his left and stops the ball from going towards the boundary , saved four runs for his team there 48.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , on a length and angling in on off , Kohli knocks it towards short mid-wicket 48.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , yorker on off , Kohli squeezes it out to mid-on 47.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , floated up on off , Pujara blocks it into the leg-side 47.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , gives this one a little more air on off , Kohli whips it towards deep mid-wicket for a single 47.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , floated up on off , Kohli moves across again and turns it towards short mid-wicket 47.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli moves across and wrists it into the on-side 47.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery that turns back in a great deal from around off , Kohli ca n't put bat onto it , the ball gets stuck in his left pad 47.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , good turn for Lyon there , it was floated up outside off , Kohli goes on the front foot and pushes hard at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and bounces just short of the FSL fielder 46.6 Watson to Pujara , 2 runs , full and outside off , Pujara leans forward and drives it through the cover region , the batsmen take two before the fielder hauls the ball before the boundary 46.5 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off , Kohli drives it towards mid-off off the front foot , the batsmen go through for a quick single before the fielder gets to the ball 46.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , length delivery with a hint of shape in towards the batsman , Kohli comes on the front foot and blocks it back to the bowler 46.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , on a good length and on off , Kohli comes on the front foot and blocks 46.2 Watson to Kohli , FOUR , great shot from Kohli , it was fullish and outside off , Kohli puts his front foot forward and drives it wide of mid-off , the fielder puts in the dive but ca n't stop it , the ball races away to the fence 46.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , on a good length and around off , Kohli leans forward and blocks it into the off-side Time for a drinks break. Pujara and Kohli have negotiated the first hour after lunch. They have been positive and were not afraid to play their shots , but they need to keep going if India have to get close to the Australian total. The hosts on the other hand , need to break this partnership and take couple more quickly to extend their advantage . 45.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , skips out of the crease and whips the flighted delivery to mid-wicket 45.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , smothers the spin with a solid forward defence 45.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tossed up just outside off , Pujara takes a step out of the crease and turns it to mid-wicket 45.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , crouches low and wrists it past mid-wicket for a single 45.2 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , shimmies down the wicket , meets the pitch of the ball and whips it to deep mid-wicket 45.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , touch of extra bounce , Pujara stays in the crease , pats it to short leg , the ball hits the sticker on the bat 44.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , angling in onto the pads , Kohli flicks and picks out square leg 44.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , fuller and just outside off , Kohli drives off the outside half of the blade to mid-off 44.4 Watson to Pujara , 1 run , tucks the short of length delivery to deep backward square leg 44.3 Watson to Pujara , no run , on a length close to off , Pujara presses forward and dabs it to gully 44.2 Watson to Pujara , no run , short of length on the leg-stump , Pujara misses the clip and wears it on the thigh pad , the Hot-Spot shows he got an inside edge 44.1 Watson to Pujara , no run , straightaway some swing for him , shapes back in on middle , Pujara turns it to mid-wicket Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Watto on for the first time. . 43.6 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , clipped off the pads to deep mid-wicket 43.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , slows it up considerably , Pujara works it only as far as mid-wicket 43.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , again , uses his feet and drives it back to the bowler 43.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , flighted outside off , Pujara comes down the track , gets too close to the ball and drives it to mid-on 43.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , spinning into the batsman , Kohli helps it on its way to backward square leg 43.1 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , a real hit-me delivery from Lyon , half tracker outside off , sat up nicely for Kohli , who did n't try to overhit , just picked his spot and cut it beautifully to sweeper cover 42.6 R Harris to Pujara , no run , tries to repeat the previous shot , does not get the timing right and chops it to point 42.5 R Harris to Pujara , FOUR , this is not a bad delivery , short and was close to the off-stump , Pujara stayed leg-side off the ball and cuts it with an open face , the ball runs away behind point for the second boundary of the over 42.4 R Harris to Pujara , no run , full and tails back in , Pujara squeezes it out past the bowler and calls " wait , wait " for the single 42.3 R Harris to Pujara , no run , keeps it back of a length around off , Pujara taps it off the back foot to gully 42.2 R Harris to Pujara , FOUR , short , wide and Pujara latches onto it , he hangs onto the back foot and cuts it past a diving backward point , the fast outfield does the rest 42.1 R Harris to Pujara , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Pujara dabs it towards point , shouts " no " for the single 41.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , stays low and turns it softly to mid-wicket 41.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Kohli prods forward and gets an inside edge to the on-side 41.4 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , flighted on off , Pujara chips out of the crease and works it wide of mid-on , he was quick to take off for a single 41.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tosses it up on off , Pujara blocks it to the on-side 41.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , comes down the track and drives it to mid-on 41.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Lyon is surely getting plenty of turn , Pujara moves forward and goes hard at it , the ball hits his glove and then hits his body , luckily it does n't lob up for the close in fielders 40.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a length and on off , Kohli pushes it to mid-on 40.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , lovely shot for no runs , pitches it up on off , Kohli drives it gun-barrel straight , Harris does not get a hand as the ball hits the timber at the other end 40.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , drives without much timing to mid-off 40.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli knocks it to backward point after coming forward 40.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fuller and just outside off , Kohli plays an extended forward defence to cover 40.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , stifled appeal for caught behind , but nothing from Haddin and Harris. Too full and outside off , it was almost a yorker , Kohli tries to squeeze it out and his bat hits the turf , that was the sound that interested the slip cordon 39.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , slower and turning in , Pujara waits and taps it to short leg 39.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , Lyon continues with the line outside off , Kohli gets a good stride forward and eases it with an open face to backward point 39.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up around off , Kohli dead-bats it down the wicket 39.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted outside off , Kohli plunges forward and defends to the off-side 39.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , crouches low and turns it gently to short leg 39.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , ooh ! Lyon almost had his man , gives this plenty of air outside off , gets it to turn back in sharply , Kohli ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls back to Haddin 38.6 R Harris to Pujara , FOUR , fabulous shot ! It was a poor delivery from Harris , half volley outside off , Pujara comes on the front foot and drives it handsomely through cover. That brings up the 50-run stand as well Harris pulls out of his stride as Pujara was not ready , the batsman straightaway puts a hand up and apologises . 38.5 R Harris to Pujara , 2 runs , " catch " were the shouts from the Australian fielders , full and tailing into the batsman , Pujara flicks it uppishly , the ball lands just in front of Mitch Marsh at mid-wicket , Cummins tidies up in the deep 38.4 R Harris to Pujara , no run , shortish and outside off , Pujara waits for the ball and guides it straight to Warner at gully 38.3 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , tucked behind square leg for an easy single 38.2 R Harris to Pujara , 1 run , this one holds up on the wicket , Pujara checks his clip and chips it wide of mid-wicket 38.1 R Harris to Pujara , no run , hint of inward movement , Pujara covers the line and defends it to point Ryan Harris [ 9.0-2-20-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , a risky single , Kohli had to put in the dive to get in. Floated up on off , Pujara comes down the track and wrists it to mid-on and takes off immediately , the throw is at the striker 's end and if Kohli had not dived things would have been interesting 37.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , throws this up generously , Pujara steps out and closes the bat face early , gets a soft leading edge to mid-off 37.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tosses it up close to off , Pujara defends off the inside section of the bat to the on-side 37.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , Smith lets out a huge grunt as he ca n't stop the ball , slower and on off , Kohli gets inside the line and works it past short leg 37.2 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , shortens the length , that gives Pujara time to go back and whip it to deep backward square leg 37.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , flighted around off , Pujara inches forward and drops it in front of short leg Nathan Lyon [ 5.0-1-34-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , banged in short and on the body , Kohli decides to take it on , swivels and mistimes the pull to square leg 36.5 Johnson to Pujara , 3 runs , fifty for Pujara , his 6th in Tests , only his 2nd in the last 16 innings. Pitched up close to off , Pujara drives it past Kohli at the other end , batsmen get back for three before Harris hunts the ball down 36.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , climbs up sharply onto Pujara , who arches back and guides it with an open face to gully 36.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , on a length just outside off , left alone 36.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , full and attacking the stumps , Pujara jams the drive past Johnson , but mid-on gets around and keeps the batsmen at their respective ends 36.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , full and outside off , Pujara ignores it 35.6 Siddle to Pujara , 1 run , slants it in on middle and leg , Pujara clips it to deep backward square leg 35.5 Siddle to Pujara , FOUR , Pujara does not miss out for the second time , overpitched outside off , Pujara presses forward and creams the drive past mid-off , the ball kept a chasing Harris interested till the last moment 35.4 Siddle to Pujara , no run , drags the length slightly back , Pujara is back and defending to the on-side 35.3 Siddle to Pujara , no run , Pujara misses out on a juicy half volley , he drills the drive straight to Mitch Marsh at cover , either side and that would have been a four 35.2 Siddle to Pujara , no run , Siddle probes away on a good length , Pujara moves forward and knocks it to mid-off 35.1 Siddle to Pujara , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Pujara defends off the outside part of the bat to cover 34.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , angled across the right-hander , left alone 34.5 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , a dangerous shot to play , but Kohli does well to play it with soft hands. Shortens the length on off , Kohli is hurried into the shot , he opens the face and steers it through the slip cordon , the pace of Johnson took it to the third man fence 34.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length around off , Kohli gets behind the line and defends to mid-off 34.3 Johnson to Pujara , 1 run , bit too straight , Pujara turns it past mid-wicket for a single 34.3 Johnson to Pujara , no ball , FOUR , Mitch oversteps and delivers a full ball outside off , Pujara plays a classy cover drive through cover , the rich timing takes it to the fence. He got a good stride forward to play that shot 34.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Pujara sinks under it and evades it comfortably 34.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length on off , Pujara bunts it in front of cover 33.6 Siddle to Kohli , no run , too full from Siddle , the line is outside off , Kohli squeezes it off the outer half of the bat to Smith at second slip 33.5 Siddle to Kohli , no run , on a length close to off , Kohli comes slightly forward and blocks it down the wicket 33.4 Siddle to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli is not fully forward as he defends back to Siddle 33.3 Siddle to Kohli , FOUR , bread-and-butter shot for any Asian batsman. Half volley on the pads , Kohli leans forward and flicks it elegantly to deep mid-wicket , there was no one protecting the fence in the deep 33.2 Siddle to Pujara , 1 run , clipped away easily off the pads to deep square leg as the line was too straight from Siddle 33.1 Siddle to Kohli , 1 run , full and angling in , Kohli wrists it wide of mid-on for a quick single Peter Siddle [ 5.0-2-19-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , well directed short ball , it rises steeply onto Pujara , who jumps up and fends it with soft hands to the off-side 32.5 Johnson to Pujara , 2 runs , gets on top of the bounce and plays it with an angled bat to the left of backward point , it is good enough for a couple 32.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length on off , Pujara stands up and pats it with an open face to point 32.3 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , sensible batting , knocks the back of a length delivery to cover and sets off for a single 32.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , too full and outside off , Kohli bends his front knee and squeezes it to point 32.1 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , shot ! Top shot from Kohli. Nice way to get going after the break. He leant forward and caressed the drive through the vacant cover region , the timing was beautiful as the ball whistled to the fence The umpires make their way out to the middle followed closely by the two batsmen. Johnson will resume proceedings. He has three slips , a gully and short leg to support him . Welcome back.. India have started well , but another important session coming up. Dhawan looked good before he dragged one back. Vijay after doing all the hard work was well set-up by Johnson. Pujara and Kohli need to dig in here. Patience will be the key for both the sides as there is not much help from the wicket . Before we go a couple of interesting things that one noticed when Johnson hit Kohli on the head. All the Aussies were worried , especially the bowler who became emotional. Shows that the death of Hughes has affected them deeply. Good to see Clarke consoling the bowler and asking him to get on with it. Also one saw the feistiness and the bulldog spirit of Kohli as he aggressively said he was fine , suggesting he was up for the battle and that he wo n't be affected by that blow. Nothing new from Kohli as we all know what sort of a character he is . Earlier on Dhawan failed after starting off well. Vijay was concentration-personified as he blunted the bowling en route to a fifty on his debut in Australia. He looked good for much more as he showed the virtues of being patient and playing the percentage game. Che too has been solid and it will be up to him and Kohli to take India to safer shores. All that and much more in the second session of play. We 'll be back to bring you all that and much more. Do stay tuned as we take a break . India would be happy with that session of play. Ideally they would have liked Vijay to have been there , but still 119/2 is a good beginning and the pitch does n't have any terrors. The bowling has been disciplined and patient , willing to prise out the batsmen rather than blowing them away. Mitch came back and dismissed Vijay after setting him up with a couple of short balls. He is cranking it up and pinged Kohli right on the head first ball . 31.6 R Harris to Pujara , no run , wristed to mid-on , straight to the fielder and that will be lunch on day 3 31.5 R Harris to Pujara , no run , angled across on a fuller length on off , Pujara gets forward to block to solidly to cover This will be the last over before lunch and Harris is going round the wicket to Pujara 31.4 R Harris to Pujara , no run , pitched up on off , driven back to Harris , who fields well 31.3 R Harris to Pujara , no run , Harris is n't a happy man , he fields and then flings the ball back to Haddin 31.2 R Harris to Pujara , FOUR , Pujara wo n't miss out there. Half volley on the stumps , Pujara flicks past square leg , beats Mitch 's run from deep backward square. Well played by Che as he put away the bad ball 31.1 R Harris to Pujara , no run , turned to short mid-wicket where the fielder makes a diving stop to keep it to a dot 30.6 Johnson to Pujara , 1 run , Pujara is getting into a tangle everytime he tries to pull , awkwardly down to deep backward square for a single 30.5 Johnson to Kohli , 3 runs , lovely shot to get off the mark. The front foot gets forward and he eases it wide of mid-off for three. Composed and confident start that after the blow earlier on 30.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , short of length on the stumps , blocked solidly back to the bowler 30.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back and across before defending to gully Interesting reaction from Kohli , he wanted to show he was fine and shooed everyone away. Clarke pats Johnson on the back , clearly the bowler was emotional and the Aussie captain settles him down. We are all set to go again as Kohli gets ready to take strike. But what a welcome to the Indian skipper first ball. Searing short delivery and well-directed too . 30.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Kohli has been hit here ! First ball ! The Aussie are up to check whether he is fine. The umpires and Pujara are up to Kohli checking on him. Kohli to his credit took off the helmet and said he was fine. Pinged right on the badge of the helmet as Kohli ducked under , taking the eyes off the ball. It did n't rise as much as Kohli expected it to and that 's why he got hit Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 30.1 Johnson to Vijay , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Mitch has got Vijay here. That 's what he was aiming for last over and now he has gotten his man. Vijay 's feet which moved so well throughout the innings gives up on him that time. Fuller one angled across , Vijay stays on the crease and limply feathers an edge on the push to the keeper. Johnson thumps his left breast in celebration. End of a gritty knock from Vijay. Vijay c Haddin b Johnson 53 ( 88 ) [ 4s-3 6s-2 ] Johnson to Vijay , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 29.6 R Harris to Pujara , no run , crisply played off the front foot , but straight to the fielder at mid-on 29.5 R Harris to Vijay , 1 run , on the pads , flicked to deep backward square leg 29.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , pushed off the front foot to mid-on 29.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , defended to the right of the bowler 29.2 R Harris to Pujara , 1 run , whipped off the hips to deep backward square leg 29.1 R Harris to Pujara , no run , driven without any timing to mid-off , the bat turned on impact and that foiled his timing Johnson 's speeds in that last over : 146 , 145 147 146 146 149. Consistent pace and cranking up to top gear. Speeds all in kph ! 28.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 149kph that time but well wide of off , easily left alone by Vijay The crowd are cheering on Johnson as he runs in. They sense something 's got ta happen here 28.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 146kph again , Vijay shuffles across to defend to mid-off 28.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 146kph , length delivery on off , Vijay blocks to point. Solidly done 28.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , beautiful bowling ! Beats Vijay neck and crop with a length ball angled across. Vijay fell for the bait and nearly nicked it. It shaped away past the iffy poke 28.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , another well-directed short delivery , heading towards the head of Vijay , who ducks under it in the nick of time. Searing pace from Johnson. Three in a row coming up ? 28.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay misjudged the length there and wears one on the left shoulder. He wanted to duck under that , but the ball kept following him and thudded into the shoulder. Johnson and Vijay get into a staring match 27.6 R Harris to Pujara , no run , dug in short , but does n't rise at all , Pujara lets it go as it 's outside off 27.5 R Harris to Pujara , no run , driven crisply , but straight to the fielder at cover 27.4 R Harris to Vijay , 3 runs , 50 for Vijay. Well played ! Pujara shakes his hand. The Indian contingent applaud his effort. Wristed past short mid-wicket and by the time Clarke throws it back they have taken three. Aggressive running from the duo 27.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , the feet moves well and covers the line as he defends it back to Harris 27.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , shuffles across a tad and taps it to mid-on 27.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , full outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 26.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , much better over from Johnson , bowls it on the stumps , Pujara defends 26.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , the short delivery comes from Johnson , Pujara ducks under it 26.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , sharp rising delivery from Johnson , Pujara does well to stand tall and ride the bounce , tapped to gully 26.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , turned to short mid-wicket 26.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , shaped away with the angle from over the wicket , Pujara shoulders arms 26.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , Johnson is back and he starts off with a short of length delivery on off , defended by Pujara Mitchell Johnson [ 5.0-1-34-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 R Harris to Pujara , 1 run , on the hips , tucked away to deep backward square leg for a single 25.5 R Harris to Pujara , no run , another good wristed stroke , but straight to the fielder at mid-on this time 25.4 R Harris to Pujara , FOUR , too straight from Harris and Pujara puts him away. He is strong in that area , flicked through mid-wicket for a classy boundary. The wristwork was top class that time from Che 25.3 R Harris to Pujara , no run , back of a length and Pujara taps to point , shouts 'no no ' to Vijay Once again Vijay has looked really good. What a transformation in his game ever since he did well in England. The Vijay of old would flirt at balls outside off and get out early overseas , but now he has learnt the art of digging in and playing the percentage game really well. He is willing to give the first hour to the bowlers and then cash in. Has served him well in the last two tours. Vijay might not have the talent or the skill of Dhawan but he surely has the temperament and the wherewithal to guts it out . 25.2 R Harris to Pujara , no run , good length outside off , Pujara sees and then shoulders arms 25.1 R Harris to Pujara , no run , back of a length on off , defended off the back foot Ryan Harris [ 5.0-2-6-1 ] is back into the attack 24.6 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , wicket-to-wicket stuff from Marsh , Vijay defends it back to the bowler 24.5 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , Vijay hops on the back foot and taps to cover. Stays on 49 for now Ravi Shaz is seen having a chat with Dhawan. Shaz has his dark shades on. Dhawan is listening in intently . 24.4 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , angled in on the hips , turned to short mid-wicket 24.3 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , short of length outside off , Vijay blocks solidly to cover 24.2 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , very high bouncer , no trouble at all for Vijay 24.1 M Marsh to Pujara , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Pujara stabs it away from the body wide of point for a single 23.6 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , the 100 is up now with a sweep to deep backward square leg for a couple of runs 23.5 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , chips out and finds short fine , single taken 23.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , sharp turn in for Lyon , Pujara smothers it well. A puff of dust as well as the ball landed 23.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , takes a step out and whips it to mid-wicket 23.2 Lyon to Pujara , 2 runs , driven to mid-off , quick single taken and the throw from Mitch is not backed up , allowing an extra run 23.1 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , shouts of 'catch ' but Vijay gets the wrist wide of short mid-wicket 22.6 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , hesitation from both batsmen as they went for the single. Pujara was running for it and then said 'wait wait ' to Vijay as he saw Clarke running across , a diving stop and both batsmen retreat. A smile from Pup after he gets up - nice to see 22.5 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , wayward delivery , well outside off , a breather for Pujara 22.4 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , late dip for Marsh , nearly went through Pujara , Pujara 's feet got stuck and the bat came down late , but manages an inside edge which saves him 22.3 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , Pujara wanted to cut that , but then decided to let it go Replays show that it missed the inside edge of Vijay , but it was spinning down leg. Missing leg clearly . 22.2 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , pushed to mid-on 22.1 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , nearly lobbed back to the bowler. Pujara checked his shot and it went uppishly to the left of the bowler 21.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , huge shout for lbw , but Ian Gould shakes his head. I reckon there was an inside edge onto the pads. That 's what saved Vijay. Otherwise the shout had everything going for it. Vijay lunged forward to block and seemed to have gotten bat on it. Replays are in and HotSpot does n't pick up anything on the bat - interesting ! 21.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , sweeps , but gets an inside edge down to short fine Mid-on goes a bit deep now 21.4 Lyon to Vijay , SIX , Vijay wants to attack Lyon. He decides to use his feet and goes over long-on. Another clean strike and another six. Nailed that , did Vijay. Pressure now on Lyon 21.3 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , takes it from outside off and sweeps to deep backward square leg for a couple of runs 21.2 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , uses his feet and drives wide of mid-off , single taken Now silly point brought in , makes it three around the bat 21.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara opts to defend that off the back foot 20.6 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , Vijay leans forward and drives to mid-off 20.5 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , tries to force it off the back foot , but mistimes it to cover 20.4 M Marsh to Vijay , 2 runs , on the stumps , clipped past the infield for a couple of runs 20.3 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , Vijay defends , but it comes off a thick outer half of the bat and rolls to cover 20.2 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , Vijay shuffles across and then defends to mid-on 20.1 M Marsh to Pujara , 1 run , false stroke from Pujara and he nearly pays the price for it. Takes on the short delivery and gets into an awkward position. Top-edges it , luckily it falls just in front of deep backward square running around. Marsh thought he had his first wicket 19.6 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , this one he 's dragged it. But will still get a boundary. A replica of the previous shot , just that he did n't time it as well as the previous one 19.5 Lyon to Vijay , SIX , that 's a fab shot. Clears the longest boundary at the Adelaide Oval. Saw the tossed up delivery from Lyon and used his feet , before lofting it well , over long-on. First six of the game as well 19.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , driving through cover against the turning delivery is dangerous and it nearly consumed Vijay there. Driven off the inside edge and it was in the air , but well wide of Lyon 's right-hand 19.3 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , uses his feet and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 19.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , 'Lyono that 's outstanding ' shouts one of his mates to Lyon after he rips another one , Pujara defends to cover 19.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara gets forward to defend and smothers it with bat and pad together , that turned too 18.6 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , nips back in but it is met by the broad defensive blade of Vijay 18.5 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , shortish outside off , Vijay goes on the back foot and punches it to cover 18.4 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , and again. But Marsh is hitting the bat hard , he seems to be running in well as well , with a lot of rhythm 18.3 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , good length outside off , Vijay 's feet moved forward to cover the line and then blocked to cover 18.2 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , good length outside off , left alone 18.1 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , dug in short by Marsh , Vijay stands tall and dead-bats it Mitchell Marsh [ 1.0-0-1-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , a step forward and driven to mid-on 17.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara chips out and gets too close to the pitch of the delivery , whipped to mid-on 17.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , that 's dangerous ! Pujara tries to cut a sharply turning delivery , chops it to point. Lyon feels encouraged again 17.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara comes down the track and whips it straight to the fielder at mid-wicket Slip and a short leg in 17.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara gets forward and pushes it to the right of the bowler 17.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , sharp turn in for Lyon , Pujara gets forward and pads it away , getting outside the line of off , encouraging start for Lyon Nathan Lyon [ 1.0-0-8-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Siddle to Vijay , no run , comes on the front foot and opens the face of the bat to defend to cover 16.5 Siddle to Vijay , FOUR , Siddle let out a huge grunt of frustration after bowling on the pads of Vijay. Flicked past square leg for an easy boundary 16.4 Siddle to Vijay , no run , Vijay hoists his bat over his shoulder and then lets it go as the ball is outside off 16.3 Siddle to Vijay , FOUR , beautiful shot from Vijay. Shaped in by Siddle , Vijay leant on it and then caressed it wide of mid-on. Pristine timing from Vijay and nothing more than that 16.2 Siddle to Vijay , no run , left alone by Vijay as Siddle bowls in the corridor of uncertainty 16.1 Siddle to Vijay , no run , pitched up on off stump , Vijay presses forward to defend to cover 15.6 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , Pujara is solid as he defends an off stump delivery 15.5 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , driven back to Marsh who fields Two slips and a gully for Marsh 15.4 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , short delivery banged in , Pujara yanks his head out of the way and lets it go. That carried well to Haddin 15.3 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , fullish on off , Pujara pushes to mid-on , decides against the single in the end 15.2 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , Pujara gets forward and blocks solidly to mid-off 15.1 M Marsh to Vijay , 1 run , worked wide of mid-on for an easy single Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Time for drinks. The pitch has n't done anything and India should ideally be without loss. The only wicket to fall has been that of Dhawan who went playing an expansive shot. Pujara and Vijay from then on have survived a couple of close calls , but have largely looked assured. The Aussies know that it 's a patience game on this and are willing to bide their time . 14.6 Siddle to Pujara , no run , third leave in a row as Siddle hits the outside off channel 14.5 Siddle to Pujara , no run , good length outside off , Pujara shoulders arms 14.4 Siddle to Pujara , no run , leaves that fuller length delivery outside off all alone 14.3 Siddle to Pujara , no run , the first delivery that Siddle has produced that has done something off the seam , it straightens past the forward defence of Pujara. Pujara did n't push out , but the straightening beat him comprehensively 14.2 Siddle to Pujara , no run , defended to short mid-wicket 14.1 Siddle to Vijay , 3 runs , expansive from Vijay - as he plays on the rise , away from the body and in the air it was , just short of the diving gully , a bit of tag-team work keeps the batsmen down to three 13.6 Johnson to Pujara , FOUR , another fine drive. Johnson guilty of overpitching once more and this time Pujara sends it through cover. Once it hit the gap , it was a boundary and it beat the fielder chasing after it 13.5 Johnson to Pujara , 4 runs , they run four ! Pitched up outside off , Pujara essays a firm drive past mid-off , the ball plugs in the outfield , by the time the fielder throws it back , they run four 13.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length outside off , punched firmly off the back foot , but finds point 13.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short ball from Johnson , Pujara watches it sail over him , just half-ducked and left it alone 13.2 Johnson to Vijay , 3 runs , almost gone ! Vijay was lured into the drive outside off , the angle sucked him into the shot , the edge was dying on Mitch Marsh diving across from 3rd slip , it just about carried , but he could n't grab it. Falls before Steve Smith next to him and they take three as the ball rushes into the gap 13.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short of length outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 13.1 Johnson to Pujara , no ball , 1 run , Johnson oversteps as he delivers a short delivery on the hips , Pujara takes one hand off the bottom handle and nudges it to deep backward square for a single 12.6 Siddle to Vijay , no run , stylishly blocked off the front foot to mid-off Kohli is padded up to come in next 12.5 Siddle to Vijay , no run , angled in on middle , flicked straight to the fielder at square leg 12.4 Siddle to Vijay , no run , that nipped back in and took the inside edge of Vijay , who did n't cover the line properly. The ball rolls to mid-wicket 12.3 Siddle to Vijay , no run , gets forward and defends to cover. Vijay is looking good out there 12.2 Siddle to Vijay , no run , on off stump , Vijay blocks solidly to mid-off 12.1 Siddle to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , Vijay leans forward to play a crisp cover drive , but picks out the fielder 11.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 143kph , slanted across Pujara on a fuller length , left alone 11.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length on off , defended to cover , Pujara wants a quick single , but Vijay sends him back as the fielder charges in 11.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length on the stumps , Pujara rises onto his toes and blocks 11.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , banged in short outside off , Pujara arches his back and then lets it go , dropping the gloves Pat Cummins is on the field. Not sure for whom though. Will update once I know 11.2 Johnson to Vijay , 3 runs , there the feet moved nicely. To the pitch of it and driven past mid-off , for three runs Three slips and a gully for Johnson in his 2nd spell 11.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay should 've left that alone. It was a very wide delivery outside off , Vijay looked to drive and missed it. The feet was stuck in lead there Mitchell Johnson [ 3.0-1-18-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Siddle to Pujara , no run , defended to short mid-wicket Two slips , a gully and a short mid-wicket catching for Siddle now 10.5 Siddle to Pujara , no run , that 's a solid block from Pujara , showing the full face of the bat back to the bowler 10.4 Siddle to Pujara , no run , Pujara looks to drive straight but it comes off a thick inside half of the bat to short mid-wicket 10.3 Siddle to Pujara , no run , on middle and leg , turned to square leg with soft hands 10.2 Siddle to Pujara , no run , short of length outside off , Pujara watches it and then lets it go 10.1 Siddle to Pujara , no run , full on off , Pujara eases it to mid-on 9.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , the short delivery is dug in by Harris and Vijay sinks under that and lets it go 9.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , wristed by Vijay and a diving stop at short mid-wicket 9.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , nips back in slightly , Vijay gently turns it to short mid-wicket. Covered the line well that time 9.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off. Either side of the man , that would 've been runs 9.2 R Harris to Vijay , 2 runs , opens the face of the bat slightly and drives wide of cover , good for a couple. Vijay as he did in England looks very compact 9.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , short of length on off , solidly forward and blocked 8.6 Siddle to Pujara , FOUR , nice shot from Pujara. Siddle has been guilty of drifting onto the pads too often this over. He is getting swing but ends up on the pads , flicked past square leg for a forceful boundary 8.5 Siddle to Pujara , 2 runs , Pujara plays a nice looking shot. Gets forward and pushes it off the full face past mid-on for a couple of runs 8.4 Siddle to Vijay , leg byes , 3 runs , once again down leg , Vijay gets an inside edge onto the pads , wide of Haddin , they take three by the time the throw comes in. The umpire signals it as leg byes 8.3 Siddle to Pujara , 1 run , Pujara will thank Siddle for that gift. On the pads , allows Pujara to clip to deep backward square , which gets him off the mark 8.2 Siddle to Vijay , 1 run , on the pads , flicked to deep backward square leg , for an easy single Siddle 's shirt is fluttering due to the breeze . 8.1 Siddle to Vijay , no run , the attempted yorker , lands at the toes of Vijay who digs it out to short mid-wicket Peter Siddle , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Clarke is shuffling his bowlers around. Just the one over for Lyon. Now Siddle given a go . 7.6 R Harris to Pujara , no run , nips back in and deflects off the pads wide of short leg , Pujara wants a run , but Vijay sends him back 7.5 R Harris to Pujara , no run , beauty first up from Harris. Lovely delivery in the channel , Pujara played inside the line and did well not to push out , still it beats the outside edge. It straightened a tad after seeming to suggest it would angle in Cheteshwar Pujara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.4 R Harris to Dhawan , out Bowled ! ! Knocked him over ! Very expansive shot attempted and Dhawan goes. Tries to drive on the rise , the bat comes down at an angle and the inside edge clatters onto the stumps. He hears the death rattle and Harris celebrates. Dhawan b R Harris 25 ( 24 ) [ 4s-5 ] R Harris to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 7.3 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on the stumps , driven back to Harris who fields on his followthrough 7.2 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , Harris will keep plugging away in that channel outside off , left alone 7.1 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhawan gets forward and then shoulders arms 6.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , on the back foot and whipped to backward square leg 6.5 Lyon to Dhawan , 1 run , nudges it past short leg , the singles keep coming 6.4 Lyon to Dhawan , FOUR , dragged down from round the wicket , Dhawan rocks back and swats it past mid-wicket. Once he got it past the man , it was always a boundary 6.3 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , just past the left-hand of short leg as Vijay flicks uppishly. Another single taken A slip and a short leg in place for Lyon 6.2 Lyon to Dhawan , 1 run , fraction short outside off , cut square of the wicket for a single 6.1 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , what was that from Vijay ? He had decided to hit Lyon first ball , charges him and drags the slog to deep square. Almost missed it , Haddin was waiting behind to stump him if that was the case Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack An interesting move. Johnson is off after just three overs. Lyon is on . 5.6 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , that should 've been put away , short and wide outside off , Dhawan 's cut finds point 5.5 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , slanted across Dhawan on a fuller length , left alone 5.4 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , short of length on off , defended off the middle of the bat to point 5.3 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , full on off stump , Dhawan comes on the front foot to block to cover 5.2 R Harris to Vijay , 3 runs , Siddle gives Vijay a gift to allow him to get off the mark. It was nicely punched on the rise and Siddle at mid-off lets it go through his hands , they take three 5.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , driven off the front foot to mid-on Looking at the first five overs , the pitch has no demons. Even Johnson is n't looking threatening. He has bowled too many boundary balls. India if they bat well should have no trouble on this wicket. But the big question is whether they can do it for a long period of time ? 4.6 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , wide of the crease and angled in , on a short of length , comfortably defended off the back foot 4.5 Johnson to Dhawan , FOUR , width from Johnson and Dhawan cashes in. Stays on the front foot and then flashes a cut through point. Johnson has a stare at Dhawan who smiles back 4.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , short of length on the stumps , Dhawan defends to the left of the bowler 4.3 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , when it 's pitched up Dhawan looks so good driving. Crisp shot but straight to the fielder at mid-off 4.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , short and pacy from Johnson , down leg , Dhawan wanted to pull and then pulled out of the shot. Lets it go 4.1 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , the Aussies go 'oooh ' after Dhawan inside-edges one onto the pads. There is a bat-pad gap and Johnson is looking to exploit that. Dhawan was late in covering up that time Now Johnson loses his run-up. The breeze put him off there . 3.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , an attempted short delivery , but Vijay has kept his eyes on it and sways out of the harm 's way 3.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , forward and neatly in line before showing the full face , the ball goes to mid-off Now Harris loses his run-up 3.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , turned to short leg 3.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , too full on the stumps , eased to mid-on , no chance of a quick single Lots of breeze out there and everything is flying off. Erasmus ' hat flew away and he has a smile on. A slight delay in play. But we are ready to play again 3.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , Harris pulls the length back , Vijay gets right behind the line and wrists it towards short mid-wicket 3.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , full on off and middle , turned to mid-on 2.6 Johnson to Dhawan , FOUR , make that three boundaries in the over. Again too full from Johnson and on the pads , flicked away emphatically to the deep mid-wicket fence. Vast acres of space and Dhawan found it 2.5 Johnson to Dhawan , FOUR , Shot Dhawan ! Shot ! Overpitched on the stumps , Dhawan presents the full face and drives powerfully past Vijay , the quick outfield does the rest. That should give him lot of confidence 2.4 Johnson to Dhawan , 2 runs , nicely done. Gets forward and pushes it wide of cover for an easy couple of runs. The feet got in line well that time 2.3 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , tight delivery on off stump , solidly blocked 2.2 Johnson to Dhawan , FOUR , poor delivery from Johnson after a cracker the previous delivery , drifts on leg , clipped away , too much timing and it beats Ryan Harris ' desperate dive at deep backward square leg , he stopped it but it rolled back over the ropes 2.1 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , what happened there ? Haddin has dropped that ! Very tough chance though. It nipped back in sharply and took the inside edge of Dhawan , Haddin was wrong-footed and by the time he went down to his right , he could only grass it. Johnson has his hands on his head , while Haddin is suprised and disappointed at the same time. Close shave for Dhawan 1.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , pushed off the front foot , 'waiting waiting ' says Vijay to Dhawan and it is stopped at mid-on with a dive 1.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , lovely bowling from Harris. Keeps plugging away in that corridor of uncertainty , full and just the tiny bit of shape away , Vijay is lured into the forward push and the ball snakes away to miss the outside edge 1.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , comes on the front foot and defends the full one back to Harris 1.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , how did Vijay miss that ? Harris and the Aussies go up for an lbw appeal. But it was always sliding down. Full and angled in , Vijay missed the flick when it was easier to get bat on that 1.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , solidly forward and blocked to cover. Vijay 's feet moved nicely to cover that Three slips , a gully and a short leg too for Harris 1.1 R Harris to Dhawan , 1 run , driven without much timing towards cover , Dhawan wants to get off the mark and sets off. Makes the single with ease as Clarke turns around and throws at his end Ryan Harris , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Johnson shows off his aggro there. It was pushed back to him and he hurtles a throw back at Vijay , hits him on the foot. Does n't even put his hand up to apologise. Just turns around to go towards the umpire 0.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , and once again Vijay sees the short one angled across and drops his hands before letting it go 0.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , I will give the BOD to Vijay there. It was a short delivery angled across him , he pulled his bat inside the line at the right moment. Nice carry to Haddin 0.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , that 's a nice stride forward from Vijay , gets forward and the front foot comes a long way out , blocked to cover 0.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short of length on the stumps , easily defended off the back foot 0.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , swing for Johnson straightaway , low full toss , it was the attempted yorker I guess , it dipped late on Vijay who patted it back to Johnson. Vijay did n't pick it initially , but did well to defend Vijay and Dhawan are at the crease. Vijay is on strike. Johnson will open the attack The players are striding out to the middle. Mitch is doing some stretching as he prepares to start off. The crowd are in good voice too - they cheer him on. Three slips , a gully and a short leg in place. Here he comes. Vijay will face off . The news coming in is that Australia have declared. Their bowlers are out there practicing. Indian batsmen too are doing the same. Glorious day today in Adelaide and we should n't expect any weather interruptions unlike yesterday. So that sets up for a cracking day of Test match cricket. It will be a stern test for the Indian batsmen against Mitch and co. Waiting to see how they cope up with it . Kohli 's maiden Test as captain has not gone according to plan. The Indian batsmen will have to score a minimum of 400 in their first innings if they are to carve out an escape route here . Weather Watch : Rain and bad light ate up 60 overs yesterday , but the Adelaide weather seems bright and sunny on the ante-penultimate day . 'There is a school of thought that Dhoni controls a game better with Jadeja. Now even Virat Kohli , has given Ashwin the cold shoulder. He has 107 wickets from 21 Test matches. The overseas stats are not with him but if the team management does n't have confidence in him , should n't they find someone else who they believe can do the job ? And more importantly what are the chances of Ashwin getting frustrated at being the water-boy ? Or is it that team director Ravi Shastri will deal with that sort of a situation.' He writes , 'R Ashwin had been to South Africa and carried water. He got a New Zealand visa on his passport and has done the water-boy duty there as well. He spent the last summer in England and did the same in three of the five Tests. And yesterday , as he found himself doing the same job after being ignored for the Adelaide Test. Leg-spinner Karn Sharma was picked ahead of him. If the BCCI was to ever start the Tourist of the Year award , Ashwin would be the lead contender. ' Here is Amit Gupta of Mumbai Mirror , asking if Ashwin is that bad ? Bhogle writes , 'Cricket showed its softer side at the Adelaide Oval and you had to be here to see it. The captain himself was not always taken kindly to by the average joe watching Australian cricket. They thought he was privileged , a bit posh , not country boy enough and unlike other Aussie captains did n't quite acquire iconic status , always seemed to have to try harder to prove he was one of the boys. And he did n't mind telling Jimmy Anderson last year to get ready for a # # * * + % @ broken arm. But it was the man he called his little brother who had died on a cricket ground and his public grieving and admirable demeanour won him many admirers. Why , he only had to get up from his chair in the pavilion and the crowd got to its feet.' Harsha Bhogle 's special for the Indian Express carries the headline : 'At Adelaide , not just another regular day in the office' 'So how did Hughes end up wearing the then vice-captain 's shirt ? Hughes was a last-minute call-up to the match - the second Test against Pakistan in 2010 - after an injured Simon Katich pulled out. The late notice caught Cricket Australia on the hop as well.' 'At first glance , there is nothing out of the ordinary with this picture of Phillip Hughes walking through the famous SCG gates in 2010. Sure , there is some pink in honour of the McGrath Foundation , and yes , people are actually using cameras , and not smartphones , to take pictures. But look closer under the Cricket Australia badge - Phillip Hughes is not wearing the now iconic No.408. Instead he has No.389 , which we all know belongs to Michael Clarke.' Andrew Wu , writing for the Sydney Morning Herald looks back at the day Hughes wore Clarke 's Test kit . 'Smith 's unbeaten 162 might be overshadowed by Clarke 's effort to overcome physical and emotional adversity to score a century , but it wo n't be forgotten. Not by any of the 15,397 people at Adelaide Oval who sat through a rain delay with Smith on 98 , then watched him raise his 5th Test century and wander over to the '408 ' painted in white on the outfield for Phillip Hughes before lifting his bat.' She writes , 'Michael Clarke and Steve Smith , Captain Courageous and his heir apparent , have found a way through the myriad challenges of the past fortnight to flatten India on the second day of the Border-Gavaskar series.' Chloe Saltau 's piece for the Age has the headline " Clarke , Smith put India to the sword' Going by Clarke 's attack-first approach , my gut feeling is that he 'll declare at the overnight score and unleash his 3-pronged pace attack led by Mitch on India. Well , let us find out. Good morning and welcome to day 3 of the opening Test between Australia and India. First up , let us have a glance through what the newspapers have in store for us . On a rain-interrupted day 2 , Michael Clarke and Steve Smith shone brightly , cracking centuries to help the hosts drive home the advantage. The former , despite being incapacitated by physical pain as well as mental pain , showcased the proverbial Aussie spirit. Steve Smith at the other end , unfurled some classy strokes and is still unbeaten on 162. The hosts smashed 163 runs in 30.4 overs yesterday. The question today is when will Australia declare ? Remember , play begins half an hour early on each of the remaining days to compensate for the 60 overs lost today due to rain coupled with fading light. Thanks for your warm company and feedback on this damp day. Hoping to catch you all on day 3. Until then , take care and cheerio . The Indian bowlers lacked rhythm and penetration with the same old story petering out. Even more worrying was their catching. It has been all gloom and doom for India. Can their batsmen step up and mask the bowling inadequacies to keep the visitors in the game ? Thankfully , the forecast for tomorrow appears brighter . The official word is that play has been suspended and it 's stumps on day 2. Australia have motored along to a position of strength in whatever play was possible today , piling up 517/7. It will only be a matter of time before the Aussies declare their innings tomorrow. Do n't be surprised if they go for the jugular , declaring at the same score . It has been a start-stop day , but Australia 's momentum was always on the upswing. Steve Smith and Michael Clarke scored hundreds each to flatten the Indian attack. Later on , both cut loose and powered the hosts past the 500-mark before Clarke departed , dragging a sweep to square leg off Karn. There is not much to cheer for the Indians , who have been chasing leather for 120 overs. Do stick around for further updates though conditions are very dark . The players troop off the field. No declaration yet from Australia. Bad light has stopped play. The umpires are having a chat with the groundstaff. A huge cloud cover still hangs over the Adelaide Oval. To make matters worse , a light drizzle has developed. This means that the covers are coming on . 119.6 Karn Sharma to Johnson , no run , pushed through flatter and outside off , Johnson is beaten on the cut 119.5 Karn Sharma to Johnson , no run , tossed up , spins in a touch but Johnson keeps it out 119.4 Karn Sharma to Johnson , no run , straight roller on middle , blocked back to Sharma 119.3 Karn Sharma to Johnson , no run , slid through on off , Johnson gets behind the line to defend it Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 119.2 Karn Sharma to Clarke , out Caught by Pujara ! ! India finally break the stand. Captain Clarke walks off to a deserved standing ovation. This has been a tremendous knock after what transpired in the last fortnight and considering his sore back as well. Pushed through on middle , Clarke aims to go for a sweep , drags it to Che at square leg off the inside half of the bat. Simple catch that and Che makes no mistake. No real celebrations from the Indian camp and the hosts will bat on. Clarke c Pujara b Karn Sharma 128 ( 163 ) [ 4s-18 ] Karn Sharma to Clarke , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 119.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , dropped and Ishant is the culprit at deep backward square. Outside leg line again from Karn , Smith gets a top edge on the sweep , the ball flies in the air. Ishant bends forward at backward square and shells it 118.6 Ishant to Clarke , no run , drop in pace , good length ball on off , Ishant keeps Clarke to a careful defence 118.5 Ishant to Clarke , FOUR , these two are just toying with the tired Indian attack. Short on middle , Clarke backs away and pulls it forcefully over mid-wicket , the ball sped away. Kohli cuts a frustrated look 118.4 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , Ishant bangs this one short and just outside off , Smith does well to pull it off the back foot to deep square leg. Well-controlled by Smith again 118.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , seeing Smith make room outside leg , Ishant sprays it down leg. Saha moves to his left and gloves the ball. Smith did not lay bat onto it 118.2 Ishant to S Smith , 2 runs , good length ball on off , Smith clears his front leg and hoicks it away to deep mid-wicket. Only a couple as the fielder hunts the ball down 118.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , length ball on middle , Smith slogs hard , only manages an inside-edge onto the pad. The ball rebounds to the off-side 117.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , Sharma pulls his length back , Clarke pushes at it with no feet movement , the ball kisses the inside edge and rolls to Saha. On another day , Clarke could have tickled it back onto the stumps 117.5 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , leg stumpish from Sharma again , worked in front of square leg 117.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , quicker and outside leg , clubbed away to deep backward square 117.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 2 runs , reverse-swept from outside off to deep backward point. The fast hands of Smith came to the fore on that occasion 117.2 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , flatter and fuller on the stumps , eased to long-off 117.1 Karn Sharma to Clarke , FOUR , pushed through on middle and leg , Clarke comes down the track and lifts it over mid-wicket. The ball travels to the cow corner fence 116.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , on a length and on the stumps , defended 116.6 Ishant to S Smith , 5 wides , wild , wild delivery from Ishant. Ishant even has a few words for Clarke. Seeing Smith back away outside leg , Ishant hurls it miles outside leg. Even a diving Saha ca n't glove the ball. Wide four for Australia and that brings up the 500 116.5 Ishant to Clarke , 1 run , back of a length and on the hips , whipped away backward of square leg 116.4 Ishant to Clarke , no run , Ishant delivers another bumper , Clarke evades it and lets it sail through to Saha 116.3 Ishant to Clarke , no run , Australia continue to ride their luck. Dug in shortish and on the leg stump , Clarke checks his shot and chips it in the air. The ball lands in no-man 's land between mid-wicket and mid-on. Rahane , who was charging in from mid-on ca n't catch it. Neither can a back-tracking Pujara from mid-wicket 116.2 Ishant to Clarke , no run , Ishant tests Clarke with a bouncer on the leg stump , the Aussie skipper gets his head out of the way 116.1 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , on a length and on off , heaved in the air over mid-wicket. Karn gets across from the deep , but the ball lands in front of him Ishant Sharma [ 25.0-5-71-1 ] is back into the attack 115.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , floated up just a shade outside off , Smith taps it wide of cover with an open face 115.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , another one quicker through the air on middle and leg , Smith misses the sweep and the ball lobs to the leg-side 115.4 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , pushed through straighter , flicked to deep mid-wicket 115.3 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 2 runs , Clarke gets enough bat on the sweep , gets an inside edge down to fine leg 115.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 3 runs , Smith makes room outside leg , Sharma tosses it fuller. Smith gets an outside edge on the swish which flies over first slip. Kohli got a fingertip onto it , but only parried it away to deep third man. Perhaps , the Indian captain was a tad late to react. Another chance put down 115.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , pushed through on the leg stump , Smith does not meet with the sweep 114.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , flicked to the man at mid-wicket 114.5 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , 150 for Steve Smith and he raises his bat to acknowledge the cheers from the crowd. He reaches the landmark by pulling it to the leg-side 114.4 Shami to Clarke , 1 run , banged in short on middle , Clarke moves across and controls a pull to fine leg , though the ball rose alarmingly 114.3 Shami to Clarke , no run , pitched up further on off , Clarke has to settle with a block back to Shami 114.2 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , short and wide outside off , cut away to deep point 114.1 Shami to Clarke , 1 run , fraction back of a length and on off , pushed in front of square on the off-side for a single 113.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , Sharma gives this some air outside off , Smith loads up for a reverse sweep but does not connect with it properly. Gloves it wide of Saha. It was not far away from the off pole either 113.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , Sharma shortens his length , Smith is struck high on the body as he misses the sweep 113.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , Smith tries to make room outside leg , Sharma follows him with a flat dart which is dug back to the bowler 113.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , pushed through on the leg stump again , swept in the air , Pujara dives to his left at square leg , but the ball lops out of his hands. That would go down as a dropped chance 113.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , outside leg from round the wicket , Smith misses the sweep A change of bat for Steve Smith now . 113.1 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , Clarke steps out , goes for an ugly heave , drags it behind square leg off the inside half of the bat 112.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , Smith backs away , Shami spears in a yorker on middle , which is squirted to the off-side 112.5 Shami to Clarke , 1 run , dragged short on off , Clarke rocks back and pulls it to deep square leg , he rolled his wrists and kept the ball down 112.4 Shami to Clarke , no run , shortish and climbing on off , Clarke fends it back to Shami 112.3 Shami to Clarke , no run , bumper from round the stumps , Clarke lets it sail over him. One for the over says , ump Gould 112.2 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Smith steps away a bit and flays it to sweeper cover 112.1 Shami to S Smith , 2 runs , straying onto the pads , flicked behind square on the leg-side. Smith comes back for the second as well 111.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , fired on middle , Smith unfurls another sweep and hits it to deep backward square leg to keep strike 111.5 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , Karn Sharma gives this some air outside off , forward and driven past the covers 111.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , pushed through quicker , Smith succeeds in sweeping this firmly through backward square leg. There is protection in the deep though 111.3 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , flat darted just outside off , Clarke shuffles across and turns it wide of mid-wicket 111.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , Karn Sharma drags his length back on middle and leg , whipped off the back foot to deep square leg 111.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , angled leg stumpish from round the wicket , Smith kneels down but misses the sweep Play is expected to recommence at 17 : 20 local time. Clarke and Smith march out to the middle to resume Australia 's charge. The hosts have n't delclared , yet . The groundstaff are being cheered as they remove the covers. Rain has stopped. Looks like play will resume after all . Check out Chetan Narula 's latest tweet. Not good news though. 'Still raining. Darker now. Quite gloomy. Do n't see any more play happening today. But waiting.' The rain is getting heavier and the bigger covers are coming on. Another long delay beckons us . There we go again ! It has started to rain and the players are heading towards the dressing room. Clarke and Smith go back to standing ovations. The small session also belonged to Australia. They came out with an attacking mindset and keeping a total in mind. The skipper soon got to his 28th Test ton after which Smith took centrestage , he carved the bowling to all parts of the ground and went on to register his highest Test score. We might see India coming out to bat , if play resumes again , but there is no official word yet. We will keep you posted with the latest developments. Do stay tuned ! 110.6 Shami to Clarke , FOUR , Indians not learning quickly , it was short and Clarke makes the room to provide himself width , he toe-ends the cut past slip and gully to pick up the third boundary of the over 110.5 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , full and on off , Smith shuffles across and clips it to deep mid-wicket 110.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , short of length close to off , Smith dabs it to gully , where Dhawan dives and stops the ball 110.3 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , Smith is in T20 mode now , slower delivery around off , he makes room and lofts it inside out over extra cover , the ball travelled to the boundary in no time 110.2 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , Smith showing the range of shots he has got , back of a length just outside off , he stays in the crease , opens the bat face and steers it past a diving Dhawan at gully , no one at third man and it was another boundary 110.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , Shami gets away with a short and wide one , Smith cuts it straight to Rohit at extra cover Mohammed Shami [ 21.0-2-99-2 ] is back into the attack 109.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , again , it is dropped half way down the pitch , Smith has ample time to go back and punch it to sweeper cover 109.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , fraction short and outside off , Smith cuts and finds backward point 109.4 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , comfortably done , meets the pitch of the ball by chipping out of the crease , drives it to long-off 109.3 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , floated up on off , Clarke skips out and blocks it to the off-side 109.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it to long-off 109.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , stumping missed ! Karn Sharma is denied his second Test wicket by Saha. Flighted just outside off , Smith comes down the track and tries to play it against the turn to the on-side , he misses and Saha too fails to gather the ball. Smith was long way down the wicket and that was an easy chance 108.6 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , another short one which is dealt with ease , Smith rocks back and pulls it to deep square leg 108.5 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , slapped ! Short and outside off , Smith had plenty of width to free his arms , he plays it with a flat-bat over the bowler 's head , umpire Gould was ducking for cover . 108.4 Aaron to S Smith , 2 runs , bouncer on the stumps , Smith rolls his wrists and pulls it along the turf to fine leg , Shami shows off his footballing skills , he puts out his right leg and stops it from reaching the fence Goes round the wicket 108.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , bumper well wide of off , Smith ca n't reach it and it thuds into Saha 's gloves 108.2 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , Australia have a declaration on their mind , full and on the stumps , Smith gets his front leg out of the way and heaves it over mid-wicket for the second boundary of the over. It also brings up the 450 108.1 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , bang ! Short delivery outside off , Smith backs away and flat-bats the pull over mid-on , the ball bounces a couple of times before reaching the fence 107.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , easy single ! Slower and on off , Smith shuffles across and works it square on the leg-side 107.5 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , shortens the length on middle , Clarke gets inside the line and nurdles it to long leg 107.4 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Clarke is forward and defends to mid-wicket 107.3 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , drives and picks out the cover fielder 107.2 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , almost dragged on , touch quicker and close to off , Clarke camps on the back foot and chops the cut past the stumps , Saha stretches his left hand and collects it. That was too close to the sticks 107.1 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , floated up just outside off , Clarke comes down the track and blocks 106.6 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , it would be harsh to call that a drop. Aaron had no time to react and he did well to get his hands to it. Pitched up close to off , Smith clears his front leg and hammers it in the air straight at the bowler , who got both hands and the ball burst through them 106.5 Aaron to S Smith , no run , back of a length on off , Smith hangs back and blocks it to the on-side 106.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , short and climbs up steeply just outside off , Smith tries the ramp shot over the slip cordon , but misses 106.3 Aaron to S Smith , 2 runs , full and around off , Smith makes room and drills the drive to sweeper cover , Ishant runs across , tumbles and stops the ball , his hat falls on the ball. The umpire does not bother to check it , because as per laws of the game , if the ball touches a fielder 's cap/hat the batting team is awarded 5 penalty runs 106.2 Aaron to Clarke , 1 run , dug in half way down the pitch , Clarke gets on top of the bounce and pulls it to deep square leg 106.1 Aaron to Clarke , no run , Clarke wants to take on the bowling now , backs away towards the leg-side and looks to carve it away , fails to make contact and that was very close to the outside edge 105.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , takes couple of steps forward and blocks 105.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , FOUR , half tracker outside off and plenty of width on offer , Smith goes deep in the crease and cuts it to the sweeper cover fence 105.4 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , eased down to long-on 105.3 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , nice loopy delivery , Clarke shimmies down the track and drives it to cover 105.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , flighted around off , Smith gets too close to the ball , ends up taking it on the full , squeezed to long-on 105.1 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , tossed up on off , Clarke uses his feet , converts it into a full toss and drives it to long-on Karn Sharma [ 25.0-1-109-1 ] is back into the attack 104.6 Aaron to Clarke , 1 run , Clarke registers his 28th Test hundred , this is also his 7th at the Adelaide Oval. He takes off the helmet and kisses the emblem on that , waves his bat to the crowd and to his family , who have gathered to see him get to the landmark. No emotions being shown by the Australian skipper. Aaron drifts on the pads , Clarke glances it to fine leg to bring up his ton 104.5 Aaron to Clarke , no run , short of length on off , Clarke gets right behind the line and defends solidly to the on-side , shouts " no " for the single 104.4 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , short and outside off , Smith stays leg-side of the ball and cuts square of the wicket Back over the wicket for Smith. He only has a slip and gully in place. . 104.3 Aaron to Clarke , 1 run , again , banged in short , does n't rise much , Clarke swivels and pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 104.2 Aaron to Clarke , no run , another well directed short delivery , Clarke looks to pull , but decides against it and lets it go. The umpire says two for the over 104.1 Aaron to Clarke , no run , there it comes , bouncer angled into the batsman , Clarke sinks under it and lets it pass Aaron , Kohli and Rahane have a discussion. He starts from round the wicket. We can expect some short stuff Varun Aaron [ 20.0-1-111-2 ] is back into the attack 103.6 Vijay to S Smith , no run , Vijay nearly picks up a wicket , goes straight on outside off , Smith plunges forward and pushes hard , the ball takes the edge and falls short of Dhawan at slip 103.5 Vijay to S Smith , no run , plays a crisp drive straight to cover 103.4 Vijay to S Smith , no run , flighted on off , Smith skips out of the crease and drives it to mid-wicket Clarke and Smith are ready to resume. Vijay will continue . Latest tweet from @ CricketAus : The final session of day two is scheduled for 3 : 30pm-6 : 30pm local time. No tea break . Some Indian players are already out in the arena warming up . Play to resume at 15 : 30 local time which is just 10 minutes away. Fingers crossed ! The umpires are out and inspecting the playing conditions. Most of the covers are peeled off , apart from the one which is covering the wicket. Even that is being removed right now . Here 's the latest tweet from @ CricketAus , " Round of applause as @ TheAdelaideOval ground staff enter the arena. They are preparing to take the covers off... it appears. " Finally , some good news coming through and hopefully , it is not a short-lived one. However , there is plenty of water logged on the ground and it may take a while for the groundsmen to clear it. The covers are coming off , but it is still gloomy . Due to the overs lost today , play will start at 10 : 00 local time tomorrow which is half an hour earlier than the scheduled start . The rain seems to have got heavier. ABC Grandstand have tweeted , " Not a good sight at the Adelaide Oval with play delayed due to rain. Could be a while before we get going again. " Not much change in the weather , it is still raining . The players are off again. This time Clarke is on 98. Kyly Clarke is not too pleased as she has her hands on her head. The Indians are slowly trudging off the field. It is raining quite heavily at the moment. The 11 balls that were bowled were enough for Smith to bring up his 5th Test hundred. As has been the norm with the Australian batsmen whenever they reach a milestone , they dedicated it to Phil Hughes. Smith too had his own way , dedicating the ton to his mate , he walked up to the 408 that was etched on the ground and pointed his bat towards it after which Clarke embraced him in a hug. Now , we wait for Clarke 's hundred and how is he going to celebrate it ? Stay tuned to find out as we keep you updated.. . 103.3 Vijay to S Smith , no run , too full and just outside off , Smith squeezes the drive back to the bowler 103.2 Vijay to Clarke , 1 run , tossed up on off , Clarke comes down the track and clips it to deep mid-wicket 103.1 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , Vijay sees the batsman advance and drags the length back , Smith adjusts and works it to deep square leg Murali Vijay [ 12.0-3-27-0 ] is back into the attack 102.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , FOUR , Karn Sharma is under pressure , drops it short and outside off , Clarke has enough time to pick his spot , he flashes the cut square of the wicket , the fielder runs across , dives but ca n't stop the ball. Clarke one hit away from his hundred 102.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , short and turning away outside off , Smith cuts it to sweeper cover 102.4 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 3 runs , very well bowled by Karn Sharma , throws this up well wide of off , Clarke shimmies down the pitch and has to reach for it , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away wide of the backward point fielder 102.3 Karn Sharma to Clarke , FOUR , lovely shot ! No problems when he is dancing down the wicket , meets the pitch of the ball and lofts it beautifully straight back over the bowlers head 102.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , uses his feet , takes it on the full and eases it to long-on 102.1 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , another round of applause from the crowd as the score board reads 408 , Phillip Hughes ' Test cap number. Flighted delivery on off , Clarke drives it to mid-off and scampers across for a quick single Karn Sharma [ 24.0-1-95-1 ] is back into the attack 101.6 Aaron to S Smith , no run , shortens the length around off , Smith punches and picks out cover 101.5 Aaron to S Smith , 2 runs , wow ! What emotions from Smith ! Reaches his 5th Test hundred. Takes off his helmet , walks upto the 408 etched on the ground , points his bat towards that and then upwards , honouring his mate Phil Hughes. Clarke goes upto him and embraces him with a hug. The people in the stands are up on their feet applauding Smith. Coming to the ball , it was a back of a length on middle and leg , Smith neatly clips it to deep mid-wicket for a brace All set for play to begin. Smith on strike on 98. Aaron to continue . The rain has eased. The covers are being removed and if there is no further rain , play will start at 13 : 30 local time. Indians are seen waiting in the dugout . It is still overcast as the umpires make their way out to the middle. Well , the players who would made their way out to the ground have been asked to return as it has started raining. The groundsmen are covering the square. It is not a heavy shower , but enough to not let play start . The current update is that play will start at 13 : 00 local time , which is less than 10 minutes away. The break might have helped both teams , Clarke would have had the physio work on his back while the Indian bowlers would have assessed where they went wrong in the morning session. The visitors need to get rid of both the set batsmen if they have to restrict them to under 500. Can they be able to do that ? Or will Clarke and Smith get to their respective hundreds ? Answers coming up in a short while.. . As soon as the umpires called for an early lunch , the rain makes an apperance once more. It 's that kind of a day. Stop-start all day. Even the weather prediction is for the same. We 'll be back soon for the second session as and when it happens. Why do n't you grab something to eat as we too head for the same. Do stay tuned though . Good news : the covers are coming off. Which means we should get in some more play before the players take lunch. Strike that off ! The umpires have decided it 's time for an early lunch. So I will keep the session summary short and sweet. Play started 10 minutes late due a wet outfield. Then India bowled miserably allowing Smith and Clarke easy runs. The rain came down to bring some respite to the beleaguered visitors. So that is that then ! Seems like the rain is still falling. So nothing has changed. Keep waiting folks for an update. We 'll have it as and when we know of one . This is a tweet from CricketTalkback concerning today 's weather : 'The Adelaide Bureau of Meteorology says we will have intermittent rain throughout the day , with the chance of a thunderstorm later.' Pretty poor stuff from India this morning. They had the momentum from yesterday , but as we have seen umpteen times in the past , they came up well short. There was no intensity , summed up by Ishant 's first delivery to Smith - which was a gift , short and wide outside off. Shami and Aaron have failed to impose any pressure and the Aussies have moved to 405. Clarke despite being troubled with a bad back has n't been worried by what the Indians have served up so far . Now they are going off. Smith is running off. Sharp shower this. Clarke is walking off. The big hessian cover is brought on to drape the pitch. A slight breeze is blowing across the ground as well . 101.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , pushes him on the back foot with a back of a length delivery , defended to cover 101.3 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , Clarke applauds that shot from his partner Smith. Long half-volley from Aaron , Smith leant on the stroke and drove it crisply between cover and mid-off. Just the two away now from a ton 101.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , much better from Aaron - full and outside off , Smith is forward-defending to point 101.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , short of length outside off , punched to point , straight to the fielder 100.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , Shami brings Clarke on the front foot , a mistimed drive - off the thick inside half - to mid-on 100.5 Shami to Clarke , no run , that 's a cracking cut , 'catch it ' was the call , but drops before deepish point 100.4 Shami to Clarke , no run , wide of the crease goes Shami , bowls it full , produces a false stroke from Clarke who goes for an aggressive flash , the thick inside edge bounces over the stumps. Once again Clarke is n't happy with himself 100.3 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , shuffles across and then whips it wide of mid-on , the single is taken 100.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , drifts onto the pads now and is lucky that he has n't been punished. Flicked straight to Karn at mid-wicket 100.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , Shami changes ends and Smith starts him off by defending off the back foot Mohammed Shami [ 20.0-2-98-2 ] is back into the attack 99.6 Aaron to Clarke , FOUR , second time he has played that 'statue stroke ' and both times the result is a boundary. Stays there still , the bat comes around and he just deflects it into the fence , over point. Nothing short delivery from Aaron , no pace , it was outside off and allowed easy access to Clarke 99.5 Aaron to Clarke , no run , fraction short outside off , cut straight to the fielder at point 99.4 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , nice looking punch that from Smith , into the gap at cover , but just a single as the fielder dives across The umpires have called for the covers. After a chat with the batsmen they decide to stay on. The crowd clap in approval. One of the groundstaff has a word with Ian Gould and then jogs off. So we will play on 99.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , full on off , whipped beautifully by Smith , but finds mid-on 99.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , stands tall and punches to cover 99.1 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , very bad bowling that. Down leg and it just needed a tickle which Smith provided , beating deep backward square quite easily It seems to be drizzling right now at the Adelaide Oval. The lights are on as well . 98.6 Ishant to Clarke , no run , takes a step towards his off stump and then leaves that outside off offering alone 98.5 Ishant to Clarke , no run , Clarke is n't happy with another false stroke. Wanted to punch that through on the off-side , chopped to the right of the bowler off a thickish inside edge 98.4 Ishant to Clarke , no run , well-timed straight drive , but fielded by Ishant on his followthrough 98.3 Ishant to Clarke , no run , Ishant forces a false stroke out of Clarke. The Aussie skipper wanted to play it through cover , but the seam movement took the thickish inside half and went to mid-on. Also there was a tiny gap between bat and pad. Something to note for Ishant 98.2 Ishant to Clarke , no run , another well-judged leave even as Ishant is hitting that channel outside off 98.1 Ishant to Clarke , no run , that nipped back in a long way , but only after Clarke left it alone. Saha moves to his right to collect 97.6 Aaron to S Smith , no run , Smith shoulders arms to a delivery that nipped back in slightly , but he knew where his off stump was , even as the ball went close to it 97.5 Aaron to S Smith , no run , well fielded Che ! Driven on the rise and it looked to be heading to the boundary , but a diving Che at cover kept it to a dot 97.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , solidly blocked to mid-off 97.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , oohs and aahs from the Indians. Swing for Aaron , Smith fell across as he went for the flick. Hit on the pad , but it would 've been sliding down leg. Aaron has a word with Erasmus who tells him the same 97.2 Aaron to Clarke , 1 run , slides onto the pads , clipped to deep square leg Interesting to see how Aaron goes here. Yesterday he was having problems with his hammy. Two slips in and a gully in for him 97.1 Aaron to Clarke , no run , tight delivery on off stump , Clarke opens the face of the bat and defends to point Varun Aaron [ 17.0-1-95-2 ] is back into the attack 96.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , Smith 's bat turned in his hand and that foiled the timing on the stroke , played to cover 96.5 Ishant to Clarke , 1 run , rolls his wrists and then pulls it to deep square leg , he is labouring for the single , then sees the throw coming at his end , sprints 96.4 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , 'wait ' was the initial call and then after it passed short cover , they run for the single 96.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith gets forward and plays a solid forward defensive back to the bowler 96.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , brings the line closer to off , still does n't make Smith play A slip , a widish gully and a short cover in for Ishant. Not attacking is Kohli 96.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , on a length and outside off , left alone 95.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , uses his feet and finds silly mid-on 95.5 Karn Sharma to Clarke , FOUR , Kyly Clarke certainly liked that shot. She is seen clapping her hubby 's whip. Just a back foot wristed punchy whip and the ball whistles to the fence in a flash. The fielder on the fence had no chance 95.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , on the middle and leg line , worked to deep square leg 95.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , Smith uses his feet and then pads it away , Karn Sharma thought about a mild appeal for lbw , but decided against it 95.2 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , uses his feet and clips it to mid-on , a quick single taken. The fielder should 've done much better there , testing Clarke 's dodgy back Just a lone slip in for Karn Sharma 95.1 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , uses his feet and then drives it back to Karn Sharma Karn Sharma [ 23.0-1-89-1 ] is back into the attack 94.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pulls the length back and that allows Smith an easier back foot defensive stroke 94.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , carries nicely to Saha after Smith lets it go 94.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , Ishant is hitting a nice channel outside off , Smith leaves for now 94.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , driven to short cover where Jinks dives to his left to field. Good stop that 94.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , Smith meanwhile has no such troubles. He calmly shoulders arms to a delivery outside off 94.1 Ishant to Clarke , 1 run , was that a grimace or a yelp of pain from Clarke ? He swiveled on the back foot and then pulled to deep square leg. Completes the single and then puffs his cheeks out. Was in pain after finishing the stroke 93.6 Shami to Clarke , 1 run , swing for Shami , but wrong line , down leg , easily clipped to deep backward square leg where Ishant fields 93.5 Shami to Clarke , no run , bang on middle , Clarke 's broad defensive blade answers 93.4 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , Smith uses the too-straight delivery and then wrists it to deep backward square leg 93.3 Shami to Clarke , 1 run , now shuffles outside leg , the ball is bowled into his hips , he tucks it to square leg and takes the single Clarke clearly is hampered by the bad back. He wants to get as many runs as possible , as quickly as possible. Not running fluently too. India should target him with more short stuff , to make him stretch and bend a little 93.2 Shami to Clarke , no run , short over the left-shoulder , Clarke just watches it sail past him. Again stood still 93.1 Shami to Clarke , FOUR , Clarke has decided to play aggressively due to his sore back. What a shot that is. The feet does n't move at all. Looked like a statue playing a stroke. Stood there and then carved it over point. The width was there and he let the hands do the rest. Superb stuff ! 92.6 Ishant to S Smith , FOUR , fraction short outside off and that 's all Smith wanted , onto it in a flash as he moved towards the ball and the rich punch beats the diving point before scooting away. The timing was beautiful that time from Stevie Smith 92.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back and across before getting forward to drive to mid-off. Aaron keeps it to a dot 92.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith stays low and defends it back to Ishant 92.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shuffles across and then defends solidly off the back foot to a back of a length delivery outside off 92.2 Ishant to S Smith , FOUR , that 's a good delivery and nearly got through Smith 's defence. The batsman though got an inside edge on the drive , the ball beats the chasing Pujara who just escorted it into the fence , did n't dive , Che ! 92.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , nips back in , but Smith sees that well and opts to shoulder arms 91.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , opens the face of the bat and taps it to point. Shouts 'wait ' to Smith 91.5 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , Smith gets an under edge on the pull , good stop by Saha diving to his left to get some glove on the ball , a quick single is still taken 91.4 Shami to Clarke , 1 run , Clarke is looking ginger and awkward at the crease. Now he backs away , showing all three stumps , squeezes it to the right of point where Karn Sharma makes a diving stop and keeps it to a single 91.3 Shami to Clarke , 2 runs , Clarke grimaced after he played the pull , hit high on the bat , but got it in the gap over mid-wicket. As soon as he played the shot , the facial expression showed pain , but he completed the couple eventually Clarke is wearing an armguard today. Not sure I have seen that before with him 91.2 Shami to Clarke , no run , tries to play another forcing stroke through the off-side , no timing this time and the ball finds point 91.1 Shami to Clarke , FOUR , crunched ! Smashed by Clarke as Shami offers him a short and wide delivery outside off , Clarke got a boundary through cover. No-one moved on the off-side 90.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , in the corridor of uncertainty and then after Smith leaves , it moves away and Saha gathers 90.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , short of length outside off , Smith lifts his bat and lets it go 90.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shuffles across a tad to cover off stump and then defends to mid-off 90.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , that cut back in , but not close enough to make Smith play , left alone 90.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , much better , nips back in a tad , but Smith defends solidly off the back foot 90.1 Ishant to S Smith , FOUR , rank bad delivery , very poor from Ishant first up. Short and wide outside off , begging to be hit and Smith smashes it into the gap at cover. Had to reach out , but put it in the gap. A gift accepted with glee Ishant Sharma [ 20.0-4-56-1 ] is back into the attack 89.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , the attempted short delivery from Shami , dug in , Clarke bends a little and then yanks his head out of the way to let it go 89.5 Shami to Clarke , no run , ooh ! So close to the outside edge as Clarke plays a loose drive and gets beaten. That swung away from him and he went after it trying to lash that through cover , luckily did n't feather it. Oohs and aahs from the Indians 89.4 Shami to Clarke , no run , back of a length on the stumps , Clarke stands tall and defends solidly 89.3 Shami to Clarke , no run , pitched up outside off , driven crisply , but straight to the fielder at short cover The players are walking out to begin proceedings on day 2. Steve Smith is shadow-practicing a few defensive strokes. What do we have here ? Michael Clarke is out there as well. Shami will begin with the ball - completing the over remaining from yesterday . Here is some news about the start of play. A tweet from CricketTalkback : 'There will be a ten minute delay before play today , due to the weather.' There was a slight drizzle at the Adelaide Oval a few minutes ago , but that should n't delay proceedings. We are on course for a prompt start . Update on Clarke injury : " Clarke had some improvement overnight and he 's feeling a bit better today. He was quite ginger this morning but he is very determined to bat " said Alex Kountouris , the Australian team physio . Karn became India 's 283rd Test player . Warner also became the fourth Australian to have recorded at least 10 centuries after 33 Tests , joining an elite company that includes the likes of Sir Don Bradman and Neil Harvey from the famed 'Invincibles ' squad of 1948 . With his 10th Test ton , Warner passed 500 Test runs vs India . So that 's a wrap of the newspaper segment. But here are a few stat bytes that happened yesterday 'While the other two seamers were struggling , Ishant felt 'ball ulta ho raha hai ' ( ball is reversing ) as early in the 10th over. If the Delhi lad continues in similar fashion , he 's in for a good Test match.' Here is Sahil Malhotra for the Indian Express. 'Both Mohammed Shami and Varun Aaron were keeping it too full and too wide to David Warner , who was converting them into boundaries with utmost ease. The little dynamo dispatched the ball to all parts of the park , and got his side off to a flying start.' 'That 's a lot of plane flights and while the World Cup is a big lure , Clarke may soon have to revisit the topic of a retirement from the white-ball game at international level if his injury dramas continue into 2015. ' adds Buckle Following the tragic death of former Test teammate Phillip Hughes last month in a freak accident in a Sheffield Shield game , Australia coach and selector Darren Lehmann admitted he was desperate to have Clarke in the side for the first Test because of his off-field and on-field leadership skills. However the gamble has backfired , with Clarke reaching an unbeaten 60 before making a jerking movement to avoid a bouncer and then pulling up very sore . He says , 'A busy summer that concludes with the World Cup on home soil followed by Test tours of West Indies and England seem a long way away for the 33-year-old Clarke. The skipper went into the Adelaide Test under an injury cloud after his breakdown in a one-day game against South Africa in Perth on November 14 , which was his third hamstring strain in three months . Greg Buckle , writing for the Herald Sun , throws the spotlight on Clarke 's injury . 'There were no half-measures as Warner applied a poultice of red ink to his wounds. His first scoring shots were 4-4-4-1-4-4-4 and the third over was not yet bowled. He looked nervous , and his movements between balls were a little dreamy , not his usual fast-twitch routines. But nothing can better soothe a batsman 's nerves than looking at the scoreboard and seeing he is 35 not out when everyone is still rubbing the sleep out of their eyes. While losing Rogers , Shane Watson and some of his velocity , Warner never lost his flow.' He writes , 'That settles that , then. How do traumatised Australian cricketers react under pressure ? Much like anyone else : they reach for what is familiar. David Warner , Michael Clarke and Steven Smith , three young Australians whose tears have watered the SCG wicket this past fortnight , fell back on the fundamental comforts of steady eye , straight bat and unfettered swing of the blade that was , in the language of batting , ample tribute to Phillip Hughes.' Malcolm Knox 's piece for the Sydney Morning Herald wears the headline : 'David Warner 's century shows game 's continuity had been jolted , not stopped.' India would have been lifted by the wickets of Haddin , Lyon and Marsh before stumps on day 1 , but the Aussies are still in the ascendancy at 354/6 and with Steve Smith unbeaten on 72. The likes of Mitch Johnson and Ryan Harris can wield the willow as well. Greetings and welcome to day 2 of the first Test between Australia and India. An interesting morning session beckons. But , before the action resumes , let us customarily flick through the newspapers segment . Day 1 at the Adelaide Oval was a sentimental affair , but Australia hardly compromised on hard cricket with David Warner leading the way with a top century. " I had a gut feeling that my little mate was down the other end with me the whole time from ball one. Up the other end laughing at me about all the support and all the people who 've sent their messages down to him " said the 28-year old of Phillip Hughes. India 's late fightback and Clarke 's back injury though blotted what would have been an otherwise perfect day for the Aussies . The latest update on Clarke is that he has had injections on his back and will be monitored closely. Well , that 's it for today. Will Smith drive home Australia 's advantage ? Or will India build on the late strikes ? Do join us back tomorrow to find out. We will be up and revving early as promised. Until then , take care and goodbye ! Ishant hit the deck hard on a few occasions but did not lead the attack the way he was expected to. Meanwhile , Karn Sharma settled down nicely to have Warner holing out in the deep. It would be too early to judge him , considering that the legendary Anil Kumble conceded 114 runs for only one wicket on day 1 of the Adelaide Test in 2003 . Smith and Marsh fortified Australia further with an 87-run stand before India struck back with the second new ball. Lyon was sent in as a nightwatchman to protect Haddin. However , it was not to be with both perishing at the fag end of the day. After leaking runs in the first two sessions , Shami and Aaron took two wickets apiece . Warner was the star of the day , smashing a buccaneering hundred - his fifth of the year - to lead Australia 's charge after losing Rogers early. Watson too did not last long on his return from injury , but Clarke and Smith helped themselves to fifties. Australia though had a major alarm with Clarke injuring his back and leaving the ground , retired hurt on 60 . Stumps , Day 1 : After losing the first two sessions , India have marginally pulled things back in the final session of day 1. The day began on an emotional note with the players paying tributes to the late Phil Hughes. Warner , leaping up in the air , reaching out to Hughes , Smith pointing to his black armband after reaching 63 , were other enduring images of the day , as Test cricket rolled back to normal service . 89.2 Shami to Haddin , out Caught by W Saha ! ! Shami has his man now. Haddin departs for a duck off what is the last ball of day 1. This was a fine ball - fuller and leaving Haddin outside off. He dabbles at it and nicks it through to Saha who dives forward to glove the ball. So , some encouragement for the visitors at stumps. Haddin c W Saha b Shami 0 ( 5 ) Shami to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 89.1 Shami to Haddin , no run , fuller and outside off , Haddin pokes at it , gets an outside edge which bounces in front of gully. Kohli though dives to his right to stop the ball Last over of the day coming up . 88.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , flighted and full on off , Smith presses it back to the bowler 88.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , slid through outside off , left alone 88.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , pushed through outside off again , Smith steps out again , blocking it with his pad. Hit well outside off 88.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , Karn Sharma gives this more air outside off , Smith steps out and wears it on his pad 88.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , floated around off , dabbed wide of cover 88.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , fuller on middle , Smith steps out and flicks it to mid-wicket. Rahane makes a diving save Karn Sharma [ 22.0-0-89-1 ] is back into the attack Here is Karn with a newish ball. Lone slip in . 87.6 Shami to Haddin , leg byes , 2 runs , fuller on the leg stump , which means an escape route for Haddin. He did not lay bat on the flick , but tickles it off the pads towards fine leg 87.5 Shami to Haddin , no run , good length ball attacking off , defended to silly mid-on now 87.4 Shami to Haddin , no run , pitched up and on off , blocked to silly mid-off Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 87.3 Shami to Lyon , out Bowled ! ! The nightwatchman ploy backfires for Australia. Good length ball nips back in slightly , Lyon pushes at it , and gets an inside edge. The ball rebounds off the pad and rattles the timber. Shami flashes a smile after a fruitless toil in the first couple of sessions. The middle stump is pegged back. Lyon b Shami 3 ( 14 ) Shami to Lyon , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 87.2 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , straight in line , Smith shuffles across and unfurls a flick wide of mid-wicket 87.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , pitched up on off , keeps a bit low as well , blocked back to Shami 86.6 Aaron to Lyon , no run , good length ball around off , Lyon comes on the front foot and defends it to mid-off. Aaron 's speed has dipped alarmingly 86.5 Aaron to Lyon , no run , Aaron drags his length back , the line is outside off again , Lyon is happy to lift his bat and let it go 86.4 Aaron to Lyon , no run , on a length and outside off , left alone 86.3 Aaron to S Smith , 3 runs , low full toss on the fourth stump , Smith eases a drive straight down the ground. He timed it well but the ball was chased down by Karn. Remember , the straight boundaries are the longest at the Adelaide Oval 86.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , fuller and on middle , Smith keeps it out 86.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , good length ball around off , defended 85.6 Shami to Lyon , no run , nip-backer from Shami ! Lyon does not read this as he shoulders arms , wearing it high on his thigh pad. Leg before could have come into play if this was a much fuller ball 85.5 Shami to Lyon , no run , good length ball angled on off , Lyon comes forward and defends it towards cover 85.4 Shami to Lyon , no run , edged , but dies down in front of a diving Saha. Teasing full ball in the channel of uncertainty , Lyon prods at it with little feet movement. The thin edge lands in front of the keeper 85.3 Shami to Lyon , no run , good length ball nips in a bit from outside off , Lyon judges it well and shoulders arms again 85.2 Shami to Lyon , no run , similar length and around off , Lyon blocks it stoutly to cover 85.1 Shami to Lyon , no run , back of a length and outside off , Lyon lifts his bat and lets it go The physio has a chat with Aaron by the edge of the boundary . 84.6 Aaron to Lyon , 3 runs , gentle loosener - pitched up and outside off , Lyon drives it past mid-off. A tired Ishant puts in the chase and hunts the ball down Aaron looks like he is limping. He is in some discomfort , but carries on . 84.5 Aaron to Lyon , no run , sprayed wide outside off , some further away movement to go with it as well , left alone 84.4 Aaron to Lyon , no run , banged in short and whizzes past Lyon , who did equally well to get his gloves out of the way 84.3 Aaron to Lyon , no run , good length ball on middle , Lyon inches forward and taps it down to mid-on Nathan Lyon , right handed bat , comes to the crease Lyon is the nightwatchman , protecting Haddin . 84.2 Aaron to M Marsh , out Caught by Kohli ! ! The extra bounce catches Marsh unawares ! Kohli is animated , flinging the ball up in the air. Back of a length and outside off with some extra lift , Marsh , perhaps was thinking of punching it. Instead he hangs his bat out as the ball snares the outside edge and carries to Kohli at gully , who clasps his hands around the ball. M Marsh c Kohli b Aaron 41 ( 87 ) [ 4s-5 ] Aaron to M Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 84.1 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , straighter in line , Marsh goes back and across as he defends it to mid-on Varun Aaron [ 15.0-1-89-1 ] is back into the attack 83.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length and around off , defended to cover 83.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , Saha 's muffled lbw appeal is shooted down. Shami was not interested. Good length ball jags back in from wide outside off and flicks Smith 's pad as he was looking to leave it alone. It would have easily missed off 83.4 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , cracker of a hit ! Shortish and outside off , does not have enough pace to pose a threat to Smith. He rocks back and pulls it firmly to the deep mid-wicket boundary 83.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , good length ball pushed outside off , left alone. The ball hardly carried through to Saha 83.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length and on off , Smith ventures back and across before blocking it wide of mid-on 83.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , on a length and on off , Smith plays a punchy drive and finds mid-on 82.6 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , pitched up , tight line on off , Marsh defends it in front of mid-off. This Ishant offering stopped a touch on the batsman 82.5 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , nice and full on off , drawing Marsh into a forward defensive push to mid-on 82.4 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , on a length and shapes back in on off , Smith clips it behind square on the leg-side 82.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length and around the fourth stump line , Smith hangs back and punches it to short cover 82.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , cuts back in from outside off , but not close enough to off to induce a stroke from Smith 82.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good length ball just a shade outside off , tapped towards point 81.6 Shami to M Marsh , no run , pitched up and targetting off , Marsh comes forward and drives it to the man at mid-off , straight to the fielder 81.5 Shami to M Marsh , no run , another offering in the channel outside off , this one is fuller. But Marsh does not bother with this one too 81.4 Shami to M Marsh , no run , back of a length and outside off , Marsh opts to flag it through to Saha 81.3 Shami to M Marsh , FOUR , dug in short and on the stumps , Marsh rocks back and hammers the pull backward of square leg. The ball beat Ishant for pace in the deep and the result is a four , rendering Ishant 's slide futile 81.2 Shami to M Marsh , no run , good length ball on off , Marsh props forward and defends it watchfully to cover 81.1 Shami to M Marsh , no run , fraction back of a length and comes in on middle , blocked down the track to mid-on 80.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up and straightens outside off , Smith leaves it alone 80.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , on a length and on middle and leg , clipped to mid-on 80.4 Ishant to S Smith , FOUR , shoddy bowling from Ishant. He stays on the pads again , Smith twirls his wrists and flicks it beautifully past square leg. He reaches 63 , points to his black arm-band , looks skywards and honours the late Phil Hughes 80.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , banged in short and down leg , Smith gets out of the way and lets it sail harmlessly to Saha 80.2 Ishant to S Smith , 2 runs , back of a length and on the hips , Smith was looking to shoulder arms , the ball kisses the inside edge and runs away fine 80.1 Ishant to S Smith , FOUR , fuller and angled down leg , Smith says thank you very much as he tickles it fine. Easy pickings for any batsman Ishant Sharma [ 18.0-4-45-1 ] is back into the attack The visitors take the second new ball straightaway. Ishant , the most effective of the Indian bowlers today , will make first use of it. He has two slips to assist him . 79.6 Shami to M Marsh , no run , pitched up and tails back in just outside off , Marsh knows the whereabouts of his off stump and ignores it for Saha 79.5 Shami to M Marsh , no run , fuller and on off , Marsh inches forward and pushes it to the man at mid-on 79.4 Shami to M Marsh , no run , good length ball on off , Marsh goes forward and across before defending it to the leg-side 79.3 Shami to M Marsh , 2 runs , friendly ball on the pads , whipped away to deep square leg for a couple of runs 79.2 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , on a length and comes in with the angle on off , Smith tucks it behind square on the leg-side 79.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , full and sprayed down leg , Smith had nothing to do with that wayward one Mohammed Shami [ 12.0-0-71-0 ] is back into the attack Can Shami redeem himself ? 78.6 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , fired quicker just outside off , keeps low as well. But Marsh adjusts and drops it dead in front of cover 78.5 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , Vijay drags his length back again , punched off the back foot to mid-on 78.4 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , pushed through , a bit short again , blocked back to Vijay 78.3 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , Marsh comes down the track and drives this to Rahane at cover 78.2 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , slides on with the arm on off , kept out off the back foot again 78.1 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , a bit shortish on off , Marsh defends it off the back foot 77.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , Karn Sharma gives this more air , Smith prods forward and blocks it with caution 77.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , fuller and outside off , driven to wide mid-off 77.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , Smith uses his feet , takes this Sharma offering on the full , but mistimes the flick to mid-wicket. Smith is disappointed for not putting that away 77.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , slower through the air on middle at 78kph , dead-batted by Smith 77.2 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , flat and fired on the stumps , jammed out to long-on 77.1 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , tossed up on middle , Marsh takes a step out and presses it to short cover 76.6 Vijay to S Smith , no run , pushed through close to off , Smith charges down the track and whips well. But Karn at mid-wicket dives to his left and makes a diving save 76.5 Vijay to S Smith , no run , slower through the air on off , defended back to the bowler 76.4 Vijay to M Marsh , 1 run , fuller and on off , Marsh eases it to long-on. Kohli was n't impressed with the fielding effort 76.3 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , slid down leg at 91kph , helped fine for a single 76.2 Vijay to S Smith , no run , flatter in trajectory on off , patted back to Vijay 76.1 Vijay to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on off , Smith comes down the track and flicks it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 75.6 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , Karn Sharma flights this one on off , Marsh blocks it with the straightest of bats 75.5 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , shortish and on middle , Marsh hangs back and punches it to the right of silly mid-on , where Kohli dives and makes a half stop 75.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up leggie outside off , Smith comes forward and bunts it to cover-point 75.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , slower through the air , almost hangs in the air , Smith prods forward and gets an inside edge to the leg-side 75.2 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , looped up on middle , Marsh tentatively chips it wide of reach of silly mid-on 75.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , 9th Test fifty for Smith. He uses his feet and taps this one to long-on. He raises his bat and acknowledges the cheers from the crowd Karn Sharma [ 20.0-0-85-1 ] is back into the attack 74.6 Vijay to M Marsh , FOUR , top shot from Marsh. Near half volley outside off , Marsh creams a drive in the gap between the covers and mid-off , the rich timing carries it to the boundary 74.5 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , flatter and fired on off , Marsh steps out , yorks himself , but manages to dig it out 74.4 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , fuller on the stumps , pushed to mid-on , where the fielder puts in a diving save 74.3 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , tossed up nicely outside off , Marsh steps out , does not meet the pitch of the ball and ends up poking it out wide of slip 74.2 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , straighter one on off , Marsh blocks it back to the bowler again 74.1 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , pushed through on off , Marsh defends it back to Vijay after coming forward 73.6 Aaron to M Marsh , 1 run , short of length and outside off , punched to deep point off the back foot 73.5 Aaron to M Marsh , FOUR , width on offer and Marsh has latched onto that in a flash. He stays back and cuts it away behind point , the ball whistles away to the fence 73.4 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , effort ball from Aaron. Bouncer outside off , Marsh drops his wrists and allows it through to Saha 73.3 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , dug in a bit short and wide outside off , Smith stays back and punches it square on the off-side for a single 73.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , pitched further up and on off , Smith comes forward and presses it back to Aaron 73.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , fuller and outside off , Smith reaches out and mistimes the drive to cover Time for some hydration. India 's over-rate has picked up , but Australia are still in the box seat. Karn Sharma had some joy , having Warner holing out to deep mid-wicket for his maiden Test wicket. Since then , Marsh and Smith have looked equally comfortable against both pace and spin. A huge total beckons for Australia . 72.6 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , darted in fuller on off and middle , Smith squeezes out a drive to long-on 72.5 Vijay to S Smith , no run , Vijay gives more air on off , forward and smothered by Smith 72.4 Vijay to M Marsh , 1 run , Vijay drags his length back , Marsh half pulls/flicks it to deep mid-wicket 72.3 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , Marsh punches it hard , but Jadeja is into action , making a diving save at cover 72.2 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , floated outside off , Marsh drills a drive and finds the man at cover 72.1 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , Smith uses his feet , manufactures a full ball and whips it away past mid-wicket 71.6 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , considerable drop in pace , 121kph , fuller and cuts back in on off , Marsh goes for a flick and mistimes it to the Indian skipper at silly mid-on , who makes a half save 71.5 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , pitched up and tails back in on off , Marsh covers for the movement and manages to push it back to Aaron 71.4 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , 144kph , shortish and outside off , Smith stands tall and punches it past cover to trot off to the other end 71.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , 147kph full and wide outside off with a bit of away movement , Smith chases it with a loose drive and gets beaten 71.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , pitched up and outside off , Smith plays an open-faced drive to cover 71.2 Aaron to S Smith , wide , sprayed miles wide outside off , left alone. Saha gloved it almost in front of first slip Aaron pulls out in his followthrough for the second time in as many overs . 71.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , fraction back of a length and on off , blocked back to Aaron 70.6 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , straight roller from Vijay , keeps a bit low as well. Marsh though adjusts and defends it 70.5 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , Marsh steps out , does not meet the pitch of the ball and misses the work to the leg-side. Gets a leading edge of sorts that pops wide of the bowler and in front of cover 70.4 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , much slower through the air on the fourth stump , Marsh drops it in front of cover 70.3 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , forward and blocked to the right of Vijay 70.2 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , flat again , this one is on off , Marsh blocks it carefully 70.1 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , flatter and pushed through outside off , Marsh lets it be 69.6 Aaron to S Smith , no run , fuller and angling in on off , defensively pushed to the off-side. That rounds off another Jekyll-Hyde over from Aaron 69.5 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , back of a length and width on offer outside off , Smith camps on the back foot and punches it behind point , the ball scoots away to the third man fence 69.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , good length ball outside off , Smith leans forward and drives it to the covers 69.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , fullish and in the channel of uncertainty , Smith has a iffy poke at it , the ball catches the outside edge of the bat , but dies down in front of first slip. Much better from Aaron 69.2 Aaron to M Marsh , 1 run , Aaron veers onto the pads now , Marsh helps himself to a flick through backward square leg. However , there is protection in the deep 69.1 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , pitched up and attacking the stumps is Aaron , Marsh pushes it down the track , but ca n't beat the man at mid-on Varun Aaron [ 12.0-1-76-1 ] is back into the attack Aaron 's been drafted back . 68.6 Vijay to S Smith , no run , pushed through quicker outside off , Smith stays in the crease and cuts it to backward point , Smith shouts 'Wait ' to let his partner know that the single was not on 68.5 Vijay to S Smith , no run , skips out and turns this flighted delivery outside off towards short mid-wicket 68.4 Vijay to M Marsh , 1 run , flatter delivery on the stumps , Marsh goes deep in the crease and punches it to long-on 68.3 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , floated up outside off , Marsh comes on the front foot and gently pushes it towards mid-off , there was a yes-no between the batsmen and they decide against the single in the end 68.2 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , tossed up on off , Marsh leans forward and blocks 68.1 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , poor delivery to start with , it should have been put away , way down leg , Marsh can only tuck it towards square leg Murali Vijay [ 6.0-1-17-0 ] is back into the attack 67.6 Ishant to M Marsh , 3 runs , fullish delivery coming back in on middle , Marsh drills it down the ground , Shami from mid-on gives chase and manages to stop the ball just in time before it reaches the fence , the batsmen take three 67.5 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Marsh rocks back and punches it into the off-side 67.4 Ishant to M Marsh , 2 runs , fullish delivery on the pads , Marsh clips it towards mid-wicket , where the fielder puts it the dive and gets a hand on it , mid-on tidies up , but the batsmen had enough time to run for a brace 67.3 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , this time he targets the stumps with the inward movement , Marsh moves across and bunts it toward mid-on 67.2 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , fullish and with a hint of movement back in , but the ball was well outside off , Marsh shoulders arms 67.1 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , on a length and coming back in from outside off , Marsh leaves as the ball dies down and goes towards the keeper 66.6 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Marsh skips out and drives it wide of mid-off , he will retain the strike 66.5 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , floated up around off and spinning away from the batsman , Marsh leaves 66.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , drags this one short and outside off , Smith goes on the back foot and cuts it to sweeper cover 66.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , FOUR , steps out of the crease and whips this flighted delivery from outside off to the deep mid-wicket fence , great wrist movement there from Smith 66.2 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , flatter delivery on leg , Marsh backs away a touch and punches it to mid-on 66.1 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , FOUR , tossed up on off , Marsh comes down the track and lifts it over mid-on , the fielder was inside the circle and the ball reaches the fence , the timing , however , was n't that great 65.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , on a good length and outside off , Smith leans forward and gently dabs it behind square on the off-side after opening the bat face 65.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , full and little wide of off , Smith covers the stumps and leaves 65.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , taps this delivery outside off towards cover-point 65.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fullish delivery coming in on off and middle , Smith moves across and eases it to the left of mid-on , the fielder gets around and stops , Smith thinks about taking a single , but decides against it after seeing the fielder 65.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , another one a little wide of off , Smith lets it go through to the keeper 65.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fuller length and outside off , Smith shoulders arms 64.6 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , gives the charge but is not upto the pitch of the ball , ends up blocking it into the off-side 64.5 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , flattish delivery on the stumps , Marsh defends it to short mid-wicket 64.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , another one wide of off , Smith comes forward and drives it to the right of cover , Pujara puts in the dive and prevents a certain boundary , however , the batsmen had ample time to take a single 64.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , tossed up wide of off , Smith comes on the front foot and drives it to cover 64.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , shortish delivery outside off , Smith stays on the back foot and cuts it to backward point 64.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , slowish delivery outside off , Smith gives the charge , he blocks it into the off-side 63.6 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , back of a length delivery on off and middle , Marsh stays on the back foot and punches it into the off-side 63.5 Ishant to S Smith , 3 runs , fullish delivery on middle , Smith shuffles across and eases it wide of mid-on , the fielder puts in the dive , but can only make a half stop , the ball rolls further away towards the deep and the batsmen take three 63.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , length delivery coming in on the pads , Smith turns it towards mid-wicket 63.3 Ishant to M Marsh , 1 run , on the pads , Marsh tucks it away towards mid-on , Pujara was late to react , allowing the batsmen to go through with the single , the bowler was n't too happy with the fielding effort there 63.2 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , peach ! It was on a length and outside off , the ball shaped away late , Marsh pokes at it , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 63.1 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , fullish delivery angling in just outside off , Marsh drives it to cover off the front foot Ishant Sharma [ 15.0-3-36-1 ] is back into the attack First introduction of pace after Tea 62.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith gives the charge yet again , but this time he drives it to short cover , who makes a half stop , but the ball did n't go too far away from the fielder and thus , the batsmen could n't go through with the single as well 62.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , FOUR , great shot from Stevie Smith ! It was a loopy delivery outside off , Smith gives the charge and drives it to the deep extra cover fence , the timing on that one was great 62.4 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , flattish delivery around off , Marsh goes on the back foot and punches it to long-off 62.3 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , leans forward and defends this flighted delivery on off into the off-side 62.2 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , FOUR , the outfield is too quick , it was tossed up on middle , Marsh gives the charge and flicks it towards the cow corner fence , Aaron from mid-on gives chase , but the ball was too quick for him 62.1 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , leg-break spinning away outside off , Marsh pushes it to the left of the bowler 61.6 Vijay to S Smith , no run , floated up on off , Smith blocks off the front foot 61.5 Vijay to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith drives it to cover 61.4 Vijay to M Marsh , 1 run , flattish delivery on the stumps , Marsh stays on the back foot and punches it down to long-on 61.3 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , gives the charge again , he eases it down to long-on for a single 61.2 Vijay to S Smith , no run , floated up outside off , Smith comes forward and pushes it into the off-side 61.1 Vijay to S Smith , no run , leans forward and blocks this tossed up delivery Update on Clarke : Clarke has left the ground as he was in considerable pain. There will be an update on the extent of his injury at the end of the day 60.6 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , lunges forward in defence to this tossed up delivery on off and middle 60.5 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , good ball that one , it was floated up on off , Marsh pushes at it after coming on the front foot , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 60.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , gives the charge and bunts this flighted delivery on middle to mid-on 60.3 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , bowls this one way outside off , the ball spins further away from the batsman , Smith leaves 60.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Smith steps out and drives it straight to extra-cover 60.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , comes down the track and almost yorks himself , ends up squeezing it out to short cover 59.6 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , quicker delivery around middle , Marsh tucks it away to mid-wicket 59.5 Vijay to M Marsh , no run , floated up around off , Marsh comes on the front foot and blocks it into the off-side A silly mid-on in place as well 59.4 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , on the pads this time , Smith clips it to fine leg and gets to the other end 59.3 Vijay to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith leans forward and dead-bats it 59.2 Vijay to M Marsh , 1 run , floated up on off , Marsh eases it wide of mid-on for a single 59.1 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , gives this one more air outside off , Smith comes forward and drives it towards deep backward point after opening the bat face a little 58.6 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , touch flatter on the stumps , Marsh stays in the crease and turns it to short mid-wicket 58.5 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , tossed up on off , Marsh comes on the front foot and blocks 58.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , comes down the track and tucks this flighted delivery on off wide of long-on 58.3 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , floated up around off , Marsh pushes it in front of mid-on , the batsmen rush through for a quick single 58.2 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , tossed up on off , Marsh blocks off the front foot 58.1 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , gives the charge and looks to go big , the ball goes uppishly towards mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat , the fielder puts in the dive and makes the stop , the batsmen ca n't take a single 57.6 Vijay to S Smith , no run , floated up around off , Smith bunts it towards mid-on 57.5 Vijay to S Smith , no run , too full outside off , Smith squeezes it out back towards the bowler 57.4 Vijay to S Smith , no run , lunges forward in defence to this flighted delivery on off 57.3 Vijay to S Smith , no run , flatter delivery on the stumps , Smith rocks back and blocks 57.2 Vijay to S Smith , no run , slowish delivery on middle stump , Smith turns it towards square leg 57.1 Vijay to S Smith , no run , gives the charge and pushes this to the right of the bowler 56.6 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , pushed through quicker on middle stump , Marsh was late to get his bat down , he manages to block it somehow 56.5 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , steps out of the crease , but was n't upto the pitch of the ball , he pushes it to the left of the bowler 56.4 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , flattish delivery on middle and leg , Marsh turns it towards square leg 56.3 Karn Sharma to M Marsh , no run , tossed up on middle , Marsh blocks it into the on-side A slip and a silly point in place Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 56.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , out Caught by Ishant ! ! The dangerman Warner is gone. Karn Sharma picks up his first Test wicket. Warner came down the track and looked to slog another to the deep mid-wicket fence , he did n't get the desired distance and holes out to Ishant Sharma at deep mid-wicket. India will be relieved that Warner is gone. Nevertheless , it was a great innings from the pocket dynamite. Warner c Ishant b Karn Sharma 145 ( 163 ) [ 4s-19 ] Karn Sharma to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 56.1 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , gives the charge and almost yorks himself , he manages to drill it down to long-on for another single 55.6 Vijay to Warner , FOUR , floated up on off , Warner comes on the front foot and slog sweeps it to the deep mid-wicket fence 55.5 Vijay to Warner , no run , a little shortish around off , Warner goes on the back foot and punches it towards mid-wicket 55.4 Vijay to Warner , FOUR , shortish and down leg , Warner pulls it towards the fine leg fence , Aaron from deep backward square sprints across , but the ball beats him to the fence even though he put in the dive 55.3 Vijay to Warner , no run , fullish this time , Warner drives it to cover off the front foot 55.2 Vijay to Warner , no run , flatter outside off , Warner punches it towards extra cover 55.1 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , flattish delivery on middle and leg , Smith bunts it down to long-on for a single 54.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off , Smith goes deep in the crease and punches it to cover for a single 54.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , tossed up outside off , Smith gives the charge again and drives it to cover , the ball went to the fielder very quickly and hence , the batsmen could n't take a single 54.4 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , comes forward and blocks this into the off-side 54.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Warner turns it towards short mid-wicket , the fielder runs forward and throws it at the striker 's end , the Smith puts in the dive and gets in the crease 54.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , Smith gives the charge and turns this fullish delivery into a full toss , he drives it wide of mid-off for a single 54.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , tossed up around off , Warner moves across and sweeps it towards fine leg 53.6 Vijay to S Smith , no run , tossed up outside off , Smith leans across and dead-bats it 53.5 Vijay to S Smith , no run , floated up just outside off , Smith comes on the front foot and defends 53.4 Vijay to S Smith , no run , tuns this flighted delivery on off and middle into the on-side 53.3 Vijay to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith leans forward and blocks 53.2 Vijay to S Smith , no run , comes down the track and turns it towards mid-wicket , where the fielder puts in the dive and prevents the single Maybe , Vijay has been introduced into the attack to improve the over rate 53.1 Vijay to Warner , 1 run , tossed up on off , Warner comes on the front foot and drives it to long-off 52.6 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , pushed through around middle , Warner tucks it away to deep mid-wicket and keeps the strike 52.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , a loud shout of 'No ' from Warner as he tucks this flattish delivery towards mid-wicket 52.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery on off , Warner stays back in the crease and defends it into the off-side 52.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , pushed through on middle , Warner turns it into the on-side 52.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , loopy delivery on off , Warner goes hard at it , the ball bounces a touch extra and goes over the stumps , Warner overbalances , but drags his foot back in time Was Warner 's foot in the air ? The umpire has decided to send this stumping chance upstairs. There are no problems with Karn 's front foot. Warner dragged his foot back in time. He survives . 52.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , leg-break coming in on off , Warner blocks off the back foot 51.6 Vijay to Warner , 1 run , flatter and quicker outside off , Warner knocks this one to sweeper cover off the back foot 51.5 Vijay to Warner , no run , flighted delivery on off , Warner comes on the front foot and blocks 51.4 Vijay to Warner , no run , tossed up on off , Warner covers the stumps and defends it into the off-side Round the wicket to Warner . 51.3 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Smith stays on the back foot and tucks it away to deep square leg 51.2 Vijay to S Smith , no run , floated up outside off , Smith leans forward and defends it into the off-side 51.1 Vijay to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on off , Smith defends Murali Vijay , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 50.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up around off , Smith gives the charge and eases it down to long-on , he keeps the strike 50.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , leg-break on middle and leg , Warner sweeps it away to fine leg for a run 50.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery on off , Warner goes back in the crease and blocks 50.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , a run-out chance goes begging as Vijay ca n't hold onto the ball , Warner tucks this one into the on-side , he sets off for a single , but his partner does n't respond , Vijay runs across at short mid-wicket , but ca n't pick the ball cleanly with one hand and Warner gets back in the crease safely 50.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , gives this one more air outside off , Warner moves across and blocks 50.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , tossed up on off , Warner drills it to short cover Round the wicket to Warner Karn Sharma will resume bowling after Tea . The players are making their way out to the middle. Warner , if he continues to play like this , may even get to his double hundred , by the end of the day. Their run-rate so far has been 4.76. With 40 overs left in the day , it is going to be a long session for the Indians , if they ca n't put the brakes on the scoring . Warner has especially been clinical and has dispatched a number of balls to the fence. Will India find some form and come back strongly in the final session ? Or will Australia continue to dominate the first day ? Join us in a short while to find out . Indian bowlers have toiled hard , but have been unable to put any sort of pressure on the Australian batters. Both Shami and Aaron got Clarke to edge one or two balls , but the ball always bounced before the fielder. With the pitch offering no assistance to the pacers and the lone spinner Karn Sharma , it will be a difficult final session for the Indians if they are n't able to make inroads. For wickets to fall , Indians need to change their gameplan. They have bowled way too may wayward deliveries . The second session has belonged to the Australians yet again. Warner has continued from where he left , notching up his 10th Test hundred. Both Warner and Clarke got emotional as Warner reached his landmark , but they did n't let it affect their batting. They were both brilliant throughout , but unfortunately Clarke had to retire after his back pain resurfaced when he was looking to pull an Ishant Sharma delivery . 49.6 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , magnificent shot from Smith , it was fullish and angling in on middle , Smith moves across a touch and dispatches it towards the deep mid-wicket fence , wonderful shot that one from Smith 49.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , similar line as the last delivery and similar result as well as Smith shoulders arms to this one 49.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , poor delivery from Shami , bowls this one wide of off , Smith wo n't play at those when it is so close to the tea interval 49.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Smith stays on the back foot and blocks it with the full face of the bat 49.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith chops it back onto the 22 yards 49.1 Shami to Warner , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off , Warner leans forward and bunts it wide of mid-off to cross over to the other end 48.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , comes down the track again and looks to push this slowish delivery into the off-side , the ball clips the pads and rolls away into the off-side , the batsmen ca n't take a single though 48.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 2 runs , gives the charge to a tossed up delivery outside off , Smith drives it square of the wicket 48.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , flattish delivery spinning in on middle and leg , Warner stays on the back foot and nurdles it to fine leg 48.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , leans forward and pushes this tossed up delivery into the off-side 48.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery spinning past the legs of the batsman , Warner ca n't nail the tickle , he overbalances , but no harm done there 48.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , Warner kickstarts this over with a boundary , it was floated up on off , Warner employs the reverse sweep and sends it wide of backward point and into the fence Round the wicket comes Karn Sharma 47.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , shortish and wide of off , Smith gets on top of the bounce and cuts it towards backward point , who moves to his left to stop the ball 47.5 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , great cover drive from Smith , he looks like that he has been batting for hours , it was fullish and outside off , Smith comes on the front foot and caresses the drive wide of mid-off for another boundary Two slips and a gully in for him as well 47.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith jumps a little in the crease and bunts it towards cover 47.3 Shami to Warner , 1 run , touch short of a good length and outside off , Warner stays on the back foot and punches it to sweeper cover after opening the bat face a little 47.2 Shami to Warner , 2 runs , short of a good length and around middle , Warner moves across and turns it to deep mid-wicket 47.1 Shami to Warner , 2 runs , does n't look like it as he bowls this one short and wide of off , Warner flat bats it towards deep extra-cover , he could n't connect properly , otherwise the ball would have raced away to the fence , poor delivery to start your new spell Mohammed Shami [ 10.0-0-57-0 ] is back into the attack Mohammed Shami is back into the attack ? Can he provide India the crucial breakthrough ? We will find out . 46.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , floated up on off , Smith prods forward and blocks it into the off-side 46.5 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , gives the charge and whips it towards mid-on 46.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , floated up around off , Warner moves across and clips it towards mid-wicket for a run 46.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , lunges forward in defence to this tossed up delivery on off 46.2 Karn Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up on off , Smith gives the charge and drives hard , the fielder at short cover gets a hand onto it and parries it towards mid-off , keeps the batsmen down to a single 46.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , floated up on middle and leg , Warner tucks it away past square leg for a single 45.6 Ishant to S Smith , 2 runs , on a length and outside off , Smith moves across and pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and dribbles past a diving Kohli at gully , the batsmen run for a brace before the ball is hunted down 45.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , touch fuller and outside off , Smith covers the line of the stumps and lets it go through to the keeper 45.4 Ishant to S Smith , FOUR , poor delivery from Ishant , it was short and wide of off , Smith stays back in the crease and cuts it beautifully to the sweeper cover fence 45.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , touch back of a length and around off , Smith blocks it into the off-side Two slips and a gully in place 45.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Smith leans forward and drives it to cover 45.1 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , just short of a good length and coming back in on off and middle , Warner pushes at it off the back foot , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls away towards fine leg , the batsmen think about the second , but decide against it Round the wicket to Warner 44.6 Karn Sharma to S Smith , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Smith gives the charge , but can only push it towards short mid-wicket 44.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , touch flatter on off , Warner moves across and whips it to deep square leg off the back foot 44.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted delivery on off , Warner leans forward and dead-bats it 44.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , slowish and a little shortish on off and middle , Warner turns it into the on-side 44.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , floated up just around off , Warner covers the stumps and blocks off the outside half of the bat 44.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , tossed up on off , Warner comes on the front foot and blocks it back to the bowler 43.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , full and outside off , Smith does n't offer a shot yet again 43.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , length delivery outside off , Smith comes on the front foot and taps it towards cover 43.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , loosener from Ishant outside off , Smith decides to let it go through to the keeper and shoulders arms 43.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Smith leaves Steven Smith comes in his place . Clarke ca n't continue further and he is walking off for now. Looks in a lot of pain. It must have been an emotional moment , not being able to continue. He was just 3 runs away from Hughes ' score of 63 . He is on his feet and the expressions on his face show that he is not at all comfortable. It is his back that 's bothering him. He was in pain instantly after he was looking to pull the short delivery from Ishant . Clarke looks in some discomfort. He is holding his bat and sitting on the ground. The physio is out to tend to him. Maybe , it could be the cramps or it could be his back or hamstring injury resurfacing. He is lying flat on the ground and the physio is checking his back . 43.2 Ishant to Clarke , no run , banged in short but splays this one down leg , Clarke thinks about pulling it , but lets it go through to the keeper Back over the wicket to Clarke 43.1 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , fullish delivery around off , Warner gently drives it to the left of the bowler , the fielder from mid-on chases the ball and the batsmen cross over for a comfortable single Continuing from round the wicket to Warner 42.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , floated up on off , Clarke steps out of the crease and blocks 42.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , shortish delivery on middle and leg , Warner goes down on one knee and pulls it to deep square leg 42.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , tossed up on off , Warner moves across a touch and drives it back towards the bowler 42.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , lunges forward in defence to this flighted delivery just outside off 42.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , floated up around off , Warner pushes it to the left of the bowler off the front foot 42.1 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Clarke steps out and drives it uppishly towards long-off 41.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , fullish delivery around off , Warner goes a little forward and gently drives it to the right of the bowler 41.5 Ishant to Clarke , 1 run , shortish delivery at the batsman , Clarke pulls it to fine leg , he rolled his wrists over it to send the ball along the turf 41.4 Ishant to Clarke , no run , length delivery outside off , Clarke comes on the front foot and pushes it towards cover 41.3 Ishant to Clarke , no run , length delivery outside off , Clarke moves forward and bunts it into the off-side 41.2 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , short of length delivery around off and middle , Warner jumps in the crease and tucks it away towards deep mid-wicket 41.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Warner leans forward and drives it straight to mid-off , it should have been put away to the fence Coming back to the Warner 's catching chance off Karn Sharma 's bowling at deep backward square leg. Virat Kohli gave Varun Aaron a mouthful as he could n't judge the ball and came too far in. We all know how Dhoni would have reacted if he was playing this game . 11 runs came off that over . 40.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , FOUR , another boundary for Clarke , it was tossed up , Clarke comes down the track and lifts it over the bowler 's head , the ball races away to the boundary 40.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , poor bowling from Karn , it was a full toss on the pads , Warner helps it on its way to fine leg 40.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , flighted delivery outside off , Warner gives the charge and swings across the line , he did n't time it perfectly , but the ball had enough to reach the deep mid-wicket fence 40.3 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , steps out of the crease and tucks it away to mid-on , the batsmen take a single 40.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , floated up outside off , Warner comes down the track and eases it to long-off 40.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , tossed up just outside off , Warner leans forward and blocks 39.6 Ishant to Clarke , no run , fullish delivery outside off , left alone 39.5 Ishant to Clarke , no run , good delivery from Ishant , it was on a length and in the corridor outside off , Clarke looked to push at it , the ball went past his outside edge and through to the keeper 39.4 Ishant to Clarke , no run , another one outside off , Clarke leaves 39.3 Ishant to Clarke , no run , length delivery around off , Clarke comes on the front foot and blocks it in front of cover 39.2 Ishant to Clarke , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Clarke stays on the back foot and punches it towards backward point 39.1 Ishant to Clarke , no run , Ishant starts with a length delivery outside off , Clarke shoulders arms Ishant Sharma [ 11.0-2-26-1 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 3 runs , short and just outside off , Clarke flashes and the ball flies off a thickish outside edge to third man , Aaron gives chase , slides and hauls the ball back in before it could reach the rope. That also brings up the 100-run stand between these two 38.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , shuffles across and nurdles it to deep square leg 38.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , " catch it " were the shouts from some of the Indian fielders , floated up just outside off , Warner bends his front knee and sweeps it uppishly behind square , Aaron was too square to catch it 38.3 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , 50 for Clarke , 28th in Tests. No big celebreations from the captain , he raises his bat and acknowledges the applause from the crowd. He comes down the track and whips it to long-on 38.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , kneels down and paddles the full toss to long leg 38.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , flighted on off , defended off the front foot to cover 37.6 Aaron to Clarke , no run , fuller and just outside off , Clarke drives to cover and calls " wait " for the single 37.5 Aaron to Clarke , no run , fires it down leg , Clarke ca n't lay bat on ball , good take by Saha diving to his left 37.4 Aaron to Clarke , FOUR , outside edge and safe ! This is frustrating for Aaron , who has a few words for Clarke. It was touch short and outside off , Clarke goes hard at it , the ball takes the edge and goes through the slip cordon 37.3 Aaron to Clarke , FOUR , back of a length just outside off , Clarke was early into the shot , the ball squirts off the inside edge to fine leg , the fielder in the deep had no chance of stopping that. Aaron has his hands on his head 37.2 Aaron to Clarke , no run , ooh ! That was close to the outside edge. A probling delivery around the off-stump , Clarke has a poke at it and is beaten all ends up 37.1 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , dug in half way down the wicket , Warner pulls it along the ground to fine leg , slight fumble from Karn , but no harm done Time for a drinks break. The first hour has belonged to Australia. Warner has went about his business in the same fashion , he has reached his 10th Test ton. Clarke , too is looking in his elements. Together the pair have added 83 runs. India need to break this stand , to get back in the game . 36.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , floated up on off , Clarke blocks it down the wicket 36.5 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , low full toss on off , Clarke drives it to one of the two cover fielders 36.4 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , tossed up close to off , Clarke leans forward and defends to cover 36.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , Warner continues his merry way in 2014 , his 5th Test hundred in this year , 10th overall in Tests. Everyone at the Adelaide Oval are on their feet applauding the effort. It has been an emotional last few days , he takes his helmet , kisses and points it upwards towards the sky. He walks up to his captain and hugs him. The whole Australian team are on their feet as well. Coming to the delivery , it was flighted outside off , Warner eases it off the front foot to long-off 36.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , tossed up on off , Warner pushes it back to the bowler 36.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , slower and on off , Warner crouches low and knocks it to mid-wicket 35.6 Aaron to Clarke , no run , too straight , Clarke turns it gently to mid-on 35.5 Aaron to Clarke , no run , on a length close to off , Clarke defends it to cover 35.4 Aaron to Clarke , FOUR , fantastic shot ! It was full on off and middle , Clarke leans forward and flicks it elegantly past mid-wicket , the timing take the ball to the fence 35.3 Aaron to Clarke , no run , Indians plead for a caught behind appeal , but umpire Erasmus was unmoved. Kohli and the rest of the Indians ca n't believe that it has been given not-out. They even ask Clarke , whether he nicked it ? The Australian skipper says no. And he is right as the bat hit the pad right when the ball passed the outside edge. It was a lovely delivery from Aaron , on a length and in the corridor of uncertainty , Clarke had to play at that 35.2 Aaron to Clarke , no run , fuller and outside off , Clarke drives it to back to the bowler 35.1 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , short and just outside off , Warner rocks back and pulls it powerfully , picks out the only fielder at deep mid-wicket , he moves onto 99 34.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , comes down the track and yorks himself , Clarke still manages to squeeze it to cover 34.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , straight roller outside off , Warner plays for the turn , the ball takes a thickish outside edge and rolls wide of the backward point fielder 34.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , 2 runs , shortens the length , Warner moves across his stumps and nurdles it to deep square leg , calls for two and gets it quite comfortably 34.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , slower and around off , Warner leans forward and turns it gently to mid-wicket 34.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , Karn Sharma seemed excited for lbw , but not umpire Erasmus. Warner kneels down and misses the sweep , is rapped on the pads but the impact was outside off , the slip fielder went up for a catch , there was no inside edge on that 34.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , Karn starts from round the wicket , flighted on off , Warner shuffles across and defends to the on-side Karn Sharma [ 3.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Aaron to Clarke , no run , yorker tails back in , it was bowled at 147kph , Clarke is late on the flick and is hit on the left boot , muted appeal for lbw , but the ball was sliding down leg 33.5 Aaron to Clarke , no run , good length ball around off , Clarke blocks it to cover and shouts " no " for the single 33.4 Aaron to Clarke , no run , too far outside off , left alone 33.3 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , shortens the length on leg-stump , Warner helps it on its way to fine leg with a pull 33.2 Aaron to Warner , no run , gets it closer to the off-stump , Warner comes slightly forward and defends back to the bowler 33.1 Aaron to Warner , FOUR , how many times have we seen that shot today ? Not much foot movement , it is all hand-eye-cordination , length ball just outside off , Warner drives it past cover for yet another boundary 32.6 Shami to Clarke , FOUR , top shot ! Clarke is in his elements. Short and outside off , he fetches it from there and pulls it through mid-wicket , the timing and placement on that were just exquisite 32.5 Shami to Clarke , 2 runs , strays onto the leg-stump , Clarke stays inside the line and flicks it to deep square leg , Karn Sharma tidies up 32.4 Shami to Clarke , no run , hint of inward movement , but nothing substantial to trouble Clarke , who presses forward and blocks to cover 32.3 Shami to Clarke , no run , Shami drags the length back around off , Clarke bunts it in front of cover 32.2 Shami to Clarke , no run , excellent stop by Jinks , good length ball outside off , Clarke drives to the right of cover , Rahane dives and makes a fine stop 32.1 Shami to Warner , 1 run , again , on the pads , easy pickings for Warner , clipped to deep mid-wicket 31.6 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , drifts onto the pads , Warner tucks it behind square on the leg-side to retain strike 31.5 Aaron to Warner , FOUR , poor follow-up delivery , on a length and outside off , Warner punches it sweetly to sweeper cover , there was a fielder at deep point but he was just there to retrieve the ball 31.4 Aaron to Warner , no run , much better bouncer from Aaron , directs it at the batsman , Warner takes his eyes off the ball , but manages to get out of the way. Aaron has a staring match with Warner , who is not afraid to stare right back at the pacer 31.3 Aaron to Warner , no run , pitched up around off , Warner drives to mid-off and shouts " wait " to his partner 31.3 Aaron to Warner , wide , bumper way over the batsman , Warner did n't even need to duck , wided by the umpire for height There were some issues with the ball in the first session. Umpire Erasmus gets the hoops out , sends the ball through both the hoops. He is showing it to Kohli as well. They have a word and decide to change the ball. Meanwhile , the players take a drink . 31.2 Aaron to Warner , no run , full and just outside off , Warner does n't get hold of the drive , mistimes it back to Aaron 31.1 Aaron to Warner , no run , tad short and close to off , Warner gets behind the line and blocks it to mid-off Aaron will start from over the wicket for Warner Varun Aaron [ 8.0-1-51-1 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , slants it back in from a length , Clarke inches forward and defends to mid-wicket 30.5 Shami to Clarke , FOUR , fabulous shot ! This is Clarke at it 's best. Back of a length outside off , Clarke stands tall and punches it beautifully , hits the gap between cover and mid-off , the timing keeps taking the ball away from the fielders 30.4 Shami to Clarke , no run , nice comeback from Shami , on a length close to the off-pole , it was in that corridor of uncertainty , Clarke was neither forward nor back as he pushed at it , the ball takes the outside edge and does n't carry to Dhawan at second slip for the second time 30.3 Shami to Clarke , FOUR , poor delivery from Shami , width on offer and the length is also short , Clarke latches onto it in a flash , he rocks back and cuts it fiercely to the sweeper cover fence 30.2 Shami to Clarke , no run , good length just outside off , Clarke comes forward and middles the drive straight to mid-off , either side and it would have been a boundary 30.1 Shami to Clarke , no run , short of length on off , defended back to the bowler 29.6 Ishant to Clarke , 1 run , short delivery on off and middle , Clarke gets inside the line and helps it on its way to fine leg with a pull , he immediately signals for a new pair of gloves 29.5 Ishant to Clarke , no run , slanting in with the angle from wide of the crease , Clarke gets forward and pushes it to mid-on 29.4 Ishant to Clarke , no run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Clarke gets on top of the bounce and pulls it straight to mid-wicket 29.3 Ishant to Clarke , no run , fuller and outside off , Clarke drives it on the up and picks out the mid-off fielder , the bat turned in his hands , hence he did n't get the timing right 29.2 Ishant to Clarke , no run , wasted delivery , short one down leg , Clarke gets out of the way and lets it go comfortably 29.1 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , full and angling in on off , Warner whips it past a diving Aaron at mid-wicket , the pacer should have done better 28.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , tad short and on the fourth stump line , Clarke misses out on the cut shot , it was too close to the body for him to be playing the cut. The ball hardly carried to Saha 28.5 Shami to Clarke , FOUR , third drive in a row and this time Clarke gets the desired result. It was a overpitched delivery on off , Clarke drills it past the bowler , there is no stoping those as it was hit very hard 28.4 Shami to Clarke , no run , crisp drive straight to the fielder , length delivery outside off , Clarke plays it on the up and finds the cover fielder 28.3 Shami to Clarke , no run , fuller and just outside off , Clarke is forward and driving to mid-off 28.2 Shami to Warner , 1 run , full and on the pads , Warner leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket 28.1 Shami to Warner , no run , Shami gets away with a short and wide one , Warner jumps up and chops it to mid-off , he was in no position to play the cut shot 27.6 Ishant to Clarke , no run , goes wide of the sticks and delivers a length ball outside off , Clarke lifts his bat and lets it go Ishant loses his run-up 27.5 Ishant to Clarke , no run , repeat of the previous ball , outside off , Clarke shoulders arms 27.4 Ishant to Clarke , no run , good length ball well wide of off , left alone 27.3 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , round the wicket , short of length around off , Warner shuffles across and tucks it to the unmanned mid-wicket region 27.2 Ishant to Clarke , 3 runs , sweet timing on that on-drive , nothing wrong with the delivery , it was on a length and on off , Clarke drives it past a diving Rohit at mid-on , who got hand to it and slowed it down , the batsmen run three before the ball is hunted down 27.1 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , back of a length on the stumps , Warner works it to mid-wicket and scampers across for a single 26.6 Shami to Clarke , FOUR , another false stroke induced ! It was pitched up and shapes away outside off , Clarke goes hard at that , the ball takes the outside edge and runs away wide of the gully fielder. The Indians were interested 26.5 Shami to Clarke , no run , edged ! But the ball does not carry to the slip cordon which is surprising in Australian conditions. On a good length and in the corridor of uncertainty , Clarke pushes at it and the ball takes the edge and falls short of Dhawan at second slip 26.4 Shami to Warner , 1 leg byes , again , the length is little short , Warner jumps up and drops it to the vacant square leg region off the pads. The umpire reckons that there was no wood involved 26.3 Shami to Warner , no run , short of length on middle and leg , Warner misses the clip and is hit on the thigh pad 26.2 Shami to Warner , 2 runs , effort delivery ! Well directed short ball , right at the batsman , Warner is hurried into the pull , he plays it awkwardly down to fine leg 26.1 Shami to Warner , no run , Shami keeps it close to the off-stump , Warner stays back and knocks it to cover 25.6 Ishant to Clarke , no run , back of a length and holds its line , Clarke hangs back and bunts it off the outside half of the bat to cover 25.5 Ishant to Clarke , no run , good length ball around off , Clarke pushes it back to Ishant 25.4 Ishant to Clarke , no run , lovely line ! Closer to the off-stump , it seamed back in from outside off , Clarke was looking to play at it initially , but decides to let it pass at the last instant 25.3 Ishant to Clarke , no run , too far outside off , Clarke will let them go all day 25.2 Ishant to Clarke , 2 runs , goes wide of the crease and angles it in on off and middle , Clarke moves forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket for a brace Back over the wicket for the right-hander 25.1 Ishant to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , shortens the length on leg , Warner fails to nail the pull , wears it on the thigh pad and the ball dribbles in front of mid-wicket Ishant to continue from round the wicket for Warner 24.6 Shami to Clarke , no run , full and attacking the stumps , Clarke leans forward and wrists it to mid-on , shouts " no " for the single 24.5 Shami to Clarke , no run , tight line around off , Clarke presses it to cover after coming forward 24.4 Shami to Warner , 1 run , tad loose from Warner , fuller and slanted across off , Warner goes hard at it , the ball takes a thickish outside edge to deepish point , it was in the air but nowhere close for the fielder to catch it 24.3 Shami to Warner , no run , Shami drags the length back , Warner gets right behind the line and defends to cover 24.2 Shami to Warner , no run , Warner comes forward and pushes the full delivery to the left of Shami , who gets a hand and parries it to mid-on 24.1 Shami to Warner , no run , good length angled across the left-hander , who lets it go Starts from over the wicket Vijay is already out and doing some fielding drills. Aaron is also out , stretching out. The rest of the Indians slowly make their way out to the middle. Virat gathers them around for a huddle before they disperse to their respective positions. Shami will resume the attack in the post-lunch session. He only has two slips and a gully in place for Warner . Welcome back.. Plan A from India has been to bowl round the wicket to Warner and we know how it has worked so far. Will they change to Plan B ? Or continue with the same ploy ? Aaron and Shami need to get their bearings right , else India will be chasing leather for the rest of the day . Both Shami and Aaron were very poor with the latter having no control over line or length. Karn Sharma served up full tosses - showing his nerves on debut. Ishant has been the pick of the bowlers and has even kept Warner quiet. Looking at the bowling , more hard work and a relentless day in the sun awaits India. Will the second session change things ? Or will Australia motor on ? We 'll be back to tell you all that and much more. In the meantime , why do n't you go and grab something to eat as we do the same here. Do stay tuned . Coming to the session happenings , very tardy over-rate from India. Just 24 overs bowled in that session and one reason for the reduced number of overs was the brutal onslaught by Warner. He belted Aaron out of the wicket and the score was around 40 at the 4th over mark. India were given a rude welcome to the series and perhaps a reminder of what they can expect in the rest of it. Only when Ishant came on did India pull things back. Warner retreated a bit as India got Rogers and Watson - both out to poor strokes. Those two wickets were gifts , more than good bowling . The players walk off to a good applause. Great to see everyone focussing their minds on the game after the tragic and unfortunate happenings over the last fortnight or so. The short balls have been bowled , the bouncer is back and also the stares accompanying a short one. Test Cricket is back ! And we are thankful for it . 23.6 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , a single off the pads to deep square leg and that will be lunch on day 1 Last delivery before lunch 23.5 Ishant to Warner , no run , shuffles across to off and covers the stumps , before blocking 23.4 Ishant to Clarke , 1 run , another inside edge induced by Ishant , Clarke not certain with his back foot defence and the ball escapes the stumps. Clarke after getting to the other end , shadow-practices the shot 23.3 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , Warner shuffles across a tad and then closes the face of the bat to nudge it through mid-wicket for an easy single 23.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , Warner defends that back down the track to Ishant 23.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , lovely probing delivery from Ishant. In the corridor of uncertainty , hits the seam and jags away ever so slightly , Warner was tempted to fiddle , then left it alone Last over before lunch and it will be Ishant 22.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , low full toss , Clarke skips down and drives it back to the bowler 22.5 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , now works the single to deep backward square leg. He is always busy 22.4 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , what a shot that is ! All timing from Warner who has been all power today. Down the track and to the pitch , before easing a drive past cover. Languid flow of the bat and the ball melted away to the fence . 22.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , fired down leg , Warner misses the sweep and Saha collects 22.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , FOUR , Warner is itching to have a go at Karn Sharma. Down the track and lofted back over the bowler 's head. Hit hard and another boundary for Warner 22.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , Warner goes on the back foot to defend that turning delivery Karn Sharma [ 2.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Ishant to Clarke , no run , seamed back in , but the length was back of a length which allowed Clarke an easier defensive shot 21.5 Ishant to Clarke , no run , Clarke comes on the front foot to push to mid-off. Lovely straight bat there 21.4 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , dug in short by Ishant , Warner swivels to pull to deep square leg. Rolled his wrists on that stroke 21.3 Ishant to Clarke , 1 run , Clarke gets forward to defend , but the ball takes a thick inside edge before running wide of square leg , there is a fumble by the chasing fielder , but they settle for a single 21.2 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , angled into middle and leg , worked through mid-wicket 21.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , fuller length outside off , from round the wicket , left alone Ishant Sharma [ 6.0-2-11-1 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Aaron to Clarke , 2 runs , back of a length outside off , Clarke is waiting for it , a gentle roll of the wrists and then a cute swat to deep backward square for a couple of runs 20.5 Aaron to Clarke , no run , rises onto his toes and nudges it to mid-wicket. A loud call of 'wait no' 20.4 Aaron to Clarke , no run , short of length on off , calmly defended 20.3 Aaron to Clarke , no run , down leg , wasted delivery 20.2 Aaron to Clarke , 2 runs , good short delivery , has Clarke in a tangle , he wanted to leave that alone , but since it was heading towards his left-shoulder , he awkwardly pulls down to fine leg. Was late on the stroke and got away with it 20.1 Aaron to Clarke , 2 runs , 'yes two ' shouts Clarke as he gets forward and then defends wide of cover. Easy two it is. The feet moved nicely there 19.6 Karn Sharma to Clarke , 1 run , skips down and eases a drive to mid-off to keep strike 19.5 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , down the track and got too close to the pitch of it , squeezed out to mid-on 19.4 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , lands one finally. Clarke comes on the front foot to block 19.3 Karn Sharma to Clarke , no run , third full toss in a row. Karn Sharma is under immense pressure , it 's showing. Clarke gets forward and flicks to mid-wicket 19.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , another high full toss , swatted away to deep backward square leg , only a single 19.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , 2 runs , kneels down and laps a full toss down to fine leg. The crowd are on their feet to applaud Warner who is now on 63. Warner has a look at the heavens , says a few words , sits down for a breather and then gets back to work. A very emotional moment that ! Now Karn Sharma comes round the wicket 18.6 Aaron to Clarke , no run , very wayward delivery , down leg and Clarke will have nothing doing with it 18.5 Aaron to Clarke , no run , back of a length on off , Clarke stands tall and blocks 18.4 Aaron to Clarke , no run , Aaron greets Clarke with a sharp short delivery , Clarke ducks and lets it go , a stare from Aaron and a prolonged one at that. Clarke just walks down the wicket and taps on a few patches Michael Clarke , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.3 Aaron to Watson , out Caught by Dhawan at 2nd slip ! ! Watson has thrown it away. They check for the no-ball , but Aaron has n't overstepped this time. Another poor stroke has resulted in a dismissal. Short and wide outside off , Watson cuts and edges behind , Dhawan moves smartly to his left to take and cue for some huge ear-splitting expletive-induced celebration from Aaron. He is just giving it his all ! Watson c Dhawan b Aaron 14 ( 33 ) [ 4s-3 ] Aaron to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.2 Aaron to Watson , no run , short of length outside off , punched to cover Aaron loses his run-up 18.1 Aaron to Watson , no run , full and on the stumps , flicked to mid-wicket 17.6 Karn Sharma to Watson , 1 run , another full toss and Watson uses his feet to flick to deep square leg , for a single 17.5 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , uses his feet and drives it back to Karn Sharma 17.4 Karn Sharma to Watson , no run , floated on the stumps , defended Slip , silly mid-off , silly mid-on in place 17.3 Karn Sharma to Warner , 1 run , uses his feet and drives wide of cover for a single 17.2 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , eased to cover 17.1 Karn Sharma to Warner , no run , first ball in Tests from Karn Sharma and it 's a high full bunger. Warner 's eyes lit up , but he mistimed the big stroke to mid-on. Very nervy first delivery from Karn Sharma Karn Sharma , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 16.6 Aaron to Watson , no run , Aaron nearly had his man , or at least he thought so. An inside edge onto the pads saved Watson as he once again planted his front foot far too across , in trying to flick 16.5 Aaron to Watson , no run , pitched up outside off , Watson gets forward to drive to mid-off 16.4 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , a short-arm jab to deep mid-wicket. Not timed at all The umpires have a look at the ball and pass it through the hoops. They reckon for now , it is fine to continue . 16.3 Aaron to Warner , no run , pushed hard off the front foot to mid-off 16.2 Aaron to Warner , no run , short of length on off , defended to mid-off 16.1 Aaron to Warner , FOUR , Warner is in no mood to let go off the assault. Full on off , a clean lofted drive through the line over mid-off. So easy ! 15.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , angled in and met with a solid block from Watson 15.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , Ishant digs it in short , Watson is eying the pull and swivels to play the stroke , is into the shot a tad too early and wears one on the body 15.4 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , back of a length outside off , worked with a whip of the wrists to deep square leg , for a single 15.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , now Ishant brings Warner onto the front foot with a fuller delivery , the batsman blocks 15.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , short of length on off , nudged off the back foot to mid-on 15.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , down leg , Warner glances and misses 14.6 Aaron to Watson , no run , back of a length on off , Watson is happy defending off the back foot 14.5 Aaron to Watson , no run , rock-solid defensive shot to mid-on 14.4 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , sliding down , flicked through mid-wicket for a single 14.3 Aaron to Warner , no run , that 's much better from Aaron , pulls the length back and forces Warner to defend 14.2 Aaron to Warner , FOUR , 50 up for Warner ! He raises his bat and soaks in the applause. Has a look above and then gets back to business. Got his fifty with a helped pull to the fine leg fence. Poor bowling from Aaron once again , short and down leg , easy pickings that 14.1 Aaron to Warner , FOUR , fraction short from Aaron from round the wicket and Warner smashes it to the deep mid-wicket fence. Rocks back and pulls hard and flat over mid-wicket. Now on 49 13.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , that 's much better from Watson. Gets forward and blocks to silly mid-on 13.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , this one is a very close call and a huge appeal for lbw. Did Watson get outside the line of off ? No he did n't. Height though saved him as he was struck above the kneeroll. Hawk-Eye confirms Erasmus ' call , as the ball was missing the stumps and going over 13.4 Ishant to Watson , no run , wide of the crease and angled in , on the pads of Watson who misses the flick. Stifled appeal from India , nothing more 13.3 Ishant to Warner , 3 runs , neat tuck through mid-wicket. Outside off and Warner is on his toes , wristing it into the gap. Easy three runs 13.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , dug in short , Warner ducks under that 13.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , tight delivery on off , Warner comes on the front foot to block to mid-off 12.6 Aaron to Watson , no run , gets forward and pushes it to mid-on 12.5 Aaron to Watson , no run , back of a length outside off , Watson shoulders arms 12.4 Aaron to Watson , FOUR , width from Aaron and Watson is ready to put it away. Overpitched outside off and that 's a superb cover drive from Watson. Bent down really low and drove it through the gap 12.3 Aaron to Watson , no run , short and wide outside off , that really flew through to Saha , Watson slashed and missed. Wanted to pull out of the shot but the ball had already beaten him 12.2 Aaron to Watson , no run , short of length on the stumps , Watson gets right behind the line and blocks with the straightest of bats 12.1 Aaron to Watson , no run , short of length on the hips , tucked to mid-wicket 11.6 Ishant to Warner , no run, 11.5 Ishant to Warner , no run , Ishant is keeping it tight , Warner gets forward and defends to cover 11.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , full and on the stumps , solidly defended by Warner 11.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , Ishant hits the bat hard and Warner has a look at his bat after defending. The ball hit the splice and rolled back to the left of Ishant 11.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , short of length outside off , punched to cover and a shout of 'wait on' 11.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , good length ball angled in on middle , Warner blocks it back to Ishant That will be drinks. What an hour of play that has been. Warner started off like a bullet train and the pressure was squarely on the Indians. Virat brought on Ishant in a bid to stem the flow of runs and the experienced man , did just that. Then he dismissed Rogers. After that hectic start , calmness has been restored to proceedings. Will the second hour be any different ? Let 's wait and watch . 10.6 Aaron to Watson , no run , short of length on off , defended to the right of the bowler Silly mid-on moved to a catching short cover 10.5 Aaron to Watson , no run , another superbly timed shot , but Rohit Sharma dives to his right at mid-off to save some runs 10.4 Aaron to Watson , FOUR , cracking shot. Width outside off , short and wide , Watson crunches the punch wide of point. Really well hit that one 10.3 Aaron to Watson , no run , short of length outside off , Watson stands tall and punches it to cover 10.2 Aaron to Watson , no run , the outside edge is found , but does n't carry to the diving Kohli at gully. Swing for Aaron and he forced the false stroke from the batsman , but it did n't carry 10.1 Aaron to Watson , no run , short delivery from Aaron , Watson hops a little and lets it go over his left-shoulder Varun Aaron [ 2.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , this has been a poor over from Ishant. Well down leg and more work for Saha to do 9.5 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , gets forward to defend , but the inside edge rushes away to deep backward square leg 9.4 Ishant to Watson , FOUR , trademark Watson. He gets forward and then clips the off and middle delivery through mid-wicket. Really whippy stroke and that races away. Nothing wrong with the delivery , maybe if you were harsh , you would call it a bit too straight Lots of spectators seen holding placards with the sign : '63 not out'. You all know what that means. Also the bats have been lined up against the wall with the Baggy Green hanging on top of the handle . 9.3 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , third delivery on the pads in a row , this time Warner flicks to fine leg 9.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , another leg-side delivery , Warner surprisingly fails to put it away , wears one on the thigh pad 9.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , down leg and Warner ca n't connect on the glance 8.6 Shami to Watson , no run , Shami is slowly hitting his straps. Another tight delivery on off stump , Watson can only defend 8.5 Shami to Watson , no run , fullish on off , Watson is brought forward and it takes a thick outside half of the bat towards mid-off 8.4 Shami to Watson , no run , short of length on the stumps , defended down the wicket Silly mid-on right in Watson 's eyeline is placed 8.3 Shami to Warner , 3 runs , sweet timing on the front foot punch , past cover. Rohit and Jinks run after it , the former slides and pulls it back to the latter who does the mopping up. They take three. Third ump has his usual routine check 8.3 Shami to Warner , wide , repeat of the previous delivery , but too high and rightly a wide called 8.2 Shami to Warner , no run , short delivery , good one too , forces Warner to duck under that quickly 8.1 Shami to Warner , no run , full and on the stumps , solidly defended to mid-on by Warner 7.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , what a first ball to Watson ! Real good short delivery from Ishant , fire in that one and Watson had to be quick to get his head out of harm 's way. It was angled in and at the right height. Ishant walks back - chest puffed out and with a swagger Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! Ishant strikes ! Ishant bowled it wide of off , lured Chris Rogers into the drive away from the body and the healthy edge carries at a nice comfortable height - that 's one thing which is guaranteed in Australia - which is pouched by Dhawan at 2nd slip. Ishant roars and a badly needed wicket for India , to stop some of the bleeding. Chris Rogers c Dhawan b Ishant 9 ( 22 ) [ 4s-1 ] Ishant to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , tight delivery on the stumps , punched back to the left of the bowler 7.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length outside off , Chris Rogers reaches out and taps to point with an angled bat 7.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , ooh ! Chris Rogers closes the face of the bat too early and the leading edge is found , but luckily for him it dribbles to mid-off , was n't in the air at all 7.1 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , the 50 is up with a neat little clip to deep backward square leg. The crowd clear their throats 6.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Shami comes back well with a good delivery , nips back in and cuts Chris Rogers into half. The ball beats the inside edge and then the body , before being collected by Saha 6.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , half-volley from Shami and it 's met with the straightest of bats by Chris Rogers. Past the stumps at the other end and the ball has enough legs to cross the rope. Remember at the Adelaide Oval , the straight boundaries are the longest in the world. One can easily run four and in the earlier times , they even ran five ! 6.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , full on off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-on 6.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , thick outside edge on the attempted cover drive , the ball scoots to Jinks at gully 6.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , nice carry through to Saha after Chris Rogers leaves. Saha took it over his shoulder 6.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller length outside off , left alone 5.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , 'it 's a maiden over and that too to David Warner ' bellows Sanjay over-excited Manjrekar on air. Full and on middle , Warner pushed it back to Ishant 5.5 Ishant to Warner , no run , had to ruin my words , does Ishant as he slips one down leg. Saha has some exercise to do 5.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , 'wait on ' screams Warner after he forward-defends to cover. Ishant hitting the right lengths and is bowling the correct line too 5.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , good stop by the diving Aaron at mid-wicket , saved some runs , at least a couple 5.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , back and across before defending to point , straight to the fielder Virat has had enough of Aaron 's waywardness. He wants some control and ideally a wicket. So he has turned to his most experienced bowler in Ishant. Also now only a couple of slips and a gully 5.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , some shape away straightaway for Ishant as he comes round the wicket , like his team-mates Aaron and Shami. Warner has a look and then lets it go as the ball was outside off Ishant Sharma , right-arm fast , comes into the attack This is a rollicking start by Warner. 45 in 5 overs is a great start in T20 cricket , never mind in Tests. He has feasted on the width provided by the Indians. Never gun-shy of putting the bad ball away , he has set the tone for the series , from his side 's point of view. All the pressure on India and their captain Virat Kohli. Interesting to see how they cope up with this tremendous onslaught . 4.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , turned to mid-wicket to end the over 4.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back over the wicket and nearly breaks through Chris Rogers ' defences , but the batsman 's inside edge onto the pads saves him. Hands-on-heads time for the Indians 4.4 Shami to Warner , 1 run , angling into middle , nudged through mid-wicket for a single 4.3 Shami to Warner , no run , solidly defended back to Shami Now round the wicket to Warner 4.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , now Chris Rogers leans into his trademark cover drive , eased past cover and Rohit does the mopping up after chasing it Back over the wicket to Chris Rogers 4.1 Shami to Warner , 1 run , short and down leg , pulled to Aaron at fine leg 3.6 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , Saha thought there was a thin outside edge , no real appeal from Aaron though. He beat the outside edge of Chris Rogers as he finally delivers a ball in the corridor of uncertainty , on a right length. Erasmus was n't interested at all. Need a replay to ascertain if there was anything 3.5 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , drifts onto the pads , Chris Rogers fails to nail the flick , hit on the thigh 3.4 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Chris Rogers is a tad squared up , but defends to point 3.3 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , tucked to deep mid-wicket , and that finally brings Chris Rogers on strike after the opening over Back over the wicket now 3.3 Aaron to Warner , wide , way , way outside off and rightly wide called 3.2 Aaron to Warner , 2 runs , not as well-timed as the previous fours , but he gets it wide of the diving cover for a couple of runs 3.2 Aaron to Warner , no ball , FOUR , another short ball , but it 's outside off and that allows Warner to slash it over point 's head. It 's another no-ball from Aaron too. Adding more woe to India 3.1 Aaron to Warner , no run , the first short ball of the match ! And it 's a good one too from Aaron. Dug in short and at pace , whizzes past the ear of the swaying Warner. The crowd break into a healthy applause after that delivery. Nice to see. The bouncer business is done with ! 2.6 Shami to Warner , 3 runs , the initial call was 'wait ' from Warner as he defended forward. Sweet timing though takes it past the diving Rohit at mid-off , and aggressive running enables three runs 2.5 Shami to Warner , FOUR , Shami just stares at the wicket after another boundary conceded. Nothing can stop Warner at the moment. Very full and outside off , laced through cover , not a muscle moved as the ball thudded into the boundary hoardings 2.4 Shami to Warner , no run , Shami pulls the length back and that forces Warner to defend off the back foot to mid-on 2.3 Shami to Warner , no run , tapped off the front foot to cover , straight to the fielder 2.2 Shami to Warner , FOUR , this is the best of the lot ! Just a front foot punch through cover and pristine timing on that shot carries it all the way to the fence. Kohli and Shami under immense pressure as Warner runs riot 2.1 Shami to Warner , FOUR , there he goes ! Down on one knee - the left-knee kisses the turf and he times the square drive over point. The width was provided by Shami and Warner just is in no mood to let that go. Already four boundaries off his 8 deliveries faced 1.6 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , gets forward and times the punch into the gap at cover to retain strike 1.5 Aaron to Warner , FOUR , Aaron ca n't keep bowling full and wide outside off to this man. He will murder you all day long. Warner reaches out and carves this over point. Intentionally hit in the air and that will be the third boundary of the over 1.4 Aaron to Warner , no run , Warner looks for the forcing drive through cover , gets an inside edge onto the pads as the bat comes down at an angle 1.4 Aaron to Warner , no ball , FOUR , big no-ball from Aaron and what 's worse he has bowled it well outside off too. Width on offer for Warner as he leans into the square drive , opens the face of the bat and gets it wide of point this time 1.3 Aaron to Warner , no run , late inswing for Aaron , on a yorker length , nearly shot through Warner , who was late on the block. Luckily he managed to dig it out in the nick of time Three slips , a gully and a man in the deep already for the pull/hook 1.2 Aaron to Warner , no run , low full toss , almost a yorker , toe-ended to mid-off 1.1 Aaron to Warner , FOUR , top shot ! Warner just leant on that and caressed it through the vacant cover region. Aaron came round the wicket and looked like a loosener first up , Warner was onto it in a flash - he does n't need any sighters - and put it away. The ball races across the turf Varun Aaron , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back over the wicket for that final delivery , clipped well , but well-stopped by Che at short leg 0.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , that cut back in sharply from outside off and had Chris Rogers hopping. Struck him on the thigh as the batsman failed to counter the extravagant movement. Shami is testing Rogers early on and the batsman is failing to live up to the challenge 0.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , nicely forward that time and he punches towards mid-off Three slips , a gully and a short leg in place for Shami 0.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , iffy batting from Chris Rogers. Searches for the cherry outside off , again gets an inside edge that rolls to short leg. Chris Rogers ' feet went nowhere and the bat just followed away from the body 0.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , ooh ! That was close. The inside edge from Chris Rogers saved him , late swing for Shami , Rogers shuffled too much and just about got the bat down , luckily a couple results and he is off the mark with that as well 0.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , swing for Shami , curved in nicely , on a fuller length too , well punched by Chris Rogers , Shami fields on his followthrough Chris Rogers and Warner are at the crease. Chris Rogers is on strike. Shami will open the attack It will be Shami who has the new ball. He is coming from round the wicket. Here we go. Rogers the man who will face off . Finally the Indians are out one-by-one on the field. Kohli is chewing away on that gum. They are into a huddle. The Aussie openers walk out to a ripple of applause. Very healthy crowd in and it will only grow as the day progresses. Ishant starts off the talk in the huddle , before the captain - Kohli takes over. Kohli has the white sunscreen on his face as well ala Allan Donald - though not as intimidating as White Lightning ! The Indians are ready. Ishant and Aaron are in their white floppies. Shami has the navy blue India cap though. Karn Sharma is rolling his arm over while the fielders get a few catches to warm their hands. MS is there too , lurking outside the fence and he looks very odd wearing the white floppy. Never seen him wear that before. Does n't suit him at all . The teams are coming out to the middle with black armbands. What a big Test this for Virat Kohli - earmarked as the next Indian great. He has had a very rocky Test career of late and the England tour completely demoralised his confidence. Now he captains India for the first time ever , thanks to MS ' injury. Will skippering the side bring out the best in him ? One thing is for sure , he will be his usual cocky self and more whether with the bat in hand or on the field. We will certainly be keeping a close eye on his moves , as will millions all around the world . Kohli : 'Absolutely , it 's a pleasure for me ( when asked about leading the side ) . My first Test hundred was also on this ground. Leading India for the first time in Tests , could n't be a better day to start off the series. Great way to get on the field and get over what has happened on the field , it 's a sad time , but this is the only thing that can heal it. Yes , I did know Phillip , he was one of the guys who I spoke to more than anyone. Surprisingly or coincidentally he asked for my bat during the last ODI series at Jaipur. I wish I had given it to him. Yeah lovely chap and very cheerful , I know him well. We got more days than we expected , the practice sessions have been going on well and the guys are looking in great shape. Mentally feeling good and positive. Now is the time and now is the opportunity.' Clarke : 'We are going to have a bat , thank you. The wicket looks fantastic , I do n't think I have ever seen a ground look as good as this , the Adelaide Oval staff have done a great job. Yeah we have a 13th man and we will have for the rest of our careers. Phillip Hughes is our 13th man and he will be with us for the rest of our careers. It 's going to take a long time to get over it , but what 's important and I know my little buddy would want us to get playing some cricket. The boys are fully fit and India is always a tough challenge and we want to start the summer on a high.' Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Murali Vijay , Shikhar Dhawan , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli ( c ) , Ajinkya Rahane , Rohit Sharma , Wriddhiman Saha ( w ) , Karn Sharma , Ishant Sharma , Varun Aaron , Mohammed Shami Australia have won the toss and have opted to bat Always nice to see Dravid on telly and here he gives his views on the Adelaide pitch , 'it 's a bat-first pitch , but looks very dry and hard as well. Still a bat-first pitch. ' Typical Adelaide pitch then ? So a glorious day at Adelaide to play Test match cricket in and we are all set for a cracking series. Do note this : if you want the best coverage of the series , then this is the place to be hanging around. We promise you the very finest coverage possible from our team. There will be no stone left unturned as we strive for perfection. So from today , you will know where to head to for your cricket craving . The latest news from the Indian camp is that Bhuvneshwar 's injury is serious and he will miss the first two Tests . Australia playing XI : Chris Rogers , David Warner , Shane Watson , Michael Clarke ( captain ) , Steven Smith , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Ryan Harris , Peter Siddle & Nathan Lyon . Team news : The hosts have already announced their XI with Shaun Marsh and Hazlewood missing the cut . That 's a wrap of this segment. There is grief lurking in the backdrop , but there is a lot to look forward to with a ready Australia up against a young Indian side wanting to prove itself overseas after reversals in New Zealand and England this year . 'From Tuesday , it is quite certain that a murmur will set off every time a bouncer is sent down regardless of the bravado or the soft corner the whole debate may have generated , but it is quite refreshing to see how both teams have got a grip on the subject and promised to play a game of hardball which includes the bouncers. ' concludes Sai Prasad Mohapatra One final newspaper roundup left before we wrap up the segment. Here is Sai Prasad Mohapatra for the Hindustan Times. 'The accident is fresh , the emotion is raw and the ensuing debate is still raging : what is the future of bouncers ? At the ground zero , where it claimed a victim in Phillip Hughes , the argument seems to have drowned out in the life goes on maxim. India 's two-day match against Cricket Australia XI in Glenelg which ended in a draw , saw a barrage of bouncers unleashed by both sides. Varun Aaron , Umesh Yadav , Ishant Sharma and Mohammed Shami led the Indian attack with bouncers to a side which did n't even look half menacing.' That 's big news and if that is the case then it will mean no Ravichandran Ashwin. India going for the bolder option. Huge moment in the life of the young man as well. A Test debut on Aussie soil for a spinner is n't a rosy challenge first up - just ask a certain SK Warne - but we wish him well ! Just before we could complete our roundup of the newspaper segment , Harsha Bhogle has this tweet : 'So Karn Sharma gets his test cap. Big announcement early from India.' 'Now as the Men in Blue , donning whites , get ready for the stiff challenge , there 's one thing that Australia would have to deal within themselves too. The mystery of spin ! ' 'While Australia have all bases covered when it comes to the pace battery , it 's the spin department which continues to struggle even years after Shane Warne announced his retirement. Nathan Lyon , who has been in the scheme of things , and the only option it seems , will be the bowler who would shoulder most of the slow-bowling burden. Any one to share the load with ? Can toss to Steve Smith and Glenn Maxwell , but both are not regular spinners. Smith was , but has taken up batting more seriously now.' Saikat Ghosh , writing for the Indian Express , delves into Australia 's spin resources . 'Yet Australia wants more. All three are being willed towards next year 's Ashes tour but life beyond that is uncertain. Each of the trio are totally different tales with one common thread - the determination they showed in adversity has been inspiring , not simply to their team-mates but any Australian youngster who dreams the big dream.' He adds , 'As the Test season starts in Adelaide on Tuesday , three such players , Ryan Harris , Brad Haddin and Chris Rogers will be knuckling down , without any fuss or fanfare , for what could be their swan song domestic Test summers. Haddin and Rogers are 37. Harris 35. By traditional standards they are already defying gravity.' He writes , 'Australia saw eight players reach the century mark in a decade and support players who might have had honourable 40 Test careers sometimes felt nigh invisible. But the landscape has changed. It 's the trusty , flint hard veteran who just keeps gutsing it out and who might dart in and out of the international scene for 20 , 30 , maybe 50 Tests but do a precious job for their country.' Robert Craddock 's piece for the Courier Mail carries the headline : 'Ryan Harris , Chris Rogers , Brad Haddin defy age to remain vital to Test side' 'Aside from the philosophical questions raised when one is taken as young as Hughes , the circumstances around his death have also forced introspection from players on their approach to the game.' 'The memories from that sad day at the SCG are still raw for Watson. While the sadness lingers , Watson is trying his best to overcome the fears that would have entered the mind of every cricketer since a freak accident claimed Phillip Hughes ' life.' Andrew Wu , writing for the Sydney Morning Herald , throws the spotlight on bouncers. He writes , 'As Mitchell Johnson confronted his demons by sending down some red-hot bouncers , Shane Watson was learning how to hold his nerve again in the face of world-class fast bowling.' A cracking Test series beckons. Before the action begins , let us have a gander at what the newspapers have in store for us . The Aussies may have floundered in the UAE , but they are a potent unit , more so in home conditions. Meanwhile , the late Hughes has been symbolically named as Australia 's 13th man . With M Vijay , Shikhar Dhawan , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane set in stone as the top five , Rohit , who smashed his second ODI double century recently , is in line to occupy the Number 6 slot at the expense of Raina. Saha , who made a couple of fifties in the warm-ups , will keep wickets in the absence of Dhoni . It may be recalled that the Indians enjoyed good workouts in the two practice games. If that is anything to go by , then Aaron ( 3/80 , 4/41 , 1/28 ) will be India 's third seamer behind Bhuvneshwar ( fitness permitting ) and Ishant. Ishant 's ability to hit the deck hard and generate extra bounce coupled with his experience , marks him a key bowler. Shami and Umesh are also in the mix. The three-way tussle between Ashwin , Karn and Jadeja also promises to be interesting . The visitors though exuded confidence in the pre-game briefing with Vijay saying that the Indians do not fear Mitchell Johnson. The mustached marauder was at it last summer , taking 37 wickets in Australia 's Ashes clean sweep . The last time India toured Australia , they were emphatically whitewashed 4-0. They began well in England this year , winning the Lord 's Test but crashed badly to lose the series 3-1. Che Pujara and Virat Kohli were found wanting outside the off stump . Shane Watson and Ryan Harris have admitted that they are battling inner demons , suffering flashbacks of Hughes ' passing ahead of the game. However , the hosts are up and ready for battle. The Aussies will keep a close watch on the former , who is returning from injury . Coming to the match-ups , Michael Clarke has been passed fit to lead Australia. On the contrary , MS Dhoni has not fully recovered from a thumb injury. This means that Kohli will lead India for the first time in Tests. He will become India 's 32nd captain in Tests. The last time India toured Australia , Kohli stood up to the Aussies , making a fighting century - the only three figure score by an Indian. Having picked up an ankle injury , Bhuvneshwar is a doubtful starter . But , the game must go on. Perhaps , Phil Hughes would have wanted the game to go on as well. To borrow from Michael Clarke 's touching speech at Phil 's funeral service in Macksville : " Phillip 's spirit , which is now part of our game forever , will act as a custodian of the sport we all love. We must listen to it. We must cherish it. We must learn from it. We must dig in and get through to tea. And we must play on. " The first Test of India 's Australian visit had been moved back , rightly , in order to give players more time to grieve for Hughes. The unfortunate passing away of Hughes left the entire cricketing fraternity enveloped by sorrow and grief . The only man to average over 40 in First class , List A and T20s. The youngest player to score twin hundreds in a Test match. The only Australian to score a ton on ODI debut. A supremely talented batsman , loving son , doting brother , team-man , a champion , who embodied the never-say-die spirit. Phillip Joel Hughes died a tragic death after being struck by a bouncer , but his memories will continue to inspire us. Fittingly , Adelaide will pause and honour its adopted son before the first Test between Australia and India kicks off . Preview It will be an emotional morning at the Adelaide Oval on December 9th when Australia and India take the field for the first Test of the four match series , just 11 days after the unfortunate demise of Phillip Hughes. Losing one of their dearest friends shattered the Australian players but they will look to shift their focus to the game when they face off against the sub-continent side. The visitors , meanwhile , have been in the country for more than a fortnight and will hope that they have acclimatized themselves well in the couple of warm-up games they played. They will be keen to extend their good form into the Test series . The cricket world was plunged into mourning over the Hughes tragedy , forcing a rescheduling of the four-match series against India , with the first Test switched from Brisbane to Adelaide. A number of tributes have been planned , with the Australian players planning to wear Hughes ' Test cap number 408 on their playing shirts and black armbands in honour of their former team-mate . It has been a mentally challenging time getting back to cricket , but some of the home team players have insisted that the tourists can expect a fired-up Australian team during the first Test and that there will be no let-up in their aggressive approach . Australia : Michael Clarke was passed fit to lead Australia in the opening Test , with Hughes symbolically named as 13th man. Australia , who have announced the eleven for the game , have a strong batting order. David Warner , who showcased good form in the series against Pakistan , will be expected to provide fiery starts with Chris Rogers to partner him. Shane Watson , Steve Smith , Mitchell Marsh , along with Clarke , comprise of the middle order with Haddin to follow. Some of the bowlers in the side can also do a decent job with the bat , which means that the Australian batting department packs quite a punch. Despite their intimidating batting unit , Australia suffered a few collapses in the series against Pakistan , which they will be keen to avoid . Bowling bouncers has become a sensitive issue after Hughes was fatally struck in the head by a short-pitched delivery. However , the Indians will not be any more comfortable than how England were when they last toured Down Under. The Australian pace battery , led by Mitchell Johnson , stressed that they will play the way they have always played - aggressive. Along with fellow fast bowlers Ryan Harris and Peter Siddle , Johnson has been largely responsible for Australia 's recent success and the hosts will be banking on the trio to deliver again. The hosts also have a good back-up in the form of Mitchell Marsh and Shane Watson , making it a formidable pace unit. After toiling in conditions that did not suit them in the UAE , the Australian pacers will be glad to be back home. Nathan Lyon is the lone front-line spinner in the eleven but he will have some support in the form of Smith while Warner too can roll his arm over if needed . India : Virat Kohli will be leading India in Test cricket for the first time as Mahendra Singh Dhoni will require more time in order to completely recover from a thumb injury. Although Kohli will be leading a relatively young team , there is no dearth of international experience. The stand-in Indian skipper may be the only one in the current batting order to have played a Test in Australia before. However , the presence of Murali Vijay , Shikhar Dhawan , Cheteshwar Pujara , Ajinkya Rahane , Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina means that there is a lot of experience along with solidity in the Indian batting order. Kohli , Pujara and Dhawan , who failed in England , will be keen to prove a point while the rest will also be eager to come up with valuable contributions. In the absence of Dhoni , Wriddhiman Saha is expected to don the keeper 's gloves. He too is a capable batsman , although Australian conditions may prove to be a challenge to him . The Indians , who have spent a while in Australia getting used to the conditions , did well in the couple of two-day practice matches they played against the CA Invitational XI. While most of the batsmen helped themselves to fifty-plus scores , what was also impressive was the way the bowlers performed. Varun Aaron , Ishant Sharma and Mohammed Shami getting amongst wickets is a positive sign for India as these three will mostly likely feature in eleven for the first Test. While Bhuvneshwar , who did an excellent job in England , would have been an automatic pick , the seamer is nursing an ankle injury which might keep him out of the first two Tests . In the spin department , R Ashwin is the most likely choice although one can not ruled out leg-spinner Karn Sharma 's chances. While it is a well-balanced bowling unit , the Indians will be hoping that they can rise up to the challenge and deliver what is required of them . Pitch and conditions : A drop-in track is being used at the Adelaide Oval for this game but curator Damian Hough said its core character would be the same as a traditional pitch. The curator said it will be 'a typical 22-yard strip ' which will assist the pacers initially before it eases for the batsmen , while offering some turn for the spinners as well. Sunny conditions are forecast on most days while there is a possibility of rain on Day 2 . Numbers : 1 : The number of matches India have won at the Adelaide Oval. They have played 10 matches so far at this venue and have lost six , while three were drawn games . 116 and 22 : Virat Kohli 's scores when he last played at the Adelaide Oval. It was at this venue that the stand-in Indian skipper scored his first ton in Test cricket . Quotes : You might see things quite different from what you usually see. The intent is going to be aggressive. That 's something I use in my cricket and will try and use it in my captaincy as well : Virat Kohli . It 's going to be an emotional morning and for me , going out there and bowling the first spell might be the most difficult ( thing ) : Mitchell Johnson . Teams : India ( From ) : Murali Vijay , Shikhar Dhawan , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli ( c ) , Ajinkya Rahane , Rohit Sharma , Wriddhiman Saha ( w ) , Ravichandran Ashwin , Varun Aaron , Ishant Sharma , Umesh Yadav , Mohammed Shami , Ravindra Jadeja , Karn Sharma , Suresh Raina , Lokesh Rahul , Naman Ojha , Bhuvneshwar Kumar Australia ( From ) : David Warner , Chris Rogers , Shane Watson , Michael Clarke ( c ) , Steven Smith , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Johnson , Ryan Harris , Peter Siddle , Nathan Lyon , Shaun Marsh , Josh Hazlewood Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
