Graphs We leave you with a few user comments . So , Australia add another chapter to their Gabbatoir legend. Armed with a 2-0 lead , Australia will be keen to double it up and whitewash India. Can the visitors pick themselves up and stay alive in the series ? Do join us back for the traditional MCG Boxing day Test to find out. Until then , take care and spread cheer. Merry Christmas and farewell ! Unless , the batsmen , bowlers and fielders click in unison , it will be difficult for India to win Tests overseas. Many congratulations to Australia for rallying behind Steve Smith after Clarke was ruled out of the remainder of the series , needing surgery. Harris was also out injured but Hazlewood stepped up to stake claim for a long tenancy in the Australian bowling attack. Though Watto disappointed with the bat , he proved his fitness by sending down 27.4 overs with the ball after Mitch Marsh was ruled out of bowling . Ashwin was good in patches but did not make the kind of impact he was expected to. Ishant with his no-balls hurt the team badly. Aaron and Umesh were not consistent enough to keep the pressure on Australia. Plenty of question marks over Rohit 's place in the XI as well. Dhoni said that he was happy with the performance of his boys , but has plenty to ponder over ahead of the MCG Boxing Day Test . After a good start , the Indian innings unraveled quickly today with Johnson triggering off a collapse. The Indian bowlers showed some stomach for a fight , but they did not have the cushion of enough runs . Australia 's reply was a story of two halves. Dhoni 's men had Australia in a fix at 247/6. Then arrived the Smith-Johnson show. The duo took the short ball on and flattened the Indian bowling , before Lyon , Starc and Hazlewood joined the party as Australia gained a substantial 97-run lead . Match Summary : The visitors began on a strong footing with Murali Vijay becoming the seventh Indian opener to score a century on Australian soil. Useful contributions from Rahane , Dhoni and Ashwin pushed India to 408. Debutant Josh Hazlewood was the bowling hero for Australia , pulling things back with an impressive 5-wicket haul . Thereafter , Rogers settled down nicely , scoring his second fifty of the game to drive Australia 's chase even as wickets fell at the other end. The result though was all sewn up after India 's sorry capitulation . Lyon and Starc also chipped in with two wickets each as India got bundled out for 224. Australia were off to a rocky start with Ishant reducing them to 22/2. Warner jarred his thumb during his stay in the middle and is expected to be closely monitored . Smith : " It is extremely satisfying. Look , that first day was extremely tough. The boys were dropping like flies with a couple of injuries. Then our bowlers restricted them. Josh Hazlewood - 5-fer on debut and backed it up with a couple in the second. Mitchell Johnson is Mr. Reliable. Yeah , I do n't think that was wise ( referring to the Indians sledging Mitch Johnson ) . That partnership was very crucial at that stage and set the game up for us. No doubt , it 's always a tough battle to play against India. We have won the key moments. I put it down to that. It has been an amazing thrill to captain this side. The boys have been outstanding and have backed me up nicely. That 's a couple of days away ( referring to the Box Day Test ) . I will relax for a couple of days , enjoy Christmas and get stuck in I guess. " Smith is the Man of the Match on his debut as Test captain Dhoni : " That 's always the case. I thought the first session today was a big debacle as far as our batting was concerned. There was a lack of communication whether Dhawan would bat or Kohli would bat. We did not handle it well. We had a bat at the nets and he ( Dhawan ) got hit. He did n't react badly , so we thought he was fine. But by the time we came back he was in pain. We had only 5-7 minutes to intimate it to Virat. That created some unrest. Mitchell ( Johnson ) batted very well. The ball got soft and he kept playing his shots. It was one of those days where nothing went to the fielder. We did well with the new ball. I am pretty happy with the way we have played. We are playing 4 bowlers. We are not sure of playing the extra batsman or the bowler. We have tried both. When it comes to the talent aspect , we are a talented side. We have not really succumbed to the pace factor. It is always a pleasure playing the Boxing Day Test , it will be a special day for the youngsters. It gets close to playing in India in front of a crowd of 80,000.' Presentation time : Despite Ashwin following suit , India managed to claw their way to a 127-run lead thanks to Dhawan and Umesh. The opener came out to bat and braved injury to bring up a battling fifty , while Umesh slogged his way to 30 . India were on the back foot even before the first ball was bowled today with Dhawan picking up a wrist injury in the nets. Kohli , who was apparently hit in the nets too , walked out to replace his Delhi mate , but perished soon after. The procession continued as India slid to 117/6 from their overnight score. Ashwin and Pujara briefly resisted the Australian attack before the latter was bounced out by Hazlewood . And what a start to Steve Smith 's captaincy career. He led the way for his side in the first innings with a sterling 133 and shared 148 with Mitch Johnson to take the game by the scruff of its neck. India began reasonably well , closing out day 3 at 71/1. What transpired next was an all too familiar Indian collapse . The game was nicely poised until Mitch Johnson forced the Indian batting implosion in the fourth morning session. Following up his counter-attacking fifty , Mitch scalped 4/61 to break the back of the Indian batting. He loves playing at the Gabba. The last time when Australia played here , all-round Mitch sunk England in the Ashes , claiming the Man of the Match award as well. He is a strong contender today too . 23.1 Aaron to M Marsh , FOUR , Australia go 2-0 up ! Marsh strikes the winning blow and embraces MJ in a hug. The latter plucks out a stump as a souvenir. Both men are all smiles , tapping each other on their backs. Lyon is off the chair , roaring in delight in the dressing room. This was too full and outside off , Marsh lashes a drive past cover to seal it for the hosts Australia are just 2 runs away from winning the Test. India have made a fist of the challenge but a lead of 127 was always inadequate . 22.6 U Yadav to M Marsh , 1 run , banged in short on the stumps from round the wicket , Marsh controls a pull to deep square leg 22.5 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , short and hurries on the leg stump , Johnson gets an inside-edge that wanders away towards mid-wicket 22.4 U Yadav to M Marsh , 1 run , short of length and outside off , guided away to third man. Mitch Marsh rode the bounce well there 22.3 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , back of a length and around off , dabbed behind point off the back foot 22.2 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , Johnson makes room outside leg , Yadav spears it well outside off. Mitch ca n't reach out and hence he ignores it Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 22.1 U Yadav to Haddin , out Caught by Kohli ! ! Haddin 's poor batting form continues. 6th wicket down for Australia. India persist with the short ball ploy , Umesh the bowler this time. Haddin sets up for a pull , but takes his eyes off the ball. The ball balloons over to backward square leg off a top-edge. Kohli clasps his hands around it , making amends for the drop at slip. Looks like Kohli is a lot comfortable in the outfield. Haddin c Kohli b U Yadav 1 ( 2 ) U Yadav to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 21.6 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , bouncer from Aaron again , Marsh is happy to sink under it 21.5 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , another short of length ball on the stumps , ducked under 21.4 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , banged in short and climbs over a ducking Marsh from round the stumps 21.3 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , outside off , left alone Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 21.3 Aaron to S Smith , no ball , out S Smith Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. Short of length and hurries on middle and leg , Smith moves back and nurdles it behind square leg. Smith wants a second and goes for it. Aaron was in his way and the minor bump in with Aaron sees him short of his crease at the keeper 's end , despite a dive. Umesh runs in and puts in a good throw to Dhoni , who flicks it back onto the stumps. Steve Smith pointed out to the ump that Aaron was obstructing him. He is disappointed as he walks back. He would have loved to finish things off. S Smith run out ( Umesh/Dhoni ) 28 ( 39 ) [ 4s-4 ] Aaron to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! TV umpire has been called in for a run-out check. Smith is the man in question. Smith gestures that the bowler came in his way , obstructing him. That minor collision with Aaron robs the momentum from Smith 's sprint back for the second. Even a dive ca n't save the Aussie skipper. He has to walk back to the hut . 21.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , Smith pulls his bottom hand off the bat and defends this one 21.1 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , bang ! Dug in short and on the stumps , Smith flat-bats a pull , Tennis-style swing. Che gives the chase , but the ball wins the race , reaching the deep mid-wicket fence 20.6 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , steered down to third man with an open face Marsh was seen wringing his glove after that dismissal. He was trying to hide that at the last moment , but Erasmus spotted Marsh gloving it . 20.5 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , shortish and climbs on off , Haddin rocks back and controls a pull down to fine leg Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease Haddin comes in ahead of Mitch Marsh , who did not take the field earlier 20.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Strangled down leg - the softest dismissal in the book. Marsh has gloved it. This was nothing but a harmless back of a length ball down leg , similar to the previous one. Marsh is tempted into the glance. He does not connect with it , the ball brushes the glove on its way to Dhoni. The ump raises his finger to give Marsh the marching orders. S Marsh c Dhoni b U Yadav 17 ( 17 ) [ 4s-3 ] U Yadav to S Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 20.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , shortish and down leg , ignored 20.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , 2 runs , pitched up and on off , Marsh hunts for a drive , but does not cover the slight inward movement. The ball catches the inside edge , evades the sticks and runs away towards deep fine leg. Vijay gets runs across , slides and pulls the ball in. During the process , he loses track of the ball , but recovers and keeps it down to two 20.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , fuller and straighter , Smith stays back and flicks it towards deep square leg for a single 19.6 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and hurries on off , Marsh cuts and finds the man at point. Nelson for three , just 17 to win the Test 19.5 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , short and down leg , Marsh leaves it alone 19.4 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and on off , skids on , beats the inside edge of Marsh and strikes him on the thigh. Going over again and another lbw appeal is turned down 19.4 Aaron to S Marsh , wide , bumper down leg , loads of height on that one. Dhoni leaps to his right to glove the ball. Another extra added to the Aussie total 19.3 Aaron to S Marsh , FOUR , full and wide outside off , Marsh has a crack at it and flashes it away to the third man fence. Kohli gives vent to his frustration Coming back to the lbw appeal , HawkEye shows that the ball was climbing over off ! 19.2 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , pitched up and on middle and off , Marsh looks for the off-drive. But has to settle with an inside edge that skews to mid-on 19.1 Aaron to S Marsh , FOUR , fuller on the leg stump , Marsh helps himself to a four to fine leg. Neatly glanced by Marsh 18.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , an appeal for lbw , but umpire Erasmus does not budge. Umesh is a disappointed man. This one jagged in slightly to rap Smith on the pad in front of off. The Aussie skipper was shouldering arms to that. Height may have been an issue here. Lbw dismissals are a rarity at the Gabba , considering this bouncy track 18.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , much fuller and outside off , driven sweetly but straight to the fielder at mid-off 18.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball outside off , Smith shoulders arms 18.3 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , whoa ! Steve Smith is one heck of a talent. Shortish and outside off , Smith upper cuts it over the slip cordon. Smith used the pace of Umesh to his advantage 18.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , banged in short and directed at the ribs , Marsh swivels on the back foot , rolls his wrists and pulls it to deep backward square leg 18.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , FOUR , this should do his confidence a world of good. Pitched up and on off , Marsh leans forward and drives it crisply , the ball travels to the long-off fence. Superb timing Umesh Yadav [ 6.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Aaron to S Marsh , 1 run , pitched up and on middle and off , Marsh comes forward and presses it to mid-off. The fielder ( Vijay I think ) gets across , dives but does not stop the ball cleanly , allowing the single 17.5 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , brave leave that from Marsh ! Back of a length and tantalizingly close to off at 149kph , Marsh lifts his bat and lets it go 17.4 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , fullish and curves in on off , Smith has an iffy push at it , the ball runs behind square leg off the inside half of the bat 17.3 Aaron to S Marsh , leg byes , 1 run , shortish and on the leg stump again , not much rise on this. Marsh swivels for a pull , but ca n't lay bat onto it. The ball brushes the thigh and sneaks away fine 17.2 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , 142kph lifter on the leg stump , Marsh aims to fend at it awkwardly , gets pinged on the glove 17.1 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , full and hurled across off , Marsh ignores it for Dhoni 16.6 Ishant to S Smith , FOUR , far too wide outside off , Smith connects well , staying on the back foot and punching it down to the third man fence 16.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good length ball outside off , Smith shoulders arms 16.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length and curves in late , but not that kind of extravagant movement to take the top of off. Good leave from Smith 16.3 Ishant to S Marsh , 1 run , short of length and rising on off , Marsh drops it in front of point and gets off the mark with a quick single Shaun Marsh , left handed bat , comes to the crease Time for a drinks break. Marsh is the new man . 16.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! Edged and taken. No mistake this time around. Rogers trudges off the field to a healthy round of applause. This was dug in shortish and outside off , Rogers flashes at it. The ball flies to Dhawan at third slip off a thick outside edge. Good catch at around head-height. No celebrations from the Indian camp. They know that it 's only a matter of time before the hosts wrap this game up. Chris Rogers c Dhawan b Ishant 55 ( 57 ) [ 4s-10 ] Ishant to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , slightly back of a length , Chris Rogers punches it to cover. Not well-timed 15.6 Aaron to Chris Rogers , leg byes , 1 run , on a length and on middle and leg , Chris Rogers misses the glance , the ball kisses the pad and trickles behind square on the leg side. Australia get a leg bye , the target has been trimmed to 43 15.5 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , 145kph but that amounts to nothing if you drag it short and down leg. Rogers was just ball watching on that occasion 15.4 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , bouncer on the leg stump , Chris Rogers ducks under and avoids it 15.3 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , veering onto the leg stump , Rogers misses the flick and gets hit on the pad. Sliding down easily Rogers pumped his fist after getting to his fifty. He was under some pressure coming into his Test. He has reponded and how ! 15.2 Aaron to Chris Rogers , FOUR , pitched up and outside off , Rogers is drawn into the drive , the ball catches the outside edge and runs away to third man. More off a controlled outside edge , I would say 15.1 Aaron to Chris Rogers , FOUR , twin fifties for Rogers. His 7th overall in Tests. Nice way to reach the milestone as well. Shortish and just outside off from round the wicket , Rogers climbs on it , pulling it to the deep square leg boundary 14.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and on the leg stump , Rogers swivels but ca n't connect with the pull. The ball brushes the hip and sneaks away fine. Dhoni back-tracks and hunts the ball down 14.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , very short and down leg , Chris Rogers does not bother with it 14.4 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , mighty full on middle and leg , whipped away to fine leg for a single 14.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Ishant retorts with a short of length ball on the leg stump , good rise on that. Chris Rogers swivels on the back foot and pulls it to fine leg 14.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , FOUR , what a shot ! A tad overpitched on off , Chris Rogers comes forward and drills a drive to the long-off fence After Kohli moved to his right and dropped the catch , Smith looked skywards . 14.1 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , tapped to cover point 13.6 Aaron to Chris Rogers , FOUR , and Rogers brings out his pet shot again. Short and wide outside off , the opener says thank you very much as he flays a cut to the third man fence 13.5 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , steered square of the wicket on the off-side for a single 13.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , edged and Kohli puts it down ! This was a back of a length ball wide outside off , Smith chases it , the ball pops to second slip off the outside edge. Kohli pushes hard at the ball , the ball bobbles out , he tries to grasp the ball on the second attempt , but ca n't pouch it 13.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , back of a length and on the fifth stump line , Smith presses across off and blocks it back to the bowler 13.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , pitched up and skids on off and middle , Smith adjusts and defends it to the leg side 13.1 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , nicely played by Smith. On a length and on middle , Smith shuffles across and flicks it fine for a boundary. No leg slip in place this over Varun Aaron , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Three slips and a gully for Aaron . 12.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , very straight in line , clipped away to deep square leg to end the over with another brace 12.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , short of length and outside off , Chris Rogers stands tall and punches it wide of extra cover for a couple of runs 12.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no ball , FOUR , dug in a little short and on off , Chris Rogers plays a half pull/flick to the deep mid-wicket boundary. Ishant has overstepped again. This is poor stuff from the senior pacer By the way , Ishant switches to round the wicket. A leg slip in place as well . 12.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , good length delivery angled across off , Chris Rogers offers no shot again 12.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , much better from Ishant ! Pitched up in the corridor of uncertainty , Rogers lifts his bat and lets it go 12.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , similar delivery down leg , Rogers ca n't put bat on it. It 's a legal ball now 12.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no ball , short of length and down leg , Dhoni does not collect the ball cleanly. Ishant has overstepped again 12.1 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , good length ball angled in just outside off , knocked towards cover for a single 11.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , very full , so much so it ends up as a full toss outside off. Chris Rogers misses the drive completely. He should have put that away Umesh goes round the wicket . 11.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , FOUR , short and wide outside off , this is meat and drink for Chris Rogers. He moves deep in the crease and cuts it behind point , the ball fizzes away to the square third man boundary 11.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , Umesh Yadav pulls his length back and offers width as well , Smith cuts it to deep backward point 11.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fullish and attacking on off , Smith gets across to block it to the leg side 11.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and on the hips , Chris Rogers misses the flick but the duo cross over for a leg bye 11.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , good length ball just outside off , Chris Rogers is forward and drives it to cover 10.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up and just outside off , that 's in the driving radar of the Australian skipper. He obliges but the man at mid-off half stops the ball. It 's a dot 10.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , slanted miles down leg , Smith leaves it for Dhoni 10.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up , tight line on off , Smith plays at it , gets an outside edge that pops in front of gully 10.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good length on middle and leg , Smith taps it to short leg 10.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , banged in short and outside off , Smith aims a flat-batted pull , but mistimes it back to the bowler 10.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fuller and keeps low on off , Smith adjusts and blocks it calmly 9.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , Yadav squares Chris Rogers up with a good length ball on the stumps , Rogers just about manages to poke it wide of cover off a leading edge. Rogers was looking to work that to the leg-side. He gets a couple though 9.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up and on off , Chris Rogers goes for a drive but picks out mid-off. Not all that well-timed 9.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , 140kph , pitched up with a bit of away shape in the channel of uncertainty , Chris Rogers pushes forward as the ball zips past the outside edge. Lovely delivery from Umesh 9.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , length ball sliding outside leg , Rogers misses the flick. Dhoni gloves the ball easily , no need of a dive on that occasion 9.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , slightly back of a length and on off , Chris Rogers inches forward and drops it in front of short cover 9.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , good length ball , straighter in line , Chris Rogers tucks it straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 8.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , nips in from outside off , Smith knows it does not pose a threat to his off stump and shoulders arms 8.5 Ishant to S Smith , byes , FOUR , swerving down leg , Smith ca n't glance it away. But the ball brushes the pad and beats Dhoni 's dive to his left. The ump signals it as byes 8.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up and around off , Smith shuffles across and defends it to the right of the bowler 8.4 Ishant to S Smith , no ball , on a length and comes in on off , Smith gets an inside edge onto the pad. And Ishant is caught overstepping 8.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , good length ball just outside off , Chris Rogers pushes out and gets it wide of a diving gully. Not all that convincing , but Rogers gets a single Three slips and a gully in place to go with a short leg . 8.2 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , pitched up and on off , Smith wrists it to mid-wicket , where Rohit dives and makes a half diving save , he ca n't prevent the single 8.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , dragged down leg , real wasted ball. Smith does not bother with it 7.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , good response from Umesh. Bends his back and digs in a bouncer on the leg stump , Rogers takes his eyes off it , neither ducks nor weaves out of the line. Wears it on his shoulder. However , Bucky does not flinch. He is a tough nut like Dhoni 7.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , FOUR , India ca n't afford these wayward balls. They do n't have enough runs to play with. Too full and outside off , Chris Rogers lunges forward and laces a drive to the deep extra-cover fence 7.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , FOUR , Umesh Yadav errs in length , dishes out a wide full toss outside off , Chris Rogers eases a drive behind point , the ball runs away to the fence. These are easy pickings 7.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , on a length and on the fourth stump , Chris Rogers presses across and defends it in front of mid-wicket 7.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up and attacking middle , Chris Rogers comes forward and drives it back at the bowler , who bends in his followthrough to stop the ball cleanly 7.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , 131kph back of a length ball angled across off , left alone Welcome back. The early loss of Warner and Watto has given India a glimmer of hope. Australia , however , are very much in the box seat. They need 103 runs to go 2-0 up. Umesh will begin proceedings after tea . Watson 's poor form continues as he perished for a duck while trying to pull a short delivery. The final session of the day promises to be a cracker. Can India pull off an improbable win ? Or will captain Smith continue his good form and take his team home ? All answers coming up in a short while. Stay tuned . The little burst of 7 overs before tea must have made Indians think about an improbable win here. Chasing 128 , Australia have started poorly , losing the dangerous Warner and Watson to Ishant Sharma. Warner looked a little rattled after a shortish delivery jammed into his thumb and he looked out of sorts thereafter . 6.6 Ishant to S Smith , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith waits on the back foot and punches it square of the wicket for a brace and that is tea on day 4 Back over the wicket now 6.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fullish and outside off , Smith shoulders arms 6.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , straying down leg , Smith ca n't tickle it fine , Dhoni collects it down the leg-side 6.4 Ishant to S Smith , no ball , in the channel outside off , Smith does n't offer a shot and lets it go , Ishant overstepped as well and he will have to bowl this again Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.3 Ishant to Watson , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Watson persishes for a duck. Dhoni takes the simplest of catches here. It was banged in short and outside off , Watson went for the pull , he ends up skying it high off the toe-end of the bat , Dhoni calls for it and takes a very easy catch. Do we have a twist in the tale here ? We will have to wait and see how the Indians continue to bowl. For now , they will be happy that Australia are 22/2. Watson c Dhoni b Ishant 0 ( 8 ) Ishant to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 6.2 Ishant to Watson , no run , length delivery coming back in on off and middle , Watson blocks it into the on-side 6.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , length delivery shaping in a touch from outside off , Watson was looking to push at it , but pulls his bat back at the last moment and allows it to go through to Dhoni 5.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , touch fullish and outside off , Rogers drives it into the off-side off the front foot 5.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , touch shortish in length , Rogers was looking to tuck it away on the on-side , the ball bounces a touch extra and Rogers was not in control of the shot , the ball was in the air for a little while , but was away from the fielder , the batsmen take two as Ishant runs across to mid-wicket and collects it 5.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , full toss just outside off , Rogers should have put that away , he ends up pushing it straight towards mid-off 5.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , too straight from Umesh , Rogers flicks it off his pads to deep square leg , Aaron from fine leg runs across to field the ball , the batsmen take two 5.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish delivery around off , Rogers comes on the front foot and drives it back to the bowler , who stops it after bending down in his followthrough 5.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rogers gets behind the line and defends from the crease 4.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Watson jumps in the crease and blocks it to the left of the bowler 4.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , touch fuller and tails back in on off and middle , Watson comes on the front foot and defends it with a straight bat 4.4 Ishant to Watson , no run , another bumper from Ishant , Watson ducks under it , Dhoni collects it with his right hand over his head 4.3 Ishant to Watson , no run , gets right behind the line of the ball and blocks it back over the pitch 4.2 Ishant to Watson , no run , bumper down leg , Watson sits under it A leg slip and a FSL in place for Watson Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.1 Ishant to Warner , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Warner 's uncomfortable stay at the crease comes to an end. It was a back of a length delivery outside off , the ball hit the crack and bounced much more than Warner could adjust to , he was pushing at it , the ball takes the outside edge and Dhoni takes a simple catch. Ishant has a few words for Warner as he goes past the batsman and is delighted to have his man here. Warner c Dhoni b Ishant 6 ( 12 ) Ishant to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.1 Ishant to Warner , no ball , comes round the wicket , he bowls this one a little straight and Warner ca n't put it away on the on-side , the batsman wears it on his pads , but it was snaking down leg 3.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , Rogers hangs back and punches this delivery in the channel outside off to sweeper cover , the batsmen run for a brace 3.5 U Yadav to Warner , 3 runs , slightly back of a length outside off , Warner gets behind it and punches it square of the wicket , the batsmen take three before the ball is fielded 3.4 U Yadav to Warner , no run , in the channel outside off , Warner pushes at it , the ball rolls away into the off-side off the outside half of the bat 3.3 U Yadav to Warner , 2 runs , length delivery outside off , Warner was looking for the drive , he checks his shot at the last moment and manages to beat the fielder at mid-off , who runs after the ball as it goes wide of him , the batsmen take two 3.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Warner was looking to play the jab , he ca n't connect and there was a faint sound as the ball grazed the trousers on the way through to the keeper , there was an appeal from the Indians , but the umpire was not interested 3.1 U Yadav to Warner , no run , on a length and outside off , Warner moves across his stumps and pokes at it , the ball beats the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 2.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , slightly back of a length and around middle , Rogers turns it into the on-side off the back foot 2.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , on a good length and in the channel outside off , Rogers covers the stumps and bunts it into the off-side 2.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , FOUR , Rogers times that beautifully , it was fullish and little wide of off , Rogers leans across and reaches to the pitch of the ball , he creams the drive through the cover region and gets another four 2.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , FOUR , sprays this one on the legs of the batsman , Rogers says thank you very much and glances it to the fine leg fence , poor delivery from Ishant 2.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , touch fullish and angled away outside off , Rogers leaves 2.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery down leg , Rogers ca n't tickle it fine , Dhoni collects it down the leg-side 1.6 U Yadav to Warner , no run , back of a length delivery on leg , Warner goes for the pull but ca n't connect , he wears it on his body , Warner looks a little out of touch here for some reason 1.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , on a length and just around off , Rogers taps it towards cover and sets off for a single 1.4 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , on a good length and shapes back in on off and middle , Warner pushes at it , the ball dribbles away to fine leg off the inside half of the bat , Umesh is hitting the bat hard The physio is out there and tending to Warner 's hand. The thumb got jammed between the ball and the handle. It looks like the physio has done his bit and Warner is ready to continue . 1.3 U Yadav to Warner , no run , good ball from Umesh , it was on a length and outside off , the ball hits the glove hard , the ball rolls away towards gully , Warner looked uncomfortable after the ball hit him 1.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , on a length and shaping in towards the batsman from around off and middle , Warner turns it to short mid-wicket after shuffling across a touch , he fell over as well while trying to play that Three slips and a gully in place for Umesh as well 1.1 U Yadav to Warner , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Warner gets behind the line and blocks Umesh Yadav , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Umesh Yadav will share the cherry with Ishant Sharma 0.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Rogers moves across a touch and blocks it back on the track in an awkward manner 0.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , another one angled across off and kicks up from the length , Rogers leaves and Dhoni takes it over his head 0.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish outside off and going further away with the angle , Rogers does n't offer a shot 0.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish outside off , Rogers was looking to drive , the ball goes past the outside edge yet again Three slips and a gully in place 0.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , length delivery angled across off , Rogers pushes at it , the ball zips past the outside edge and goes through to Dhoni 0.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Rogers shoulders arms Chris Rogers and Warner are at the crease. Chris Rogers is on strike. Ishant will open the attack Ishant Sharma will start the proceedings for India. Rogers will take the strike first. Wickets are the key here if India are to pull off an improbable victory. Let 's see how it goes. Here we go . The Indians are out in a huddle. Warner is already practising his shots in the middle . The Australian batsmen have a very easy job on hand. The pitch does not have any demons in it and if Warner gets going it might end all too soon for India. How long can they deny victory to the hosts ? Or can the bowlers inspire a miracle ? Answers coming up in a short while.. . The target for Australia is 128. Dhawan denied the inevitable for sometime , along with Yadav he added 60 runs for the 8th wicket. He batted very sensibly , picked the balls to attack and managed to farm the strike far too often. However , he tried to be too cheeky against Lyon and paid the price. Yadav entertained with some meaty blows off Lyon , but with just Aaron and Ishant for company it was a matter of time for the Aussies to wrap things up. Lyon picked up two out of the three wickets in the session and Johnson , who started the downfall , fittingly finished things with Yadav 's wicket . 64.3 Johnson to U Yadav , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Australia have cleaned up the tail. Yadav 's resistance comes to an end. Fuller and around off , Yadav manages to get some wood on that , the ball takes the outside edge and settles into Haddin 's gloves. Johnson picks up his 4th wicket. U Yadav c Haddin b Johnson 30 ( 42 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] Johnson to U Yadav , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 64.2 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , pitched up outside off , Yadav drives and is beaten , he is nowhere close to the line of the ball 64.1 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , on a length just outside off , Yadav searches for the ball with his feet in lead , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 63.6 Lyon to Ishant , no run , flighted on off , Ishant push-drives it back to the bowler 63.5 Lyon to Ishant , no run , quicker and on the stumps , it kept a bit low as well , Ishant does well to bring his bat down and jam it to the on-side 63.4 Lyon to Ishant , no run , drags the length back , Ishant whips it to short mid-wicket Lyon switches to round the wicket 63.3 Lyon to Ishant , no run , Ishant makes use of his height , lunges forward and smothers the spin with a forward defensive 63.2 Lyon to Ishant , no run , comes well forward and blocks solidly 63.1 Lyon to Ishant , no run , floated up outside off , defended down the wicket 62.6 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , full and just outside off , Yadav tries sending it into orbit , but only connects with air Goes round the wicket 62.5 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , fires this full and outside off , Yadav goes searching for it , but it is too wide for him 62.4 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Yadav pokes and is beaten 62.3 Johnson to Ishant , 1 run , short and on the ribs , Ishant goes back and tucks it in the air past short leg , Marnus was the fielder , he put his hand out , but those have to stick 62.2 Johnson to Ishant , no run , back of a length on off , Ishant taps it to the right of the bowler , Johnson himself gets around and fields the ball 62.1 Johnson to Ishant , no run , full and well wide of off , Ishant goes chasing after it , is nowhere close to the ball Mitchell Johnson [ 16.0-4-60-3 ] is back into the attack 61.6 Lyon to U Yadav , SIX , another maximum , Yadav has got the license after Dhawan 's dismissal. He kneels down and slog sweeps it , it is a very long boundary , but he has enough to beat a leaping Warner at long-on. He got a fingertip on it , but could not hold on 61.5 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , goes back and works it gently towards mid-wicket 61.4 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , drives and picks out the cover fielder 61.3 Lyon to U Yadav , SIX , floated up just outside off , Yadav skips out of the crease and lofts it handsomely over mid-off , that was hit flat and it carried all the way. Difficult shot to play against the turn , but Yadav made it look easy Ishant Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease Time for a drinks break. India did well to keep the Australians at bay for the first 45 minutes , but Lyon struck at the right time to send Dhawan back. The Delhi opener mixed caution with aggression on his way to 81. Umesh gave him good company and helped take the lead past 100 . 61.2 Lyon to Aaron , out Caught by Hazlewood ! ! Not sensible from Aaron. But you ca n't blame him for being a tailender and playing like one. Tossed up outside off , Aaron comes down the track and tries to go big , gets it off the outside half of the bat , the ball skies towards point , where Hazlewood pouches it comfortably. Aaron c Hazlewood b Lyon 3 ( 9 ) Lyon to Aaron , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 61.1 Lyon to U Yadav , 1 run , flighted on off , Yadav bends his knee and slog sweeps it to deep mid-wicket 60.6 Hazlewood to Aaron , no run , short and targeting the batsman 's ribs , Aaron hops up and fends it to the on-side 60.5 Hazlewood to Aaron , no run , shortish and outside off , Aaron goes for the upper cut and connects with thin air 60.4 Hazlewood to U Yadav , 3 runs , run-out chance missed ! Haddin has made a mess out of that. Length delivery just outside off , Yadav slices it through the cover region , there was a confusion regarding the third run , they go for it eventually. Johnson throws the ball at the striker 's end , Haddin does not collect it cleanly as he takes the bails off , Aaron was nowhere near the crease. He was out by a mile had Haddin taken the bails off 60.3 Hazlewood to Aaron , 1 run , short of length on off , Aaron punches it towards mid-off and calls for the single straightaway 60.2 Hazlewood to U Yadav , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Yadav plays a controlled pull shot to deep mid-wicket 60.1 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , back of a length on off , Yadav was late to bring his bat down , luckily the ball bounces over the bat 59.6 Lyon to Aaron , no run , gets a good stride forward and blocks it down the wicket 59.5 Lyon to Aaron , no run , goes right back and defends it with the full face of the bat 59.4 Lyon to Aaron , 2 runs , Aaron is not going to hang around , comes down the track and lifts it over extra cover , slight hesitation between the duo but they make the second run comfortably 59.3 Lyon to Aaron , no run , goes deep in the crease and blocks 59.2 Lyon to Aaron , no run , flighted outside off , Aaron lunges forward and drives it without much timing to cover Varun Aaron , right handed bat , comes to the crease 59.1 Lyon to Dhawan , out Lbw ! ! Dhawan gone ! Australia get the much needed wicket. It was a tossed up delivery on the stumps , Dhawan kneels down and looks to paddle sweep , he misses and his hit on the flap of the pad. The appeal from the Australians was not strong enough , but umpire Erasmus obliges them by raising the finger. Dhawan 's vigil comes to an end and he might have held onto his spot in the side. Dhawan lbw b Lyon 81 ( 145 ) [ 4s-8 ] Lyon to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 58.6 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , shortish and around off , Yadav jumps up and fends it down to the off-side 58.5 Hazlewood to U Yadav , FOUR , these are turning out to be useful runs for India , length delivery just outside off , Yadav does n't bother to get behind the line , throws the kitchen sink at it , the ball flies off the outer half over backward point 58.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , short of length on off , Dhawan taps it square of the wicket on the off-side 58.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , Australians thought they had their man , Haddin threw the ball up straightaway. Hazlewood was almost celebrating before he looks at the umpire , who does not raise his finger. It was a peach of a delivery , good length ball in the corridor of uncertainty , Dhawan was drawn into a forward defensive , he is beaten neck and crop. The sound was the bat hitting the strap of the pad. Top decision from umpire Gould ! 58.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on off , blocks it with a straight bat towards point 58.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , on a length outside off , Dhawan shuffles across and punches it to sweeper cover 57.6 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , straight roller around off , Yadav leans forward and pushes it to mid-off Goes round the wicket now 57.5 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , nicely tossed up on off , Yadav rolls his wrists and turns it to short leg 57.4 Lyon to Dhawan , 1 run , comes down the track and works the flighted delivery to mid-wicket , takes the run and leaves Yadav with two balls 57.3 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , pushed through outside off , left alone 57.2 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , tossed up on off , Dhawan sweeps it and picks out mid-wicket , who is slightly deep 57.1 Lyon to Dhawan , 2 runs , flighted on off , Dhawan shimmies down the track and chips it over mid-on for a couple. The lead reaches the 100-run mark 56.6 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , bouncer around off , Yadav sways away from the line of the delivery 56.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , excellent running , drops the good length ball towards cover and sets off immediately for the single 56.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Dhawan shuffles across and gets inside the line of the delivery 56.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , full and wide outside off , Dhawan throws his bat and the ball flies down to third man off the outside edge 56.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Length delivery on middle and leg , Dhawan comes slightly forward and whips it behind square , there were two men on the boundary , but he split them to perfection. That also brings up the 50-run stand 56.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short delivery just outside off , Dhawan arches his back and lets it go 55.6 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , floated up on off , Yadav inches forward and eases it to the right of the bowler 55.5 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , tossed up on off , Yadav lunges forward and turns it to short mid-wicket 55.4 Lyon to Dhawan , 1 run , drags the length back , Dhawan goes on the back foot and pats it to extra cover 55.3 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , defended solidly off the front foot to short cover 55.2 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , gives this bit more air , Dhawan leans forward and blocks it to the off-side 55.1 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , flighted on off , Dhawan presses it to cover after coming forward 54.6 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , shortish and on middle , Yadav pulls it along the ground to deep backward square , Dhawan denies the single 54.5 Hazlewood to U Yadav , 2 runs , fuller and just outside off , Yadav clears his front leg and slices it wide of backward point for a couple. You could sense that coming from Yadav after being hit 54.4 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , short and does n't rise much , Yadav takes his eyes off the ball and shows his back to the bowler , he wears one on his buttock 54.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan gets to the other end and then thinks whether he should have taken the single , on a length just outside off , Dhawan drives it to cover where Rogers fields the ball 54.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on off , defended off the back foot to mid-off 54.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of length on off , Dhawan hangs back and knocks it to cover 53.6 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , gets a good stride forward and defends it to the right of the bowler 53.5 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , slower and turns in , Yadav stays back and works it to long-on , Dhawan tells him to stay 53.4 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , floated up close to off , Yadav rides the bounce and taps it towards point 53.3 Lyon to Dhawan , 1 run , flighted around off , Dhawan eases the drive to long-off , he is confident enough to give Yadav the strike 53.2 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , stifled appeal for lbw , umpire Erasmus say not-out. Dhawan moves around in the crease , presses forward and is struck on the pads , the ball was sneaking down leg 53.1 Lyon to Dhawan , 2 runs , tosses it up from round the wicket , Dhawan kneels down and scoops it to long leg for a brace Nathan Lyon [ 4.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 52.6 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , short and right at the batsman 's throat , Yadav does well to play it with soft hands and drop it down the pitch 52.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Dhawan had walked too far across , but manages to get some bat and glance it down to fine leg 52.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Dhawan shuffles across and ducks under it There is a slight chat going on between Dhawan and Watson. Remember they have history of going at each other since the ODI series in India last year. Umpire Erasmus had to intervene to tell the players to get on with things . 52.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short and outside off , Dhawan walks across his stumps and chops it towards point 52.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , backs away to the short of length , fails to connect with the pull , the ball thuds off the thigh pad and runs down to fine leg 52.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , FOUR , in the air and just over mid-on. It was a length delivery just outside off , Dhawan goes for a heave across the line , does not get it anywhere close to the middle , but has enough to clear Johnson at mid-on Josh Hazlewood [ 11.0-0-51-2 ] is back into the attack 51.6 Watson to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan is keeping strike far too easily , shuffles across and nudges this wide of mid-on for a single 51.5 Watson to Dhawan , no run , short and just outside off , Dhawan looks to ramp it over the slip cordon , does n't make contact 51.4 Watson to Dhawan , no run , fuller and on the stumps , Dhawan plays a crisp on-drive , Watton gets a hand and takes the pace off the ball which allows mid-on to get around and stop it 51.3 Watson to Dhawan , FOUR , shortish and just outside off , Dhawan back cuts it through the slip cordon , no fielder at third man to save the boundary 51.2 Watson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length around off , Dhawan waits and dabs it late towards gully 51.1 Watson to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan gave the charge bit too early , Watson saw him coming and dug in short , Dhawan ducks and sways away from the line of the delivery 50.6 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , fired in towards the batsman , Yadav does not move his feet much as he pushes it back to Johnson Johnson comes round the wicket 50.5 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan walks across his stumps , Johnson slips in a slower one , Dhawan works it to mid-wicket and gives Yadav one ball to survive 50.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , slightly fuller than the previous deliveries , Dhawan comes half-forward and defends towards cover 50.3 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on off , Dhawan is not fully forward as he blocks it to the left of the bowler 50.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Dhawan swivels and pulls it to fine leg , does n't take the single 50.1 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , short of length on leg-stump , Dhawan pulls his bat out of the way , the ball brushes the thigh pad on the way to Haddin , who dives forward to collect it 49.6 Watson to U Yadav , no run , a typical number 9 response after getting beaten , sees the length in his half and gives it a go , but only connects with thin air 49.5 Watson to U Yadav , no run , too good for Yadav ! Fuller and in the channel around off , Yadav was drawn into the forward push , the ball straightens enough to beat the outside edge 49.4 Watson to U Yadav , no run , full and tailing in , Yadav gets his front pad out of the way and clips it to mid-on 49.3 Watson to Dhawan , 1 run , good length around off , Dhawan looks to force it off the front foot , the ball dribbles off the inside half to mid-wicket , he gives the strike to Yadav with three balls remaining 49.2 Watson to Dhawan , no run , on a length close to off , Dhawan defends with bat and pad close together 49.1 Watson to Dhawan , 2 runs , short and wide outside off , Dhawan cuts it to deep backward point , it is good enough for a couple. So far Dhawan has done well to farm the strike 48.6 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , nicely played by Yadav , gets his bat behind the line and taps it towards gully 48.5 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , good length ball around off , Yadav stays on leg-stump and pokes at it , the ball runs off the outside half of the bat to third slip , it landed well in front of the fielder 48.4 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , back of a length on off , Dhawan drops it in front of cover and calls for a quick single 48.3 Johnson to Dhawan , FOUR , a much needed fifty for Dhawan , he might have just held on to his place in the side. No celebrations from him. Shortens the length on off , Dhawan backs away and muscles the pull in front of square , no one protecting the mid-wicket fence 48.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , slower delivery on off , Dhawan pushes it back to Johnson 48.1 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , almost run-out ! Full and tailing in , Dhawan drills the drive back to the bowler , Johnson shows good reaction as he plucks the ball with his left hand and fires a throw at the striker 's end , Dhawan had taken a couple of steps forward , he had to dive in and had that hit , he was a goner Mitchell Johnson [ 14.0-4-54-3 ] is back into the attack What will be Dhawan 's approach against Johnson ? 47.6 Watson to Dhawan , 1 run , short and down leg , Dhawan helps it on its way to fine leg with a pull , he keeps strike as well 47.5 Watson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length around off , Dhawan bunts it in front of cover 47.4 Watson to Dhawan , FOUR , no problems with timing this one , on a length and plenty of width on offer , Dhawan presses forward and square drives it to the sweeper cover fence 47.3 Watson to Dhawan , 2 runs , Dhawan showing positive mindset , gives the charge and lifts it over mid-on , the bottom hand comes off the bat as he played hence did n't get the timing right 47.2 Watson to Dhawan , no run , this one straightens a touch , Dhawan moves forward and jams it off the inside edge onto the pads. Watson thought it was close to an lbw call 47.1 Watson to Dhawan , no run , fullish and outside off , Dhawan comes forward and shoulders arms The players are out in the middle. Watson will resume things. . Welcome back... India find themselves in familiar territory. Another batting collapse , the 11th in overseas conditions in 2014. It is just a matter of time before Australia wrap up the Indian innings. How soon can they finish things off ? We 'll find out soon enough . That 's how Test cricket turns. Mitch has been Australia 's inspiration. Surely the second session could well turn out to be the last of the match. Do hang around to see whether that turns out to be true. We 'll take a break and be back soon . Dhawan came in after Ashwin 's wicket and along with Pujara kept the Aussies at bay until Hazlewood came back to dismiss Che. India have been abysmal with the bat on a track that is n't unplayable. Granted Mitch bowled a fiery spell , but the batsmen contributed to their own dismissals by playing poorly. Another familiar collapse. We have seen that happen so often overseas in recent times. It has become a worrying trend. The Test is all but over. Who would 've thought that yesterday when Australia were still 160 behind with just 4 wickets left . Anyone in shock at seeing Pujara and Dhawan at the crease but the scoreboard showing 6 wickets ? Do n't be as Dhawan was struck in the nets on the wrist and did n't come out to bat first up in the morning. Kohli , Rahane and Rohit were all easy meat for the man named Mitch. He was on fire and it soon became worse when Dhoni was given out lbw. Ashwin and Pujara built a little stand but the former was wrongly given out when it went straight off the thigh . 46.6 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , short outside off , Umesh lets it go. Watching it through to Haddin. Will that be lunch ? Yes it will be as the umpire flicks off the bails . Now he pulls out and Hazlewood is n't a happy man 46.5 Hazlewood to U Yadav , FOUR , Umesh drills that ! Belts that wide of mid-off. Saw the length and went after it 46.4 Hazlewood to U Yadav , 2 runs , great effort from Starc running across from fine leg , he puts in a full length dive to cut off two runs. Made sure he did n't touch the ad skirtings. It was a short delivery down leg , Umesh somehow gloved it wide of Haddin 46.3 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , stays back and punches it to mid-off , shouts 'wait wait ' to Dhawan 46.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , pushed towards Warner , a risky single that but Umesh stretched out and made it , beating the direct hit Has Dhawan run Umesh out ? Warner is the man with the direct hit. Umesh has made it though. Warner was convinced , but it was proved to be wrong by the third umpire 46.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , FOUR , good shot. Takes on the short ball and pulls with swagger , beats deep fine leg running across 45.6 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , Umesh pushes it to short mid-wicket. For some reason Lyon shakes his head after finishing the over 45.5 Lyon to Dhawan , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to mid-off 45.4 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , solidly defended to short cover 45.3 Lyon to U Yadav , 1 run , defended to short cover and they take an easy single Ca n't understand why Dhawan took the single and risk Umesh for four deliveries against Lyon 45.2 Lyon to Dhawan , 1 run , wrists it to mid-on and takes a quick single 45.1 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan comes down the track and since he is n't to the pitch , defends it back to Lyon 44.6 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , 140kph shortish delivery on the stumps , Umesh goes back and defends it back to Hazlewood 44.5 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , Umesh plays late and manages to punch the off stump delivery to point Umesh Yadav , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.4 Hazlewood to Pujara , out Caught by Lyon ! ! Now Pujara 's turn to go. Similar dismissal to Rahane 's. Short outside off , fended off with no conviction at all , shoulder of the bat and straight to gully. Pujara 's resistance is over. Pujara c Lyon b Hazlewood 43 ( 93 ) [ 4s-7 ] Hazlewood to Pujara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.3 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , stays back and pushes it to point 44.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , gently turns it to short mid-wicket for a single 44.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , comes on the front foot and defends firmly to mid-off Josh Hazlewood [ 9.0-0-39-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara goes back to defend to short mid-wicket 43.5 Lyon to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish and Dhawan goes on the back foot to punch wide of point 43.4 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , comes down the track and takes it on the full , whipped to mid-wicket 43.3 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , short on the stumps , Pujara rocks back and pulls to deep mid-wicket 43.2 Lyon to Dhawan , 1 run , gets forward to defend and it takes the open face of the bat to run wide of slip 43.1 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , that was bat first and Lyon 's appeal for lbw is rejected. Haddin too went up but Erasmus got it right 42.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , defends to point and shouts 'no no no ' to Dhawan 42.5 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , rocks back and punches in front of mid-off , another single Two slips , a gully , a short leg and a leg gully in place 42.4 Johnson to Pujara , 1 run , well-run by Pujara and Dhawan. Dropped in front of short cover and they set off 42.3 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , stays beside the line of the delivery and punches into the gap at cover 42.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , pushes to point , straight to the fielder 42.1 Johnson to Dhawan , 2 runs , on the pads , tucked wide of short leg and aggressive running gives them two runs 42.1 Johnson to Dhawan , 5 wides , Haddin had no chance there. That must have hit a crack and bounced over the keeper. Called wides too 41.6 Lyon to Pujara , FOUR , well done by Pujara. He went back to this shortish delivery outside off and intentionally dabbed it with an open face wide of point. The ball goes away 41.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , sharp spinning delivery , Pujara rocks back to whip and misses , is rapped on the pads , but sliding down leg that one 41.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , rocks back and cuts , but straight to the fielder at point 41.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , that 's how he got out to Lyon at Adelaide. It straightened outside off and Pujara pushed for the turn , the ball beat the outside edge. Lovely bowling. Tentative footowork though from Pujara , he was neither forward nor back 41.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , defends this solidly from the crease 41.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , 'catch it ' was the call as Pujara came down the track , did he get an inside edge onto the pads ? Yes he did , but wide of FSL , well wide in fact 40.6 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , 139kph full delivery outside off , the sucker ball and Dhawan does n't take the bait , shoulders arms 40.5 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , stays back and punches it to point 40.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , this time leaves the outside off delivery alone 40.3 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , edged and just short of Haddin. Once again he tries to cut , no room to to work with and it took the glove on the way to Haddin. Johnson thought he had his man there 40.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , 140kph short one outside off , Dhawan did n't have the room to flash a cut , went after it and is beaten He is bowling from round the wicket to Dhawan 40.1 Johnson to Pujara , 1 run , from round the wicket comes Johnson , Pujara gets forward to push and the thick inside edge runs behind square , only a single as the fielder is in Mitchell Johnson [ 12.0-4-43-3 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Lyon to Dhawan , no run , defends to point 39.5 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , shortish on the stumps , Pujara pulls to deep backward square leg 39.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , nudged to short leg 39.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , defended from the crease to short mid-wicket 39.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , shortish on the stumps , punched back to Lyon 39.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tossed up from Lyon , Pujara stretches out and defends to short leg Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 38.6 Starc to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan slipped as he defended to cover , Pujara was looking for the quick single and took a few steps out , he returns back as the fielder is n't close in . 38.5 Starc to Dhawan , no run , short one angled across , Dhawan bends his back and then sways out of the way. Haddin leaps high to collect 38.4 Starc to Pujara , 1 run , Pujara takes one hand off the bat handle , nudges it behind square for an easy single 38.3 Starc to Pujara , FOUR , shortish outside off , Pujara rocks back , arches his back and then opens the face of the bat to stab it wide of the diving gully. Well-controlled shot 38.2 Starc to Pujara , no run , pitched up outside off , Pujara gets forward and drives firmly , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 38.1 Starc to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan defends to backward square leg , into the gap and they take a single 37.6 Watson to Pujara , no run , keeps a bit low and Pujara adjusts to defend to mid-off 37.5 Watson to Pujara , no run , solidly defended back to Watson. Got it off the middle of the bat 37.4 Watson to Pujara , no run , that nipped back in sharply , Pujara did well not to get his front foot far too across , jammed the defensive shot towards short mid-wicket 37.3 Watson to Pujara , no run , full on off , Pujara gets forward to push to mid-off , the ball comes off the thickish outer half and rolls to the fielder 37.2 Watson to Pujara , no run , dug in short , Pujara ducks under it Ash 's dismissal - HotSpot does n't pick up any inside edge. Snicko shows a wave but that was ball hitting the thigh. So Ashwin has a reason to feel disappointed . 37.1 Watson to Pujara , no run , full and on middle , Pujara shows the full face of the bat and pushes it to mid-on 36.6 Starc to Dhawan , no run , down leg , wasted delivery that 36.5 Starc to Dhawan , no run , searing short delivery from round the wicket , that lifted from a length and Dhawan did well to arch his back and sway out of the way Shikhar Dhawan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 36.4 Starc to Ashwin , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Very mild reaction to Ashwin getting out. It nipped back in and Ashwin was looking for the punch down the ground , got a thin inside edge onto the thigh pad and then it looped low to Haddin. The umpire gave it out immediately. Ashwin c Haddin b Starc 19 ( 29 ) [ 4s-2 ] Starc to Ashwin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Ashwin is gone. He looks very disappointed with the call. But he has to go now . 36.3 Starc to Ashwin , 2 runs , full on middle , clipped through mid-wicket for a couple of runs 36.2 Starc to Ashwin , no run , short and down leg , Ashwin hooks and misses. That was close to the glove 36.1 Starc to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin punches it from the crease to mid-on. That came off the inside half of the bat 35.6 Watson to Pujara , no run, 35.5 Watson to Pujara , 2 runs , on the middle and leg line , Pujara clips it to deep backward square leg for a couple of runs 35.4 Watson to Pujara , no run , did that hit a crack ? Seemed to angle in and then moved away just the tiny wee bit to pass the outside edge of Pujara , Pujara did well to push inside the line and not play away from the body , the ball did something to miss the bat 35.3 Watson to Pujara , no run , pitched up on off , Pujara defends off the front foot 35.2 Watson to Pujara , no run , defended to cover 35.1 Watson to Ashwin , 3 runs , short of length outside off , Ashwin goes back and across before punching through cover. They take three as the ball is fielded in the outfield. Once again Ashwin timed that well Shane Watson [ 8.0-5-7-0 ] is back into the attack Pujara and Ashwin have strung together a little stand that has helped India avoid an innings defeat. Australia are on fire and India just seem to have no answers at the moment. That 's what happens when you fire up Mitch - wonder what 's going through Rohit 's mind right now. He was the one who fired him up yesterday by sarcastically clapping a boundary hit by Mitch and then asking him - 'how many wickets you took on this ? ' Drinks time now. Frentic morning that. Dhawan did n't come out to bat as he was hit on the wrist in the nets. Kohli replaced him and went quickly. Rahane and Rohit were consumed in one fiery over by Johnson. Dhoni was given out lbw despite being a long way down the track. Even though replays showed that he was hit on the pad below the knee roll , in-line and Hawk-Eye showed it was hitting top of middle . 34.6 Starc to Pujara , no run , rises onto his toes and blocks it by the side of the pitch. Well handled by Pujara 34.5 Starc to Pujara , no run , back to leaving is Pujara 34.4 Starc to Pujara , FOUR , Pujara threw his bat at that and got it just in the gap , wide of gully. Full and wide outside off , Pujara square drives in the air and gets lucky 34.3 Starc to Pujara , no run , length delivery angled across , left alone 34.2 Starc to Pujara , no run , 145kph short of length delivery on off , Pujara gets right behind the line to block 34.1 Starc to Pujara , FOUR , low full toss outside off , Pujara reaches out opens the face of the bat and guides it wide of the diving gully 33.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , very short from Hazlewood , Ashwin ducks under that 33.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no ball , FOUR , lovely shot that. Hazlewood overstepped and overpitched , Ashwin leant forward and drove it well into the gap at cover. The ball runs away into the fence. Timing was very good that time from Ashwin 33.5 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , well played by Ashwin. It was short down leg , Ashwin did well not to fend out , dropped it with soft hands behind square. The ball went to ground quickly 33.4 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , shortish on the stumps , Ashwin rises onto his toes and drops it in front of gully 33.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , length delivery on off , defended towards mid-off Hazlewood is going round the wicket now 33.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , short outside off , Ashwin drops his wrists and lets it go 33.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 2 runs , wristy on-drive , played past mid-on and again they settle for a couple. Three was there , but they did n't risk it 32.6 Starc to Ashwin , 1 run , short on middle and leg , a controlled pull down to deep square leg 32.5 Starc to Ashwin , no run , calmly defended to mid-on 32.4 Starc to Ashwin , no run , well outside off and left alone by Ashwin 32.3 Starc to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin is beaten on the inside edge - attempting a big drive. The ball swung back in and went past the bat. Not close enough to hit off though 32.2 Starc to Ashwin , no run , reaches out and tries to drive , but mistimes it to mid-off 32.1 Starc to Ashwin , no run , on a yorker length on off , Ashwin digs it out , Pujara wants the single and takes a couple of steps out , but Ashwin is n't even interested Mitchell Starc [ 4.0-1-10-1 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 1 run , looks to drive a lot straighter , but the ball takes the thick inside edge and goes down to deep backward square leg 31.5 Hazlewood to Ashwin , FOUR , in the air but in the gap too. Ambitious stroke from Ashwin. He drives on-the-up and the ball flies off a thick outside edge and wide of point. Races away to the fence 31.4 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , short outside off , Ashwin looks to pull and then decides against it. Aborts the shot 31.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin turns it towards mid-on 31.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , 'waiting no ' is the call from Ashwin after he shuffles across and defends to cover 31.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin is beaten on the drive on the up. Reached out to drive away from the body and the ball skimmed past the edge 30.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , Pujara is calmness personified as he leaves one more delivery outside off. Johnson stares at him and Che just smiles back 30.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , angled in on the stumps , Pujara gets right behind the line to block to the right of the bowler Now Johnson is coming from round the wicket Dhawan is padded up to come in next 30.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , the tempter outside off , Pujara leaves 30.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 141kph short delivery , Pujara sways out of the way and lets it go. That was well played by Pujara 30.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , on middle and leg , Pujara defends to short leg 30.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , full outside off , Pujara lets it go 29.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , 139kph short delivery and following Ashwin , who does well to sway out of the way , kept his eyes on the ball and then just arched his back to leave. Hazlewood has a stare at Ashwin 29.5 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 2 runs , Ashwin shuffles across a tad and flicks well into the gap at mid-wicket. There was three on the cards , but Ashwin settles for two and rightly so as he is n't known to be a great runner between the wickets 29.4 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , nipped back in , but Ashwin covered the line well and defends back to Hazlewood Impact in-line and was hitting the stumps. That 's then a good decision from Erasmus 29.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , length delivery outside off , left alone Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 29.2 Hazlewood to Dhoni , out Lbw ! ! Erasmus has given that out. Dhoni was a long way down the track and shuffling across as well , missed the flick and was rapped on the pads. Was the impact outside off ? Erasmus had the finger up in a jiffy. Hazlewood strikes and half the side are gone. Interesting replay on the cards. Will get to clarify the doubts. Dhoni lbw b Hazlewood 0 ( 2 ) Hazlewood to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 29.1 Hazlewood to Pujara , 1 run , closes the face of the bat and turns it down to fine leg , a single taken Josh Hazlewood [ 6.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack Those two wickets he got in the over of Rahane and Rohit - on both occasions , Johnson was very close to overstepping. Only a tiny part of the heel landed on the line - not even behind it. Could 've gone either way. A different umpire could 've given different decisions . 28.6 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , 141kph length delivery outside off , Dhoni leaves MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.5 Johnson to Rohit , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Johnson is on fire ! Mitch is back ! Clear outside edge and the umpire raises the finger after a thought. They check for the no-ball once again. Johnson is close again to overstepping. The heel lands on the line and that is enough to send Rohit back. Lifter outside off , Rohit did n't want to leave it , just pushed out and it took a tiny feather. That 's two wickets in the over and India are suddenly in dire straits. Rohit c Haddin b Johnson 0 ( 2 ) Johnson to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 28.4 Johnson to Rohit , no run , 143kph short delivery on the stumps , Rohit did well not to fend out at it , rose on his toes and dropped it down near his feet Rohit Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.3 Johnson to Rahane , out Caught by Lyon ! ! Johnson strikes again ! They are checking for the no-ball once more - looks a tight call. Has Johnson overstepped ? The heel looks to have landed on the line. OUT ! It 's a legal delivery reckons the third umpire and Rahane walks off as the Aussies celebrate. What a snorter that was to get Rahane out. It reared up on the batsman who fended it , he did n't know where it went and by the time he realised , the ball had looped to gully. Rahane c Lyon b Johnson 10 ( 8 ) [ 4s-2 ] Johnson to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Dhawan was apparently hit on the wrist in the nets. Even Kohli was meted out the same treatment. Wonder which Indian bowler did that ? 28.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , that is a wide , but not given , fired well wide of off , Haddin almost collected that at first slip 28.1 Johnson to Rahane , FOUR , tad overpitched from Johnson and Rahane puts him away. Bent his knee - the right leg and then caressed it into the gap at cover. The timing is there to take it all the way. It came right off the middle of the bat 27.6 Watson to Pujara , no run , nice shape away from Pujara , started well wide of off and moved further away , left alone 27.5 Watson to Pujara , no run , full on middle , flicked well , but finds Bucky Rogers at mid-wicket 27.4 Watson to Pujara , no run , Pujara is very unsure with Watson 's probing line outside off , another curving outswinger , Pujara wants to play and then belatedly pulls the bat out of the line of the delivery 27.3 Watson to Pujara , no run , beautiful bowling this from Watson , keeps the length full and outside off , makes Pujara play , Che pushed out and did well not to nick it , it just about held its line to beat the edge. Replays show that Watson had overstepped but the umpire missed that 27.2 Watson to Pujara , no run , pitched up outside off , Pujara gets forward to defend and it runs off a thickish outside edge , does n't carry though to gully 27.1 Watson to Pujara , no run , well wide of off , Pujara lets it go 26.6 Johnson to Rahane , FOUR , streaky and clears the keeper and the slip cordon. Rahane takes on the short ball , but is beaten for pace , the attempted pull finds a top edge that goes over the fielders , into the fence , Johnson is n't a happy man 26.5 Johnson to Rahane , no run , nearly gone ! Johnson does the clever thing by going wide of the crease and slanting one across , on a fuller length , Rahane 's feet are stuck in lead and his drive meets thin air. So close to the edge 26.4 Johnson to Rahane , 2 runs , Rahane gets off the mark with an eased drive past cover , for a couple of runs 26.3 Johnson to Rahane , no run , Rahane stays on the crease and defends to mid-off. The feet did n't move there , but he covered the line well 26.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , short of length on off , Rahane drops it near his feet and looks for the quick single , not there Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 26.1 Johnson to Kohli , out Bowled ! ! Dragged on ! Kohli does n't want to go. He has to. Pushed out at a ball outside off , the inside edge is found , onto the thigh pad and then falls on the stumps. That 's a big setback for India. Their best batsman is gone early. They are checking for the no-ball , but Johnson is fine. Kohli b Johnson 1 ( 11 ) Johnson to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 25.6 Watson to Pujara , no run , 128kph short delivery , Pujara ducks under that 25.5 Watson to Pujara , no run , Pujara does well to ride the bounce on that and tap it to gully. Played with soft hands 25.4 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , shuffles across and tucks it to deep backward square leg , wants two but the fielder is in quickly 25.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , Kohli has a smile on his face after he misses a pull to a short delivery outside off , was in no position to play that and had to fetch it from outside off , the ball kept low and went under the attempted shot 25.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , 'well bowled Shane ' is the chat from Smith behind the stumps after Watson brings Kohli forward with a length delivery , defended to mid-off 25.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , fullish and Kohli is on the front foot to defend to cover 24.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , stays in the crease and defends solidly to cover. Covered the line there 24.5 Johnson to Pujara , FOUR , off the glove and Pujara looked very awkward there. But gets it wide of Haddin and down to the fine leg fence. That 's 2000 Test runs for Pujara. Pacy short one down leg , Pujara looked to avoid that , but the ball followed him and took the glove 24.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 142kph short delivery that rises high , Pujara arches back and lets it go , that was played well 24.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , angled across on a fuller length , Pujara wo n't play at that 24.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , presses forward and defends solidly to point , shouts a loud 'no ' to Kohli 24.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , well wide of off and that 's a sighter first up for Pujara , who leaves 23.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , tight maiden over to start from Watson , on a good length and outside off , Kohli shoulders arms Dhawan was apparently struck on the arm while batting in the nets 23.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , shuffles across to off and then wrists it to mid-on 23.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , probing line outside off , Kohli looks to defend off the back foot and gets a thick outside edge to gully 23.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , back and across before defending to mid-off with a straight bat 23.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , the height saved Kohli there. He misjudged that and shoulders arms to one that nipped back in. No real appeal from the Aussies as they knew it was going over 23.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , little shape away , Kohli leaves it alone The cracks have begun to show up on the Gabba pitch. It wo n't be easy batting on this. What do we have here ? Virat Kohli is striding out with Pujara. Dhawan is n't there. That 's a surprise. Sanjay Manjrekar tells us that Dhawan was injured in the nets - that 's why he has n't come out to bat. Cloudy conditions today - should help seam and swing bowling. Watson will start off to Kohli . A much cooler day at the Gabba with the temperature hovering around 30 degrees C . Now , can Rohit redeem himself in the second innings ? We shall know soon. Alright , that 's a wrap of this segment . 'But both in Adelaide and here in Brisbane , a completely different set of circumstances have tested his patience. It 's not so much the Australian bowling that has troubled him but his own approach. In each of his three innings on this tour , he has got out in infuriating fashion , twice after getting good starts. Each of those dismissals has had an instant effect on India 's fortunes.' He says , 'Rohit Sharma can be enthralling and infuriating in parts. His immense talent and lazy temperament have been fighting each other for ascendancy since his 2007 ODI debut against Ireland. It 's been no different in Australia this time around. Rohit came into this series seeking to rejuvenate his Test career following a mind-boggling second double hundred in One-dayers.' Partha Bhaduri 's piece for the Times of India places the microscope on Rohit Sharma. It sports the headline ''Sleepwalking ' Rohit Sharma fluffs his lines again 'For years , India had travelled Down Under with pace attacks made up of swing and seam bowlers. From Kapil Dev and Manoj Prabhakar to Zaheer Khan and S Sreesanth. Ironically at Perth , they had won a Test with Irfan Pathan , RP Singh and Ishant at the helm ' adds Bharat 'Indian cricket had shed a huge monkey of its back. For , as long as world powers have indulged in the Space Race , India has desperately sought their own demon fast bowler. A strapping , charged-up brute who can steam in at full tilt and stir up the opposition camp. At the Gabba , they had found two. Three , if you add Ishant Sharma , in terms of fast bowlers notching up speeds over 140kph.' Here is Bharat Sunderesan of the Indian Express , exploring India 's pace battery . 'Thanks to Johnson 's free-swinging injection , Australia more than doubled their score from when the sixth wicket fell to when they passed 500 to take an unforeseen 97-run lead ' writes Ben Horne for the Courier Mail 'For the second summer in a row , Johnson 's brilliantly underrated batting saved Australia 's bacon in Brisbane. After Marsh and Brad Haddin fell cheaply , Johnson came to the crease at 6-247 , with Australia were well and truly on the ropes against India on day three.' She writes , 'Last year , Johnson combined with Brad Haddin to save Australia with a stand of 114. While Haddin 's batting has fallen off a cliff since then , Steve Smith 's has scaled new heights. Together the new captain and his senior quick were an irresistable force that slammed on 148 runs in two hours. Smith and Johnson broke a 24-year-old record for seventh-wicket partnerships at the Gabba and paved the way for Australia to seize an improbable 97-run first innings lead. That lead was trimmed to 26 by stumps and it was the other Mitch - Starc - who claimed the prized wicket of in-form opener Murali Vijay for 27.' Chloe Saltau 's report for the Age has the headline 'Steve Smith and Australia 's wagging tail turn match on its head' Grab your coffee or breakfast and help yourself to our daily dosage of the newspaper segment . History and momentum on Australia 's side. The hosts have never lost at this venue after taking the lead. Meanwhile , India have never won at the Gabba. Good morning and welcome to the penultimate day of the second Test . The law of averages has finally caught up with Murali Vijay. Remember , Dhawan was dropped after a couple of failures in England ? He finds himself on the same boat again. Can he swim this time , instead of sinking ? Thanks to the Smith-Johnson counter-attack , Australia are ahead in the second Test at the Gabba. India , however , have showed some fight to get closer towards restoring parity , cutting down Australia 's lead to 26. Mitch Marsh has been ruled out of bowling , but Watto stepped up and plugged away yesterday . Lyon and Hazlewood joined in the fun , propelling Australia past the 500-mark. A good partnership from Dhawan-Pujara could set the platform for the likes of Kohli and Rahane and tilt the balance back in India 's favour. Early inroads though would see the hosts take firm control of the game. Do come back and join us tomorrow. It promises to be a moving day 4. Until then , take care and tata . Early on , Steve Smith extended his purple patch to become the first player since Greg Chappell to make a century in his debut Test innings as Australian captain. Mitch Johnson and Mitch Starc also contributed , scoring fifties to punish the Indian bowlers , who lacked penetration . Stumps , day 3 : Well , well , the game is still nicely poised. Vijay , who has been good at leaving balls outside off , ironically misjudged one and played on. Since then , Dhawan and Pujara have stayed put to guide India to 71/1 , narrowing down the deficit to 26. The former was in for a stern examination in the channel outside off , especially from Watto. Dhawan poked and prodded at a few , left the others , but he is still out there , unbeaten on 26. India will look up to Dhawan and Pujara to carry on and build a solid lead tomorrow . 22.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , dug in short and on off , Pujara keeps his eyes on the ball and fends it to short leg , on the bounce 22.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , Mitch goes round the stumps. On a good length and on off , Pujara keeps it out 22.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length and wide outside off , Pujara drops his gloves and lets it through to Haddin 22.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , good length ball on middle , Pujara blocks it to the right of the bowler 22.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , slanted outside off , left alone. There is a short leg lurking by the way 22.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length and around off , Pujara dabs it safely in front of point Everybody having some drinks. The Brisbane heat telling on the players. They are ready to resume . 21.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , on a length and on middle and leg , Dhawan taps it towards short mid-wicket 21.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , similar length but wider outside off , allowing Dhawan to leave it easily 21.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and straightens outside off , Dhawan wafts at it before playing inside the line. He almost nicked off there 21.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 2 runs , pitched up and on off , Dhawan does not meet the pitch of the ball. Yet , he carries on with the drive and scoops it up wide of cover. Runs back for the second 21.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of length on the leg stump , Dhawan fends it in front of backward short leg 21.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , good length ball and on off , tapped to mid-off 20.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , pitched up and around off at 141kph , hustles Pujara for pace , who pulls his bottom hand off the bat and defends it back to the bowler 20.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , good length ball wide outside off , Pujara lets it be 20.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , back of a length and on off , Pujara dabs it in front of point. Looks for a single , but it is not there 20.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , more short stuff , although this does not have much height on it. Pujara half ducks/sways and lets it go 20.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , wow ! Mitch cranks up and delivers a bumper , angles in and has Pujara taking evasive action. Haddin had to jump up to glove the ball 20.1 Johnson to Pujara , FOUR , short of length and outside off from round the stumps , Pujara was in a dilemma whether to leave it or play at it. He takes the late call of playing at it , does well steering it , out of reach of a diving gully Dhawan sips some drinks and composes himself after a few nervy moments the previous over . 19.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , played on , well almost ! Hazlewood had his hands on his head. This one hurried onto Dhawan and came back in a touch. The batsman gets an inside edge that bounces over the stumps to Haddin 19.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , kicks up from a short of length and rears up on Dhawan. He leaps up and manages to glove it behind square leg 19.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , straighter in line again , Dhawan blocks it to the right of the bowler , towards short cover 19.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , good length ball on middle , Dhawan gets behind the line to defend it 19.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 2 runs , clipped away off the hips to deep fine leg. Mitch gets across and hauls the ball in , before going over the rope. He recovers , picks up the ball and limits it to just a couple. Good work from Mitch , especially after bowling an intense over 19.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , good length ball just outside off , forward and pressed to cover. Dhawan seeks a single , but has to go back. The result is a dot Josh Hazlewood [ 4.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 145kph , shortish and hurries on middle and leg , Pujara loosens his bottom hand off the bat handle and fends it past short leg 18.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , mighty full and hurled outside off at 143kph , Pujara wants to drill a drive. However , he can only jam it towards cover point 18.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , on a length and on off , Pujara defends it carefully to cover 18.3 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , another tap and run single , this time from Dhawan in front of point. These two are judging the singles well 18.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , round the wicket goes Mitch. 140kph bumper from Mitch Johnson , Dhawan sways out of the way and evades it 18.1 Johnson to Pujara , 1 run , good running between the wickets. Pujara drops it in front of short cover and sets off. The fielder gets to the ball and has a shy at the keeper 's end but Dhawan is home 17.6 Watson to Dhawan , no run , follows up the teaser with a shortish ball on the stumps , fended behind square on the leg side 17.5 Watson to Dhawan , no run , pitched up and wide outside off , Dhawan chases it with a drive , beaten on the outside edge 17.4 Watson to Dhawan , no run , oh what was that ? Dhawan is knocked off his feet. Watto puts his hand up in apology. And Dhawan gives the thumbs-up. Straighter in line , push-driven back to the bowler , who picks the ball up and has a shy at the stumps. In the process , he hits Dhawan 's boot 17.3 Watson to Dhawan , no run , pitched up with a bit of away movement outside off , another leave from Dhawan 17.2 Watson to Dhawan , no run , much better from the opener ! Watson teases Dhawan with another outside off offering. The latter does well to lift his bat and let it go 17.1 Watson to Dhawan , no run , good length ball probing away outside off , Dhawan is lured into pushing at it. The ball lands in front of gully. Lucky for India that Dhawan did not jab at that 16.6 Johnson to Pujara , FOUR , 145kph , short and wide outside off. Pujara takes toll of it , crashing a cut to the backward point fence. The four denies Mitch what could have been his 3rd maiden 16.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length and rises over off , Pujara uses soft hands and dabs it to gully 16.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 143kph bouncer outside off. Che watches it all along before swaying out of the way 16.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 142kph , pitched up and on off , Pujara does not cover the line properly. But keeps it out off an inside edge 16.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 140kph , just like the first ball. Full ball on middle , Pujara hangs back and defends it to the leg side 16.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length and on off , Pujara dabs it to the off-side , adjacent to the pitch. Looks for a quick single , but has to retreat with Mitch getting to the ball quickly Mitchell Johnson [ 4.0-2-19-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Watson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and on middle , Dhawan is back to defending. Dropped dead on the off-side 15.5 Watson to Dhawan , FOUR , good length ball around off , Dhawan is drawn into playing at it , the outside edge runs away wide of gully. Moral victory for Watto 15.4 Watson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and zipping across off , Dhawan puts his bat inside the line and ignores it 15.3 Watson to Dhawan , no run , reverts to the fuller length outside off , gets a bit of away shape as well. Dhawan though is not interested in playing at those , not yet 15.2 Watson to Dhawan , no run , dug in short and slanted across off , Dhawan sways away from the line 15.1 Watson to Dhawan , no run , pitched up and in the corridor of uncertainty , Dhawan covers his off pole and shoulders arms wisely 14.6 Starc to Dhawan , leg byes , 1 run , drifting down leg , Dhawan ca n't lay bat on the flick stroke , the ball kisses the pad and rolls away fine 14.5 Starc to Pujara , 1 run , back of a length and on off , Pujara dabs it in front of cover and takes off for a quick single. His partner responded in kind as well Dean Jones on air reckons that the Watto bouncer may have brushed the helmet on its way to Haddin . 14.4 Starc to Pujara , no run , 143kph , full and slanted across , left alone 14.3 Starc to Dhawan , 1 run , short of length on middle , Dhawan aims to work it to the leg side off the back foot. Gets a soft leading edge in front of short cover. Another single pinched 14.2 Starc to Pujara , 3 runs , dug in short and wide outside off , Pujara hops up and cuts it to sweeper cover. 'Bowler bowler ' is the cry , the throw is to Strac , but the duo complete three with little trouble 14.1 Starc to Pujara , no run , back of a length and hurries on the fourth stump , Pujara defends it , taking his bottom hand off the bat 13.6 Watson to Dhawan , no run , another teaser outside off , Dhawan shoulders arms again 13.5 Watson to Dhawan , no run , pitched further up just outside off , inviting Dhawan to drive. The batsman obliges and finds mid-off 13.4 Watson to Dhawan , no run , full and in the channel outside off , Dhawan pulls his bat inside the line and leaves it 13.3 Watson to Dhawan , no run , has Dhawan been bounced out ? Ump Erasmus shakes his head and calls it one short ball for the over. This was a searing lifter down leg , Dhawan thought about the hook before bailing out at the last instant. No bat or glove involved. Snicko picks up nothing , confirming it. Good call from the ump 13.2 Watson to Dhawan , no run , good length ball on middle , Dhawan taps it wide of cover , towards mid-off 13.1 Watson to Dhawan , no run , full and just outside off , Dhawan lays into a cover-drive. Lyon makes a diving stop to consign it a dot 12.6 Starc to Pujara , no run , banged in short and whizzes past the nose of Pujara. The batsman though did well to drop his wrists and let it fly through to Haddin 12.5 Starc to Dhawan , 1 run , good length ball on middle , Dhawan comes forward and pushes it to mid-on for a quick single. Rogers was a bit late to get to the ball , he dives but ca n't prevent the single 12.4 Starc to Dhawan , no run , wide line outside off , Dhawan is happy to ignore it 12.3 Starc to Dhawan , no run , pitched up and moving in on middle , Dhawan is forward to push it to the fielder at mid-on 12.2 Starc to Dhawan , 2 runs , slightly back of a length and on off , Dhawan plays a punchy drive wide of cover. Senses the possibility of a second and gets it 12.1 Starc to Pujara , 1 run , good running between the wickets. Drop and run single in front of point 11.6 Watson to Pujara , 1 run , Pujara is lured into a false stroke. He closes the face of the bat early on the flick. Firstly , it was a bad ploy to try to play across the line. The ball catches the leading edge , but pops in front of a diving gully 11.5 Watson to Pujara , no run , good length ball around off , Pujara tightens his technique and defends it well 11.4 Watson to Pujara , no run , beaten emphatically ! Full and comes in close to off , Pujara has a dabble at that , the ball skims past the outside edge 11.3 Watson to Pujara , no run , pitched up and on the fourth stump line , Pujara is forward to block it back to Watto. Solidly defended 11.2 Watson to Dhawan , 1 run , mighty full on the leg stump , near yorker that tails in late , Dhawan jams it to fine leg off the inside part of the bat 11.1 Watson to Dhawan , no run , full and sliding across the left hander , who shows restraint in shouldering arms 10.6 Starc to Pujara , no run , short and outside off , Pujara ignores it 10.5 Starc to Pujara , no run , teaser from Starc , full and outside off , Pujara is not going after it as he lets it pass 10.4 Starc to Pujara , no run , fuller and outside off , Pujara covers his stumps and shoulders arms Cheteshwar Pujara , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now. India started off well , seeing off the first 10 overs. However , the centurion from the first innings and in-form Vijay drags one back onto the stumps. Dhawan has had his nervy moments but is still out there. Pujara is out there giving him company. . 10.3 Starc to Vijay , out Bowled ! ! Big wicket for Australia ! The in-form Vijay goes. Starc is pumped up as he lets out a roar. It was a short of length delivery around off , Vijay was in a dilemma whether to play or leave , in the end the ball takes the inside edge and goes back onto the stumps. He can not believe that he has dragged it back on , looks at the wicket before making the long walk back to the pavilion. Vijay b Starc 27 ( 39 ) [ 4s-4 ] Starc to Vijay , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 10.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , good length ball on off , Vijay is not fully forward as he defends to cover 10.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , back of a length on off , Vijay takes his bottom hand off the bat and bunts it in front of cover 9.6 Watson to Dhawan , no run , pushes this well wide of off , Dhawan does not have to play at those 9.5 Watson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Dhawan tucks it to backward square , wanted the single but Vijay sends him back 9.4 Watson to Dhawan , no run , fuller and on the legs , Dhawan leans forward and misses the clip shot , he got his pad too far forward which did n't allow him to work around it 9.3 Watson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length close to the off-stump , Dhawan covers the line and lets it go 9.2 Watson to Dhawan , no run , slips another one down leg , Dhawan ca n't connect with the flick 9.1 Watson to Vijay , leg byes , 1 run , short of length on the pads , Vijay does not meet with the glance , the ball thuds off the thigh pad Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 8.6 Starc to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan misses out on a scoring opportunity , drifted onto the pads , Dhawan fails to nail the flick , wears it high on the pad 8.5 Starc to Vijay , 1 run , fuller and on the fourth stump , Vijay drives with an open face to cover-point , the fielder from point does the fielding 8.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , good length ball outside off , Vijay lifts his bat and lets it go 8.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , on a length just outside off , Vijay plays an extended forward defence to short cover 8.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , pitched up around off , Vijay mishits the drive , the ball dribbles off the inside part to mid-on 8.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , fullish and on off , Vijay pushes it to the right of the bowler Mitchell Starc , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , another full delivery , Vijay drives it wide of mid-off , Rogers gets around and cuts it down to a single 7.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Vijay sits down and lets the ball sail over him 7.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , back of a length around off , Vijay goes back and defends it to the off-side 7.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , FOUR , beautiful shot ! It is one of those shots that is soothing to the eyes of the watcher. Everything right about that shot. Fullish and outside off , Vijay leans into the drive , creams through the cover region. Timing took precedence over power 7.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , fine stop by Starc , he saved a certain boundary. Full and angling into the pads , Vijay leans forward and flicks it sweetly towards mid-on , Starc dives to his right and stops the ball 7.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , back of a length on off , Dhawan drops it parallel to the wicket on the off-side and calls for a quick single , good response from Vijay 6.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fires this too far across off , Vijay ignores it 6.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , Vijay gets a good stride forward and drives it to mid-off 6.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 145kph short of length delivery , the line is outside off and Vijay has no problems in seeing that through 6.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , back of a length around off , Vijay knocks it to mid-off 6.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , drags the length back slightly outside off , Vijay shows no sign of playing that 6.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fuller and outside off , Vijay pushes it off the front foot to mid-off , that seemed to have gone off the bottom of the bat 5.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of length on off , Dhawan goes back and blocks it solidly down the wicket 5.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 2 runs , good length ball around off , Dhawan goes for the drive away from the body , the ball takes the inside edge and goes between bat-pad to fine leg. That was the way he got out in the first innings of the Adelaide Test 5.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on off , Dhawan bunts it off the back foot to point 5.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , on a length outside off , left alone 5.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Dhawan upper cuts it over the slip cordon. That is a safe shot to play when there is no third man in place 5.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , nice leave ! Hazlewood probes away close to the off-stump , Dhawan comes forward , judges it well and shoulders arms , that was not far away from the off-pole 4.6 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , not the best of overs from Johnson , drifts onto the pads , Dhawan clips it away to fine leg and ends the 14-run over 4.5 Johnson to Dhawan , 2 runs , short and closer to off , Dhawan plays a controlled cut shot to the right of backward point , Lyon gives chase and keeps the batsmen down to two , but they should have got three 4.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , hangs back to the short of length delivery and tucks it to square leg , he wanted the single but Vijay is not interested 4.3 Johnson to Vijay , 3 runs , third ball which is in the air , fullish and closer to off , Vijay checks his shot and chips it through the unmanned cover region , the pace of Johnson almost takes the ball to the fence 4.2 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , another one that is in the air and wide of the fielder , full and outside off , Vijay opens the bat face and slices it wide of backward point for the second boundary of the over 4.1 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , Vijay not afraid to play the ball in the air , pitched up outside off , Vijay does n't get fully forward as he drives it in the air over extra cover , the ball had enough to reach the fence Johnson comes round the wicket Slight delay in play. Vijay wants another grip on the bat. KL Rahul is the one who is helping him out. Vijay is ready to go. . 3.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , on a length just outside off , Dhawan drops it in front of cover , thinks about the single before sending Vijay back , right call as Lyon got to the ball quickly from point 3.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , bumper just outside off , Dhawan sways back and lets it go through to Haddin , who takes it above his head 3.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , back of a length around off , Dhawan defends it down the wicket , there was a bit of extra bounce but Dhawan played that well 3.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , 3 runs , tad too straight from Hazlewood , on middle and leg , Vijay leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket , the batsmen take three before Starc hunts it down 3.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , good length ball close to off , Dhawan presses it to the vacant cover region and sets off for the single 3.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhawan drives and picks out the mid-off fielder 2.6 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , superb shot ! It was the set-up from Johnson , he softened him with a few short deliveries then bowled a fuller length delivery outside off , Vijay bends his left knee and square drives it past backward point for the first boundary of the innings 2.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 144kph short delivery , does not rise as much as Vijay expected it to , he ducks and takes a blow on the left bicep. He does n't show any sign of pain 2.5 Johnson to Vijay , no ball , Johnson oversteps and delivers a short of length ball outside off , Vijay has nothing to do with it 2.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fuller and in the channel around off , Vijay pushes at it away from the body , the ball squirts off the inside edge to backward square , for a moment Vijay did n't have a clue where the ball was 2.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , tempter outside off , Vijay does n't take the bait as he shoulders arms to that 2.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 148kph short of length around off , Vijay gets his gloves out of the way and lets it go through to Haddin , he appreciates the ball as well 2.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 1.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of length on the body , it gets slightly big on Dhawan , who does well to fend it with soft hands to backward square 1.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , back of a length just outside off , Dhawan hoists his bat up and lets it pass 1.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , good length ball on the stumps , Vijay works it wide of mid-on and takes off straightaway for the single 1.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , 2 runs , full and on the pads , Vijay clips it behind square , the fielder fumbles and allows the batsmen to pick up two 1.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , on a length close to off , Dhawan looks to force it off the front foot , ekes out an inside edge towards mid-wicket , hurries across to the other end and gets off the mark , Vijay responds well to help his partner open his account 1.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhawan moves forward and drives it to mid-off , no real timing on that Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Hazlewood to share the new cherry. . 0.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , keeps it on a good length around off , Vijay presses it to cover after coming forward , shouts " no " for the single 0.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short of length on off , bit of extra bounce on that occasion , Vijay stands up and defends it with a loose bottom hand down the wicket , his right hand comes off the bat as he played that 0.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , on a length just outside off , Vijay lifts his bat and lets it go 0.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , " catch " shouts Johnson , back of a length shapes back in , Vijay hangs back and gets a thickish inside edge , the ball was in the air but falls short of the backward square fielder 0.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , there comes the bouncer , Vijay arches back and gets away from the line of the delivery. The umpire signals one for the over. That gets the crowd going as well 0.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Vijay covers the line and shoulders arms Vijay and Dhawan are at the crease. Vijay is on strike. Johnson will open the attack The Aussies are already out in the middle. Vijay and Dhawan stride out soon after. Johnson will open the attack. He is operating with three slips and a gully. The crowd egg him on as he runs in to bowl. . Dhawan has another chance to redeem himself. He has not scored a fifty in his last 10 innings. Can he rise to the occasion ? We will find out soon.. . Australia are ahead by 97 runs and it is more than a handy lead. At one stage , they were 247/6 with Smith the only genuine batsman , but the lower-order contributed substantially to take the total past 500. Johnson was involved in a record 7th wicket stand with his skipper. Then Starc put on useful partnerships of 56 and 51 with Lyon ( 23 ) and Hazlewood ( 32 ) . Apart from the first hour of the day , the Indian bowlers looked flat. The short ball ploy against the Johnson and Co. did n't work and by doing that they might have just fired up the Aussie bowlers. It is now upto the batsmen , first to survive the 30 odd overs today and then to wipe out the deficit . 109.4 Ashwin to Starc , out Bowled ! ! Finally , Australia have been bowled out. Ashwin points his hands upwards and thanks the Gods above. Gives this plenty of air outside leg , Starc bends and misses the heave across the line , the ball spins away and hits the top of leg-stump. Starc b Ashwin 52 ( 59 ) [ 4s-6 ] Ashwin to Starc , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 109.3 Ashwin to Hazlewood , 1 run , slower and outside leg , Hazlewood comes down the track and inside edges the hoick past Dhoni 109.2 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , goes round the wicket , tosses it up on off , Hazlewood blocks it off the front foot 109.1 Ashwin to Starc , 1 run , flighted just outside off , Starc drives it to deep extra cover and brings up the 50-run stand Ashwin to resume the attack in the final session. . Hello again.. Australia are running away with the game. After a record 7th wicket stand at the Gabba between Smith and Johnson , they have added a further 108 runs , with Starc getting a fifty and Hazlewood looking good for one of his own. India have lost all the steam and seem to be going through the motions. They would want to get the last wicket quickly and get out to bat . The Indian bowlers overdid the short ball ploy and leaked runs with Australia unleashing aggression. Can India bowl Australia out in the final session ? We will know soon . Ishant engineered a double strike , getting rid of both Smith and Mitch in the same over , but Starc took over and guided Australia past the 500-mark , in the company of Lyon and Hazlewood. After suffering from heat distress on the opening day , Starc scored his 4th Test fifty , turning the heat on India. Hazlewood is closing in on a fifty of his own. How 's that for a Test debut ? Tea , day 3 : Australia have wiped off the deficit. Australia lead by 95. And Australia are still batting. Another good session would cap off a dominant day for the hosts . 108.6 U Yadav to Hazlewood , no run , pitched up and just outside off , might have been the change-up , driven to mid-off again 108.5 U Yadav to Hazlewood , no run , on a length and on the fourth stump , Hazlewood makes some room , flashes a drive to mid-off , picks out the fielder 108.4 U Yadav to Hazlewood , no run , good length ball on off , Hazlewood is rooted to the crease , again pushed back to the bowler 108.3 U Yadav to Hazlewood , no run , dug in short on the leg stump , Hazlewood is cramped for room. He can only fend it back to the bowler 108.2 U Yadav to Hazlewood , no run , on a good length and on middle , Hazlewood defensively pushes it back to Yadav 108.1 U Yadav to Hazlewood , no run , back of a length , straightens and rises over the off-stump , beating Hazlewood on the outside edge 107.6 Ashwin to Starc , no run , Ash drags his length back on off , Starc blocks it to silly point. The spinner got some extra bounce there , but Starc handled it well 107.5 Ashwin to Hazlewood , 1 run , Hazlewood goes for a heave away , mishits it to mid-on. Not much power behind that 107.4 Ashwin to Hazlewood , FOUR , Australia cross 500. Pushed through flatter on middle and leg , Hazlewood heaves at it , the inside edge evades the sticks and runs away fine 107.3 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , tossed up on off , Hazlewood aims to crash a drive on the rise , does not get hold of it. The ball just about lobs in front of Ashwin 107.2 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , darted flat and quicker on the leg stump , looked like a carrom ball , jammed out to long-on 107.1 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , quicker and outside leg as Hazlewood makes room , clipped behind square leg , but there is a fielder there 106.6 U Yadav to Hazlewood , 1 run , good length ball on middle , Hazlewood gently pushes it wide of mid-off and sets off. Rohit was a bit slow to get to the ball. Easy single in the end. By the way , Umesh has also hit a century , joining Ishant , Ashwin and Aaron 106.5 U Yadav to Hazlewood , no run , pitched up and on off and middle , Hazlewood drives it to mid-off 106.4 U Yadav to Hazlewood , no run , back of a length and on middle , Hazlewood hangs back and defends it to short cover 106.3 U Yadav to Starc , 1 run , much shorter and the line is outside off , Starc rides the bounce and taps it through cover-point for a single 106.2 U Yadav to Starc , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , defended back to the bowler 106.1 U Yadav to Starc , no run , back of a length and on middle , Starc yanks his bottom hand of the bat and blocks it back to the bowler Umesh Yadav [ 23.0-3-99-3 ] is back into the attack Ashwin wore a puzzled look on his face after that lbw call was turned down . 105.6 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , straighter one from Ashwin , Hazlewood gets behind the line to defend it in front of the bowler 105.5 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , Ashwin pulls his length back , Hazlewood stays back and pushes it to the leg-side 105.4 Ashwin to Hazlewood , FOUR , cracking hit from Hazlewood. This was nicely tossed up , Hazlewood comes down the track and goes inside-out , hit in the air between mid-off and the covers 105.3 Ashwin to Starc , 1 run , Starc gets an inside edge past the stumps to short fine. Starc reaches his 4th Test fifty now 105.2 Ashwin to Starc , no run , flatter on the stumps , driven back to Ash , who dives in his follow-through and deflects the ball to mid-off. Starc has to wait for his fifty 105.1 Ashwin to Starc , no run , pushed through quicker , Starc is rapped on the pad , misses the flick. It would have pitched outside leg. Oh wait , Hawk-eye shows that it just , just pitched in line with the leg stump. Rough call for Ash 104.6 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , similar ball , sails through to Dhoni as Hazlewood is not interested in pulling this short one either 104.5 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , short of length and angled across , Hazlewood arches his back and lets it go to Dhoni Umpire Erasmus examines the ball. Time for the hoop test. The ball fails the test and it will be changed. A mini delay at the Gabba . 104.4 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , short of length and on middle , Hazlewood goes on the back foot and fends it to the off-side , again with a loose bottom hand 104.3 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , back of a length and skids on middle , Hazlewood pulls his bottom hand off the bat handle as he drops it dead on the pitch 104.2 Ishant to Starc , 1 run , change of pace and Starc nearly chipped a return catch ! Starc checked his shot at the last moment , the ball lobs wide of Ishant in the vacant short mid-wicket area 104.2 Ishant to Starc , wide , Ishant retorts with a bouncer with more height on it as it climbs over the leg stump. Starc just sways away and that is wided by the ump 104.1 Ishant to Starc , FOUR , banged in short on middle , Starc rocks back and nails the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence. The man at backward square was a mere spectator 103.6 Ashwin to Hazlewood , FOUR , back-to-back fours in the last over and Hazlewood repeats it this over. This was pushed through outside off , Hazlewood slashes at it. Gets enough on it as the ball runs away to the deep point fence. These are good , bonus runs for the hosts 103.5 Ashwin to Hazlewood , FOUR , Hazlewood is now on the charge ! He comes down the track and drags this flighted delivery wide of mid-on 103.4 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , tossed up on off , poked out past slip and behind point Tea has been extended by 30 mins since Australia are 9 down . 103.3 Ashwin to Starc , 1 run , flighted on middle , Starc lunges forward and gets it off the inside half of the bat towards mid-wicket 103.2 Ashwin to Starc , no run , pushed through quicker and flatter on off , Starc goes for a drive and mistimes it back to the bowler 103.1 Ashwin to Starc , no run , straight roller on middle , Starc is forward to smother it 102.6 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , Ishant digs in a short of length ball on middle , Hazlewood hops up and fends it in front of the bowler Ishant switches to round the wicket 102.5 Ishant to Hazlewood , FOUR , an encore from Hazlewood ! Fuller and on middle again , Hazlewood smashes the drive to the long-off fence 102.4 Ishant to Hazlewood , FOUR , pitched up on off and middle , Hazlewood drills a drive and sends it through mid-off , the ball raced away to the fence 102.3 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , good length ball on the leg stump , cramping Hazlewood for room. Hazlewood pushes it to mid-on in an iffy manner 102.2 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , another bumpy delivery , climbs over a ducking Hazlewood 102.1 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , Ishant bangs a bouncer over the stumps , Hazlewood is quite happy to duck under it 101.6 Ashwin to Starc , no run , yorker length ball from Ashwin , almost beats Starc for pace. Luckily for Australia , Starc ekes out an inside edge onto the pad 101.5 Ashwin to Starc , 2 runs , Ashwin drags his length back , whipped away from off towards deep mid-wicket. Starc came for the second 101.4 Ashwin to Starc , no run , slower through the air again , defended to the man at silly point A silly point comes in now . 101.3 Ashwin to Starc , no run , looped up on middle , Starc inches forward and taps it towards cover 101.2 Ashwin to Starc , no run , spinning across off , Starc bends down , slog sweeps and misses 101.1 Ashwin to Starc , no run , tossed up on off , Starc throws his bat at it and slices it in front of point 100.6 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , on a length on middle , Hazlewood manages to block it towards mid-off 100.5 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , back of a length and around off , Hazlewood makes a bit of room and pushes it to the man at point 100.4 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Hazlewood ducks under 100.3 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , similar ball outside off , bounces over the outside edge to Dhoni. Tame push that from Hazlewood. That can be excused though , he is a Number 11 100.2 Ishant to Hazlewood , no run , back of a length and zips away outside off , Hazlewood swishes and gets beaten 100.1 Ishant to Starc , 1 run , up , up in the air , but the ball drops into no-man 's land. This was a good ball , fast and shortish on the stumps , Starc is hurried onto the pull. The ball grazes the top-edge and lobs up in the air. Ishant was a bit late in his follow-through , moving across. Aaron runs in from mid-on. The ball evades both fielders and lands in between them. Sort of sums up India 's day on the field Ishant Sharma [ 20.0-2-102-3 ] is back into the attack Dhoni turns to Ishant. Can he wrap up the Aussie innings ? 99.6 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , pushed through in the channel outside off again , drilled straight to the fielder at cover 99.5 Ashwin to Starc , 1 run , darted quicker and fuller outside off , Starc flat-bats a drive to long-off 99.4 Ashwin to Hazlewood , 1 run , slower through the air on middle and leg , Hazlewood makes a bit of room and flashes a drive to mid-off 99.3 Ashwin to Starc , 1 run , flatter and fuller on middle and leg , heaved away to long-on. Only a single results 99.2 Ashwin to Starc , no run , Ashwin pulls his length back , punched back to the bowler 99.1 Ashwin to Starc , no run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Starc defends it to short leg , more off an inside edge that 98.6 Aaron to Hazlewood , FOUR , not middled , no problem says Hazlewood. Good length ball on middle , Hazlewood jerkily pushes it wide of mid-on , the ball just has enough to reach the fence , beating the fielder 's chase 'Ashwin was too close to MS ' says Haydos on air. Mark Taylor pointed out the same early on . 98.5 Aaron to Hazlewood , no run , 143kph bouncer on the leg stump , Hazlewood judges it well and sinks under it safely 98.4 Aaron to Hazlewood , no run , back of a length and hurries on the leg stump , Hazlewood is beaten for pace and wears it on his thigh 98.3 Aaron to Hazlewood , no run , fuller and outside off , poked out to gully off another outside edge 98.2 Aaron to Hazlewood , no run , edged and just falls of a diving Ashwin at first slip. Back of a length and outside off , Hazlewood hangs his bat out , the ball catches the outside edge and moves to the left of Dhoni. Ashwin dives but the ball dies down in front of him. A dive from Mahendra Singh Dhoni could have done the job for India 98.1 Aaron to Starc , 1 run , pitched up wide outside off , Starc squeezes out a drive to cover. The lead has been stretched to 50 97.6 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , floated and fuller on middle and off , Hazlewood defends it just wide of silly point 97.5 Ashwin to Hazlewood , no run , Ashwin gives this more air , pressed towards cover A silly point comes in now . 97.4 Ashwin to Starc , 1 run , Ashwin is firing darts here. Starc pushes at it , the ball sneaks away past mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 97.3 Ashwin to Starc , 2 runs , flatter and outside off , Starc goes for a slog sweep , gets a thick top edge that flies over first slip. Starc comes back for the second 97.2 Ashwin to Starc , no run , quick fizzer on the leg stump at 99kph , Starc misses the flick and gets hit on the pad. Sliding down leg 97.1 Ashwin to Starc , no run , tossed up fuller on off , Starc flashes a drive and finds cover 96.6 Aaron to Hazlewood , no run , 136kph bouncer - this sails over a ducking Hazlewood to Dhoni 96.5 Aaron to Hazlewood , no run , dug in short and angled across , Hazlewood lets it through to Dhoni , who gloves the ball around head-height 96.4 Aaron to Hazlewood , no run , 141kph back of a length ball , climbs over the fourth stump. Hazlewood wafts and misses with his feet in lead 96.3 Aaron to Hazlewood , no run , fuller length ball on middle , Hazlewood does not move his feet much , but keeps it out A short leg and leg slip to go with 2 slips . Josh Hazlewood , left handed bat , comes to the crease 96.2 Aaron to Lyon , out Caught by Rohit ! ! India have their man now. Nevertheless , Lyon has done his part with the bat. Good length delivery on off , Lyon lines up for a lofted hit. However , he does not get hold of it , gets it high on the bat and spoons it straight down the throat of Rohit at mid-on. Lyon c Rohit b Aaron 23 ( 23 ) [ 4s-3 ] Aaron to Lyon , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! After the appeal last over , Kohli had a friendly chat with Lyon . 96.1 Aaron to Starc , 1 run , yorker from Aaron , Starc jabs his bat down , the inside edge sneaks away to fine leg 95.6 Ashwin to Lyon , no run , fuller on middle and leg , Lyon gets greedy now. Goes for another sweep , the ball goes to leg slip. Neither wood nor glove involved . 95.5 Ashwin to Lyon , FOUR , Lyon has executed the slog sweep. Ashwin keeps pushing it through , Lyon goes down on one knee and sweeps it firmly to the deep square leg boundary. He even earns a tap on the helmet from Starc 95.4 Ashwin to Starc , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Starc bends down and slog sweeps it to long-on. Decent connection from Starc 95.3 Ashwin to Starc , no run , pushed to the man at cover , straight to the fielder 95.2 Ashwin to Starc , no run , Starc goes for a big hit , only manages an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rebounds to the off-side 95.1 Ashwin to Starc , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Starc misses the defence and is hit on the pad. This may have slipped down leg too. Dhoni 's lbw shout amounts to nothing The partnership has grown to 50 , the lead to 40 94.6 Aaron to Lyon , 2 runs , good length ball on off , Lyon gets under it and just about manages to lift it over the bowler for a couple of runs. Not well-timed as Umesh runs back and hunts the ball down . 94.5 Aaron to Lyon , no run , back of a length and on off , Lyon defensively pushes it to cover off the back foot 94.4 Aaron to Lyon , no run , short and wide outside off , Lyon swishes at it but only connects with thin air 94.3 Aaron to Starc , leg byes , 1 run , fuller and angled in on middle and leg , Starc misses the flick to the leg-side. He crosses over for the leg bye though. No chance of an lbw , for the ball was sliding down 94.2 Aaron to Starc , FOUR , edged and four ! Shortish and outside off , Starc goes for a pull , gets a thick edge that flies over the slip cordon. Dhawan has his hands on his head 94.2 Aaron to Starc , wide , Aaron bangs a bouncer , that sails over to Dhoni , who leaps up and gloved the ball with one hand. Strac looked to hook , but bailed out at the last minute 94.1 Aaron to Lyon , 3 runs , back of a length and on the hips from round the stumps , tucked well wide of short leg. The duo sprint back for the third , good running between the wickets Varun Aaron [ 23.0-1-129-1 ] is back into the attack 93.6 Ashwin to Starc , no run , darted quicker and Ashwin dragged his length back as well. Starc , who was on the back foot gets struck on the thigh 93.5 Ashwin to Lyon , 1 run , and Lyon connects with the sweep now. Fetches this Ashwin offering from outside off and hits it to deep square leg 93.4 Ashwin to Lyon , no run , flatter and on off , Lyon blocks it in front of the bowler 93.3 Ashwin to Lyon , no run , 'nice bowling Ash ' is the cry from behind the stumps. Pushed through outside off , Lyon bends down for the sweep and misses. Gets hit just below the shoulder 93.2 Ashwin to Starc , 1 run , much fuller and on the stumps , driven down the track to long-on 93.1 Ashwin to Starc , no run , angled on the leg stump from round the wicket , the ball lobs off the pad to leg gully. Starc did not meet with the attempted glance there Ravichandran Ashwin [ 25.0-4-92-1 ] is back into the attack Australia now lead by 27 runs. Ashwin will resume things after the break with a slip , short leg and leg slip in . Drinks are on the field now. India struck twice in one over to send back both Johnson and Smith , but since then they have leaked 37 runs. Starc has taken the baton from Johnson and has come out attacking. India will need to wrap things up before the lead becomes substantial . 92.6 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , fullish and close to off , Lyon middles the drive and finds the mid-off fielder 92.5 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , on a length just outside off , Lyon drives it off the bottom to mid-off 92.4 U Yadav to Lyon , FOUR , drifts onto the pads , Lyon stays inside the line and glances it down to fine leg , the fielder was square and had no chance of cutting that off 92.3 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , pitched up just outside off , Lyon drives without much timing to mid-off 92.2 U Yadav to Lyon , FOUR , these kind of runs will hurt India , full and outside off , Lyon drives away from the body and the ball flies over the slip cordon to the unmanned third man region 92.1 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , short of length outside off , Lyon goes searching for it without much intent and the ball goes past the outside edge 91.6 Aaron to Lyon , 3 runs , back of a length on leg-stump , Lyon stays back and wrists it to the left of mid-on , Rohit does the chasing and the duo come back for the third 91.5 Aaron to Lyon , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Lyon sinks under it and lets it sail over him 91.4 Aaron to Lyon , no run , short delivery directed on the body , Lyon ducks and wears a blow on the left shoulder Goes round the wicket 91.3 Aaron to Lyon , no run , back of a length around off , Lyon goes back and defends solidly to cover 91.2 Aaron to Lyon , 2 runs , good length ball on off , Lyon pushes at it , the ball squirts off the inside edge to fine leg A leg slip and short leg in place. Can expect short stuff. . 91.1 Aaron to Lyon , no run , bumper around off , Lyon ducks under and lets it go Varun Aaron [ 22.0-1-124-1 ] is back into the attack Umpire Erasmus has some ice being applied to his right hand. The ball that hit him in the last over has caused some swelling on his right wrist . 90.6 U Yadav to Starc , FOUR , poor and wayward bowling. Banged in short and down leg , Starc helps it on its way to the fine leg fence with a pull shot. Another expensive over , 12 runs came off it 90.5 U Yadav to Starc , 2 runs , fuller and outside off , Starc leans into the drive through cover for another couple 90.4 U Yadav to Starc , no run , goes round the wicket , keeps it full and outside off , Starc shoulders arms 90.3 U Yadav to Starc , FOUR , these are useful runs , short of length close to off , Starc rocks back and pulls it in front of square , no one bothers to chase that down 90.2 U Yadav to Starc , no run , dropped ! It was a tough chance as Umesh was in his follow-through. Full and around off , Starc drills the drive uppishly back to the bowler , Umesh puts out his right hand , but ca n't hang on to it. The ball deflects and hits umpire Erasmus , however , Umesh had taken the pace off it 90.1 U Yadav to Starc , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Starc chips the drive through the extra cover region , Rohit runs behind the ball and does well to pull back inside the rope Umesh Yadav [ 21.0-3-79-3 ] is back into the attack 89.6 Ishant to Lyon , no run , waste of a delivery , sprays it well down leg , no chance for Lyon to get bat on that , Dhoni fails to gather the ball but the batsmen do n't risk the single 89.5 Ishant to Starc , 1 run , dug in halfway down the wicket , Starc toe-ends the pull wide of mid-on 89.4 Ishant to Starc , no run , short delivery bowled from over the wicket , Starc goes for the pull and does not make contact 89.3 Ishant to Starc , no run , angling in around off , Starc hangs back and turns it to mid-on Switches to round the sticks 89.2 Ishant to Starc , FOUR , Australia have taken the lead , short of length around off , Starc punches it off the front foot , he did n't get it off the middle , but still the timing on that was excellent as it raced away to the long-off fence 89.1 Ishant to Starc , FOUR , full and outside off , Starc throws his bat at it , the ball flies over backward point after taking the outside half of the bat. No half measures from Starc 88.6 Aaron to Starc , 3 runs , short and provides the batsman with the width , Starc frees his arms and cuts it to the right of backward point , Pujara gives chase and pulls the ball back in. That also brings up the 400 for Australia 88.5 Aaron to Starc , no run , straightens from a length close to off , Starc plays inside the line and is beaten comprehensively Comes round the wicket 88.4 Aaron to Starc , no run , good length ball outside off , Starc shoulders arms 88.3 Aaron to Starc , no run , banged in short outside off , Starc gets his bat out of the line and lets it pass 88.2 Aaron to Starc , no run , fired full and well wide of off , left alone 88.1 Aaron to Starc , no run , on a length and on off , Starc goes for the drive , misses and is struck on the back thigh , the ball was going over the stumps Nathan Lyon , right handed bat , comes to the crease 87.6 Ishant to S Smith , out Bowled ! ! Dragged on ! Ishant lets out a roar. Umpires check for a no-ball , it is a legal delivery. Smith is out for the first time in the series. A fine knock comes to an end. He walks off to a standing ovation from the Gabba crowd. Short of a length and comes back in , Smith hangs back and looks to steer it down to third , but only manages an inside edge onto the off-stump. S Smith b Ishant 133 ( 191 ) [ 4s-13 6s-2 ] Ishant to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 87.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , nip-backer from a length , Smith is stuck in the crease , luckily for him , he gets an inside edge onto the pad , if not for that he was right in front of the stumps 87.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length just outside off , Smith stands tall and punches it to backward point 87.3 Ishant to Starc , 3 runs , Starc seems to have come out with a positive mindset , pitched up outside off , Starc drives through the line and hits it uppishly wide of mid-off for three 87.2 Ishant to Starc , no run , greets the new batsman with a bumper , Starc goes for the hook and fails to make contact Mitchell Starc , left handed bat , comes to the crease 87.1 Ishant to Johnson , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Finally , Johnson has managed to nick one. Ishant says thank you. Full and well wide of off , Johnson goes for the drive with laden feet , the outside edge is gobbled up by Dhoni. An entertaining innings comes to an end , one that got Australia back into the game and closer to the Indian total. Johnson c Dhoni b Ishant 88 ( 93 ) [ 4s-13 6s-1 ] Ishant to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! This is now the highest 7th wicket partnership at the Gabba . 86.6 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , excellent batting from Steve Smith , back of a length just outside off , uses the pace of the bowler and guides it with an open face past a diving gully , the ball reached the fence in no time 86.5 Aaron to S Smith , no run , slips it down leg for the second time in the over , Smith ca n't lay bat on ball 86.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , 150kph yorker around off , Smith brings his bat down and jams it towards gully 86.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , shortens the length outside off , Smith makes room and chops it back to the bowler 86.2 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , full and plenty of width on offer , Smith drives it with an open face past backward point , there is no one protecting the fence in the deep 86.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , splays it down leg , Smith ca n't meet with the glance Varun Aaron [ 20.0-1-113-1 ] is back into the attack Smith was seen putting some tape on his left hamstring. I have lost count on the number of injured Australian players. Even Johnson took some pills just a few overs after lunch . Time for the first drinks break. Australia have seen off the first 40 minutes after lunch without any trouble. India started with Ashwin and Rohit which made it easy for the batsmen to settle down. Johnson has had a few play-and-miss against the new ball , but he is still out there closing in on his second Test ton. India need wickets and quickly . 85.6 Ishant to Johnson , no run , slanted too far across off , Johnson backs away which makes it further difficult for him to reach the ball 85.5 Ishant to Johnson , 2 runs , fuller and outside off , Johnson slices the drive in the air over cover , the ball falls in no man 's land 85.4 Ishant to Johnson , FOUR , as soon as Ishant bowled that , Dhoni says " no , no " . It was on leg-stump and full enough for Johnson to clip it away elegantly to deep mid-wicket , Vijay gives chase but it has enough fuel to reach the fence 85.3 Ishant to Johnson , no run , pitched up , Johnson goes for the expansive drive and is nowhere close to connecting with it 85.2 Ishant to Johnson , no run , fullish and outside off , left alone 85.1 Ishant to Johnson , no run , back of a length just outside off , Johnson does n't cover the line as he lets it go 84.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , bit too full and on off , Smith squeezes the on-drive to mid-on , says " wait , wait " for the single 84.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Smith shuffles across and clips it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 84.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length around off , Smith gets right behind the line and defends to cover 84.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , pitched up just outside off , Smith drives crisply and picks out Rohit at mid-off 84.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball moving away outside off , Smith shows no interest in playing that 84.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , short and outside off , Smith cuts it in front of square on the off-side for a brace 83.6 Ishant to Johnson , no run , another one that beats the outside edge and Ishant claps his hands and makes a gesture as to say well done mate. Fullish and just outside off , Johnson goes for the booming drive but only connects with thin air 83.5 Ishant to Johnson , no run , much better , closer than the previous deliveries , Johnson stays inside the line and pokes at it , the ball zips past the outside edge 83.4 Ishant to Johnson , no run , ca n't understand the line Ishant is bowling here , full and too far across off , Johnson is trying his best to reach it , but failing to get bat on ball 83.3 Ishant to Johnson , no run , short and outside off , Johnson throws the kitchen sink at that , he only connects with thin air 83.2 Ishant to Johnson , no run , fullish and on the fourth stump , Johnson looks to drive it on the up , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and goes to the left of Ishant 83.1 Ishant to Johnson , no run , fired well outside off , Johnson does not go chasing after that 82.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good away movement , but the line is outside off , Smith lifts his bat and lets it go 82.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , shortens the length outside off , left alone 82.4 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , back of a length on the hips , Johnson nurdles it away to fine leg 82.3 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , this should have been done when he was new to the crease , on a length and in the corridor of uncertainty , Johnson brings the bat down at an angle , is beaten off the inside edge. There was some sound when the ball went past the bat , but there was no appeal from the Indians 82.2 U Yadav to Johnson , FOUR , " catch it " were the shouts from the close in fielders , Ishant misjudged it completely. Back of a length around off , Johnson goes for the pull and top-edges it towards third man , Ishant was well inside the rope , he did n't track back in time to take that as the ball flew over him for a one bounce four 82.1 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , short of length on leg-stump , Johnson tucks it to mid-on 81.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , drags the length back outside off , Smith shoulders arms 81.5 Ishant to S Smith , 2 runs , Ishant goes wide of the crease once again and slants it onto off and middle , Smith moves across and flicks it past square leg for a couple 81.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , angled in from wide of the crease , Smith shuffles across and clips it straight to square leg 81.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length on off , Smith goes right back and bunts it in front of cover 81.2 Ishant to Johnson , 1 run , another edge that evades the slip cordon , fuller and draws the batsman into the drive , Johnson goes hard at it , the ball flies over Dhawan at third slip off the outside edge 81.1 Ishant to Johnson , no run , too far outside off , Johnson does not bother with it Ishant Sharma [ 15.0-1-81-1 ] is back into the attack Ishant to share the new ball with Umesh. He has three slips and a gully in place. There is a third man in place for Johnson 80.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , shortens the length outside off , Smith hoists his bat up and lets it pass , good carry to Dhoni , who collects it head high 80.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , nice shape for Yadav , on a length and curling away outside off , Smith does not offer a shot 80.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length just outside off , Smith watches it go past him 80.3 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , edged and wide of the third slip fielder , shapes away slightly around off , Johnson goes hard at it , the ball takes the edge and goes past a diving Dhawan. Dhoni has protection in the deep though 80.2 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , angled across the left-hander , left alone 80.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 3 runs , pitched up outside off , Smith drives without much feet movement , the timing on that is good enough for the batsmen to take three Umesh Yadav [ 18.0-3-68-3 ] is back into the attack The second new ball is available now and India have taken it straightaway. Umesh will have first crack with it. Three slips and gully in place to assist him. . 79.6 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , Ashwin goes over the wicket for the last ball , tosses it up on middle , Johnson goes right back and blocks solidly 79.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 3 runs , poor delivery , half tracker well wide of off , Smith has to reach out for that , he does and cuts it in front of square , the long boundaries does not allow him to have four 79.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted outside off , Smith lunges forward and blocks it in front of cover 79.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower and on the stumps , Smith taps it off the back foot to short leg 79.2 Ashwin to S Smith , 2 runs , skips out of the crease and whips it to deep square leg , he called for two and gets it comfortably 79.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Ashwin sees the batsman advance down the track , pulls the length back , Smith does n't get to the pitch , but does well to stretch out and block it to the off-side 78.6 Rohit to Johnson , FOUR , top shot ! Johnson showing it is not only about power. Shimmies down the track to the tossed up delivery and drives it inside out wide of long-off , Aaron runs across and dives in vain. Excellent use of the feet from Johnson 78.5 Rohit to Johnson , no run , pushes it off the back foot to Rohit 78.4 Rohit to S Smith , 1 run , straight roller from round the wicket , Smith presses forward to defend , gets it off the outside half of the bat towards cover 78.3 Rohit to Johnson , 1 run , sliding onto the pads , Johnson helps it away to long leg with a nudge 78.2 Rohit to S Smith , 1 run , flighted on off , Smith works it down to long-on 78.1 Rohit to Johnson , 1 run , fraction short and just outside off , Johnson cuts it towards extra cover , Dhawan makes a tumbling stop 77.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , goes on with the angle , Smith comes down the track and works it to short mid-wicket Ashwin stays round the wicket for Smith 77.5 Ashwin to Johnson , 1 run , flighted close to off , Johnson eases the drive to long-off 77.4 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , nicely floated delivery outside off , Johnson does not go for the drive as he lets it go 77.3 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , quicker and down leg , Johnson ca n't meet with the glance 77.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , another that is seen off easily with a back foot defence 77.1 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , gently tossed up on off , Johnson goes back and drops it dead on the wicket 76.6 Rohit to S Smith , no run , drags the length back , Smith goes back and wrists it to mid-on , calls " wait " for the single 76.5 Rohit to Johnson , 1 run , driven along the ground to long-off 76.4 Rohit to Johnson , no run , slider on leg , Johnson misses the nudge and is struck on the pad , the ball was heading down leg 76.3 Rohit to Johnson , no run , drifted on middle , Johnson clips it straight to the man at short leg The new ball is due in less than 4 overs , hence Rohit is brought into the attack. . 76.2 Rohit to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up well wide of off , Smith plays it with an angled bat towards backward point 76.1 Rohit to S Smith , no run , floated up outside off , Smith lunges forward in defence Rohit Sharma , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Surprise ! Rohit into the attack. . 75.6 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , slows it up around off , Johnson is half-forward and defending to point 75.5 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , again , pushed through on middle and leg , Johnson knocks it to the left of Ashwin 75.4 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , flatter and on off , punched back to the bowler 75.3 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , goes deep and turns it gently to mid-wicket 75.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , touch quicker and on off , Johnson hangs back and blocks 75.1 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , flighted on off , Johnson goes for the drive and gets it off the inside part to the left of Ashwin Ashwin to resume the attack. . Welcome back.. After a good first hour , India have let slip the momentum. They overdid the short ball ploy against Johnson , who counter-attacked superbly to bring the deficit down to just 57 runs. The visitors need a change in plan if they have to stay in the game. Can the bowlers go back to bowling tight line and lengths and skittle out the lower-order ? Or will Australia continue batting freely and conjure up a lead ? Answers coming up in a jiffy. . It has been thrilling stuff for the last two hours. Test cricket at its very best. More such stuff awaits us in the next session. We are in for a cracker. Before we see any more action , we 'll take a little break and will be back with you shortly. Do stay tuned . Johnson seemed to have been fired up by the comments and went after the bowling. The short ball tactic did n't work against him and runs bled. Smith at the other end was patiently watching everything and soon got a hundred on captaincy debut. This stand has been worth 104 so far and the deficit stands at 57 right now. Earlier on , India bowled superbly with all three pacers sticking to a tight line and length , which built the pressure. Marsh and Haddin 's wickets were a result of that pressure . Smith and Johnson punch gloves as they walk off for lunch. India have only themselves to blame after letting the initiative go. They were well on top after Haddin 's wicket , but a mixture of bad luck - when Aaron who was in the middle of a great spell went off the field - and poor bowling has brought the Aussies right back into the match. Credit though to Johnson - who was sledged by the Indians when he came in - who has counter-attacked brilliantly to put India under pressure . 74.6 Aaron to S Smith , no run , pitched up on off , driven back to Aaron who fields and that will be lunch on day 3 Last ball before lunch 74.5 Aaron to Johnson , 1 run , shuffles across and clips a middle and leg delivery down to deep backward square leg 74.4 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , rises on top of the bounce and punches wide of point. There is a direct hit but Johnson is well in 74.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , shuffles across and then defends it back to Aaron 74.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , reaches out and cuts , off the toe-end and a diving stop at gully , saves any runs being taken 74.1 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , the 100-run stand has come up with a deft late cut , past gully. Smith got on top of the bounce and played it late. Aaron has the double tea-pot pose - with hands on hips 73.6 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , gets forward and then cautiously defends towards slip 73.5 Ashwin to Johnson , FOUR , fabulous shot. Uses his feet and plays a controlled loft over mid-off. Relied on getting it into the gap and not on power. Lovely smooth extension of the arms and it 's a one bounce over the ropes four 73.4 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , goes back to play to the left of the bowler , firm punch that 73.3 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , gets forward and slightly opens the face of the bat to defend towards point 73.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , flat and on off , defended back down the track 73.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , worked around the corner , behind square Terrific reaction from the Gabba crowd after Smith got his hundred. As soon as he played the shot , he went 'yeahhhhhhhhh'. Waved the bat vigorously as he punched the air with it. Brilliant stuff ! Emulates Greg Chappell on scoring a ton on captaincy debut 72.6 Aaron to Johnson , no run , short delivery , Johnson ducks under that 72.5 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , width was there , he reaches out and cuts to Ishant at deep point. Calls Johnson through for the quick single and they make it with ease 72.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 72.3 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , Smith - you legend ! Makes a ton on his captaincy debut. He gets there with a cut past point. It was short and wide and he cashed in. The Gabba stand up and applaud. Smith punches the air , removes his helmet and soaks in the applause. He hugs Johnson. Kissed his black armband too. What a knock under pressure ! Superb innings by the captain as he leads his side from the front . 72.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , short of length outside off , dabbed to point. A loud 'no ' from Smith 72.2 Aaron to Johnson , no ball , 1 run , Johnson takes on Aaron , makes room and slices the cut , Vijay from third man ran across and tried to catch it , but it would n't have mattered even as the ball landed short of him This should be fun. Aaron now round the wicket to Johnson 72.1 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , shuffles across and clips to deep square leg for a single. Wanted to come back for two , but Che is in quickly 71.6 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , presses forward and defends to short cover 71.5 Ashwin to Johnson , SIX , sees the tossed up delivery outside off and goes big over long-on. Clean lofted hit and it sails all the way. Johnson is hurting the Indians now 71.4 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , skidding on , Johnson prefers to go back and punches it to cover 71.3 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , now goes back to defend 71.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , pushed to cover off the back foot 71.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , comes down the track and works it past FSL , some confusion between the two , but they settle for a single. The throw was in quickly too 70.6 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , now an inside edge misses off and Dhoni dives to his left to save some runs. Aaron has his hands on his head. Smith pushed out and got lucky 70.5 Aaron to Johnson , 1 run , Umesh at mid-off makes a clumsy effort at fielding that ball and lets it go through his hands. Johnson flat-batted it straight to him and Umesh did n't get his body in the way of the ball. Single taken 70.4 Aaron to Johnson , no run , short and down leg , Johnson lets it go. Aaron gets a smile back from Johnson Now Mahendra Singh Dhoni goes up to Aaron to have a chat 70.3 Aaron to Johnson , FOUR , Johnson is taking on Aaron. Makes room and drills it wide of mid-on. Did n't time it as well as he would 've liked to. That 's three fours in a row. Johnson certainly seems in an inspired mood 70.2 Aaron to Johnson , FOUR , bullet ! Johnson makes room and then drills the full toss past the bowler. The ball flashed away to the fence. Johnson does n't realise that he has got to fifty , until Smith tells him so. The crowd roar in approval and he flashes a big smile 70.1 Aaron to Johnson , FOUR , Aaron is back with a full one outside off , width was there and Johnson reaches out to carve with an open face over point. The ball dribbles away into the fence. Not a good beginning for Aaron Varun Aaron [ 17.0-1-85-1 ] is back into the attack 69.6 Ashwin to Johnson , 1 run , worked past Rohit at mid-wicket , he chases , slides and keeps the batsmen to just a single. Johnson sent Smith back 69.5 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , tossed up outside off , Johnson sees it and then lets it go 69.4 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , slightly shortish outside off , punched in the air , but well in front of short cover 69.3 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , slower and on off , defended wide of slip , point runs across to keep the batsmen to a dot 69.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , floated up outside off , left alone 69.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , comes down the track and wrists it past the diving right-hand of Ashwin Coming back to the lbw shout against Smith by Ashwin - Smith got outside the line of off. Top decision from Gould as it was clipping the stumps 68.6 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , Umesh went for the yorker there , a low full toss and it has been punched straight to the fielder at mid-off Umesh loses his run-up. Has to rebowl that one 68.5 U Yadav to Johnson , FOUR , Johnson is all smiles ! He flashes a cut to a short and wide delivery outside off , poor delivery and Johnson latched on with a fierce shot. He has a chat with Smith and then a smile 68.4 U Yadav to Johnson , FOUR , now edged through where a third slip would 've been. Johnson was opened up by a short of length delivery on off , the back foot defensive produces a thick edge to the left of 2nd slip. A dolly it would 've been for third 68.3 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , pitched up outside off , Johnson reaches out to drive and completely mistimes it to mid-off. He lost his shape while playing the shot 68.2 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , gets back and mistimes the pull to mid-wicket , it hurried onto Johnson , that 's why he could n't time it 68.1 U Yadav to Johnson , FOUR , superb off-drive. It was n't a half-volley but Johnson leant forward and timed the shot past mid-off. The ball raced away 67.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Ashwin thinks that is out lbw. Gould though shakes his head. Smith misjudged the length and went back to defend an off-spinner. It turned back and rapped him on the pads. Was the impact outside off ? Or was it bouncing too much ? Replays will tell us. Hope we get one. Ashwin was certain and was shocked when it was n't given 67.5 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , Smith has brought up the 50-run stand with a delightful stroke. Uses his feet and drives between cover and mid-off. Got to the pitch and nailed the shot. Moves into the high 90s 67.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , stretches forward to block to cover 67.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , presses forward and defends to cover 67.2 Ashwin to Johnson , 1 run , worked past short leg for an easy single Now round the wicket. A slip and a short leg in place 67.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith uses his feet and drives it to long-on Ravichandran Ashwin [ 18.0-3-66-1 ] is back into the attack Kohli is leading the talk in the huddle. Matty Hayden thinks it should be MS who should be doing the talking , not Kohli. Anyway here is R Ashwin after the drinks break . Another drinks break. India have lost some momentum after Haddin 's wicket. They had the Aussies on the mat when Haddin got out , but Aaron seemingly injured his left shoulder and has gone off. From that point , Australia have cashed in on some loose stuff from Ishant . 66.6 U Yadav to S Smith , leg byes , 1 run , on the pads , Smith shuffles across and does n't meet the ball , off the pad and it 's a leg bye 66.5 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , pitched up on off , driven towards cover , another single taken 66.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , Smith plays a nice looking drive off the pads , wide of mid-on , only a single as the fielder dives to his right to save runs. Smith was disappointed at getting only a single with that shot 66.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , short and wide outside off , the extra bounce beats Smith on the cut 66.2 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , on the pads , flicked to deep square leg for a single 66.1 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , Umesh beats Johnson with a delivery that is angled across , the feet did n't go anywhere and he was beaten comprehensively 65.6 Ishant to S Smith , 2 runs , a gift on the pads , Smith flicks to deep backward square for another couple of runs 65.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith lays into a good looking square drive , but finds deep point The stand has rocketed to 38 off 30. Johnson doing all the scoring. The pressure has been released from the Aussies 65.4 Ishant to Johnson , 3 runs , shortish outside off , Johnson stands tall and punches through vacant point for three runs 65.3 Ishant to Johnson , no run , bouncer , much better line as it was on the stumps , Johnson ducks and lets it go Dhoni now walks up to Ishant to have a chat 65.3 Ishant to Johnson , no ball , FOUR , Ishant is losing it. He oversteps and bowls a short one outside off , Johnson knows the third man region is vacant. Upper cuts it down there , one bounce over the ropes 65.2 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , worked through mid-wicket and Johnson will be on strike now 65.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up on off , Smith drives through Ishant 's hands , mid-off is there to do the backing up 64.6 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , 137kph full delivery outside off , flew past the outside edge of Johnson who was pushing out. So close to the edge was Umesh that time 64.5 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , punched to the left of Umesh who dives and ca n't get there. Mid-on is there though 64.4 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , down leg and Johnson does n't have anything do with it 64.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , Rahane dives to his left at gully and makes a half-stop , keeping the late cut from Smith to just a single 64.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , Smith shuffles across and defends solidly back down the track 64.1 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , takes on the short ball and pulls to deep backward square leg. That short ball did n't have any oomph 63.6 Ishant to S Smith , 2 runs , pitched up on the legs , wasted ball that and Smith helps himself to a couple with a flick 63.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , beaten now ! Lovely delivery that from Ishant , angles it in and just about straightens to beat the outside edge. Smith was pushing forward to defend and was beaten. Smith nods his head acknowledging the delivery and says to Ishant - 'well bowled , well bowled'. Ishant with a stare nods his head 63.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , Smith opens the face of the bat and defends to gully. Good lengths again from Ishant as he pushed Smith deep into his crease 63.3 Ishant to Johnson , 1 run , not in control of the hook that time was Johnson. Just in front of Vijay at deep square leg. Good short delivery that - as it cramped Johnson for room , yet the batsman played the stroke and was lucky that he did n't hole out 63.2 Ishant to Johnson , FOUR , cracking pull. Takes it from outside off and then smashes it over mid-wicket. No-one there and that wil be the second successive boundary of the over. The Aussie crowd find their voices. Johnson will take on the short ball Now round the wicket. Two slips , a gully , a short cover point , short leg , two men for the hook/pull - one at deep backward square and one at deep square 63.1 Ishant to Johnson , FOUR , Johnson will hurt you if you do n't get it right. Harmless short delivery down leg , Johnson murdered the pull , beating deep backward square to his right. The fielder had no chance even though he was just metres away from the ball 63.1 Ishant to Johnson , no ball , 2 runs , Ishant oversteps and Johnson punches him through mid-off. Rohit chases from mid-on and keeps it to a couple Ishant Sharma [ 13.0-1-56-1 ] is back into the attack Aaron is going off the field. Ishant back on 62.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , that surprised Smith. He did n't expect the ball to jag back so sharply. It cut back in and went past his whip , struck him on the thigh 62.5 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , down leg , short , Johnson pulls it to Aaron at deep backward square , he fumbles , but they take only one. The Aussie crowds get on Aaron 's back after that fumble 62.4 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , Johnson was expecting another short delivery , the weight was on the back foot , instead it was a back of a length delivery on off , he adjusts and defends 62.3 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , pacy short delivery outside off , Johnson hooks and misses. Dhoni leaps to collect Umesh is coming from round the wicket now Johnson has been welcomed by chirps by the Indians. They are going after him. Rohit was seen telling him last over - 'how many wickets did you take on this ' ? 62.2 U Yadav to Johnson , 2 runs , tucked wide of mid-wicket and they took only a couple. Should 've been three 62.1 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , short and on the stumps , Johnson ducks under it 61.6 Aaron to Johnson , 1 run , has Aaron injured his left-shoulder ? He dived across to cut off the single and landed badly. He is grimacing in pain. Gets up very gingerly. Will keep an eye on him. Johnson takes the single and will be on strike next over 61.5 Aaron to Johnson , no run , short and down leg , Johnson wanted to pull that and then left it alone 61.5 Aaron to Johnson , no ball , third bouncer of the over and called a no-ball , Johnson ducks under that and lets it go 61.4 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , short and down leg , Smith swivels and mistimes the pull , wide of Dhoni and they take a quick single 61.3 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , almost a six ! Short outside off , Smith intentionally plays the upper cut , no-one at third man and one bounce over the ropes. Well played by Smith as he saw the width and played the shot 61.2 Aaron to Johnson , 3 runs , that was a good first delivery , aiming for the yorker was Aaron , did n't get it right , full on off , clipped through mid-wicket , they take three and Johnson gets off strike Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 61.1 Aaron to Haddin , out Caught by Pujara ! ! Aaron has struck. What a short delivery that is. Right at the head from round the wicket , Haddin was caught in no-man 's land , offered the bat as a shield in front of his face and fended out , it lobbed straight to Che at short leg. Aaron knew he had his man and roared in delight. That is a perfect set-up ! Haddin c Pujara b Aaron 6 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] Aaron to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! The Indians are again in a huddle. We are ready to go again after the drinks break . Drinks being taken now. The first 45 minutes has passed by so quickly. The Indians have been quite superb today. Constant pressure buildup with very little loose stuff on offer. They got Marsh too. Gripping Test match cricket going on and Australia have a battle on their hands to get closer to the Indian total . 60.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , Smith is n't happy with himself after a streaky little push , wanted to get it through cover , went off the inside half to mid-on. He taps his bat in frustration 60.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , third leave of the over and Smith judges that well 60.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , Umesh is lucky that Smith did n't cut the ball to the point fence. Timed straight to the fielder. It was very short and wide outside off 60.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , 137kph short of length on off , Smith shuffles across and defends 60.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , little shape away , Smith sees and then leaves 60.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , gentle loosener outside off , Smith lets it go Umesh Yadav [ 13.0-2-48-3 ] is back into the attack 59.6 Aaron to Haddin , no run , short and Haddin ducks under that to leave. Someone from behind shouts in Hindi - 'bahut badiya , bahut badiya' A leg slip in now for Aaron 59.5 Aaron to Haddin , FOUR , short of length on the hips , Haddin gets inside the line and clips it to the vacant fine leg fence. Nicely played Now round the wicket 59.4 Aaron to Haddin , no run , well outside off , Haddin shoulders arms 59.3 Aaron to Haddin , no run , nicely clipped off the pads , but straight to the fielder at backward square leg 59.2 Aaron to Haddin , no run , shuffles across and then defends solidly 59.1 Aaron to Haddin , no run , dug in short , Haddin ducks Comical dive from Che as he went for the catch. He just dived to his right , stretching his arms out. Then had to get up and see where the ball went 58.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone 58.6 Ishant to S Smith , no ball , 2 runs , Ishant oversteps and Smith pulls over Che at square leg , they take a couple of runs 58.5 Ishant to Haddin , leg byes , 1 run , down leg and it rushes off the pad , behind the stumps , Haddin wants a quick single and Smith responds. Good backing up too 58.4 Ishant to Haddin , no run , that is a very close lbw shout. Ishant thinks he has had Haddin. Erasmus again says no. Wide of the crease and angled in , fuller on middle and leg , Haddin misses the flick and with the angle it would 've been going down. Top decision from Erasmus. Ishant has a word or two with Haddin who was down the wicket , doing some gardening 58.3 Ishant to Haddin , no run , Ishant goes up for an lbw appeal but Erasmus is n't moved. There was an inside edge onto the pads which saved Haddin. It nipped back in again and Haddin was caught on the push , tentatively played 58.2 Ishant to Haddin , 2 runs , nips back in and causes Haddin some trouble , off the thickish inside edge past short leg Short leg in too now 58.1 Ishant to Haddin , no run , Ishant makes Haddin come forward , defended to point 57.6 Aaron to S Smith , no run , angled across , Smith leaves and Dhoni collects 57.5 Aaron to S Smith , no run , banged in short , Smith is on the swivel and ca n't time the pull , straight to mid-wicket Aaron is coming from round the wicket now 57.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , full outside off , Smith presses forward and solidly defends to cover 57.3 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , short of length outside off , width to play the back foot punch , Smith opens the face of the bat slightly and punches through gully. The vacant third man fence is found 57.3 Aaron to S Smith , no ball , Aaron oversteps , full on off , Smith defends to cover 57.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , another tempter outside off , Smith resists for now Marsh was shuffling across and then did n't even get the pad in line. Perhaps he was expecting it to bounce much more than what it did 57.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith leaves Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 56.6 Ishant to M Marsh , out Bowled ! ! Ishant has taken out Marsh. They are checking for the no-ball , but Ishant is fine. Bad leave from Marsh as he shoulders arms to a vicious indipper , the ball was delivered from wide of the crease and angled in to hit off. Marsh looks shell-shocked and looks at the pitch before leaving. Ishant roars in delight. Has a few choice words for the batsman too. M Marsh b Ishant 11 ( 34 ) [ 4s-1 ] Ishant to M Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 56.5 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , worked off the hips , Pujara goes to his right at mid-wicket to cut it off 56.4 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , called two for the over , very high short delivery and Dhoni has to leap to collect. Marsh ducked under that 56.3 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , Marsh moves across to off and then pushes it off the back foot to mid-on 56.2 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , shuffles across to off and defends solidly to mid-off 56.1 Ishant to M Marsh , no run , short one , very high too , Marsh lets it go easily Aaron again hit speeds in the mid 140s that over. Also the lengths were much better. Seems to be in good rhythm today 55.6 Aaron to M Marsh , 1 run , Aaron has his hands on his hips after he produced a streaky shot from Marsh. The ball was full and on off , Marsh was looking to drive a lot straighter , maybe even looking at mid-on , the ball rushes onto him and takes the outside half of the bat wide of mid-off 55.5 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , 144kph full delivery outside off , Smith presses it wide of cover for an easy single 55.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , this one bounced a tad extra , Smith though handled it well , dropping it down with soft hands 55.3 Aaron to M Marsh , 3 runs , shuffles across a tad and works it well between mid-wicket and mid-on. Umesh gives chase and the batsmen take three 55.2 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , short of length at 145kph on the stumps , Smith works it off his hips to fine leg , wants two , but Ishant is in quickly 55.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , down leg , that 's a waste Someone from behind the stumps with this - 'great over buddy , great over ' after Ishant finished his final delivery 54.6 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , pitched up on off with a bit of angle , Smith gets a thick inside edge on the push , the ball rushes to deep backward square leg. Smith will retain strike 54.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , Smith is on the walk , misses a middle and leg delivery , the ball hits him high on the pad and falls near his feet. Looked awkward that time while playing 54.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , dug in short , towards his head , but Smith half ducks and then lets it go 54.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shuffles across to cover off stump and then defends to mid-off 54.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fuller length outside off , no real movement that time , left alone 54.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , wide of the crease and angled in , bit of extra bounce , but Smith lifts his bat and lets it go Aaron hit good speeds in that over. Also there were no freebies or boundary balls. An over which should set the tone for him today 53.6 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , Marsh this time goes back and defends with an open face to gully 53.5 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , 145kph and pacy from Aaron , angles it in and beats Marsh on the outside edge. Marsh was trying to defend off the back foot , but the ball squirmed past the bat 53.4 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , short of length outside off , Marsh shoulders arms. Carried well to Dhoni Three slips and a gully in place for Aaron 53.3 Aaron to M Marsh , no run , good short delivery at 139kph , dug in short , Marsh just sways out of the line by arching his back 53.2 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , pitched up on off , Smith gets forward to defend and the ball runs off the thickish outside half of the bat into the gap at cover , single taken 53.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , short of length on middle , tucked to square leg , straight to the fielder Varun Aaron [ 12.0-1-59-0 ] is back into the attack 52.6 Ishant to S Smith , 3 runs , Smith just leant on that and eased the drive into the gap at cover. Two men were chasing and Rohit gets there first. They take three easily. Nice way to begin the day for Smith 52.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up on off and middle , wristed firmly to mid-on 52.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , in a good area , Smith sees that and then lets it go 52.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , angling in , on off , Smith shuffles across a tad and works it to short mid-wicket 52.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , this one nips back in , but not enough to hit off , so Smith can shoulder arms wth ease 52.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone. Nice carry through to Dhoni The Indians are in a huddle. While the Aussies batsmen are in the middle. Matty Hayden reckons he would never go out before the fielding team. MS Dhoni is the man leading the talk. Everyone else listen in intently. They break out of the huddle with purpose. Smith will take strike against Ishant. After cloudy conditions yesterday , back to baking hot is Brisbane. The Indians will definitely feel the heat. Let 's go.. . Time to close this segment. Ashwin conceded in the press conference yesterday that he will throw the ball up and fancy getting Smith early on day 3. If you are looking for battles within a battle , do n't miss out on Ashwin v Smith . 'Umesh was fast and bowled in decent areas , but in patches. There was an occasion or two where he bowled a loosener but came back strongly with good deliveries directed at the batsman 's body. The manner in which he got Warner out was a fine example of what pace can do. During his spell , Yadav also clocked the fastest delivery of the match. Doing so , he outpaced the likes of Mitchell Johnson and Mitchell Starc ' writes Sahil Malhotra for the Indian Express 'Leading the way , as he did in this one-off match , Kohli gave a peek into what his full-time captaincy could be like. Take , for example , his team selection. Kohli looked beyond R. Ashwin or Ravindra Jadeja , both of whom have toured South Africa , New Zealand and England this past year. He chose a debutant leg-spinner on a drop-in pitch , then backed him with whatever field placements he wanted. Even though it was Karn Sharma 's first Test , Kohli saw him as a wicket-taker. Dhoni , by his own admission , prefers his spinners in a holding role in overseas Test cricket.' He writes , 'India may have lost by 48 runs on day 5 , a tense chase of a 360-plus target , but they won hearts. It was almost as if a reset button had been hit , the usual defensive/safety-first approach of the Indian team given the go-by. Dhoni , practical man that he is , might have settled for a draw when only the tail-enders were left to bat on day 5. Kohli pushed on for victory until he found defeat.' Chetan Narula 's piece for the live mint wears the headline 'Follow the leader' 'The catch brought back memories of fellow Queenslanders Ryan Broad , Peter Cantrell and Chris Sabburg also taking smart catches as Test fill-ins at the Gabba.' He says , 'Marnus Labuschagne continued the exotic tradition of substitute fieldsman having a moment to cherish with a spectacular catch at the Gabba when he dived forward at short leg to catch Umesh Yadav with his outstretched right hand centimetres above the turf off Nathan Lyon 's bowling.' Robert Craddock , writing for the Courier Mail , explores the Test fill-ins at the Gabba . 'The match lies in the balance , and on Friday morning is in one man 's hands. Captain Steve Smith can tip it Australia 's way , his early wicket towards India.' 'After Shane Watson 's standard one-hour cameo , Rogers succumbed to Yadav 's three-card trick : two bouncers , then a brush from his hip to wicket-keeper Dhoni. Yadav exploited the bounce again for his third wicket , doubly earned , when Shaun Marsh survived a skied pull shot and dropped catch , but in the next over played a cut high to second slip.' The veteran associate editor writes , 'Josh Hazlewood led Australia 's rejuvenated line. He also worked to a plan , fast bowling 's oldest. Bouncers excite crowds and commentators , full deliveries excite wicket-keepers and slips. A smart fast bowler campaigns by using one to give effect to the other. The first four wickets on Thursday were to swinging balls and catches in the cordon. Hazlewood 's control of the ball and the moment was impressive. More than any other bowler , including Mitch Johnson , he was able to complement one good ball with another immediately.' Greg Baum 's special for the Age has the headline 'Attacking play means ball and batsmen cop a beating in second Test' As always , let us have a gander at the newspapers first-up . Smith will look to carry on and close in on the deficit. On the other hand , India will seek to make early inroads today and wrap up the Aussie innings quickly to reach a strong position from where they could dictate terms. Good morning and welcome to day 3 of the second Test at the Gabba . The storms stayed away at Brisbane as Steve Smith held up India 's charge at the Gabba. After being reduced to 121/3 , Australia recuperated to 221/4 at stumps on day 2. They have scored at a brisk clip too. R Ashwin and Umesh Yadav were impressive , while Ishant stretched back to the straggler . Smith will be the key for Australia. Can he endorse his succession into Clarke 's shoes and put the hosts back on track ? Do come back and join us tomorrow to find out. Until then , take care and cheerio ! The day began with the Aussie bowlers chipping away at the wickets and in the process , Hazlewood took a 5-fer on Test debut. The positive 57-run stand between Ashwin and Dhoni helped India past the psychological 400-mark . Rogers , who is under a bit of pressure with Cowan recently scoring twin tons in the Sheffield Shield , proceeded to score his first fifty in eight innings. However , he endured a tame dismissal soon after , getting strangled down leg at the stroke of tea. The new man - Mitch Marsh has not looked all that comfortable in the middle either. As it stands , India are ahead in the Test and Australia still trail by 187 runs . The umpires call off play for the day. That is that - stumps on day 2. The two bowlers , who were ignored for the Adelaide Test , made a statement of sorts , sharing four wickets between them. Early on Ishant Sharma came in for punishment from the flailing blade of David Warner , before the opener was out for 29 . Ashwin has got turn and bounce to vindicate his inclusion in the XI at the expense of Karn. Steve Smith has stood up to be counted , adding another fifty to his growing treasure chest. Though Umesh 's lines have not been accurate , he has steamed in to hustle the opposition . The light is fading. Dhoni , the umpires and the batsmen , have a chat. Play has been suspended for the moment because of bad light. The Indians huddle up before they disperse off the field. Kohli and Dhawan have a chat with smiles on their faces. As usual , Dhoni is stoic . 51.6 Ashwin to M Marsh , no run , slower through the air on middle , defended back to Ashwin Three men round the bat . 51.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , straighter in line , whipped away to deep mid-wicket 51.4 Ashwin to M Marsh , 1 run , fired on the pads , Marsh stays back and works it past short leg towards backward square leg 51.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , flighted and fuller on off , eased down to long-on for a comfortable single 51.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , drifting onto the pads , Smith leans across , flicks and finds the man at mid-wicket again 51.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed through on off , a bit shortish and that is punched to mid-wicket 50.6 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , pitched up and wide outside off , Marsh does not bother with it 50.5 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , short of length and on the fourth stump , blocked back to the bowler 50.4 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , back of a length and on off , Marsh goes back and across as he defends it to short mid-wicket 50.3 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , Marsh nearly nicked off ! Good length ball in the channel of uncertainty , Marsh has an iffy push at it , the ball just zips past the outside edge of the bat 50.2 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , back of a length and outside off , this one is an easier leave for Marsh 50.1 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , fuller and close to the off-stump , brave leave from Mitch Marsh 49.6 Ashwin to M Marsh , 1 run , flicked to deep mid-wicket for a single 49.5 Ashwin to M Marsh , no run , Ashwin goes round the stumps. Ashwin drags his length back , punched back to the bowler 49.4 Ashwin to M Marsh , no run , Ashwin gives this more air , Marsh gets forward and defends it back to the bowler 49.3 Ashwin to M Marsh , no run , Marsh leans back and defends it 49.2 Ashwin to M Marsh , no run , pushed through quicker , Marsh blocks it 49.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 3 runs , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Smith uses his feet and wrists it past square leg. He sprints back for the second as well. Meanwhile , the throw from Umesh in the deep is off-radar , Aaron was backing up , but missed it as well , gifting an extra via an overthrow 48.6 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , pitched up and outside off , left alone. Good carry to Dhoni and that rounds off a tight maiden over 48.5 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , short of length and outside off , Marsh employs soft hands and dabs it towards gully. Umesh is hitting the deck hard 48.4 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , shortish again , hurries on off , Marsh stays back and punches it to mid-wicket 48.3 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , dug in short and moving down leg , Marsh is content to duck under it again 48.2 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , shortish and outside leg , Marsh gets inside the line and lets it go to Mahendra Singh Dhoni 48.1 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , bouncer to kick off things after the break , Marsh sinks under it safely Drinks. Rahane will be a relieved man. Ashwin made amends for Rahane 's mistake , taking a good overhead catch at slip to end Shaun Marsh 's innings , which was a mixed bag. Steve Smith though has been in the zone , executing some lovely shots. Interestingly , two bowlers , who did not play in Adelaide , have shared the 4 wickets to fall , between them . 47.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker on middle , keeps low as well , Smith puts his bat in front of the pad and keeps it out. 'Nice bowling ' chirps Dhoni from behind the stumps 47.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slides on with the arm just a shade outside off , Smith is beaten on the cut. That was not far away from the off pole 47.4 Ashwin to M Marsh , 1 run , much fuller on the stumps , Marsh comes down the track and drives it to long-on. Only a single 47.3 Ashwin to M Marsh , FOUR , edged and wide of slip. This was looped up , slower through the air , Marsh prods at it with no feet movement , the outside edge pops wide of slip and runs away to the fence A silly-point swoops in . 47.2 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , drifting onto the pads , Smith finds the gap , clipping it to deep mid-wicket 47.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up , fuller on middle , tucked away to mid-wicket 46.6 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , Yadav greets Marsh with a bouncer on the leg stump , ducked under Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease One Marsh replaces another. Mitch Marsh has been ruled out of bowling because of a hamstring problem. Can he bat without much discomfort ? 46.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , out Caught by Ashwin ! ! The drop costs India no run. Rahane owes Ash a drink tonight. This was also shortish and outside off , Marsh pushes at it , instead of leaving it alone. The ball catches the outside edge and flies through to Ashwin at first slip , who leaps up and snags a sharp catch. S Marsh c Ashwin b U Yadav 32 ( 70 ) [ 4s-5 ] U Yadav to S Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 46.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , short of length again - this one is down leg. Marsh half-ducks and evades it 46.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , wide , banged in short and outside off , Marsh gets out of the way. And that 's wided by the umpire 46.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , shortish and on off , Marsh loads up for a pull , Che at short leg takes it flush on his knee. He is just stoic - no signs of pain 46.2 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , short of length and on the stumps , Smith swivels on the back foot and pulls it to deep square leg 46.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , dragged short and down leg , Smith sinks under it Umesh Yadav [ 10.0-0-46-2 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , straying on the leg stump , Smith works it past a diving leg gully , the ball runs backward of square leg 45.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , hangs in the air just a little more , Smith adjusts and defends it back to Ashwin 45.4 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , another beautiful shot from Smith. Ashwin gives this more air , Smith charges down the track and drives it between extra cover and mid-off , the ball just flowed to the fence 45.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flatter and fuller on off , defended 45.2 Ashwin to S Smith , 2 runs , Smith uses his feet and plays a wristy drive to long-on for a couple of runs 45.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed through on off , defended to silly-point 44.6 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , the short ball nearly did the trick , but Rahane fluffs a catch. Banged in short and hurries on off , Marsh sets up for a pull. He does not get hold of it. Only manages a top-edge that swirls in the air. Rahane runs back and across from short fine , calls for it. But ca n't hang on. The ball burst out of his palms. How much will it cost India ? In hindsight , Dhoni with those big gloves might have called for the catch 44.5 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , 144kph , short of length ball outside off , Marsh drops his wrists and yanks his head out of the way 44.4 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , short of length and just outside off at 145kph , Marsh fends it back to the bowler 44.3 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , shortish and on the hips at 144kph. Good pace but poor lines as Smith helps it down to fine leg 44.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , 144kph , fraction back of a length and on off , Smith stays back and pushes it to mid-on 44.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , 139 kph bouncer , whizzes over Steve Smith. The batsman initially looked to hook that , but belatedly bailed out of the shot 43.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , sharp turn and extra bounce outside off , Marsh shackles himself from sparring at it 43.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , straighter one on middle , blocked in front of silly point 43.4 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , fifty for Steve Smith. He becomes the first Aussie since Greg Chappell to score a 50 + score on captaincy debut. Ashwin drags his length back , Smith hangs back and works it behind square leg 43.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , floated up on off , Smith comes down the track again , gets an inside edge onto the pad. The ball rebounds wide of silly-point 43.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , fired flatter on the stumps , Smith uses his feet and drives it back at the bowler 43.1 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , short and wide outside off , real hit-me ball , Smith moves deep in the crease and cuts it behind point , the ball runs away to the third man fence. Dhoni was not a happy man , yelling 'nahi nahi' 42.6 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , shortish and hurries on off at 142kph , Marsh hops up and drops it on to the off-side. Aaron peppered Marsh with an assortment of short balls , but the latter handled it quite well 42.5 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , Aaron is getting carried away with the bouncer. This one is down leg , Marsh sways away from this one 42.4 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , bouncer outside off , Marsh arches his back and evades 42.3 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , another bumpy delivery sails through to the keeper after Marsh ducks again 42.2 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , banged in short and climbs over the stumps , Marsh ducks under it 42.1 Aaron to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and on off , Smith stays back and works it towards square leg. The fielder throws the stumps down at the bowler 's end but the Aussie skipper was well in 41.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , FOUR , drifts onto the pads , glanced fine. Aaron slides in the deep rather awkwardly , but his leg was in contact with the ad skirting , this means a four 41.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , Ashwin raps Marsh on the pad , but the umpire shoots down the lbw appeal. Marsh was on the move as he was down the track , he missed the flick and wore it on his pad. Perhaps , the ball was going down. Anyway , Marsh lives on 41.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , straight roller on off and middle at 92kph , dead-batted by Marsh 41.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , full on off , Smith jumps out of his crease and drives it firmly to long-on 41.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , turning away around off , slower through the air , dabbed towards third man with soft hands 41.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed through quicker on middle at 91kph , poked out in front of silly-point 40.6 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , fab shot ! The ball just whistled away to the fence. Full and outside off , Smith leans forward and caresses a drive past cover. Looks like captain Smith has taken charge of Australia 's reply 40.5 Aaron to S Smith , no run , very full and on off , Smith drills a drive and finds mid-on. He could have placed that better 40.4 Aaron to S Smith , no run , pitched up and around off , Smith pushes it towards cover with an open face 40.3 Aaron to S Smith , no run , back of a length and on off , Smith camps on the back foot and punches it to cover 40.2 Aaron to S Marsh , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Marsh dabs it with soft hands in front of point. Quick single pinched 40.1 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , down leg from round the wicket , ignored 39.6 Ashwin to S Smith , SIX , an encore from Smith ! He charges down the track again , meets the pitch of the ball and lifts it over vacant mid-on for another six. Positive intent from the hosts right after drinks 39.5 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , a bit shorter and wider outside off , Smith goes for a cut , gets a thick top-edge wide of slip. Streaky , but four 39.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , fuller and on off , Smith stays in his crease and presses it to cover 39.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flatter and on off , S Smith uses his feet and pushes it to cover 39.2 Ashwin to S Smith , SIX , bang ! Ashwin gives this more air , S Smith dances down the track and lofts it cleanly over long-on. Almost a crowd catch 39.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed through on off , Smith hangs back and works it to short leg , where Che dives and flicks the ball back to Ashwin Drinks are on the field now. Australia have managed to keep up with their scoring rate in the previous session. They have motored along nicely and the Indian bowlers have really not troubled the batsmen. Ashwin is getting some turn and bounce on this wicket. He should be very handy in the final innings , but for now , the Aussies are playing him well . 38.6 Aaron to S Marsh , no run , this time he gets his line right as it was around the off stump , Marsh blocks it to the right of the bowler 38.5 Aaron to S Marsh , 2 runs , too straight again , Marsh tucks it away behind square on the on-side off his pads , the batsmen put pressure on the fielder and come back for a couple 38.4 Aaron to S Marsh , FOUR , fullish delivery around off , Marsh drives it past a diving mid-off for another four , Ishant was the fielder at mid-off who dived but could n't stop the ball 38.3 Aaron to S Smith , leg byes , 1 run , on the pads this time , Smith fails to nurdle it fine , the ball clips the pad and rolls away behind square , the batsmen run through for a leg bye 38.2 Aaron to S Smith , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , the ball shaped in a touch as well , Smith blocks it into the off-side off the inside half of the bat Two slips and a gully in place 38.1 Aaron to S Smith , no run , fullish delivery with a hint of movement in towards the batsman , Smith moves across and blocks it back to the bowler Varun Aaron [ 8.0-1-46-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , floated up on off , Marsh presses forward and defends it 37.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , loopy delivery on off , Marsh gives the charge and eases it towards mid-on 37.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slows this one on off , Marsh had to wait for the ball to arrive , he blocks it into the off-side from the crease 37.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , tossed up on off , Marsh comes on the front foot and blocks 37.2 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , shuffles across a touch and works it to deep mid-wicket to get to the other end 37.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , gives the charge but was n't upto the pitch of the ball , he dabs it towards backward point 36.6 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , full and outside off , the ball swung in after going past the batsman , who was shouldering arms to this one as well , Dhoni collects it 36.5 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Marsh shoulders arms after covering the line of his stumps 36.4 Ishant to S Marsh , FOUR , fullish and angling into the pads yet again , Marsh eases it past mid-on for another boundary , great shot from him and the timing on that one was sweet as well 36.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , bowls this one around off , Marsh shuffles across his off stump and bunts it back to the bowler 36.2 Ishant to S Marsh , FOUR , touch fullish on middle stump line , Marsh flicks it to the deep mid-wicket fence , it was a little uppish but he hit it in the gap 36.1 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , back of a length around middle , Marsh moves across a touch and turns it into the on-side Looks like the Indians will continue from round the wicket to the left-handers 35.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , comes down the track and whips it towards mid-wicket for no run 35.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , straying on the legs again , Marsh works it behind square on the on-side , the batsmen take a quick single 35.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted delivery around off , Marsh taps it into the off-side 35.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , leans forward and blocks this tossed up delivery on off 35.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , floated up on off , Marsh pushes at it off the front foot , the ball hit the top half of the bat and rolled away into the off-side 35.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed through on the leg , Marsh tucks it away to backward square leg 34.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , on a good length and shapes in a touch from outside off , Smith does n't offer a shot yet again 34.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , another one that 's full and outside off , Smith is not tempted to play at it and lets it go 34.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fullish and outside off , Smith shoulders arms 34.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back over the wicket now , it was touch fullish and shapes in from outside off , Smith leaves as the ball was never coming back enough to hit the stumps 34.2 Ishant to S Marsh , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Marsh moves across a touch and eases it in front of mid-on , the batsmen take a single 34.1 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Marsh turns it into the on-side off the back foot Comes round the wicket 33.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 2 runs , touch flatter outside off , Smith goes deep in the crease and punches it past backward point for a brace , Dhoni was n't too happy with the delivery as well , he said , 'No , no Ash ' after Ashwin bowled that ball 33.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , floated up just around off , Smith lunges forward in defence 33.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , steps out of the crease and whips this flighted delivery to mid-wicket 33.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on the off stump , Smith leans forward and defends it 33.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , floated up on off , Smith goes deep in the crease and blocks 33.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , gives the charge and blocks this slowish delivery back to the bowler 32.6 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , another one on the pads , Marsh works it straight to the man at square leg 32.5 Ishant to S Marsh , 2 runs , back of a length delivery on the pads , Marsh stays on the back foot and tucks it away to backward square leg for a brace 32.4 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , fullish delivery angled across off , Marsh leaves this time 32.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , too straight from Ishant this time , Marsh moves across a touch and turns it away to square leg There is a slight delay as there is some issue with the cameraman behind the bowler Three slips and a gully in place for Ishant 32.2 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , length delivery around the off stump , Marsh covers the stumps and defends 32.1 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , how far is it from the stumps ? It was a little wide outside off , Smith moves across and looks to bunt it through the off-side , the ball rolls past the stumps after taking the inside edge and dribbles away to fine leg Ishant Sharma [ 6.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , again gives the charge and takes it on the full , he drives it straight towards mid-off and hence , he ca n't go through with the single , Marsh would feel that he missed out on a scoring opportunity there 31.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , tossed up , Marsh steps out and drives it back towards the bowler 31.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , takes a step forward and looks to tuck it away on the on-side , he gets an inside edge onto the pad , he is lucky that the ball was wide of the FSL fielder as it was in the air for some time 31.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted delivery this time , Marsh blocks off the front foot 31.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , tossed up on off , Marsh pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away towards FSL 31.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed through on the legs , Marsh tucks it away towards short fine leg and sets off for a single , he has to go back as Smith was n't interested 30.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , another punch off the back foot from Smith , but this time he finds the fielder at point 30.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , strays on the pads this time , Marsh tucks it away to fine leg and gets off strike Comes round the wicket now 30.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , bowls this one on off and middle , Marsh stays on the back foot and just gently turns it into the on-side 30.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Marsh blocks 30.2 U Yadav to S Smith , 3 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith waits for it on the back foot and punches it through the cover region for another three runs , the boundaries square of the wicket are longer than the ones straighter 30.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , edged but short of the second slip , it was touch back of a length and on off , Smith pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and bounces in front of the diving second slip 29.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , touch flatter and on the stumps , Smith stays back and flicks it uppishly past the FSL fielder , the batsmen take a single as the ball dribbles away towards backward square leg 29.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith leans forward and blocks 29.4 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , down leg this time , Smith goes down on one knee and sweeps it past the leg slip fielder , who could n't stop the ball , the ball races away to the fence 29.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , driven down to mid-on and the batsmen ca n't take a single as the ball quickly reached the fielder 29.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Smith walks forward and eases it towards mid-on 29.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , steps out of the crease but was not upto the pitch of the ball , he ends up blocking it into the off-side 28.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Marsh covers the stumps and blocks it back to the bowler 28.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Marsh stands tall in the crease and defends it 28.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , fullish and angled across off , Marsh shoulders arms and lets it go through to the keeper 28.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , length delivery just around the off stump , Marsh moves across a touch and blocks it with a straight bat 28.2 U Yadav to S Smith , 3 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Smith stays on the back foot and punches it towards deep extra cover , the ball is stopped before it reaches the fence , but the batsmen had ample time to take three 28.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , length delivery shaping a touch towards off and middle , Smith blocks 27.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , fullish on middle , Marsh digs it out back towards the bowler 27.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , FOUR , floated up , Marsh gives the charge and drives it wide of mid-off , the ball races away to the fence , there was no stopping that ball 27.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , spins away outside off , Marsh leaves 27.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , stays back in the crease and blocks this one 27.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , a loud appeal from the Indians , but the umpire turns it down , it was a slider on off and middle , the ball hit the pad after taking an inside edge , hence the umpire turned it down 27.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , good delivery from Ashwin , it was tossed up outside off and spun away from the batsman , Marsh pushes at it , the ball spins past the outside edge and goes through to Dhoni 26.6 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , short delivery from Umesh this time , Smith moves across and pulls it past mid-wicket for a brace , he rolled his wrists to send the ball along the turf 26.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , touch back of a length around off , Smith shuffles across and turns it into the on-side 26.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fullish with a hint of inward movement on off , Smith drives it to mid-off 26.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Smith drives it towards cover-point off the front foot , Rohit dives to his right and stops the ball , saved some runs for his team there 26.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fullish and tailing back in on off , Smith gets behind the line and blocks 26.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , straighter in line and Marsh pushes at it , the ball squirts off the inside half of the bat and rolls away towards backward square leg 25.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith prods forward and blocks 25.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , comes down the track and whips it straight towards short mid-wicket , Smith has to rush back into the crease as the fielder throws the ball at the striker 's end very quickly 25.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , pushed at this one on the stumps , the ball rolls away backward of square , the batsmen run through for a single 25.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted delivery that turns away on off , Marsh blocks from the crease 25.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , floated up just outside off , Marsh leans forward and blocks to silly point 25.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , tossed up around off , Marsh gently drives it towards cover Ashwin will continue from the other end 24.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , bunts this one down in front of cover , he sets off for a quick run and gets off the mark comfortably The players are making their way out to the middle. Umesh Yadav will bowl the last delivery of his over first up. Shaun Marsh is the man on strike . Welcome back. India has managed to take three wickets , but Australia have been scoring at just below 5 runs an over. For them to put the brakes on the scoring , it will be important that they keep bowling in the right areas. It has become cloudy as well and it should stay a little cooler while the Indians are out in the field for the last session today . With the top three back in the hut , India will look to capitalise on the advantage. Currently , the Australian captain Smith is at the crease and he will look to build partnerships with the middle order. Can Smith come up with another fighting knock like he did in the first Test ? We will find out after tea. Post-tea session will come to you in a short while. Stay tuned . Tea , Day 2 : India will be the happier side going into tea. They managed to pick the wicket of the set batsman Rogers just before the interval. Australia started off brightly with Warner at his usual best , scoring quick runs at the start. Warner 's downfall came off a delivery that was n't so good , but he was a little too early into the shot and paid the price for it. After that , Watson and Rogers stabilised the innings for sometime before Watson had a brainfade and hit one straight to mid-on . 24.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Looks like the plan from round the wicket has worked. Rogers is a goner just at the stroke of tea. It was a short of length delivery on the pads , Rogers was looking to tickle it fine , he gets it off his gloves , Dhoni moves down leg and swallows it with ease. The delivery did n't deserve a wicket , but the Indians wo n't mind it at all. Chris Rogers c Dhoni b U Yadav 55 ( 79 ) [ 4s-10 ] U Yadav to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 24.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , another bumper , Rogers sits under it 24.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , wide , bangs this one short and down leg , it was too high , the umpire calls it a wide as Rogers ducks under it , Umesh fell as well in his followthrough Umesh Yadav has been bowling this over around the wicket. Is it another plan for Rogers ? 24.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Smith shuffles across and flicks it towards backward square leg for another run 24.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , tailing back in on off and middle , Smith gets behind the line and blocks it back towards the bowler 24.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , touch back of a length and outside off , Rogers punches it square of the wicket , Ishant at cover-point puts in the dive , but ca n't stop the ball , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down Last over before tea coming up 23.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith prods forward and smothers the spin 23.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery around off , Smith stays back in the crease and blocks it with a straight bat 23.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , again gives the charge and whips it towards mid-wicket , Smith was looking for a single there but the ball went too quickly towards the fielder 23.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , steps out of the crease and bunts it towards short mid-wicket 23.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , bowls this one down leg , Smith has nothing to do with it A leg slip in now in place as well 23.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , touch flatter on the stumps , Smith stays back and turns it into the on-side 22.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish delivery on off , Rogers leans forward and drives it past a diving short cover , who could n't stop the ball completely , but the batsmen could n't take a single as the ball dribbled away towards mid-off 22.5 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , almost a yorker from Umesh , it was tailing back in as well , Smith went across way too much and had to jam it out , the ball rolls away towards backward square leg and the batsmen take a single 22.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , a little wide outside off this time , Smith covers the stumps and shoulders arms 22.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fullish delivery just around off , Smith gets behind the line and defends it 22.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , in the channel outside off , Smith was looking to work it into the on-side as he shuffled across , he was too early into the shot , the ball takes a soft leading edge and rolls away into the off-side 22.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , touch fullish and shapes back in from just outside off , Smith covers the stumps and blocks it to the right of the bowler Umesh Yadav [ 5.0-0-29-1 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up on off , Rogers looks to drive , the ball squirts off the inside edge and rolls away into the on-side 21.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , goes deep in the crease and taps it towards point 21.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , FOUR , touch shortish this time , Rogers hangs back and cuts it towards the third man fence , he also brings up his 6th Test fifty with this boundary 21.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , floated up on off , the ball bounced a touch extra and spun away from Rogers , who was pushing at it , the ball beats the outside edge and Dhoni collects 21.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , lunges forward in defence to this flighted delivery on off 21.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , touch shortish but not that far away from the batsman , Rogers goes for the cut , but ends up chopping it towards the slip fielder , where Kohli dives and prevents the batsmen from taking a run 20.6 Aaron to S Smith , no run , fullish delivery just around off , Smith moves across and bunts it into the on-side 20.5 Aaron to S Smith , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Smith hooks it fine and gets four for his shot , he rolled his wrists over it to send it along the ground , the fielder in the deep was square and could n't have made it in time to stop the ball 20.4 Aaron to Chris Rogers , 1 run , on off and middle , Rogers tucks it behind square on the on-side and gets to the other end 20.3 Aaron to Chris Rogers , FOUR , straying on the pads this time , Rogers tickles it fine , Dhoni also dives to his right , but ca n't stop the ball , the ball runs away to the fine leg fence and Rogers picks up another four 20.2 Aaron to Chris Rogers , FOUR , great shot from Rogers , it was on a good length and just around off , Rogers comes on the front foot and drives it past the diving bowler , the ball races away to the fence It has certainly become a little cloudy at Brisbane. Remember , there is a forecast for showers late in the afternoon 20.1 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Rogers drives it to mid-off 19.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith was committed on coming on the front foot to this very full delivery , he ends up converting it into a yorker and jams it out into the on-side 19.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slows this one outside off , Smith comes on the front foot and blocks it into the off-side Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.4 Ashwin to Watson , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! Watson perishes as he hits this one straight towards mid-on , where Dhawan takes a good catch. It was a tossed up delivery , Watson steps out of the crease and goes for the lofted on-drive , he ca n't get the elevation and ends up hitting it towards mid-on , where Dhawan dives in front and takes a fine low catch. He twirls his moustache after taking the catch. The Indians are delighted and Ashwin picks his first wicket on the tour. Watson c Dhawan b Ashwin 25 ( 29 ) [ 4s-4 ] Ashwin to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , goes deep in the crease and knocks it towards short mid-wicket 19.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Watson pushes at it off the front foot , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls back over the pitch 19.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , floated up on off , Watson lunges forward and dead-bats it There seems to be a problem with the ball. The umpires check for the right one and hand it over to the Indians . The batsmen take a small break in the middle. Perhaps , a little fluid to replenish their water level in the energy sapping heat of Brisbane . 18.6 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Rogers stays on the back foot and turns it into the on-side 18.5 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , great delivery from Aaron , it was bowled at 145.6kph , the ball shaped away as Rogers was looking to push at it and beats the outside edge , he probably got beaten because of the pace and the fact that there was no feet movement from the batsman there 18.5 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no ball , FOUR , too short and wide from Aaron , he oversteps as well , Rogers ' eyes lit up seeing the width , he flashes hard at it , the ball goes over the gully fielder and crashes into the fence 18.4 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , on middle and leg this time , Rogers stays on the back foot and turns it towards square leg 18.3 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , touch fuller this time and outside off , Rogers mistimes the drive towards mid-off 18.2 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length delivery angled on off , Rogers gets behind the line and defends it into the on-side 18.1 Aaron to Watson , 1 run , a quick single there from the batsmen , it was in the channel around off , Watson stays rooted to the crease and blocks it into the off-side , the batsmen go through for a quick run as there was no fielder close by 17.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , slowish delivery on off , Rogers lunges forward and dead-bats it 17.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , too full from Ashwin , Rogers gently drives it towards the cover region 17.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up on off , Rogers leans forward and drives it to cover 17.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Rogers leaves it alone 17.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , slowish outside off , Rogers looks to cut but ca n't connect , Dhoni takes it A slip and a FSL in place 17.1 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , pushed through on the legs of the batsman , Watson tucks it away to backward square leg and gets to the other end Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Finally , Ashwin is coming on. Can he use the bounce on the pitch ? Let 's find out 16.6 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , short delivery around off , Rogers sits and sways away from the line of the ball , the ball did n't rise much there 16.5 Aaron to Chris Rogers , FOUR , another full one angled across off , Rogers comes on the front foot and drives it through the mid-off region , where Kohli puts in the dive , but ca n't stop the ball properly and the ball runs away to the fence 16.4 Aaron to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , too straight this time , Rogers tucks it away to deep backward square leg and comes back for the second run A catching cover in place now as the drive on the previous ball was a little uppish 16.3 Aaron to Chris Rogers , FOUR , fullish delivery around off , Rogers drives it past mid-off after taking a small stride forward , the ball did n't come off the middle off the bat , but it still reached the fence in no time Three slips and two gullies in place for Aaron 16.2 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , bumper outside off , Rogers moved across a little but sways away from the line 16.1 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , overpitched outside off , Rogers jams it out towards gully Varun Aaron [ 5.0-1-17-0 ] is back into the attack Shane Watson is a lbw candidate as he shuffles across quite often. India have also been trying to exploit his weakness there , but he has managed to keep the Indian bowlers at bay. There was one big lbw shout but the bounce at Gabba will mostly take the ball over the stumps unless it is too full. Let 's see when India introduce spin into the attack as well . Time for another drinks break . 15.6 Ishant to Watson , 2 runs , banged in short on middle , Watson swivels and pulls it behind square leg , Umesh runs across , slides and keeps it down to a couple 15.5 Ishant to Watson , FOUR , they want Watson to play this shot and Ishant wo n't mind him playing this. Full and angled into off and middle , Watson leans forward and flicks it handsomely through mid-wicket , the timing takes it to the fence 15.4 Ishant to Watson , no run , slanting in from wide of the crease , Watson blocks it off the inside section of the bat to mid-on , there was a single there but Watson does not want to risk it 15.3 Ishant to Watson , no run , good length ball and angling in , Watson presses forward and defends it back to the bowler 15.2 Ishant to Watson , no run , slides it down leg , Watson ca n't lay bat on the glance , the ball brushes the pad and goes to Dhoni 15.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , back of a length just outside off , Watson lifts his bat and lets it go. It was bowled from wide of the crease 14.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , back of a length just outside off , Rogers rides the bounce and punches it through cover , Kohli gives chase and keeps the batsmen down to two 14.5 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , good length on middle , Watson turns it through the unmanned mid-wicket region for a single 14.4 U Yadav to Watson , no run , fuller and just outside off , Watson drives it with the straightest of bats back to the bowler 14.3 U Yadav to Watson , 2 runs , too straight in line from Umesh , Watson neatly clips it off the pads to deep square leg for a brace 14.2 U Yadav to Watson , no run , on a length well wide of off , Watson has nothing to do with it 14.1 U Yadav to Watson , FOUR , cracking shot ! Overpitched outside off , Watson gets a good stride forward and creams the drive to the left of mid-off , not a muscle moved in the field 13.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up just outside off , Rogers does n't get drawn into the drive , he leaves it alone 13.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and outside off , left alone Dhoni and Ishant have a chat. The skipper tells him that he can bowl with freedom and he will give him the field that he needs . 13.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , goes wide of the crease and slants it across left-hander , Rogers ignores it 13.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length just outside off , Rogers hoists his bat up and lets it pass 13.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , wide , bumper which is too high , wided rightly by umpire Gould 13.2 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , " catch it " were the shouts , but the ball does not carry. Good length and straightens , Watson closes the bat face and is squared up completely , the ball takes the outside edge and drops well short of Dhawan at third slip , he gets a hand and makes a half stop 13.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , huge shout for lbw , umpire Gould turns it down. Nip-backer from a length , Watson plants his front foot forward and misses the forward defensive , is rapped on the pads. The height was always an issue and it might have been doing too much as well 12.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , FOUR , lovely shot ! Rogers did n't try to hit it too hard , he relied on timing and placement. Pitched up around off , Rogers plays it with the full face of the bat and drives it past Watson for a boundary 12.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and on off , Rogers push-drives it to the right of the bowler , Umesh fields the ball 12.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , drifts onto the pads , Rogers glances it fine and comes back for the second before Rohit fields the ball 12.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , tempter outside off , Rogers does not take the bait , shoulders arms 12.2 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , shortens the length close to off , Watson tucks it off the inside part of the blade to mid-wicket 12.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , back of a length around off , Watson punches it to the left of the bowler , no real timing behind that shot 11.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up outside off , Rogers leans into the drive , hits it only as far as mid-off where Kohli dives and fields the ball 11.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length slanted across off , left alone 11.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Rogers was shaping up to play the pull , the line was outside off and he plays a forehand shot towards cover 11.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , keeps it in the channel around off , Rogers has no interest in playing that 11.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Rogers shoulders arms The 5th delivery of Umesh 's last over was the fastest ball of the match. It was bowled at 147.8kph , faster than Mitchell Johnson . 11.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers gets behind the line and knocks it to mid-on 11.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no ball , starts the new spell by overstepping. Short of length just outside off , Rogers lifts his bat and lets it go Ishant Sharma [ 3.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 U Yadav to Watson , FOUR , poor delivery from Umesh , half volley on the pads , Watson does n't miss out on those , he leans forward and flicks it powerfully through mid-wicket for his second boundary 10.5 U Yadav to Watson , no run , short of length on off , Watson goes back and defends it towards silly mid-on 10.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , strays onto the pads , Rogers tucks it away to fine leg 10.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , short and angled across off , Rogers arches back and hoists his bat up , he was in a dilemma whether to defend or let it go The slip cordon has been strengthened. There are two gullies in place now. . 10.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , pulls the length back slightly , Rogers bunts it in front of mid-off 10.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and on off , Rogers pushes it to mid-off after coming slightly forward 9.6 Aaron to Watson , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , rises onto the batsman steeply , Watson does well to play it with loose bottom hand , he keeps it down as the ball rolls to gully 9.5 Aaron to Watson , no run , shortens the length around off , Watson rides the bounce and knocks it towards point 9.4 Aaron to Watson , no run , bumper on the stumps , Watson sinks under it and lets it sail through to Dhoni Coming to the Warner wicket , Umesh twisted his ankle while delivering the ball. He went down on the turf and did n't know where the ball had gone. He searches for it and only sees it when Ashwin completes the catch 9.3 Aaron to Watson , no run , touch short and outside off , Watson chops the cut towards point 9.2 Aaron to Watson , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 9.1 Aaron to Watson , FOUR , snorter ! Watson had no clue about that. It was well directed short delivery , right at the batsman , Watson took his eyes off the ball and fends , it takes the shoulder of the bat and balloons over the slip cordon. Fortunately for him it did n't go straight to the fielder 8.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length outside off , Rogers leaves it alone 8.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length close to off , Rogers blocks it to the on-side 8.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and on off , Rogers pushes it to the left of the bowler Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now. Warner once again got Australia off to a brisk start before falling to a loose stroke. India will be happy to see the back of him. They need to keep chipping away at the wickets to have the match in their control . 8.3 U Yadav to Warner , out Caught by Ashwin ! ! Big wicket ! The dangerous Warner goes. It was not a wicket taking delivery , but India will take that. It was short and on the hips , Warner hops up and looks to help it on its way , the extra bounce catches the top-edge and lobs over Dhoni , Ashwin at first slip back-tracks and takes a simple catch. Warner c Ashwin b U Yadav 29 ( 28 ) [ 4s-6 ] U Yadav to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 8.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , yorker on the off-stump , Warner digs it out back to the bowler 8.1 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , superb shot ! Warner contniues his rich vein of form. It was not all that bad a delivery , back of a length just outside off , Warner goes back and punches it through cover , the timing was sublime on that occasion 7.6 Aaron to Chris Rogers , FOUR , short and width on offer , Rogers flashes hard and the ball flies off a thickish outside edge down to third man. He was not in control of that shot 7.5 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Rogers goes back and defends to the on-side , it was more like ball hitting the bat rather than the other way round 7.4 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Warner pushes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and goes to deepish point , a conventional point would have made it interesting as it was in the air 7.3 Aaron to Warner , no run , shortish and close to off , Warner is opened up as he knocks it to mid-on 7.2 Aaron to Chris Rogers , 1 run , good length ball on off , Rogers presents the full face of the bat and drives it straight down the ground , Kohli gives chase from mid-off , makes a slight fumble but no extra run conceded 7.1 Aaron to Chris Rogers , FOUR , crunched ! That should get him going. It was slightly overpitched and Rogers was onto it in a flash , he comes forward and drives it handsomely to the deep extra cover fence 6.6 U Yadav to Warner , no run , keeps it back of a length on off , defended back to the bowler 6.5 U Yadav to Warner , no run , fuller and just outside off , Warner drives and picks out Kohli at mid-off 6.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , straightens around off , Rogers brings the bat down at an angle , gets an inside edge behind square 6.3 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , good length ball close to off , Warner pushes it past Rogers , first calls for " wait " and then goes through with the single as Kohli was square at mid-off 6.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , short of length around off , Warner goes back and defends solidly towards cover 6.1 U Yadav to Warner , 2 runs , back of a length on leg-stump , Warner tucks it to deep square leg and comes back for the second Umesh Yadav , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack The Indians already have problems with the ball. Umpire Erasmus gets the hoops out. Puts the ball through them. Seems like it has been changed . 5.6 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , finishes the over with a short delivery , Rogers sits down and lets it pass 5.5 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , full and on off , Rogers middles the drive straight down the ground , Aaron dives to his right and makes a fine stop , he saved a couple of runs there 5.4 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Rogers rides the bounce and blocks it down the track 5.3 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up outside off , Rogers drives it with laden feet to mid-off 5.2 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , full and close to off , Rogers drives it back to the bowler , Aaron bends down and stops it in his follow-through 5.1 Aaron to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , it was not full enough , but still Rogers goes for the drive on the up , the ball takes the outer half of the bat and goes past the diving backward point fielder 4.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , on a length angled across Warner , who lifts his bat and lets it go 4.6 Ishant to Warner , no ball , FOUR , over the wicket , round the wicket , does n't matter for Warner. Ishant oversteps and delivers a length ball around off , Warner drives it past the non-striker , no stopping that as it was timed beautifully 4.5 Ishant to Warner , no run , pitched up outside off , Warner closes the bat face and mistimes the drive to mid-on Sharma switches to over the wicket . 4.4 Ishant to Warner , FOUR , second drive off the over. Fullish and outside off , Warner gets a good stride forward and drives it past mid-off , the ball races away to the fence 4.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , lovely delivery from Ishant , comes in with the angle and hold its line , Warner was in a dilemma whether to play or leave , in the end he lets it go and it was not far away from the off-pole 4.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , good length ball outside off , left alone 4.1 Ishant to Warner , FOUR , India not learning from their mistakes from Adelaide , round the wicket and half volley outside off , Warner says thank you and drives it through cover , the timing on that takes it to the fence 3.6 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers bunts it to the right of the bowler , Aaron moves across and fields it 3.5 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up outside off , Rogers drives and finds the mid-off fielder , no timing on that as he got it off the bottom of the bat 3.4 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , bit too full , almost a yorker , Rogers squeezes it out to cover 3.3 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , shortens the length around off , Rogers goes back and across , defends it to cover 3.2 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers stays back and turns it to mid-on 3.1 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , bouncer on leg-stump , Rogers sinks under it and evades it comfortably 2.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , slanting in with the angle , Warner clips it past short leg , but there is mid-on for back-up 2.5 Ishant to Warner , FOUR , much better shot , it was right off the middle. Slightly fuller and just outside off , Warner presses forward and creams the drive through the vacant cover region 2.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , on a length around off , Warner is half-forward as he knocks it towards cover 2.3 Ishant to Warner , FOUR , streaky boundary , but Warner will take that. It was full and moving away outside off , Warner throws the kitchen sink at it , the ball takes the edge and flies over the slip cordon to give him his first boundary 2.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , angling into the batsman , Warner leans forward and wrists it to mid-on 2.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , good length on off , Warner gets right behind the line and blocks it to the right of Ishant Ishant goes round the sticks for Warner 1.6 Aaron to Chris Rogers , no run , 142kph sharp bumper on the stumps , Rogers ducks under it and lets it go through to Dhoni 1.5 Aaron to Warner , 1 run , shaping into the pads , Warner clips it down to fine leg and gets off the mark 1.4 Aaron to Warner , no run , full and attacking the stumps , Warner presents the straightest of bats and defends back to the bowler 1.3 Aaron to Warner , no run , back of a length on middle , Warner tucks it in front of mid-wicket 1.2 Aaron to Warner , no run , stifled appeal for caught behind , umpire Gould is not interested. It was drifted down leg , Warner ca n't meet with the glance , the ball brushes the pad and goes to the right of Dhoni , who dives and collects it 1.1 Aaron to Warner , no run , too straight , on middle and leg , Warner stays in the crease and turns it to mid-on Aaron to share the new ball with Ishant. He also has three slips , a gully and a short leg to assist him . Varun Aaron , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and close to off , Rogers push-drives it to mid-off and calls " wait on " for the single 0.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , FOUR , Rogers opens his account in style , overpitched outside off , Rogers comes forward and drives it with an open face square of the wicket , it was in the air for a while but nowhere close to the fielder 0.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Rogers hangs back and defends it to point 0.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no ball , cracker of a delivery , but Ishant has overstepped. It was back of a length and in the corridor of uncertainty , Rogers goes searching for it and does well to not nick behind to the slip cordon 0.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , slanted across the left-hander , Rogers shoulders arms Three slips , a gully and a short leg in place 0.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , nice carry through to Dhoni after Rogers lets it go through , the line was outside off 0.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , good length ball on middle , Rogers moves forward and knocks it to the left of the bowler Chris Rogers and Warner are at the crease. Chris Rogers is on strike. Ishant will open the attack Warner and Rogers are out in the center. Ishant to start off proceedings. . Welcome back.. Australia pegged things back through Hazlewood 's 5-wicket haul. They picked the last 6 wickets for 87 runs. Things would have been much worse for India , if not for the 57-run partnership between Dhoni and Ashwin. Now the onus is on the Indian bowlers to not let go of the advantage . The second session promises to be a cracker. There are some showers forecast later in the afternoon. Whether that arrives remains to be seen. We 'll take a short break and be back with you shortly. Do stay tuned . Without him , Australia looked toothless with both Starc and Johnson well below their best. Lyon was at best tidy and not the wicket-taking monster he was at Adelaide. Pyschologically it will give India a lift that they have crossed 400. It 's now up to their bowlers to rise to the challenge. Australia will be quite confident though of matching or going past India 's first innings total on this wicket . It will be lunch now. Australia have mopped up things in that first session and a bit today. Hazlewood got things moving with the wicket of Rahane with a peach. Rohit followed soon after. Dhoni and Ashwin got together and put on a 50 plus stand where the latter stood out with some delightful strokes. Hazlewood came back and sent back Ashwin. Then the innings was brought to a swift close as the tail did n't wag - a familiar story. Hazlewood was the standout bowler and richly deserved his five wickets on debut . 109.4 Lyon to U Yadav , out Caught by Chris Rogers ! ! Umesh holes out. Went for the big slog sweep to a tossed up delivery outside off , connected well , but it 's a long boundary there , Rogers settles under the skier at deep mid-wicket. Easy catch. U Yadav c Chris Rogers b Lyon 9 ( 21 ) [ 4s-2 ] Lyon to U Yadav , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Since Aaron got out to what was supposed to be the last ball before lunch , India were 9 down when Aaron got out. The laws says that lunch can be extended by 30 mins or till the last wicket falls , whichever happens earlier. That 's why we are still playing on 109.3 Lyon to Ishant , 1 run , flicked past FSL for a single 109.2 Lyon to Ishant , no run , tossed up outside off , Ishant lunges out to meet the pitch of the ball 109.1 Lyon to Ishant , no run , gets forward and nudges it behind square 108.6 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , angled in from round the wicket , Umesh stays on the crease and pushes out leaden-footedly , beaten all ends up Now Johnson goes round the wicket for the last delivery 108.5 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , way outside off and another leave from Umesh 108.4 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , short outside off , Umesh swivels and then turns around to let it go. It was a quick delivery and he played it well to leave it 108.3 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , pitched up outside off , Umesh throws the bat and connects thin air 108.2 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , short of length on off , Umesh hangs back and defends 108.1 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , almost a wide that , way outside off Mitchell Johnson [ 20.0-3-81-0 ] is back into the attack Ishant Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 107.6 Lyon to Aaron , out Caught by ( sub ) Marnus ! ! What a grab that is. It was tossed up and turned in , Aaron pressed forward to defend , the ball brushed his glove and was falling in front of FSL , the sub leaps full length forward , stretches his right-hand and takes it an inch from the turf. Gould has the finger up in a flash. HotSpot picks up the glove. Aaron c ( sub ) Marnus b Lyon 4 ( 11 ) Lyon to Aaron , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Aaron is gone. Caught by the sub. That is a sensational catch . Last ball before lunch 107.5 Lyon to Aaron , no run , uses his feet and gets too close to the pitch of it , jammed to short mid-wicket 107.4 Lyon to Aaron , no run , gets forward and smothers that well 107.3 Lyon to Aaron , 2 runs , skips out and lofts it back over Lyon 's head , for a couple 107.2 Lyon to Aaron , no run , big deflection as Aaron gets forward to defend , a thick outside edge and it hits Haddin 's right pad. Does n't carry to slip as well 107.1 Lyon to Aaron , 2 runs , Aaron comes down the track and times the drive in the air , between cover and mid-off for a couple. Well hit Last over before lunch 106.6 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , Umesh comes on the front foot and pushes to mid-on , Aaron waits for the ball to pass the fielder , but it does n't and it 's a dot 106.5 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , that was a good short delivery. Heading towards his face , Umesh ducked and then turned his head towards the ball , the ball whizzed past the nose 106.4 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , Umesh sees the width on that and tries to flash hard , the extra bounce beats the outside edge 106.3 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , limp poke that. Nothing stroke as he opens the face of the bat to guide it to third man , ca n't connect 106.2 Hazlewood to U Yadav , FOUR , India get to 400. Short on the body , Umesh gets inside it and pulls over Haddin. Umesh and Aaron punch gloves. The batsman even manages a smile 106.1 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , pitched up outside off , Umesh tries to crash the leather off that and mistimes it to the right of Hazlewood. Umesh lost all shape while playing that 105.6 Lyon to Aaron , no run , tossed up outside off , Aaron gets forward to smother the spin 105.5 Lyon to U Yadav , 1 run , Umesh gives Lyon the charge and slogs , there is a fielder at deep square , but lands well in front of him Back over the wicket now 105.4 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , Umesh gets forward and defends to short mid-wicket 105.3 Lyon to U Yadav , FOUR , down leg , Umesh saw the fielder inside the circle behind square and slogged it away past him 105.2 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , tapped to FSL again Now a leg slip added 105.1 Lyon to U Yadav , no run , nudged to FSL 104.6 Hazlewood to Aaron , no run , Aaron is very late on the pull as the ball whizzes past his stroke. Hazlewood bent his back and got extra life out of the surface there 104.5 Hazlewood to Aaron , no run , pitched up on the stumps , jammed back over the bowler , mid-off is there to cut it off 104.4 Hazlewood to Aaron , no run , just in front of Shaun Marsh at third slip. Aaron is into the walk on the drive , the edge though does n't carry 104.3 Hazlewood to Aaron , no run , dug in short , pacy delivery too , Aaron leaves Varun Aaron , right handed bat , comes to the crease 104.2 Hazlewood to Dhoni , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Hazlewood gets five on debut ! Lovely delivery , in the corridor of uncertainty , Dhoni was in the process of leaving that , but as he did , the ball took the toe end of his hanging blade and through to Haddin. 6th catch for him. The Gabba erupts after that dismissal. Dhoni c Haddin b Hazlewood 33 ( 53 ) [ 4s-4 ] Hazlewood to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 104.1 Hazlewood to Dhoni , 2 runs , loud cheer for Mitch as he dives to his left at fine leg - after running across - to save two runs. It was pulled firmly by Dhoni after swivelling , looked headed to the boundary , until Mitch got there 103.6 Lyon to Dhoni , 1 run , comes down the track and keeps the strike with a single to long-on 103.5 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , mild appeal for lbw , but very optimistic as Dhoni stretched out to smother the spin , missed and was struck high on the pad. He may have got outside off too 103.4 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , goes on the back foot to keep that middle and leg delivery out 103.3 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , down leg , Dhoni misses the tickle , the ball dribbles off the pad near his leg Now point is placed as the FSL fielder moves there 103.2 Lyon to Dhoni , FOUR , Dhoni has reverse swept Lyon ! Sees the vacant point region and times the shot through there 103.1 Lyon to Dhoni , 2 runs , nudged very fine , Warner gives chase and hauls it back in , couple of runs Dhoni is changing his gloves 102.6 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , short outside off , Umesh sways out of the line of that 102.5 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , Umesh is late on that , but manages to punch that to point 102.4 Hazlewood to U Yadav , no run , gets forward and then shows the full face of the bat to defend towards mid-off Umesh Yadav , right handed bat , comes to the crease 102.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , out Caught by Watson ! ! Gone , caught at 1st slip. This time Ashwin is caught on the crease , the ball is outside off on a fuller length , his drive catches the outside edge and carries nicely to Watto. Hazlewood strikes again. End of a promising little knock. Ashwin c Watson b Hazlewood 35 ( 41 ) [ 4s-6 ] Hazlewood to Ashwin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 102.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 2 runs , Ashwin wants to punch that through cover , gets an inside edge that misses leg stump. A couple to fine leg 102.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , fuller length outside off , Ashwin wo n't go after it , left alone 101.6 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni wants to get forward , but then decides to turn that from the crease to backward square 101.5 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , worked to backward square once again 101.4 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , sharp turn for Lyon , Dhoni decides to play off the back foot , rapped on the pads , but that was sliding down. HotSpot shows an inside edge onto the pads , no silly point and it looped there 101.3 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , on the back foot and worked to backward square leg 101.2 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , comes down the track and pushes it to FSL , a slight fumble and Ashwin sends Dhoni back 101.1 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , stretches out and turns it to FSL 100.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , gets the front foot a bit far too across this time , but still times the flick to mid-on 100.5 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , right back and pushed to short cover 100.4 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , pitched up outside off , this time he leaves 100.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , FOUR , terrific flick from Ashwin. Once it 's on the pads , he times them beautifully. Took it from off and then wrists it past mid-on. The timing on that was incredible as the ball scooted to the fence 100.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , FOUR , over the slips and gully. Ashwin saw the width and threw his bat at that. Off a thick outside edge and down to the vacant third man fence 100.1 Hazlewood to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni shuffles across and then takes it from middle to work it to fine leg. Hazlewood nearly thought he pinged Dhoni on the pads Josh Hazlewood [ 19.2-5-51-3 ] is back into the attack 99.6 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , whipped straight to FSL 99.5 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , tossed up on middle and leg , tapped to short leg 99.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , turned to short leg 99.3 Lyon to Dhoni , 1 run , goes on the back foot and pushes it to mid-on , takes the single as the fielder is deep Lyon is coming from round the wicket with a slip and a short leg 99.2 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , comes down the track and nudges it to the left of short leg 99.1 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni goes on the back foot and works it to backward square leg Nathan Lyon [ 20.0-1-87-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. India after losing Rahane and Rohit have steadied themselves through this partnership. Both Ashwin and Dhoni are n't looking in any trouble at all. Australia may look up to Lyon after the drinks break to search for a way to break this stand . 98.6 Starc to Ashwin , no run , looked like the cutter from Starc , Ashwin comfortably defends off the back foot 98.5 Starc to Ashwin , FOUR , Starc is struggling. On the pads this time and a lovely flick from Ashwin sends the ball to the deep mid-wicket fence. Beats Rogers with ease. It was played in the air , but no-one catching at square leg 98.5 Starc to Ashwin , wide , another wide as Starc does n't learn , he keeps digging it short , it was outside off , Ashwin left it alone 98.5 Starc to Ashwin , wide , Starc digs it in short , Ashwin ducks and the umpire calls it a wide as it 's too short 98.4 Starc to Ashwin , no run , short one outside off , Ashwin drops his hands and then allows it to go Haddin. Looped to the keeper 98.3 Starc to Ashwin , 2 runs , back and across before punching it in the air , but nowhere near a fielder. A couple through gully 98.2 Starc to Dhoni , 1 run , takes on the short ball and pulls forcefully to deep backward square 98.1 Starc to Ashwin , 1 run , Ashwin is early into the pull and the ball rolls to deep square leg. Ashwin wanted to play that to deep backward square 97.6 Watson to Dhoni , 2 runs , Watson sighs in disappointment after Dhoni shuffled across and clipped an off and middle delivery down to fine leg. Had Dhoni missed that , he would 've been dead 97.5 Watson to Dhoni , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhoni goes towards the ball and then shoulders arms 97.4 Watson to Dhoni , no run , Watson digs it in short , Dhoni half-ducks and lets it go 97.3 Watson to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni is again on the walk , this time he taps to gully 97.2 Watson to Ashwin , 1 run , gets forward and then flicks a middle stump delivery to deep mid-wicket for an easy single 97.1 Watson to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni walks across outside off and then works the length ball to deep backward square leg for a single 96.6 Starc to Ashwin , no run , now back and across before punching to cover. Looked very good while playing that shot too 96.5 Starc to Ashwin , FOUR , Ashwin 's wristwork is just exquisite. He gets forward and then flicks wide of mid-on. Very classy boundary 96.4 Starc to Ashwin , FOUR , smashed over cover. Ashwin transferred his weight onto the back foot and then creamed it. The width was there and Ashwin made full use of it 96.3 Starc to Ashwin , no run , tries to drive hard through cover , the length is much fuller , inside-edged to mid-on 96.2 Starc to Dhoni , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Dhoni taps wide of point with an open face , gets a single 96.1 Starc to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni gets well outside off and walks towards the ball , nudged in front of mid-on 95.6 Watson to Ashwin , no run , shortish outside off , Ashwin stands tall and punches to short cover 95.5 Watson to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin looked to play more straight there , but the ball takes the thick outer half and goes to mid-off 95.4 Watson to Ashwin , no run , fuller length outside off , little shape away , Ashwin shoulders arms 95.3 Watson to Ashwin , 2 runs , Ashwin sees the short delivery and then pulls through mid-wicket. The jog a couple 95.2 Watson to Ashwin , no run , pushed from the crease to short cover 95.1 Watson to Ashwin , no run , width was there outside off , but Ashwin has timed the back foot punch , straight to the fielder at point 94.6 Starc to Dhoni , no run , good comeback from Starc , beats Dhoni with one that is angled across , Dhoni is n't so certain and his limp poke from the crease sees him getting beaten comprehensively 94.5 Starc to Dhoni , FOUR , beautiful shot. That was pitched up outside off , Dhoni is on the walk and then drills a drive wide of mid-off. Minimal backlift too , that was a statement of intent from the Indian captain 94.4 Starc to Dhoni , FOUR , dug in short , Dhoni goes back and then controls the pull , forehanded wide of mid-on. The ball raced away 94.3 Starc to Dhoni , no run , swing for Starc , but starts outside off , Dhoni sees and then decides it is n't hitting off , so leaves 94.2 Starc to Dhoni , no run , 141kph , swinging down leg , Dhoni flicks and misses 94.1 Starc to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni shuffles across to off , well outside off and then shoulders arms , the ball swings back in and hits the thigh pad Mitchell Starc [ 14.0-1-56-0 ] is back into the attack 93.6 Watson to Ashwin , no run , length delivery on off , Ashwin shuffles across and then defends it back to Watson 93.5 Watson to Ashwin , no run , curving outswinger , Ashwin sees it and then lets it go 93.4 Watson to Ashwin , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 93.3 Watson to Ashwin , no run , tucked to short mid-wicket 93.2 Watson to Ashwin , no run , pitched up outside off , driven back to Watson who fields to his left 93.1 Watson to Ashwin , FOUR , Watson nearly has his 2nd. That was very streaky by Ashwin. Similar shot to the one that dismissed Rohit. Ashwin driving and edging it wide of gully. Went at a very catchable height too 92.6 Johnson to Ashwin , 3 runs , that 's a top shot. Back and across before punching wide of mid-off. Ashwin slipped while turning for the second , but manages to complete three with ease 92.5 Johnson to Dhoni , 3 runs , Dhoni bends his knee and then crashes a drive through cover , this time only 3 as Lyon stops it before the ad skirtings 92.4 Johnson to Ashwin , leg byes , 1 run , down leg , rushes off the pad and to the left of Haddin , they take a leg bye 92.3 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , back and across before punching to the left of mid-off. Nicely played and 'waiting waiting no ' is the call from Ashwin to Dhoni 92.2 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin is hanging back and then sees the shortish delivery , fended awkwardly to point. Kept it down though 92.1 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , takes on the short ball and swivels to pull to deep backward square leg The more you see that catch by Smith , the more you are impressed. He made sure that as he was falling , the impact was taken by the left elbow and not the right one. The right arm stretched out and landed smoothly as it hit the turf. Supreme skill from Smith there . 91.6 Watson to Ashwin , no run , nicely wristed but straight to the fielder at mid-on 91.5 Watson to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin is back and across before punching to point 91.4 Watson to Ashwin , no run , length ball outside off , Ashwin shoulders arms 91.3 Watson to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin shuffles across to cover off and middle , defended to mid-on Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 91.2 Watson to Rohit , out Caught by S Smith ! ! What a catch ! Watson gets Rohit. Smith flies to his right - airborne and one-handed at 2nd slip to grab a stunner after Rohit outside edged the drive. Watson liked that and pumps his fist. The bowling change has worked. Rohit c S Smith b Watson 32 ( 55 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Watson to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 91.1 Watson to Rohit , no run , curving outswinger , Rohit lets that go. That was a sighter for him against Watson Shane Watson [ 10.4-5-29-0 ] is back into the attack 90.6 Johnson to Dhoni , FOUR , Lyon ran all the way , but the ball beats him. That was a tease. Full outside off , Dhoni this time gets forward and times the cover drive well , very long boundary that one and the ball just trickles over the ad skirtings , beating the running spinner 90.5 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , full on off , Dhoni pushes softly to mid-off 90.4 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , 139kph full one angled across , Dhoni sees it that time and then lifts his bat and lets it go 90.3 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , Johnson beats Dhoni again. This one was closer to off and made the Indian captain play , he pushed out limply and saw the ball whizz past the edge 90.2 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , 141kph full one outside off , Dhoni is tempted this time and has a big swish at that. The ball flies past the outside edge. Loose ! 90.1 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , very wide of off , Dhoni lets it go 89.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , way outside off , easy leave 89.5 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , ducks under that short delivery and lets it go 89.4 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , looks to leave and is late in doing so , the ball takes the toe-end and dribbles to slip. Rohit very uncertain with the outside off delivery there 89.3 Hazlewood to Dhoni , 1 run , gets his front foot across and nudges into the vacant short mid-wicket area , they run a single The laws of the game says that if you are taking evasive action , you get leg byes. But Erasmus did n't think Dhoni did that. Dhoni was n't a happy man at all. He had a lengthy chat with the umpire , who tried convincing him. At the end of the conversation , the Indian captain was still not impressed . 89.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , 1 run , now comes on the front foot and defends wide of cover for an easy single 89.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , pitched up outside off , swinging away , left alone 88.6 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni is n't happy with that decision from Erasmus. Dhoni took one on the left bicep again as he got in line of that short delivery. It went away to the fine leg fence , where Smith retrieved the ball. Erasmus signals dead ball and Dhoni has a chat to the umpire. Erasmus has some explaining to do. Erasmus reckoned that Dhoni was deliberately offering his arm 88.5 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , now well outside off , left alone 88.4 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , was that high ? Or was there an inside edge onto the pads ? Looked a good shout for lbw. Erasmus was asked the question and he did n't give it. Dhoni was on the crease and was struck above the kneeroll. Definitely pitched in line , but at the Gabba it 's very difficult to get lbws. Hawk-Eye shows missing 88.3 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , pitched up outside off , angle going across Dhoni who lets it go 88.2 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Rohit went for the big drive through cover , the feet did n't move towards the ball , which meant he inside-edged it through square leg 88.1 Johnson to Rohit , no run , 142kph searing short delivery outside off , Rohit sinks a little and then yanks his head out of the way , before letting it go 87.6 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , length ball on off , Dhoni gets forward to defend to mid-on 87.5 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , another short delivery , outside off , this time Dhoni drops his hands and lets it go 87.4 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , he is n't averse to taking blows on the body. Short on the body , Dhoni takes it on his left bicep. Does n't show any emotion too. Stoic ! 87.3 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , 140kph , Dhoni this time gets slightly forward and then defends it back to Hazlewood 87.2 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , a slight front foot movement to cover off stump and then gently nudges it to short mid-wicket. That angled in from Hazlewood 87.1 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhoni is unsure whether to get forward or stay on the crease , he is caught on the crease , wanted to leave that , but is late in doing so , the ball dribbles to gully off the outer half of the bat 86.6 Johnson to Rohit , no run , 143kph on the middle and leg line , Rohit nudges to square leg 86.5 Johnson to Rohit , no run , shortish on off and middle , Rohit rises onto his toes and tucks it to short mid-wicket 86.4 Johnson to Rohit , no run , 138kph tempter , full one outside off , Rohit resists for now 86.3 Johnson to Rohit , no run , Rohit shuffles across to off and then blocks solidly off the front foot 86.2 Johnson to Rohit , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone 86.1 Johnson to Rohit , no run , short of length on off , defended solidly in front of short cover , Rohit looks for the quick single , not there 85.6 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , cracker of a short delivery from Hazlewood and Dhoni did well to drop his gloves and then sway out of the line. It reared up on the Indian captain , but he kept his eyes on it till the last instant to let that one alone Replays show that Rahane was caught on the crease and pushed out. That delivery shows why Hazlewood is considered the rightful successor to the legendary Glenn McGrath. McGrath would 've been proud of that cherry . 85.5 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , full and outside off , Dhoni shoulders arms and Haddin collects it above his head MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 85.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Super delivery ! Hazlewood comes back with a beauty to dismiss a well-set Rahane. It angled in around the 4th stump line , Rahane had to play at it and then moved away just a shade to catch the outside edge. Regulation catch for Haddin and Hazlewood pumps his fist in celebration. Rahane c Haddin b Hazlewood 81 ( 132 ) [ 4s-8 ] Hazlewood to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 85.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , swing for Hazlewood , but width there for Rahane , he kneels down , bends his knee and drives wide of point. Too full from Hazlewood and Rahane put it away. Classy shot from Jinks 85.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , dug in short outside off , Rahane rises onto his toes and then fends to the right of gully. Kept it down 85.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , nice carry to Haddin after Rahane shoulders arms Coming back to that caught behind appeal against Rahane , HotSpot showed a tiny mark on the toe-end. Snicko shows a wave after ball passes the bat. No edge on that ! 84.6 Johnson to Rohit , FOUR , streaky boundary but never in danger of being caught was Rohit. He opened the face and drove it in the gap at gully , the ball races away to the vacant third man fence 84.5 Johnson to Rohit , no run , 143kph fiery fast short delivery , Rohit arches his back and then lets it go. That whizzed past his nose 84.4 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , that swings back in and Rahane does well not to push his front foot far too across , gets it wide of backward square leg for a single 84.3 Johnson to Rahane , no run , Haddin was up for a caught behind , but Johnson did n't even appeal. The noise was bat hitting the ground. Way outside off , Rahane went after it and hit the ground hard. Missed the ball by a long way. HotSpot confirms the same 84.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , down leg , Rahane ca n't meet with the glance The crowd clap and egg on Johnson as he runs in 84.1 Johnson to Rahane , no run , 134kph delivery on off , Rahane is half-forward and defends to mid-off 83.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , Rohit gets forward and then defends solidly to mid-off 83.5 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , pitched up outside off at 134kph , swinging away , left alone 83.4 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , 'wait wait ' is the call from Rohit to Rahane after he defends wide of gully. They do n't risk the single as the fielder moves quickly to his right 83.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , pitched up outside off , Rohit opens the face of the bat and then guides it to the left of point 83.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , good stride forward , right to the pitch of the ball and pushed in front of mid-off , an easy single in the end 83.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , nice outswinger , good shape away , but well wide of off , which allows Rahane to leave The players are coming out on the field. The two batsmen touch the Indian flag and then the pitch onto their chest. Nice to see that. Hazlewood is warming up and he will bowl first up. Rahane will be the one facing off. Here we go.. . The second morning session is expected to be as important as the first one. The news is that Mitch Marsh is unlikely to bowl further in this Test . It 's time to close the curtains on this segment. Weather-wise , some thundershowers have been forecast for the day . 'Two bowlers down , Smith was clearly running out of options as the Indians made merry on a track which eased for batting after the morning session.' Malhotra writes , 'The setting was an ideal one for Australia to switch back to ruthless mode after the emotional weeks gone by. Gabba was supposed to be their good , if not best , chance to make the visitors feel the heat. But the way events unfolded on Day 1 made it a visitors ' day. It was not a good day at the office for young captain Steve Smith. The 25-year-old faced injury troubles as two of his bowlers succumbed to the Brisbane heat. While Mitchell Marsh , the bowler who gave the first breakthrough , was the first casualty , he was quickly followed by debutant Josh Hazlewood.' Sahil Malhotra 's piece for the Indian Express wears the headline 'Australia feel the heat Down Under' 'His determination to succeed was evident from the first day he joined the team , " Kirsten said. " I was amazed at how quickly he learnt from his mistakes. His determination to succeed is driven by an immense sense of self belief. In my opinion , he genuinely believes he can make performances that other batsmen ca n't. The South African says Kohli made the last Adelaide Oval wicket look different while he was batting from what it actually was when the other Indian batsmen were at the crease.' 'Gary Kirsten says the hallmark of Kohli 's success is his self-belief and determination to perform better than others. Kohli , incidentally , made his international debut under Kirsten 's regime.' 'After his exploits in the Adelaide Test , Virat Kohli 's fan base is swelling by the day. After John Wright and Greg Chappell , it was the turn of another former India coach to wax eloquent about the rising India star.' Vijay Tagore , writing for the Mirror , throws the spotlight on Kohli again . 'Australian medico Alex Kountouris cleared the pace posse of serious injuries , with Marsh 's minor strain unrelated to the left hamstring on which he had surgery a year ago. Asked if Marsh will be fit to bowl , he said : It 's unlikely , he will have a scan and we will try and get him on the field tomorrow.' 'Australia failed to capitalise , with pace trio Mitchell Johnson ( 0-64 ) , Mitchell Starc ( 0-56 ) and Josh Hazlewood ( 2-44 ) all floundering as temperatures reached 34 degrees C in the Gabba furnace.' He writes , 'Steve Smith 's captaincy dream turned into a nightmare as Mitchell Marsh ( hamstring ) , Test debutant Josh Hazlewood ( cramps ) and Mitchell Starc ( back ) crumbled in a brutal day at the office.' Peter Badel 's piece for the Courier Mail has the headline 'Aussie bowlers break down in Brisbane heat' 'Through no real fault of his own , Smith endured a tough first day at the office as Test skipper , his team under physical duress and in trouble on day one of the second Test as Indian opener Murali Vijay continued his relentless run-scoring against Australia. Vijay unfurled a brilliant 144 , his fourth century in eight matches against Australia. It was the second-highest score by a visiting opener at the Gabba , behind Alastair Cook 's unbeaten double-century in 2010. ' writes Chloe Saltau , Chief Cricket Writer for the Age . 'Australia 's young quicks wilted in the oppressive Brisbane heat , another bowler was lost to injury and India 's batsmen were well on top at the Gabba fortress. Welcome to the Australian captaincy , Steve Smith.' Australia 's bowlers though wilted under the heat. Can they pick themselves up and come hard at the Indians today ? We 'll get to know soon. As is the norm , let us have a sneak peek at what the newspapers have in store for us . An organized century from Murali Vijay laid a sturdy platform for India. Ajinkya Rahane built on it , taking Dhoni 's men past the 300-mark along with Rohit Sharma. Yes , it was a near perfect day for India on day 1 after winning the toss and batting first at the Gabba. Vijay batted as if he was at it in Chepauk , braving the heat and setting the tone for India 's dominance. With Dhoni and Ashwin beefing up the Indian lower middle-order , the visitors will eye a total in the range of 450 . Vijay-inspired India claim honours on the opening day. The heat is literally and figuratively on Australia. Do join us back tomorrow to see if Australia withstand the heat and hit back. It must be an interesting day , for the myth is that the Gabba pitch quickens up on the second day. Many thanks for your company and comments. Until then , take care and adios ! However , that hardly belittles his top knock. Thereafter , Rohit got his eye in as India finished strong on 311/4 at stumps. Steve Smith 's first day at the office as captain did not go according to plan. Mitch began well , zipping a few across with some extra bounce , but the Indian batsmen adjusted well. Hazlewood 's bowling was up and down and so was his fitness. Starc also went off the field a couple of times , complaining of heat distress. To make matters worse , Mitch Marsh did his hamstring and bowled only 6 overs . Hazlewood 's strikes helped Australia claw their way back. However , Vijay teamed up with Rahane to recover any ground claimed by Australia. India 's position was further fortified with Rahane overcoming a streaky start to raise his 6th Test fifty. In the interim , Vijay made a hash of the lofted hit , nicking Lyon behind . Now , who would have expected that on this track , which was tipped to be quicker and greener ? Vijay put his head down and grafted hard , becoming the seventh Indian opener to notch up a ton in Australia , before opening up his wings and going after the Aussie bowlers. Early on , Dhawan threw his wicket after getting to a good start , which had our feedbackers multiplying the chorus for the inclusion of KL Rahul. Then , Che Pujara was unfortunate to be out caught behind , despite the ball lobbing off the helmet . Stumps , Day 1 : Rahane and Rohit troop off the field. Vijay 's century has made it India 's day at the Gabba. During the process , India became only the second visiting side to score 300 + runs on the first day at this venue . 82.6 Johnson to Rohit , no run , pitched up and on off , Rohit is forward to push it down the track Jinks wants some adjustment with the ice towel around his neck. The umpire helps him out . 82.5 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , shortish on off at 143kph , Rahane is up on his toes to dab it in front of point for an urgent single. Good communication between the wickets from the Mumbai pair 82.4 Johnson to Rahane , no run , 140kph and dragged down leg , Rahane flicks but only connects with thin air 82.3 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , shortish and hurries on at 143kph , Rohit hops up and clips it to fine leg for a single 82.2 Johnson to Rohit , no run , back of a length and outside off at 144kph , Rohit lets it through to Haddin. Nice carry through to the keeper 82.1 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , shortish on middle and leg , swivel-pulled to fine leg Mitch was pinching his back the previous over. Can he crank it up ? 81.6 Watson to Rohit , no run , swings in fuller on middle , Rohit brings his bat down and jams it to mid-on 81.5 Watson to Rohit , no run , pitched up and swinging away outside off , Rohit pushes forward and the ball zips past the outside edge. Loose shot from Rohit 81.4 Watson to Rohit , no run , on a good length with some away movement outside off , Rohit does not bother with it 81.3 Watson to Rohit , no run , drifting onto the leg stump , Rohit fails to meet with the glance , the ball rebounds to square leg off the pad Shane Watson [ 10.0-5-29-0 ] is back into the attack The Aussie physio runs onto the field. He has been kept busy. Hazlewood is looking in some discomfort. He takes his cap back and leaves the field with Alex Kountouris. I guess another bout of cramps. Watto will complete the over. Meanwhile , Mitch sips some drinks by the edge of the boundary . 81.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , shortish and on middle , Rohit camps on the back foot and tucks it to square leg 81.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rohit lifts his bat and lets it go Josh Hazlewood [ 15.0-5-44-2 ] is back into the attack This is the second highest score by a visiting team on day 1 at the Gabba. West Indies made 359/7 in 1960/61. 'That absolutely staggers me ' says Hayden on air . 80.6 Johnson to Rahane , FOUR , very full and wide outside off at 145 kph , Rahane reaches out and carves it square of the wicket on the off-side. Rahane made good connection , which meant that the ball raced away to the fence 80.5 Johnson to Rahane , 2 runs , 143kph and on the pads , clipped away to fine leg. Rahane looks for a brace and gets it with no trouble 80.4 Johnson to Rahane , no run , 140kph , shortish and hurries on off , Rahane does not have enough room to work it. He awkwardly fends it in front of the bowler. Rahane was thinking about a quick single , but has to retreat 80.3 Johnson to Rahane , FOUR , 143kph low full toss outside off , Rahane jams it on to the turf , the ball bounces over point and runs away to the backward point fence Hazlewood is warming up . 80.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , 140kph , back of a length and on middle , Rahane drops it dead on the off-side 80.1 Johnson to Rahane , no run , 138kph on the leg stump , Rahane does not meet with the flick , the ball brushes the pad and dribbles to the left of Haddin Australia take the 2nd new ball straightaway. Mitch will make first use of it. A couple of slips in place. The crowd gee on Mitch as he steams in . Mitchell Johnson [ 13.0-2-51-0 ] is back into the attack 79.6 S Smith to Rohit , no run , nicely tossed up on middle , Rohit is forward to defend it towards mid-on 79.5 S Smith to Rahane , 1 run , flatter on middle and leg , nudged behind square on the leg-side 79.4 S Smith to Rahane , no run , low full toss on off , Rahane drives it straight to the fielder at mid-off 79.3 S Smith to Rohit , 1 run , flatter and wide outside off , Rohit reaches out and cuts it to sweeper cover 79.2 S Smith to Rohit , 2 runs , long hop on middle , Rohit rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket. Not middled , but good enough for a couple 79.1 S Smith to Rohit , no run , looped up on middle and off , blocked back to the bowler Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Captain Smith takes over from Warner . 78.6 Watson to Rahane , FOUR , gorgeous shot from Rahane. That one had class written all over it. Pitched up further on the stumps , Rahane comes forward and drives it wide of mid-on 78.5 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up and outside off , Rahane leans forward , drives sweetly , but picks out mid-off 78.4 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , leg stump line again , Rohit just helps it on its way to fine leg , this time only a single results 78.3 Watson to Rohit , 2 runs , straying on the pads , Rohit deflects it to fine leg for a couple of runs 78.2 Watson to Rohit , no run , fuller and on the leg stump , turned towards mid-on , Rohit ca n't find the gap 78.1 Watson to Rahane , 1 run , pitched up and on off , Rahane attempts a flashy drive through the covers. Has to settle with an inside edge that sneaks away past the leg stump towards fine leg 77.6 Warner to Rohit , no run , on a good length and on middle , blocked back to the bowler 77.5 Warner to Rahane , 1 run , banged in short , Rahane goes on the back foot and pulls it to deep backward square. The ball had loads of height on it , but Rahane controlled the shot well 77.4 Warner to Rahane , no run , back of a length and on middle , blocked towards mid-on off the back foot 77.3 Warner to Rohit , 1 run , leg stumpish , tickled behind square leg 77.3 Warner to Rahane , no ball , 1 run , friendly full toss on the leg stump , Rahane is also equally friendly , helping it down to deep square leg. It was above waist-height and is deemed a no-ball 77.2 Warner to Rohit , 1 run , pitched up on middle , driven straight down the ground , past Warner. Mid-on gets across , dives and stops the ball 77.1 Warner to Rohit , FOUR , short and wide outside off - a gentle loosener from Warner - cut away past gully to the third man fence David Warner , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack The 2nd new ball is due in 3 overs. Warner will roll his arm over now . 76.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up and attacking the stumps , drawing Rahane forward into a defensive push back to the bowler 76.5 Watson to Rahane , no run , back of a length and on the hips , Rahane misses the flick and is hit high on the thigh pad 76.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , on a good length and outside off , left alone 76.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , an appeal for lbw , but it amounts to nothing. On a good length and curls in and may have been just a smidge outside off , Rahane pushes at it and gets hit on the pad. The impact was millimeters outside off , saving Jinks. Haddin jokingly signals for a review. So much so for DRS Looks like Rahane has an ice-pack round his neck . 76.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , straighter in line , Rahane ventures forward and across as he pats it down the track 76.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up and on off , Rahane is forward and chips it in front of mid-on. He was not in control of that shot Shane Watson [ 8.0-4-21-0 ] is back into the attack 75.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , fuller on the stumps , Rohit presses forward and pushes it right back at the bowler 75.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , slower through the air on off , Rohit comes forward and smothers it 75.4 Lyon to Rohit , FOUR , and he follows up the six with a four ! Quicker on off , Rohit kneels down and nails the sweep , sending the ball to the deep square leg fence 75.3 Lyon to Rohit , SIX , Rohit takes the aerial route ! Pushed through on middle , Rohit gives the charge and launches it high and over mid-wicket for a maximum 75.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , straight roller on middle , pushed back to Lyon 75.1 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , flat and on middle and leg , flicked to square leg. Warner is quick to gather the ball , but ca n't throw the stumps down 74.6 Starc to Rohit , no run , shortish and on off now , Rohit stays back and defends it in front of cover 74.5 Starc to Rahane , 1 run , dug in short on the leg stump , but poses no threat to Rahane as this was bowled only at 134kph. Rahane swivels on the back foot and pulls it behind square on the leg-side The lights are starting to take effect at the Gabba . 74.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , on a length and on off , blocked to the left of the bowler 74.3 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , shortish and just below chest height , Rohit drops it in front of mid-wicket and sets off. It was Rahane 's call and they make it. Marsh dived forward on the ball for an under-arm throw , but failed to disturb the stumps 74.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , good length ball slanted across , left alone by Rohit The physio came out to check on Bucky. Rogers was a bit grumpy , nearly shooing him off . 74.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , back of a length and on middle , Rohit hangs back and defends it to the leg-side Mitchell Starc [ 13.0-1-54-0 ] is back into the attack 73.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , on the leg stump , tickled behind square on the leg-side , straight to the fielder 73.5 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Rohit goes for a half sweep/pull. The ball rebounds towards the mid-wicket area off the helmet of Bucky. He is fine to resume though Rogers has been pinged on the back of the helmet by Rohit 's half sweep/pull. He looks fine though 73.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , nicely looped up on middle , blocked past short leg without much feet movement 73.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , slower through the air on middle , forward and smothered back to the bowler 73.2 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane bends down and sweeps it from the stumps to fine leg. Well executed 73.1 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Rohit gets off the mark with an iffy poke in front of point. Rahane responded in kind as well 72.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length ball on off , Rahane blocks it calmly off the front foot 72.5 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up and just outside off , Rahane drives it to cover , straight to the fielder 72.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , length ball on the stumps , blocked back to the bowler Coming back to the Vijay dismissal , the opener got a nick onto that and was snaffled by Haddin. It will go down as caught behind. Snicko picks up a wave as well , confirming the same . 72.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length ball outside off , Rahane fends it to gully with a loose bottom hand 72.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up and around off , Rahane comes forward and presses it back to the bowler By the way , Vijay joins Ganguly as the highest Indian run-scorer in an innings at the Gabba . 72.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , back of a length and on middle , blocked to short mid-wicket 71.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flatter and quicker on middle and leg , Rohit hangs back and works it past short leg , but the man at backward square has the ball covered Rohit is greeted by a slip and a leg slip to go with a short leg . Rohit Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 71.5 Lyon to Vijay , out Caught ! ! Vijay elicits a standing ovation from the Indian change room. Lyon gives this air outside off , Vijay skips out but misses the lofted hit over mid-off completely. Haddin whips the bails off in a flash to catch Vijay well short. End of a remarkable innings from India 's most improved batsman in the last year. Was this the opening Australia were looking for late in the day ? It will go down as caught behind as Vijay got a nick onto that. Haddin did well to glove the ball. Vijay c Haddin b Lyon 144 ( 213 ) [ 4s-22 ] Lyon to Vijay , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Lyon takes out Vijay. He is peeved as he walks back to the hut. A welcome wicket for the hosts . 71.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , fullish and on off , Vijay leaves his crease , flicking it to mid-wicket. Diving stop from the fielder 71.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , drifting onto the pads , nudged to short leg 71.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , pushed through flatter and attacking off , defended back to Lyon 71.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , fuller and on off , Vijay comes on the front foot and drills it straight to Mitch at mid-off Nathan Lyon [ 17.0-0-73-0 ] is back into the attack Time for an impromptu drinks break . 70.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length ball on off , Rahane gets right behind the ball , blocking it to short cover 70.5 Watson to Rahane , no run , outside off , Rahane lifts his bat and lets it go 70.4 Watson to Rahane , 2 runs , pitched up and outside off , Rahane leans into the drive and laces it past a diving short cover for a couple of runs. The ball plugged in the deep , robbing Rahane of two 70.3 Watson to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay picks it from an off stump line and wrists it to mid-wicket , who makes a half diving save 70.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , fuller and on middle , defended to short cover 70.1 Watson to Rahane , 3 runs , 6th Test fifty for Rahane. He lifts his bat and acknowledges the applause. Banged in short and outside off , Rahane fetches it from there and pulls it to deep mid-wicket after rolling his wrists on it. Siddle chases the ball and saves a run. The call for the third was a belated one , but no harm done for India 69.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Hazlewood shortens his length around off , Vijay hangs back and blocks it to cover 69.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , FOUR , overpitched and on off , Vijay blasts it through mid-off to bring up 2000 Test runs in just 29 games. Once he connected , that was always a four 69.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , a bit leg stumpish from Hazlewood , helped to fine leg for a single 69.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , shortish and climbs on off , Rahane hops up , punches it straight to the fielder at point 69.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , gentle 129kph good length ball wide outside off , Rahane tightens his technique as he shoulders arms 69.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , beaten all ends up is Rahane ! Back of a length and outside off , Rahane flashes with no feet movement , the ball whistles past the outside edge 68.6 Watson to Vijay , no run , good length ball on middle , Vijay looks to turn it to the leg-side. Gets a leading edge to the left of the bowler , towards mid-off 68.5 Watson to Vijay , no run , banged in short and climbs over the stumps , Vijay arches back and lets it sail through to Haddin 68.4 Watson to Rahane , 3 runs , Rahane finds the gap now ! This was on a length and outside off , Rahane is forward to ease a drive past cover 68.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , overpitched outside off , Rahane lays into a lovely cover-drive. Rogers at short cover dives to his right and makes a fine stop. The result is a dot 68.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up further accompanied by some away shape , Rahane is still not interested in playing at those 68.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length ball straightens in the channel of uncertainty , Rahane though is certain about his leave 67.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , FOUR , dug in short on off , Vijay rocks back and thumps a pull , the ball just raced away to the deep mid-wicket fence. With Vijay cramping up , he is dealing in fours 67.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , 3 runs , fuller and on middle and leg , flicked wide of mid-on for three runs as Siddle back-tracks from there and hunts the ball down 67.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , back of a length , top-of-off line , Rahane softly punches it to short cover , straight to the fielder 67.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , yorker length ball from Hazlewood , jags in on off , Rahane does equally well to dig it out 67.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Rahane stretches forward to block it to the off-side 67.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , pitched up and outside off , real teaser from Hazlewood. But , Rahane wisely ignores it Josh Hazlewood [ 13.0-5-32-2 ] is back into the attack 66.6 Watson to Vijay , no run , back of a length ball just outside off , Vijay stays rooted to the crease as he defensively pushes this to the left of Watto 66.5 Watson to Rahane , 1 run , on a good length and on off , Rahane twirls his wrists to manipulate the ball to square leg 66.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up and on off , Rahane is solid in defence. Blocked to the man at short cover 66.3 Watson to Rahane , 2 runs , on a length and very straight in line , tucked behind square on the leg-side. Rahane comes back for the second 66.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , similar line and length outside off , Rahane stands tall and unfurls a crisp punch , but plays it straight to the fielder at point 66.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , back of a length and outside off , sort of stops on Rahane , who checks his push and defends it to short cover Shane Watson [ 4.0-3-9-0 ] is back into the attack India took 13 off the previous over. These two are motoring along smoothly. Here is Watto . 65.6 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , Vijay is oozing class here. This was flatter and on off , the opener kneels down and sweeps it firmly to the backward square leg fence. That hit raises the 100 of the stand as well 65.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , forward and worked to short mid-wicket 65.4 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , clean strike from Vijay. Tossed up and fuller just outside off , Vijay comes down the track , meets the pitch of the ball and lifts it over vacant mid-off 65.3 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , dug in shortish on off , Rahane rocks back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 65.2 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , very full and width on offer as well , Rahane says thank you very much as he drills a drive to the sweeper cover fence 65.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , slid through outside off , Rahane goes deep in the crease and finds point with a cut Is Vijay suffering from cramps ? The opener had the physio tending to him early on. Now , he helps himself to a banana . 64.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , back of a length and sliding across outside off , Vijay was just ball watching on that occasion. Leaving the balls outside off has been the key ingredient of Vijay 's success in England and here as well 64.5 Starc to Rahane , 1 run , banged in short and hustles Rahane for the pull , who can only hit it to deep square leg. Ca n't beat the fielder 64.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , shortish and on off , tucks Rahane up for room. Jinks fends at it tentatively and ekes out an inside edge onto his thigh 64.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , good length ball , tight line on off , Rahane comes forward and knocks it towards mid-on. He waves his hand to Vijay and says no for the single 64.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , fullish and on off , Rahane is halfway forward to block it back to Starc 64.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , Starc slides this down leg , Rahane does not bother with it. A real wasted delivery , that 63.6 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , spins in on off , Rahane stays back , accounts for the turn and tickles it towards fine leg. Rahane has settled down nicely after a jittery start 63.5 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , worked backward of square leg 63.4 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane allows the ball to come to him and nurdles a single to fine leg off the back foot 63.3 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , quick turn for Lyon from outside off , flatter in trajectory , Rahane rocks back and punches it past cover , the ball travels to the sweeper cover fence , beating Mitch 's chase 63.2 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , fuller and pushed through on off , Vijay comes on the front foot to ease it to long-on 63.1 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , tossed up outside off , Vijay fetches it from there and paddles it to fine leg for a couple of runs 62.6 Starc to Rahane , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rahane drops it in front of cover-point 62.5 Starc to Rahane , no run , 141kph , fullish and close to off , Rahane taps it towards cover 62.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , fuller and close to off , Rahane mistimes the drive , slicing it in front of a diving point Vijay was stretching during the drinks break. The heat is taking a toll on everybody at the Gabba . 62.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , 141kph , back of a length and slanted across off , left alone. Good carry to Haddin 62.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , back of a length and hurries on off at 140kph , Rahane aims to punch off the back foot , but only manages to play it to the right of the bowler off the inside half of the bat 62.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , pitched up and on the fourth stump , Rahane comes forward and pushes it to mid-off Haddin and Steve Smith have a chat. Jinks and Vijay punch gloves before they resume . Drinks are on the field now. Vijay has opened up his wings after tea , punishing the tiring Aussie bowlers. Let 's see if the hosts get rejuvenated after the break and nip out this partnership . 61.6 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , touch flatter this time and on the pads , Rahane goes on the back foot and flicks it towards deep square leg off his pads 61.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery on off stump , Rahane leans forward and turns it to FSL 61.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off and middle , blocked by Rahane 61.3 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , drags this one short , Rahane hangs back and pulls it to the deep square leg fence , Siddle from deep mid-wicket runs towards the ball , but ca n't stop it from crossing the fence 61.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , slowish delivery this time , Rahane goes back in the crease and blocks it into the on-side 61.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Rahane turns it towards FSL off the front foot 60.6 Starc to Rahane , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off , Rahane drives it towards mid-off , where the fielder puts in the dive and stops the ball , but he ca n't prevent the batsmen from taking the single , it was sweetly timed by Rahane as well 60.5 Starc to Rahane , FOUR , short and wide , Rahane flashes hard at it , the ball flies over the slip cordon off the outside half of the bat , the ball runs away to the third man fence 60.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , length delivery just around off , Rahane moves across and blocks it with a straight bat 60.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , touch back of a length and just outside off , Rahane employs soft hands and gently blocks it into the off-side , he was looking for a single , but went back to the crease after seeing that the single was not there to be taken 60.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , fullish delivery just outside off , Rahane drives it straight to mid-off 60.1 Starc to Vijay , 1 run , this is the 50th run after tea for Vijay. He is scoring some really quick runs now. This one was angled across off , Vijay dabs it past a diving gully and gets to the other end 59.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Rahane goes leg-side to the ball and cuts , but he finds the man at backward point 59.5 Lyon to Vijay , 3 runs , touch shortish and little wide , Vijay provided himself more width as he backed away , he cuts it square of the wicket , the batsmen take three before the ball is fielded 59.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , comes on the front foot and pushes at it , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls away towards backward square leg 59.3 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , floated up on middle and leg , Vijay moves across and helps it on its way to the fine leg fence after going down on one knee 59.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Vijay stays back and flicks it , but ca n't get it past FSL 59.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , tossed up on off , Vijay pushes it towards short cover Nathan Lyon [ 13.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack 58.6 Starc to Vijay , 1 run , back of a length delivery down leg , Vijay jumps in the crease and tucks it away to backward square leg , the batsmen think about a second run , but decide against it as the fielder was quickly onto the ball 58.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , bumper but this time it was aimed more at the batsman , Vijay was right upto the task as he sways away from the line this time as well 58.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , almost an action replay of the last ball , another short one from Starc angled across off , Vijay moves away from the line and lets it go 58.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , banged in short and around off , Vijay sways away from the line 58.2 Starc to Vijay , FOUR , great execution on the late cut there from Vijay , he waited for the ball to arrive and cuts it right in the gap between gully and backward point , this shot fetches another four runs for Vijay 58.1 Starc to Vijay , FOUR , on a good length and angled across off , Vijay mistimes the drive to the right of the bowler , the ball still had enough on it to reach the fence as Siddle gave chase Mitchell Starc [ 9.0-0-38-0 ] is back into the attack 57.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , another full one around off , Rahane drives it towards short cover , where Rogers dives to his left and certainly saved three runs for his team there , good effort from the Western Australian there 57.5 Watson to Rahane , no run , touch back of a length and shapes away outside off , Rahane blocks it into the off-side and says 'No ' for the single 57.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , bumper from Watson , Rahane ducks under it 57.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Rahane leans into the drive , but finds the man at cover 57.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , fullish delivery outside off and shaping away as well , Rahane leaves 57.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , length delivery around middle , Rahane leans forward and blocks it back to the bowler 56.6 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , great shot from Vijay. It was fullish and outside off , Vijay goes on the front foot and drives it to the sweeper cover fence , the ball raced away to the fence in no time 56.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Vijay sways away from the line 56.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , dropped ! Shaun Marsh is at it again , he puts down another one , it was the slower ball , Vijay drives , but is early into the shot , he chips it uppishly towards short cover , who timed his jump very poorly , he spills down another one as he palmed it with his right hand , he again tried to take it after the ball looped up a little , but he could n't manage to hold onto it and Vijay survives 56.3 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , drop and run single from Rahane , he gently pushed it in front of cover and gets to the other end in no time 56.2 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Vijay tucks it away towards short mid-wicket and sets off for a single 56.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , what happened there ? It was touch back of a length delivery just around off , Vijay looks to push at it , somehow the ball took the inside edge and went past the leg stump , Vijay was looking for a single as the ball rolled away behind square on the on-side , but Haddin was quickly onto it and that 's why Rahane sent him back 55.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Rahane covers the stumps and blocks with a straight bat 55.5 Watson to Vijay , 1 run , stays on the back foot and dabs it in front of backward point , the batsmen pinch a quick run 55.4 Watson to Vijay , FOUR , Finally , Murali Vijay gets his hundred ! He gets to his century with another boundary , it was fullish outside off , Vijay drives it through the covers and the ball raced away to the fence , Vijay was himself not sure about whether he has reached his ton and it was Rahane who told him , he raises his bat to his team-mates and hugs Rahane 55.3 Watson to Vijay , FOUR , fullish delivery tailing in on middle stump , Vijay clips it to the deep mid-wicket fence , he timed it sweetly and reaches 96 55.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Vijay leaves 55.1 Watson to Vijay , no run , length delivery with a hint of movement in towards the batsman , Vijay shoulders arms , but the ball was n't that far away from the off stump Shane Watson [ 2.0-2-0-0 ] is back into the attack 54.6 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , another one that 's been angled across off , Vijay stays rooted to the crease and dabs it wide of backward point , the batsmen go through for a quick single 54.5 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , a friendly low full toss just outside off , Vijay just had to place it in the gap and he does it perfectly as the ball runs away to the fence after going past a diving mid-off 54.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , a wayward delivery wide outside off from Johnson , Vijay has nothing to do with it as he watches it go into the hands of the keeper 54.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , just short of a good length and angled across off , Vijay shoulders arms Two slips and a gully in place 54.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , yorker on middle stump line , Vijay digs it out back towards the bowler 54.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Vijay stands tall and blocks it back on the pitch 53.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , 3 runs , straying on the pads this time , Vijay flicks it off his pad to deep mid-wicket , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down , Vijay will keep the strike 53.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , length delivery outside off , Vijay moves across and blocks it towards mid-on 53.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , in the channel outside off and shapes away a touch as well , Vijay stays in the crease and offers no shot 53.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , fullish and outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 53.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Vijay looks to cut hard , the ball takes the outside half and flies over the area between gully and backward point , it raced away to the fence in no time , even though Vijay was not in control of it , he will take the four Hazlewood is on the ground. The physio is currently taking a look at him. He slipped during his followthrough. With the heat as well , it is difficult for the players and it is important for them to keep taking fluids during such times. Hazlewood is currently taking some water. Looks like he had a cramp , but he is alright now. He has gone back to his run-up and will continue . 53.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , FOUR , fullish and on middle and leg , Vijay flicks it very fine on the on-side , the fine leg fielder was square and had no chance of cutting that before the ball reached the fence Josh Hazlewood [ 12.0-5-21-2 ] is back into the attack Hazlewood will share the attack first up 52.6 Johnson to Rahane , no run , back of a length delivery going with the angle outside off , Rahane does n't offer a shot 52.5 Johnson to Rahane , no run , Rahane shoulders arms this time as Johnson bowls this one well outside off 52.4 Johnson to Rahane , no run , another one banged in short and just around off , Rahane sways away fromt he line and drops his wrists , the ball goes through to the keeper 52.3 Johnson to Vijay , 3 runs , full and angled across off , Vijay leans forward and drives it through the cover region , the fielders give chase , but ca n't prevent the batsmen from taking three 52.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , in the channel outside off , Vijay leaves it alone 52.1 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , great short delivery first up , Rahane jumps in the crease and got into an awkward situation , the ball hit the handle and looped up behind square on the on-side , Rahane had no clue where the ball went , luckily for him , it did n't carry to anyone The players are out in the middle. Mitch will start the proceedings. Here we go.. . Welcome back. India got off to a good start , but Kohli 's wicket has changed the situation. Australia will now be looking to impose their dominance in this session whereas India would ideally want Vijay and Rahane to continue as long as possible. Can Australia force India on the back foot ? Let 's find out. The post-tea session kicks off now . India also went about their batting at a slow pace , making 62 runs in 27 overs. The final session promises to be very interesting with Murali Vijay at the crease. Can he get to his hundred this time ? Join us in a short while to find out. Till then , take a small tea/coffee break. We will be back soon . Tea , Day 1 : Australia will be the happier of the two sides at tea. They have made a good comeback in the second session , picking up the wickets of Pujara and Kohli. Pujara may have been unlucky , but the Indian team did n't have the luxury of using the DRS as it is not a part of this series as well. Kohli looked good for the time he was at the crease but he gifted his wicket away after playing a loose shot . 51.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , pushed through a little quicker on off and middle , Vijay stays forward and blocks 51.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , steps out of the crease and whips hard , but straight to the short mid-wicket fielder 51.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , floated up on middle stump , Vijay leans forward and blocks 51.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Vijay comes on the front foot and defends it 51.2 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , touch slower this time , Rahane goes back and flicks it uppishly past Rogers at FSL 51.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on leg , Rahane goes down and sweeps it to backward square leg , he falls over as he plays the sweep Last over before tea coming up.. . 50.6 Watson to Vijay , no run , another one that shapes away outside off , Vijay covers the stumps and lets it go 50.5 Watson to Vijay , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Vijay stays rooted to the crease and blocks it into the on-side 50.4 Watson to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery shaping away but wide of off , Vijay does n't get tempted in offering a shot 50.3 Watson to Vijay , no run , bumper from Watson , Vijay sits under it 50.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , slightly fuller outside off this time , Vijay shoulders arms to this one 50.1 Watson to Vijay , no run , touch back of a length on middle and leg , Vijay turns it into the on-side and shouts a loud 'No ' for the single 49.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on middle , Rahane leans forward and defends 49.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane drives it to mid-off 49.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , on the legs , Rahane tucks it away to short fine leg Looks like Haddin has got something in his eye. He is alright now after Warner and Watson take a look at it . 49.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , leans forward and turns it into the on-side 49.2 Lyon to Rahane , 4 runs , shortish and wide of off , Rahane goes back and cuts it away to sweeper cover , Shaun Marsh gives chase and a confusion in the relay throwing of the ball allows the batsmen to run four runs 49.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane comes forward and drives it to mid-off 48.6 Watson to Vijay , no run , Watson induces the edge but it does n't carry to the second slip , it was touch fuller and around off , Vijay pushes at it , the ball shapes away a touch and takes the outside edge , luckily for Vijay he was pushing at it with soft hands , that 's why the ball did n't carry to the fielder 48.5 Watson to Vijay , no run , shortens the length a little and brings this one back on off and middle , Vijay gets right behind the line and blocks 48.4 Watson to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery moving away outside off , Vijay does n't offer a shot Two slips and a gully in place for Watson 48.3 Watson to Vijay , no run , splays this one down leg , Vijay fails to glance it fine , Haddin takes it down the leg-side 48.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , this time Vijay shoulders arms to this fullish delivery a little wide outside off 48.1 Watson to Vijay , no run , full and shaping away outside off , Vijay looks to drive , the ball goes past the outside edge as it shaped away Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 47.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , shortish and little wide of off , Rahane missed the chance of putting it away as he chops it towards Watson at slip 47.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane prods forward and blocks it into the off-side 47.4 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , touch flatter this time , Rahane hangs back and pulls it to deep backward square leg for a brace 47.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , pushed through on middle , Rahane goes back and bunts it towards short mid-wicket 47.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Rahane leans forward and defends 47.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , leans forward and blocks this tossed up delivery 46.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , how did that miss the off stump ? Was that a good leave ? Rahul Dravid on air says that as long as it does n't hit the stumps , it is a good leave. This delivery jagged back in from just short of a good length , Vijay shoulders arms and the ball just about goes over the stumps 46.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , bowls this one in the channel outside off , Vijay watches it closely and shoulders arms Two slips and a gully in place 46.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , too straight from Hazlewood , Rahane stays back and nurdles it towards backward square leg to get to the other end 46.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , 2 runs , Rahane is also not backing away from playing his shots , this one was banged in short and at the batsman , Rahane pulls it and rolls his wrists over it , the ball rolls away towards deep backward square leg and the batsmen take a couple Mitchell Starc is now back on the field. Looks like he is alright now . 46.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , this one jags back in on off and middle , Rahane gets solidly behind it and defends 46.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , another beauty from Hazlewood , it was on a length and just outside off , Rahane looks to push at it , the ball goes past the outside edge and goes through to the keeper 45.6 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , touch flatter this time , Rahane goes back in the crease and tucks it away to deep backward square leg 45.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off , Rahane defends 45.4 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , gives the charge this time and looks to hoick it over the mid-wicket fence , but he ca n't get his timing right , lucky for Rahane that the ball fell in no-man 's land as he did n't middle it at all 45.3 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , goes deep in the crease and works it to deep backward square leg for a single 45.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , floated up on off , Vijay blocks off the front foot 45.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , pushed through down leg , Vijay stays inside the crease and flicks it to backward square leg 44.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , back of a length delivery around middle , Rahane stays back and blocks 44.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , Hazlewood is getting the ball to talk , he is posing some problems for the batsmen , this one was just outside off , Rahane wanted to pull , the ball lobbed off the splice of the bat and just about evades a leaping bowler , Rahane is lucky that it did n't go straight into the hands of the bowler or the fielder close by 44.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , touch fullish this time , Rahane comes on the front foot and blocks 44.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , peach from Hazlewood first up to Rahane , it was on a good length and jags back in sharply , Rahane looks to push at it , the ball shapes in , beats the inside edge and goes over the stumps , that was very close to the off-stump , but just over it Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Kohli is gone. This is a big breakthrough for the Australians. It was a short and wide delivery outside off , Kohli flashes hard at it , there was extra bounce on this one and the ball takes the edge , Haddin swallows it with ease. Big , Big wicket for the Australians. Kohli 's wicket now has changed the momentum completely. Kohli c Haddin b Hazlewood 19 ( 27 ) [ 4s-1 ] Hazlewood to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Mitchell Starc is off the field. Has the heat got to him ? We will keep you updated . 44.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , bumper just outside off , Kohli sways away from the line and lets it go Josh Hazlewood [ 10.0-4-18-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , tossed up around off , Vijay leans forward and blocks 43.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , spinning down leg , there was extra bounce on this one , Vijay failed to tickle it fine , there was a shout of 'Catch ' , but there was nothing on that 43.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , lunges forward in defence this time 43.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Vijay stays back and turns it towards backward square leg , the non-striker has to rush back into the crease as the fielder has a shy at his end 43.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flatter on the stumps , Vijay goes back in the crease and turns it to short mid-wicket 43.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated up on middle , Kohli leans across and works it to deep mid-wicket It is very hot out there in the centre. Australian players had cold towels around them during the break Murali Vijay has looked a little streaky in the last 15 minutes. Can he finally get to his hundred ? The hundred he has missed the last 3 times. We will find out . Time for a drinks break . 42.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , back of a length close to off , Vijay hangs back and defends it to cover 42.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , short of length around off , Vijay drops his gloves and lets it pass 42.4 Starc to Vijay , FOUR , Vijay is taking a few risks , pitched up outside off , Vijay bends his right knee and slices the drive uppishly through the point region , fortunately for him it was in the gap between backward point and gully 42.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , short delivery on the stumps , Vijay ducks and lets it go through 42.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , fuller and on off , Vijay checks his shot , hits the on-drive in the air to the right of the bowler , Starc gets a hand to it , but ca n't hang on as the ball rolls to mid-on. That was a difficult chance 42.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 41.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , uses his feet , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it towards mid-off , Johnson dives to his right and stops the ball 41.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , hangs onto the back foot and nurdles it to deep backward square leg 41.4 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , flighted on middle , Vijay presses forward and works it through square leg for a single 41.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , much better from Vijay , leans forward and blocks it to the off-side 41.2 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , " catch " shouted the close in fielders , it was floated up outside off , Vijay does n't get to the pitch and drives it uppishly , the ball goes wide of cover and mid-off 41.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , Lyon continues round the wicket , tossed up on off , Kohli goes back and nudges it past short leg for a single 40.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , another short delivery , Vijay sinks under it and lets it go through to the keeper 40.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , fuller and just outside off , Vijay push-drives it straight to cover 40.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Vijay sits down and lets it thud into Haddin 's gloves 40.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , back of a length close to off , Vijay trusts the bounce on the wicket and shoulders arms 40.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , good length ball on off , Vijay is neither forward nor back as he defends down the wicket 40.1 Starc to Kohli , 3 runs , full and on the pads , Kohli leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket , he called for two , but Rogers was slow in getting to the ball , which allowed him to get back for the third 39.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , slower and on leg-stump , Kohli nurdles it behind square for a single 39.5 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , throws this up outside off , Vijay skips out of the crease and whips it uppishly to deep mid-wicket , he did n't get to the pitch of the ball , but did well to reach it with his hands 39.4 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated up on off , Kohli kneels down and smashes the sweep into the short leg fielder , the ball deflects towards fine leg 39.3 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Vijay goes deep in the crease and glances it past leg slip for a single 39.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted on middle and leg , Vijay flicks and picks out mid-wicket 39.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Lyon goes round the wicket , tosses it up on off , Vijay comes down the track and works it to mid-wicket 38.6 Starc to Kohli , no run , that was very well bowled , short and closer to the batsman , Kohli was in a dilemma whether to duck or sway away from the line of the delivery , in the end he does well to not nick behind to the slip cordon 38.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , second bumper in a row , Kohli has no problems dealing with it , ducks and lets it pass 38.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , bouncer around off , Kohli walks across the stumps and sinks it underneath it , good carry to Haddin , who takes it above his head 38.3 Starc to Kohli , no run , again , too far across off , Kohli has nothing to do with it 38.2 Starc to Kohli , no run , good length ball just outside off , left alone 38.1 Starc to Kohli , 2 runs , short of length and straightens a touch , Kohli is squared up as he plays this , the ball takes the outer half of the bat and runs to square third man Vijay has continued from where he had left off in the first session. Pujara was unlucky to be given out , but Kohli is out there and giving Vijay company. Once again the onus on these two to stitch another good partnership . 37.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated up on off , Kohli gets to the pitch and eases it down to long-on 37.5 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Vijay bends his left knee and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 37.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flatter and close to off , Vijay goes back and blocks it to cover 37.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted outside off , Vijay kneels down and misses the sweep , is struck on the pads , the impact was outside off though. It was too full to be playing the sweep shot 37.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , solidly defended off the front foot back to the bowler Lyon loses his run-up and pulls out of his delivery stride . 37.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn , nurdles it behind square leg for a single 36.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Vijay ducks under it and evades it comfortably 36.5 Starc to Kohli , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Kohli push-drives it wide of mid-off and takes off immediately for the single 36.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , good length ball angled across Kohli , who covers his stumps and shoulders arms 36.3 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , top shot ! Overpitched outside off , Kohli leans forward , presents the straigthtest of bats and drives it to the right of mid-off , the timing was excellent as the ball raced away to the fence 36.2 Starc to Kohli , no run , pitched up just outside off , Kohli drives and picks out mid-off 36.1 Starc to Kohli , no run , full and on off , Kohli does n't time the drive as he hits it to mid-on Mitchell Starc [ 5.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , pushed through outside off , Vijay leans forward , opens the bat face and runs it down to third man for a couple 35.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted on off , Vijay plays an extended forward defence to the right of the bowler , Lyon dives and fields the ball 35.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , touch quicker and close to off , Vijay hangs back and knocks it to the off-side 35.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , tossed up around off , Vijay presses forward and blocks it to the left of Lyon 35.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , slower and on off , Vijay goes back and defends it 35.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , there comes Vijay down the track straightaway , he does n't get to the pitch and hence blocks it down the wicket Nathan Lyon [ 4.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack 34.6 Johnson to Vijay , 3 runs , low full toss outside off , Vijay reaches out for it and eases it through the vacant cover region , these two are quick and get back for the third before the ball is thrown back at the bowlers end 34.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , rises steeply onto Vijay , who does well to play it with loose bottom hand towards point 34.4 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Kohli guides it with an angled bat past a diving backward point , slight hesitation regarding the second run , in the end the duo do n't go for it 34.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , short delivery outside off , Kohli ignores it 34.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , full and tails back in , Kohli drives it to mid-on , his bottom hand came off the bat as he played that 34.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , fuller and just outside off , Kohli covers the line and shoulders arms 33.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good length ball on off , Vijay does not move fully forward , the ball takes the inside part of the bat and rolls to square leg 33.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Kohli shuffles across and pulls it to fine leg , he was not in control of that shot 33.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , short of length around off , Kohli gets behind the line and defends it in front of cover Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 33.3 Hazlewood to Pujara , out Caught by Haddin ! ! First Test wicket for Hazlewood. Pujara is not happy with the decision and he should be as the ball came off the helmet. Ian Gould has got one wrong. Short delivery that comes back in , Pujara tries to get out of the way , his gloves were close to the ball but did n't kiss it , takes the helmet and goes through to Haddin. Unlucky to be given out as he was looking in good touch. Pujara c Haddin b Hazlewood 18 ( 64 ) [ 4s-1 ] Hazlewood to Pujara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.2 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , short and outside off , Pujara arches back and lets it pass 33.1 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , overpitched outside off , Pujara drives it straight to cover 32.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , good length ball on leg-stump , Vijay turns it with soft hands to mid-on 32.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , back of a length on middle , defended to the right of the bowler off the back foot 32.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , pitched up and slanted across the right-hander , left alone 32.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , the sucker delivery , full and wide outside off , Vijay does n't take the bait as he sees it go past him 32.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fuller and close to off , Vijay does n't get forward , but lets his hand reach the ball as he defends to mid-off 32.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , sharp bumper on the stumps , Vijay sinks under it and lets it sail over him. That was bowled at 147kph 31.6 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , fuller and hint of shape into the batsman , but that was after Pujara shouldered arms 31.5 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , short of length on off , not much venom to trouble the batsman , Pujara goes back and blocks it down the wicket 31.4 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , back of a length on off , Pujara defends solidly to mid-on 31.3 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , good length ball in the channel around off , Pujara comes forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 31.2 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , follows the short one with a fuller delivery , Pujara drives it back to the bowler , Hazlewood bends down and stops it in his follow-through 31.1 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , bumper aimed at the batsman , Pujara arches back and lets it go through 30.6 Johnson to Pujara , 1 run , lovely shot for just one run , pitched up outside off , Pujara gets a good stride forward and drives it past cover , but ca n't beat the fielder at mid-off , Starc dives to his left and saves a certain boundary 30.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , on a length just outside off , left alone to the keeper 30.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , fuller and on off , Pujara drives it down the wicket , Johnson sticks out his left hand and parries it towards mid-off , he saved some runs there 30.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , shortish and close to off , Pujara rides the bounce , drops it in front of point and looks for the single , Vijay is not interested though 30.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , fuller and just outside off , Pujara covers the line and shoulders arms 30.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length on off , Pujara gets right behind the line and blocks it to the on-side The latest on Mitchell Marsh is that he has some soreness in his right hamstring and is being assessed right now . 29.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , back of a length on off , Vijay goes back and defends solidly towards cover 29.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Vijay getting slightly frustrated , half volley around off , Vijay drives and finds the cover fielder , he is relying more on power rather than timing 29.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , full and on the stumps , Vijay flicks it and picks out square leg , Rogers dives to his right and makes a fine stop 29.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , " catch " were the shouts from some of the Australians. It was fuller and just outside off , Vijay drives it in the air just short of cover , Shaun Marsh dives to his left and fields the ball 29.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , Vijay mistimes the drive to cover , he could not transfer the weight onto the front foot 29.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , 2 runs , full and on the pads , bowled at 128kph , Vijay stays in the crease and flicks it behind square leg for a brace Josh Hazlewood [ 7.0-3-15-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , bouncer outside off , Pujara sways back and lets it go , he had no problems dealing with that one 28.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , again , shortish and on the stumps , Pujara gets behind the line and pats it towards mid-wicket 28.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , keeps it back of a length on off , Pujara stays back and defends it to cover 28.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short and outside off , bowled at 143kph , Pujara goes for the cut , but ca n't connect as the ball whistles past the outside edge 28.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , back of a length on middle , Pujara hangs back and tucks it to square leg 28.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length outside off , Pujara shoulders arms , good carry through to Haddin , who takes it above his shoulder Mitchell Johnson [ 6.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , back of a length on middle , it straightened a touch , Vijay was opened up as he defended it down the wicket 27.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , shortens the length outside off , Vijay lets it pass Marsh is off the field. He walked off soon after finishing the over . 27.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , too full , almost a yorker outside off , Vijay brings his bat down and jams it towards cover 27.3 Starc to Pujara , 1 run , on a length close to off , Pujara drops it towards point and takes off for a single 27.2 Starc to Pujara , no run , short of length outside off , left alone Mitchell Marsh looked in some discomfort after bowling the last delivery of the over. He has had injury worries. Still do n't know if he is on the field. We 'll update once we find out . 27.1 Starc to Pujara , no run , back of a length on leg-stump , Pujara tucks it in front of square leg 26.6 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , full and curling in on off , Vijay comes slightly forward and pushes it to mid-off , that came right off the middle as the ball travelled quickly to the fielder 26.5 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , short and too far across off , Vijay ignores it 26.4 M Marsh to Pujara , 1 run , short delivery on the body , not much pace on that ball , Pujara swivels and pulls it along the ground to fine leg 26.3 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , Marsh drags the length back , Pujara waits on the back foot and guides it to gully 26.2 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , shapes back in from just outside off , Pujara covers the swing and defends to the on-side 26.1 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , pitched up close to off , Pujara drills the drive straight back to the bowler , he tried to hit it too hard and hence did n't get the placement 25.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , the line is just outside off , Vijay arches back and lets it pass 25.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , nips back in from a length , Vijay does not move his feet as he looks to defend , the ball strikes him on the pad , height was an issue as well as it was heading down leg 25.4 Starc to Vijay , FOUR , 3rd fifty in a row , superb way to bring it up. Overpitched outside off , Vijay bends his left knee and caresses the drive through the cover region , the timing was brilliant on that 25.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , good length ball well wide of off , Vijay covers the line and lets it go 25.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , fuller and angled outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 25.1 Starc to Vijay , 2 runs , " catch " was the call from Starc , a full delivery that tails back in , Vijay leans forward and flicks it uppishly , wide of the square leg fielder for a couple Vijay and Pujara make their way out to the middle. Starc to resume the attack. He has two slips and a gully in place.. . Welcome back.. Vijay has once again seen off the new ball , though their were a few close calls , he has managed to survive and battle it out. Pujara is giving him company after another failure from Dhawan. Apart from Johnson , no other bowler has looked threatening . We 'll be back to tell you all that and much more. A mini break here as the players take lunch. Do stay tuned for the second session . Vijay was dropped by Shaun Marsh soon after Dhawan got out and Pujara has had a couple of iffy moments. But they have gotten through to lunch unbeaten. Australia would be a tad disappointed with their morning 's effort. They did n't bowl enough in the areas to make the batsmen play and only Johnson looked threatening. Already we have seen - in the 4 overs that Lyon has bowled , he wo n't be as destructive as he was at Adelaide. The absence of Ryan Harris is a big blow as both Hazlewood and Starc have n't found their bearings. Will there be any change after lunch ? Or will India stroll along smoothly ? 89/1 in the first session on the opening day at the Gabba is a pretty good score. India would 've taken it with both hands if someone had offered it to them at the start , today. The foundation was once again set by Vijay and along with Dhawan they picked on the right ball to get their runs to. They left well outside off and did n't try anything fancy. In the process they put on India 's first 50-run stand overseas since 2011. Marsh then scalped Dhawan to get his first Test wicket . 24.6 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , Pujara stays back and then angles it with an open face to gully. That will be lunch on day 1 24.5 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , nice shot for no run. Confident front foot forward and a sweet drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 24.4 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , tight delivery on off stump , Pujara shows the full face of the bat and defends it back to Marsh 24.3 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , tries to drive too hard through cover and mistimes it back to the bowler 24.2 M Marsh to Pujara , 2 runs , so close to his 2nd Test wicket was Marsh. Pujara driving away from the body and got an inside edge that missed leg. Lyon runs around from fine leg and keeps it to a couple. Very streaky stroke that 24.1 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , pitched up on off , Pujara eases it down to mid-on Mitchell Marsh [ 4.0-1-11-1 ] is back into the attack Last over before lunch 23.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , stretches out and smothers the spin on that 23.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , right forward and then blocked back to Lyon 23.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay shows the full face of the bat and defends it in front of short cover 23.3 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , off break is waited and then nudged wide of leg slip 23.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , lunges forward this time and defends it back to Lyon 23.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara wants to come forward and then decides to play from the crease back to the bowler 22.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Hazlewood is plugging away in the corridor of uncertainty , but is n't making Vijay play 22.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , Vijay gets forward and drives to mid-off 22.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , full and outside off , Vijay is n't tempted to playing at that 22.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , pitched up on middle , Vijay gets forward to on-drive , to mid-on , straight to the fielder 22.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , short and following Vijay , he drops his wrists and lets it go 22.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , full outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 21.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , uses his feet and works it to short mid 21.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tossed up outside off , Pujara comes on the front foot to block to the right of Lyon 21.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , worked to short leg 21.3 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , shuffles across and nudges to deep backward square leg 21.2 Lyon to Pujara , 3 runs , fraction short and spinning back in , Pujara rocks back and pulls to deep mid-wicket. It 's a pretty long boundary and they get just the three 21.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , gets forward and defends it back to Lyon 20.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , FOUR , pitched up outside off , Vijay plays a T20 stroke , deliberately going over cover. Smashed it and followed through with the shot. Punches gloves with Pujara after that 20.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , on a back of a length on the stumps , Vijay takes the bottom hand off the bat and defends it back down the track 20.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , 139kph delivery , close to off stump , but Vijay has it covered and shoulders arms 20.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , short delivery outside off , Vijay goes on his knees and lets it go , arching back to leave 20.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone 20.1 Hazlewood to Pujara , 1 run , risky single ! Tapped in front of cover and Pujara set off. Vijay responded too and made it as Lyon missed the direct hit. Would 've been very close had there been one 19.6 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , and again , this time a single to deep backward square leg 19.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , uses his feet and defends it back to Lyon 19.4 Lyon to Pujara , byes , FOUR , almost took the off stump ! Pujara is beaten all ends up on the forward defence. Missed the shot and the ball missed off by inches. Bounced over , Haddin was nowhere too and it runs away for four byes. Lyon ca n't believe it 19.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , bounced from a good length , but Pujara handles it off the back foot 19.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara uses his feet and nudges it to short mid-wicket 19.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , defended off the back foot Lyon is back over the wicket for his 2nd over 18.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , a maiden but nothing which would cause batsmen sleepless nights , Vijay on the front foot and blocking back down the track 18.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , tempter outside off , Vijay wanted to drive and then lets it go. Has a smile on his face after that 18.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , forward and defended back to Hazlewood , once again the bottom hand comes off after playing the shot 18.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , short and down leg , Vijay ducks to let it go 18.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , shuffles across to off and defends it to cover solidly 18.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , Vijay shoulders arms Josh Hazlewood [ 4.0-1-10-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , pushed wide of short mid-wicket where Smith gets across to field 17.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , spinning down leg , left alone 17.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tossed up on middle , Pujara gets forward to defend Lyon is coming from round the wicket with a slip , short leg and a leg slip in place 17.3 Lyon to Pujara , 2 runs , nudged to fine leg and quick running gives them two 17.2 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , down leg , whipped to deep backward square leg 17.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay gets forward and defends to short mid-wicket Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 16.6 Johnson to Pujara , FOUR , Johnson is still chirping away after Pujara hits a boundary. Pujara 's front foot gets forward and he times the drive past mid-off. The ball just races away 16.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , another short delivery on the stumps , Pujara arches his back to leave that one as well 16.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , stays beside the line and knocks it to point 16.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 146kph fiery short delivery , Pujara does well to sway out of the way , leaves it alone. Johnson stares and has a word with Pujara Three slips , a gully , a short leg and a leg gully for Che now. Expect plenty of short stuff 16.2 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , defended back to Johnson who thinks short leg is there and tries to pass the ball to him , there is no short leg though and the batsmen take a single 16.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , gets forward and takes one hand off the bat handle , as he defends it back to Johnson 15.6 M Marsh to Vijay , 1 run , wide of the crease and angled in , Vijay takes one hand off the bat handle and nudges it wide of square leg 15.5 M Marsh to Pujara , 1 run , wristed wide of mid-on for a quick single 15.4 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , down leg , wasted delivery 15.3 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , beautiful bowling from Marsh. Angles in on off stump and then moves away a shade to beat Pujara who was pushing inside the line , milimetres away from the outside edge. Snicko picks up a tiny wave. HotSpot though shows nothing 15.2 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , dug in short outside off , Pujara leaves that all alone 15.1 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , defends to cover and shouts 'no no ' to Vijay 14.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , that one he confidently shoulders arms as he sees the angle going across him 14.5 Johnson to Vijay , 2 runs , overpitched outside off , Vijay 's front foot moves and he gets a couple through cover 14.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short from Johnson , Vijay is quick to duck and let it go 14.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , dropped ! By Shaun Marsh at third slip. Healthy outside edge carried to Marsh , who went low and reverse cup to his left to try to catch that. His hands went in an awkward position and the ball was grassed. Vijay gets a life 14.2 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , half-volley from Johnson and Vijay has put that away through cover. Not fully forward but the hands do the rest. Caressed through cover and the ball has enough legs to go all the way 14.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , pitched up on off , pushed to mid-off 13.6 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , much better , shows the full face of the bat and defends to mid-on 13.5 M Marsh to Pujara , no run , that was a very iffy leave - if I may call it that way - from Pujara. He pushed his bat inside the line to leave and the ball was n't far away from the outside edge Cheteshwar Pujara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.4 M Marsh to Dhawan , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Maiden Test wicket for Marsh. Poor poor stroke though. Short and wide outside off , Dhawan went for the full-blooded cut and only top-edged it. Was there for the shot , but he did n't execute it. Marsh runs to his brother first to celebrate. Another failure for Dhawan , this time after doing all the hard work. Dhawan c Haddin b M Marsh 24 ( 39 ) M Marsh to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.3 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , good leave that as Dhawan shoulders arms Stop the Press ! India have their first 50-run opening stand overseas after 2011. After 43 innings. The last time they did it was in 2011 against England when Gambhir and Mukund were the openers. Series ' have come and gone. Players have come and gone. Legends have retired. Openers have changed. Still that one stat - till today - remained a constant. Who would 've expected that to change today after one saw the wicket at the Gabba ! That 's why they call this great game of ours a funny game. Anything can happen ! 13.2 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , presses forward and defends to point 13.1 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , defended to cover off the back foot 12.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , dug in short once more , Vijay ducks under that and lets it go. Saw that early and left it 12.5 Johnson to Dhawan , 3 runs , nice stroke that. On the front foot and a controlled drive through cover. Was in the air , but well wide of any fielder. They take three 12.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , rapid short delivery that from Johnson , Dhawan has to be quick to yank his head out of the way , does so , sways out of the line and lets it go. The crowd roar its approval 12.3 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , down leg , Dhawan ca n't get bat on ball on the leg glance. Wasted delivery that 12.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , that 's a searing short delivery. Pings Dhawan on the left-glove and then the chest , before going to ground. Dhawan was on his toes and fending , could n't avoid that , the ball missed the bat and then hit the glove. Johnson stares at Dhawan who just smiles back 12.1 Johnson to Dhawan , 4 runs , they run 4 ! Down leg from Johnson , Dhawan clipped that away towards deep backward square leg , Mitchell Marsh gives a spirited chase , dives and pulls it back. Another man does the backing up , but they run four as the square boundary is a fair bit away Mitchell Johnson [ 3.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. India have done extremely well to get to 49 with relatively no trouble at all. The Aussies have been guilty of not pitching it up , their lengths have been on the shorter side. They have n't made the batsman play often too. Having said all that , both Vijay and Dhawan have looked quite good . 11.6 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , slight shape away , left alone 11.5 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , full on off , Vijay presses into the covers 11.4 M Marsh to Vijay , FOUR , rank bad ball - short and wide outside off , Vijay thumps a square cut over point. Hit deliberately in the air 11.3 M Marsh to Vijay , no run , short of length and moving away , from outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 11.2 M Marsh to Dhawan , 1 run , fullish on the pads , nudged to fine leg 11.1 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan looks for the drop and run into the covers , but Vijay sends him back 10.6 Starc to Dhawan , 1 run , on the pads , flicked to fine leg 10.5 Starc to Dhawan , no run , that bounced off a back of a length and surprised Dhawan. Hit him on the splice and then the ball rolled back down the wicket 10.4 Starc to Vijay , 3 runs , Vijay comes on the front foot and reaches out to play a classy drive through cover. It 's a long boundary here square of the wicket and that allows three 10.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , 141kph , short delivery , Vijay arches his back and lets it go. Haddin takes it over his head 10.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , short of length outside off , at 142kph , Vijay shoulders arms 10.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , pitched up and a firm off-drive off the front foot to mid-off 9.6 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , very wide and outside off , no need to play at those and Dhawan does n't 9.5 M Marsh to Dhawan , 2 runs , down leg and glanced away by Dhawan , it was heading to the fence , until Starc slides and saves two runs for his side 9.4 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhawan shoulders arms 9.3 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , short of length on off , defended to the right of Marsh Looks like the ball has been changed at the end of last over 9.2 M Marsh to Dhawan , 2 runs , pitched up outside off , Dhawan gets forward and eases a drive wide of point for a couple of runs 9.1 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , Marsh comes on and Dhawan shuffles across to off and then lets one go outside off Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 8.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , yorker length outside off , dug out by Vijay 8.5 Starc to Dhawan , 1 run , well-run that. Gets forward and plays with soft hands in front of cover. Easily done in the end 8.4 Starc to Dhawan , no run , well wide of off , Dhawan does n't play at it 8.3 Starc to Vijay , 3 runs , full and wide outside off , Vijay does n't time it as well as he would 've liked to , still gets three through cover Already the ball is being passed through those hoops. They pass it on and reckon it 's ok to continue for the moment . 8.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , 143kph inswinger , much more compact defence from Vijay. Right off the middle of the bat 8.1 Starc to Vijay , FOUR , Starc is n't a happy man at all. He drew the false stroke from Vijay - a sliced cover drive , which went in the air , but just wide of gully. Races away to the fence at third man 7.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , pitched up on off , driven wide of mid-off for another single 7.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan pushes out with hard hands and looks to defend , a thick inside edge misses leg stump and runs away down to fine leg 7.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , turned past the left of short leg , easy single 7.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , on middle , wristed straight to the fielder at mid-on 7.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , beaten by a beautiful outie. Vijay could 've left that alone , but sucked into the forward defensive and the ball was miles away from the bat. Carried well to Haddin 7.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 3 runs , nice shot that , right forward and punched past Vijay , the ball plugs in the outfield and they take three 6.6 Starc to Dhawan , 1 run , full and down leg , flicked to fine leg to keep strike 6.5 Starc to Dhawan , no run , wide of the crease and angled in on the stumps , at 141kph , Dhawan defends to mid-on 6.4 Starc to Vijay , 1 run , the attempted inswinging yorker , jammed out in front of mid-on. Vijay wrings his right-hand in pain after playing that 6.3 Starc to Vijay , 2 runs , big inside edge as Vijay pushed forward to defend , wide of short leg , to the right of the man and a couple 6.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , that squirmed back in , swing for Starc , but Vijay covered his off stump and then let it go 6.1 Starc to Dhawan , 1 run , 138kph to start off with , on the hips , tucked to fine leg Mitchell Starc , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 5.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , short of length on the stumps , no real movement that time , Vijay is back and across , defends comfortably 5.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , almost sneaked through , as Hazlewood went full on the stumps , Dhawan digs it through short leg 's hands. Only a single as the fielder is quick to get to the ball 5.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , dug in short by Hazlewood , outside off , Dhawan arches back and then lets it go 5.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , puts his front foot forward and then leaves a full one outside off alone 5.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 2 runs , very full from Hazlewood , Dhawan kept his shape and punched it past mid-on for a couple of runs. Starc the man doing the chasing 5.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of length on the stumps , Dhawan tucks it to the left of short leg 4.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 143kph short delivery , Vijay is quick to go down on his knees 4.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , beaten ! Lovely delivery , lured Vijay into the forward defensive and it kept going away with the angle , Vijay pushed out and saw the ball go past his edge. Johnson so nearly had his opening wicket Vijay stops Johnson as he is n't happy with movement behind the bowler 's arm. Johnson has something to say to the batsman. Chirp from the slip cordon too 4.4 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , Vijay puts that away. Down leg and it needed a tickle , which Vijay provided. Johnson is a disappointed man as the ball races away to the fine leg fence 4.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , back of a length outside off , good leave that 4.2 Johnson to Vijay , 2 runs , gets forward to defend and with an open face nudges it wide of gully. Warner runs after it and that unsettles Dhawan who sends Vijay back. Actually three men ran after the ball , but Warner got there first 4.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 145kph , pitched up outside off , Vijay mistimes the cover drive to mid-off. Came off the outside half of the bat 3.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , another well-judged leave by Dhawan , keeps his eyes on that outside off delivery and then shoulders arms 3.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , finally Hazlewood hits 140kph , on a back of a length outside off , good leave by Dhawan that time 3.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , beautiful delivery , beats Dhawan all ends up , drew Dhawan into the forward defensive and the ball went away with the angle from over the wicket to beat the batsman. So close to the edge too 3.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , Hazlewood was setting Dhawan up for that similar stroke. Full and wide outside off , the sucker delivery and Dhawan nearly nicked it. Went after it and did n't make contact. Practices his shot after getting beaten 3.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , 138kph , nips back in and cramps Dhawan for room. He is rooted to the crease and manages an inside edge onto the pads. Looked very awkward there while playing that 3.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , too close to cut , Dhawan is cramped for room and chops it to point 2.6 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , down leg , flicked to fine leg , Dhawan will get off the mark 2.5 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , superb short delivery from Johnson , Vijay had no clue about that , fended at it and was lucky that there was no leg gully to catch. Well wide of short leg too. Vijay just took his eyes off the delivery and offered his bat as a shield in front of his face , maybe he was n't expecting the short delivery. It went off the glove too 2.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , a open-faced defensive stroke to point off the back foot , Vijay wants a single , but point is very tight 2.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , full on middle , blocked back to Johnson who throws the ball back to short leg 2.2 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , 144kph full delivery outside off , lured Vijay into the extravagant cover drive , Vijay got a thick outside edge through gully and down to the vacant third man fence for four. Streaky but he wo n't mind it 2.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , full and on off , bit of swing in , Vijay gets a thick inside edge onto the pads on the forward defensive 1.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , dug out to cover , Vijay sets off as soon as he played that , realising Mitch is a bit deep at mid-off , easy single in the end. There was a chance for an extra after short leg could n't stop the ball cleanly , but they decide against it 1.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , nice forward defence from Vijay , solidly blocked to mid-off Three slips and a gully in place. Short leg in place too. Hazlewood has to bowl that one again after Vijay aborts him midway 1.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , make that four as Hazlewood gets his outswinger going. He still has n't hit the 140kph mark 1.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , third leave in a row in the over Already some sightscreen issues. Vijay not happy. Mini delay 1.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , that bounced through nicely to Haddin after Vijay leaves. Hazlewood cranked that up to 137kph 1.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , 134kph , curving outswinger from Hazlewood first up. His first delivery in Test cricket , Vijay shoulders arms Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan pulled his bat inside the line of that delivery and then left it alone. Johnson plugged away around a 5th stump line. Nice start from Johnson 0.5 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , 144kph , inswinger , Vijay 's bat was late in coming down , it does so at an angle and he works it wide of mid-on. Sends Dhawan back who wanted the second 0.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay is rapped on the pads , but it was sliding down and struck Vijay very high on the pads. No real appeal from the Aussies 0.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , that swung back in , that makes Johnson even more dangerous. Vijay has a sighter and shoulders arms trusting where his off stump is 0.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 140kph , well wide of off , easy leave 0.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , nice carry through to Haddin after Vijay left it alone. Johnson has a smile on his way back to bowl the next one. That was a good leave too by Vijay as he watched it all the way Vijay and Dhawan are at the crease. Vijay is on strike. Johnson will open the attack We are all set to go. Vijay and Dhawan punch gloves as they walk out. Vijay to face off. Three slips , a gully and a short leg in place. Johnson has the new ball. He is stretching himself. He will run in and let it rip. Here we go for the first ball.. . Smith : 'It is a decent toss to lose. The wicket might have something in it , if we bowl in the right areas , we can create something. Hopefully we see some fireworks from him today. He is very excited ( talking about Hazlewood ) . The boys are raring to go. The quicks are excited to bowl on a wicket that has pace and bounce after UAE and Adelaide last week. I 'm really excited about the opportunity and it feels great ( talking about his captaincy debut ) .' Dhoni : 'We are looking to bat first. Looks a good wicket , something for the fast bowlers compared to the Adelaide wicket. After the first hour , the batsmen will enjoy it. We have played enough against each other to know what to do. We have three changes. Perth was one place where we did really well , last time we did n't do well. On the faster tracks we have done well , it is a fresh challenge and we are looking forward to it.' A big call from India to bat first on a greentop. Whether that move works remains to be seen , but if it backfires then expect lots of criticism over that decision. India need to look at Leeds 2002 for inspiration when they famously won the toss on a seamer 's paradise and then batted England out of the game with a mammoth first innings score. Eventually they won that game by an innings . Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Murali Vijay , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Rohit Sharma , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravichandran Ashwin , Ishant Sharma , Umesh Yadav , Varun Aaron Three changes for India confirmed - Dhoni for Saha , Ashwin for Karn and Umesh in for Shami ! India have won the toss and have opted to bat Two Aussie legends Glenn McGrath and Mark Taylor are asked to do some work today. McGrath was given the chance to present a new baggy green to Josh Hazlewood while Mark Taylor presented Steven Smith with the Australian captain 's jacket. Two proud men of Aussie cricket and what a moment for Hazlewood and Smith to receive from them ! Reports suggest that Jadeja has a shoulder problem and has been ruled out of this encounter. It 's nice and sunny now. The toss is imminent . Australia have a superb record at the Gabba as they have lost only eight times in the 56 matches they have played at this venue so far. The fact that the home team 's last loss in Brisbane came way back in November 1988 makes it all the more difficult for India , who have never won at this ground , having played five matches here and losing four times . Australia XI : David Warner , Chris Rogers , Shane Watson , Steven Smith ( capt ) , Shaun Marsh , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Nathan Lyon , Josh Hazlewood. Hazlewood will become Baggy Green Number 440 Team News : Just like the first Test , Australia have already announced their XI . WEATHER WATCH : With rain and cloud-cover forecast during the Test , the batsmen , especially the Indians , have their tasks cut out . BROMANCE : Shaun Marsh and Mitch Marsh will become the first set of siblings , only the fifth Australian pair to play in the same Test team since the Waugh brothers made the last of their 108 appearances together in the baggy green in 2002 . That 's a wrap of this segment . 'Ian Chappell and Mark Taylor , arguably two of the greatest captains from Australia , have already sung praises on the India No 4 and now we can tell you that even former India coaches have acknowledged his class , calibre and backed him to lead India in the future. " Kohli is the future of India , " was the refrain from both John Wright and Greg Chappell , who have given a big thumbs-up to the 26-year-old batting star. ' Tagore writes , 'Virat Kohli will have to stand down as India 's stand-in captain and make way for Mahendra Singh Dhoni , the long-time office-holder. But you can tell it is only matter of time before the captaincy band is returned to him. The young India batsman has inspired and impressed players and experts across generations with his leadership skills. ' Vijay Tagore 's piece for the Mumbai Mirror has the headline 'Virat 's the man' 'The deliveries above the eye-line that dipped there were so many of them bowled by Lyon demanded decisive footwork. Kohli displayed it , often going back , gauging the extent of turn and playing the ball late. Stepping forward judiciously not a bad option since DRS is not in use in this series or using the depth of the crease to shorten the length are much better options than prodding forward tentatively like Cheteshwar Pujara and Rohit Sharma did or padding up ' adds Dinakar 'The less said about the contribution of the Indian lower-order in the Test the better. R Ashwin would have been valuable down the order for India.' Here is S Dinakar of the Hindu , scrutinizing the Indian batsmen. He writes , 'Stand-in captain Virat Kohli pulled off a sensational innings , Murali Vijay , technically well-equipped , fought hard but where were the contributions from the others ? Let 's get the fact straight. The fifth day surface at the Adelaide Oval was no mine-field. It had a rough , a few footmarks but at no stage was unplayable.' 'As for me , the scans I had in Adelaide over the weekend have shown a bad tear in my right hamstring. Over the last few days the Australian medical team have consulted specialists and determined that the best option is for me to have immediate surgery ' writes Clarke in his column for the Daily Telegraph . 'The difference between being a senior batsman and captain is subtle , but important. I found I had the respect of my teammates as a batsman when I took on the captaincy full-time on the tour of Sri Lanka in 2011 , but I had to earn it all over again as a leader. Steve and Australian cricket in general should be encouraged by the fact he scored 75 and 103 * while leading NSW to the title in the Sheffield Shield final last season. Thats a good effort for a bloke who had just turned 25.' 'He will receive tremendous support from the senior playing group and be able to draw from their extensive experience and knowledge. Steve can now go in fresh for the next three Tests and captain the way he feels. Well done to him.' The injured Michael Clarke also believes that this is a great time for Smith to get a first taste of captaincy . 'Given Smith 's batting deeds since that breakthrough innings at The Oval , combined with his captaincy cameos for Sydney Sixers and then New South Wales in last season 's shield final , there are grounds to expect it is more likely to be the making of the 25-year-old than a millstone for him.' He writes , 'The progression of Steve Smith to Test captain before his 26th birthday is an endorsement of selectors current and past. Andrew Hilditch , Jamie Cox , David Boon and Merv Hughes deserve credit for blooding him just after his 21st birthday , even though it was officially as a bowling replacement for the injured Nathan Hauritz. At that stage he had an underwhelming first-class bowling average of 48.55 but a fine batting average of 56.22 , with four centuries in his first 13 matches.' Jesse Hogan 's special for the Age wears the headline ' Selectors ' long-term faith in Steve Smith being rewarded' One thing is certain. This Test will be just as engaging as the first one or even more. Good morning and welcome to the second Test with Australia leading the series 1-0. As promised , we are up and revving early to provide you the most comprehensive coverage. Toss and team news will follow shortly. But before that , let us flick through what the newspapers have in store for us . It was at this venue that Clarke sledged Jimmy Anderson , asking the Englishman to get ready for a broken f * * * * * * arm. The last time the Aussies played at the Gabba , they annihilated England by 381 runs in the Ashes with Mitch Johnson , taking a match haul of 9 wickets. Will the bouncer be the same again after all that transpired in the last 3 weeks ? Karn Sharma , who was n't impressive on his Test debut , may be sacrificed for either Ashwin or Jadeja. That Bhuvi is in doubt for the third Test too has severely depleted the Indian attack. While Aaron and Shami have pace , both are prone to spraying the ball around and leaking easy runs. Will Kulkarni or Umesh get a go in this game ? As far as the batting is concerned , Chris Rogers ' patchy form comes as a worry for the hosts , albeit marginally. India have opening problems of this own , Vijay 's solidity notwithstanding. India have not had a 50 + opening stand overseas since 2011. Dhawan has come under the scanner and another failure could effectively see him out of the team with KL Rahul waiting in the wings. Saha , who endured a brain fade in the Adelaide chase will be out with Dhoni back. In all likelihood , Vijay , Dhawan , Che , Kohli , Rahane will be India 's top 5 again . If the Adelaide track was about runs and spin , the Gabba is all about pace and bounce. Hazlewood has been given the nod to make his debut in place of Ryan Harris , who has 'pulled up a little bit stiff and sore from Adelaide.' The verbal duels spiced up the series , but it was heart-warming to see both Clarke and Kohli acknowledge each other - the former graceful in triumph , the lndian stand-in skipper gracious in defeat. Australia , as we all know , will be ruthless and come hard at the visitors. On the other hand , India will look to go one better and equalize the series . The injury to Clarke could be career-threatening as he himself revealed after the Adelaide Test. In stark contrast , MS Dhoni has recovered from a finger injury and will take over the reins from Kohli , who nearly took India to the finish line , becoming only the second player after Greg Chappell to score 100s in each innings on captaincy debut. His positive intent of going for the win in Adelaide will keep the team in good stead. As Kohli himself reiterated , India are not very far away . It was an emotional Test. It was emotional , so much so that Michael Clarke admitted that he had no regrets risking his back and hamstring to play what he called the most special Test of his career. With Clarke ruled out of the remainder of the series , his heir apparent , Steve Smith is all set to become Australia 's 45th Test captain while Haddin will be his deputy. Shaun Marsh will take up Clarke 's place while Mitchell Starc has also been drafted in at the expense of Siddle , who was lackluster in Adelaide . Australia , you f * * king beauty ! " A native of my native land A sprig of wattle in my hand " Under the Southern Cross I stand After wiping off the Indian tail , Lyon ran across to the '408 ' etched on the Adelaide turf and paid tribute to the late Phillip Hughes. Then , the entire Australian team gathered around and belted out the team song . Nathan Lyon completed a 12-fer topping Kohli 's twin centuries as Australia opened the Border-Gavaskar series with a fiercely fought 48-run win. Cricket had dug in and got through to tea . Preview by Gokul Gopal After an emotional and exciting Adelaide Test , which saw the hosts take a 1-0 lead , the stage now shifts to the Gabba , where both teams will be eager to outsmart each other. There 's change in personnel for both Australia and India as Steve Smith takes over the captaincy from Michael Clarke while MS Dhoni is back to lead the visiting side. Both captains have promised that the aggressive approach towards the game will continue . Australia : While the Aussies take a fresh guard under Smith , there wo n't be any change in their game-plan as they will look to go for the kill , like they always do. David Warner was in top form , notching up hundred in both innings in Adelaide , which he did so for the second time in a Test match in 2014. He has already scored 6 hundreds this year and the left-hander will be hoping for a few more before the end of 2014. Chris Rogers , on the other hand , is in search of runs and will be hoping to come good in Brisbane. Shane Watson too did not do much in the first Test and he will be eager to make amends. In the absence of Clarke , Smith has an important role to play in the middle order and the stand-in skipper , who remained unbeaten at the Adelaide Oval to make scores of 162 and 52 , will be eager to extend his form. Mitchell Marsh 's explosive , unselfish batting in the second essay provided a lot of entertainment and he will be hoping to make an impact again , as will Shaun Marsh. Australia will also be counting on Brad Haddin , who failed in Adelaide , to come good with the bat. With Mitchell Starc and Mitchell Johnson also capable of contributing with the bat , Australia have a strong batting order and they will be eager to send India in a leather hunt . As far as the bowlers are concerned , Mitchell Johnson will continue to spearhead the attack and will be eager to make optimum use of the pitch , which is likely to offer more assistance to the quicks. Josh Hazlewood and Mitchell Starc , who have been roped in for the second Test , will also have important roles to play , as will Mitchell Marsh. Nathan Lyon , who was Australia 's hero at the Adelaide Oval with figures of 5/134 and 7/152 , may not get as much help from the Gabba track. Having said that , the off-spinner , whose confidence has received a big boost , will be raring to have a go at the Indians again . Team News : Australia have announced their eleven and there are three changes in the home-team line-up for the second Test. Shaun Marsh has replaced the injured Clarke while Ryan Harris ' quadriceps strain means that Josh Hazlewood will be getting the Baggy Green. Peter Siddle , who was lack-lustre in Adelaide , has been left out and Mitchell Starc has been included in his place . India : The Indian batters showcased tremendous fighting spirit in Adelaide , although they ended up short of the target. Virat Kohli , who was handed the reins , led the team impressively and was also brilliant with the bat. Twin hundreds on his captaincy debut was a fine turnaround for the 26-year-old , who failed miserably in England. While Dhoni will be leading India for the rest of the series , unless he picks up an injury , Kohli will have to be content playing deputy to his skipper. However , there will not be any change in his approach to batting or what he brings to the game , as he mentioned after the Adelaide Test : " I do n't need a ( c ) next to my name to talk to players. " Some of the umpiring decisions went in favour of the Indian batsmen while some did not. However , they need get over that and come up with a collective effort like they did in Adelaide. Murali Vijay looked good in both the innings , but his nervous approach in the 90s changed the tide in favour of Australia. Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane showcased good form , but they need to make bigger scores. Dhoni 's return gives the middle order an added strength and he will be hoping to lead from the front . Although India came close to the target , it was only possible because Australia declared in both their innings. The visitors managed to take only 12 wickets and the bowlers hardly made an impact , barring a spell or two. Ishant Sharma was the only one who could keep the Aussies under check , while Varun Aaron and Mohammed Shami leaked runs and were taken to the cleaners. Debutant , Karn Sharma too lacked sting and hardly troubled the Australian batsmen. A few changes are likely in the Indian bowling set-up for the second game , and the visitors will be hoping that the bowlers can do much better than what they did in Adelaide . Team News : With Dhoni returning to the Indian side , Wriddhiman Saha will make way for the Indian skipper. Dhoni indicated that R Ashwin is most likely to play in Brisbane , which will mean that Karn Sharma 's Australian sojourn might have seen its end , at least in the five-day format. The Indian captain also indicated that the visitors could opt for a five-bowler strategy , which means that Rohit Sharma , who was average in the first Test , might make way for Umesh Yadav . Pitch and conditions : Brisbane was supposed to host the opening Test before the tragic death of Phil Hughes forced a change in the itinerary. According to curator Kevin Mitchell Jr , the Gabba track might have something extra for the quick bowlers the wicket will stay green for an extended amount time thanks to the humidity , which is quite high due to recent weather. When Australia last played here , Mitchell Johnson decimated the England batting with a 9-wicket haul and the curator expects something similar : " I 'd imagine it would be quite similar to last year. Given it 's later in the year , there could be a bit more humidity around. So , maybe a bit of moisture might stay on top a bit longer , so maybe there could be a bit more seam and swing. " As far as the weather is concerned , it is expected to be bright on sunny on most of the days , although thunderstorms are forecast for the second day . Numbers : 34 and 142 : The number of runs Cheteshwar Pujara and Murali Vijay require respectively to reach the mark of 2000 runs in Test cricket . 192 : The number of runs MS Dhoni requires to reach the mark of 5000 Test runs. When he gets there , he will become the first Indian wicket-keeper to do so . 5 : Shaun and Mitchell Marsh are set to become the fifth set of brothers to play for Australia in the same Test . 1988 : The year Australia last ended up on the losing side in a Test match at the Gabba. India , on the other hand , have a poor record here - 0 wins , 4 losses , 1 draw . Quotes : I just thought , taking over the captaincy and a bit of extra responsibility , that I 'd step up to No.4 and get the job done there : Steve Smith . I thought it was the right approach that we went for the target ( in Adelaide ) . Our approach will remain the same in the coming Tests : MS Dhoni . Teams : India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Murali Vijay , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Rohit Sharma , MS Dhoni ( c/w ) , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Ishant Sharma , Varun Aaron , Suresh Raina , Lokesh Rahul , Wriddhiman Saha , Karn Sharma , Ravindra Jadeja , Dhawal Kulkarni , Umesh Yadav Australia ( From ) : Chris Rogers , David Warner , Shane Watson , Steven Smith ( c ) , Shaun Marsh , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood , Nathan Lyon , Ryan Harris , Peter Siddle Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
