Graphs Breaking news : MS Dhoni has retired from Test cricket with immediate effect ! Wow ! That 's some news ! Many thanks for your company today. Hope you enjoyed our coverage. The two teams will resume hostilities in Sydney on January 6th. The series is in Australia 's bag. Can India fire in unison and close the Test series with a creditable win ? 1-2 will look better than 0-2. Or will Australia continue to seize the crucial moments and make it 3-0 ? That 's it from here. Do tune in for the final Test too. It would also be amiss of me if I do n't wish you guys a very Happy New Year ! Rogers got to his fourth fifty in a row during the second innings before failing to convert it. However , he has to be complemented for laying a good base for Marsh. The left-hander was unfortunate to be run-out for 99. Australia 's delayed declaration attracts polarized views , but as Smith opined wrapping up the series was at the top of their agenda. India almost collapsed again before Rahane and Kohli pulled it through , registering a draw . Rahane and Kohli led India 's spirited reply with contrasting centuries. While Kohli was all about naked aggression , almost Australian in his batting , Rahane was very much Indian - happy to live in the shadow of all the jazz and limelight. After Australia broke through the big 262-run stand , India collapsed in a heap , getting bowled out for 465 from 409/4 . Match Summary : Spurred on by Steve Smith 's 192 , Australia put up a massive 530 runs on the board in their first innings. India had them in a tight spot at 216/5 , before the Smith-Haddin show began. India 's three-pronged pace attack got carried away with the short ball and let slip the advantage. Ryan Harris also had his share of fun , scoring a career-best 74 . Rahane picking out mid-wicket with a mistimed pull off the splice of the bat further aggravated India 's position. However , Dhoni and Ashwin stayed put to counter the reverse swing and helped the visitors to a draw , which was termed satisfying by the Indian captain himself . Shastri : " This Indian team has pushed Australia hard. There are certain areas we have to address. 20 minutes of madness has cost both our games. Little bit of luck and things could have been different. But I am happy with the mindset. Mark my words , give this team 12 months and they will be back in the top two. Here they have taken the attack to the opposition. They will be a bullet side in 12 months. They will learn how to cope with pressure. This is the first draw at the MCG in 10 years. The batting that I saw on day 3 was something I have not seen in a long time. The whole of Australia stood up. India have not come out to compete , they are here to win. The scoreline does not matter. What we miss overseas is a batsman in the top six who could bowl , somebody like Sourav ( Ganguly ) - a medium paced all-rounder , who could bowl overseas. I believe with four bowlers at times , the workload becomes hard. Discipline-wise , they bowled well this morning. They will learn from that. We will go to Sydney without a care in the world. To hell with the scoreline. You will have to take a chance with a certain player. At the end of this tour , we can do all the evaluation. It is important to have a sustained level of performance. You may bowl well in the first two sessions. But my challenge to Shami , Umesh and Aaron is show me what you have in the final session. If you do n't do it , somebody else will do it. " Here is Ravi Shastri in a hard hitting conversation with Sunny Gavaskar and Sanjay Manjrekar . Kohli departed off the first ball after the tea break , finding square leg with an airy flick. Pujara 's 73-minute stay was ended by a Mitchell Johnson off-cutter . Chasing 384 in 70 overs , India were rocked early , getting reduced to 19/3. Dhawan faltered again , falling lbw for a duck. While Rahul endured a brain fade , Vijay was wrongly given out lbw to a Hazlewood offering that was sliding down leg. In the face of pressure , Kohli and Rahane steadied the ship and guided India to safety before both threw their wickets away . After switching gears , Marsh ( 99 ) ran himself out , agonizingly short of a career-reviving hundred. The tail wagged again before the declaration finally materialized at the stroke of lunch . Ryan Harris is the Man of the Match . Smith : " It was a tough day for us. A couple of dropped catches cost us the game. Disappointing not to get the win but we have the series. That was important. The ball was reversing in , they have pretty powerful batters in the shed. We had to play conservatively to win the series. It was about the series and not Shaun 's ( Marsh ) hundred. We got closer in the end. Sydney is always a great Test match. Ryan ( Harris ) was outstanding throughout the match. He got some valuable runs and was outstanding with the ball. Ca n't wait to get there next week. " Dhoni : " Quite happy with the draw. The bowlers did a good job , Ashwin bowled well. Our bowling was better in the second innings. Their lower-order partnership was good. I do n't want to comment on that ( on Australia 's declaration ) . When one of your batsmen gets to 90 , you will have to wait for him. Apart from that I do n't want to say much. We have found ways to trouble ourselves in all Tests. We built partnerships and lost wickets. We also played some loose shots. The wicket was on the slower side and there was a bit of reverse swing. There was nothing to lose for Australia , they had their fielders in. One mistimed shot would have gone to them. It was a fantastic display of batting. I felt they ( Kohli and Rahane ) did well to pierce the gaps. Once you are set and get a hundred , you have to convert it into 150. Virat played outstandingly well. We need a bit of time with a new side. When there has been pressure , the individuals have stood up to pressure. We do n't have an all-rounder , the four bowlers have to do the job. The bowlers bowled good line and lengths. " The day began with Australia making very slow progress , playing it safely , rather than going for the kill. The delayed declaration stirred up a debate but I am sure Smith and Lehmann would have their own reasons. Perhaps , we will get to know about it more in the presentation ceremony . In hindsight , Australia could have pushed harder for the win had they declared 8-10 overs earlier. The Aussie bowlers had only 2 sessions on the final day but nearly cut through the Indian batting. If not for the Kohli-Rahane resistance , Australia would have made it 3-0 . Just after Lyon completed the over , Smith and Dhoni have a chat and exchange pleasantries. Haydos on air reckons that the Aussies could have tried to have one final crack in those four overs , considering India 's feeble lower-order. Warner chats with Dhoni on the way back. Kohli also comes out and exchanges handshakes . The players shake hands with 4 overs left and call it a draw. India salvage a draw but Australia wrap up the series 2-0 and with it reclaim the Border-Gavaskar trophy . 65.6 Lyon to Ashwin , 3 runs , slid through on the leg stump , Ashwin helps it fine. The ball plugs in the deep and the result is three 65.5 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , much flatter on off , Ashwin gets right behind the line to keep it out 65.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , angled full on the fourth stump from round the wicket , pushed to the left of Lyon 65.3 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , slower through the air on off , Ashwin goes on the back foot and fends it to short leg 65.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , extra bounce on this length ball outside off , Ashwin pads it away , the ball lobs over slip 65.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , slides on with the arm outside off , left alone Nathan Lyon [ 11.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack Lyon 's back. 5 men around the bat for him . 64.6 Watson to Dhoni , no run , fuller and on middle and off , Dhoni prods across as he works it to short mid-wicket 64.5 Watson to Dhoni , no run , fullish and tails in , Dhoni reads the movement and pushes it down the track A leg gully is also in place . 64.4 Watson to Dhoni , no run , back of a length and reverses in , Dhoni hangs back and works it towards backward square leg 64.3 Watson to Dhoni , 2 runs , angled on middle and leg , Dhoni hangs back and milks it backward of square leg for a brace 64.2 Watson to Dhoni , no run , much fuller and around the fourth stump line , Dhoni pushes it to short cover , straight to the fielder 64.1 Watson to Dhoni , no run , back of a length and outside off , Dhoni stands tall , punches and finds cover Watto just has a slip and short leg in position . Shane Watson [ 5.0-1-12-0 ] is back into the attack 63.6 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , on a length and outside off , Ashwin plays with soft hands , ensuring that it does not carry to gully 63.5 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , keeps it on the shorter side outside off , Ashwin defends it while staying back Round the stumps here . 63.4 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , fullish and widish outside off , Ashwin lets it through to the keeper Three slips and a gully to go with short leg . 63.3 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , dug in short and outside off , not much height on this. Fended to the off-side Over the wicket now . 63.2 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , good length ball , straight in line , Ashwin hangs back and works it to silly mid-on 63.1 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , Mitch continues from round the wicket. Bouncer sails over a ducking Ashwin . 62.6 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , pitched up and on off , no real movement here , allowing Dhoni to push it to cover 62.5 Hazlewood to Dhoni , FOUR , Hazlewood floats it down leg , Dhoni helps it along its way , very fine and its a four. Leg gully was a mere spectator there 62.4 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , good length ball just outside off , Dhoni dabs it towards gully. He did not jab at that 62.3 Hazlewood to Dhoni , FOUR , dug in short and wide outside off , Dhoni goes on the offensive now , flashing a cut behind point , the ball travels to the third man fence 62.2 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , very full and reverses in on off , Dhoni drives it down the track , it came more off the inside part of the bat 62.1 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , pitched up on the fourth stump and tails in , keeps a touch low too , Dhoni adjusts and defends it back to the bowler 61.6 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , good length ball , tight on the off-stump. Ashwin inches forward and dabs it to cover. Still 8 overs remain in the day 61.5 Johnson to Ashwin , no run , very full and outside off , Ashwin is content to flag it through to Haddin 61.4 Johnson to Dhoni , 3 runs , angled on middle , Dhoni shuffles across and glances it fine. He gets three on that occasion Mitch goes round the stumps 61.3 Johnson to Dhoni , 2 runs , pitched up and just outside off , Dhoni does not get fully forward but drives it past cover for a couple 61.2 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , good length ball comes in around off , Dhoni is forward and across to defend it to silly mid-on 61.1 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , fuller and outside off , Dhoni is forward to push it down to mid-off Johnson has a 5-man strong slip-cordon and a short leg . Johnson is back for one final burst. Dhoni is practicing his defence . Mitchell Johnson [ 13.0-2-33-2 ] is back into the attack 60.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 2 runs , fullish and just outside off , Ashwin comes forward and taps it past a diving silly mid-off. Ashwin comes back for the second 60.5 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , on a good length on off , jumps from a length , Ashwin gets it high on his bat , the ball lands in no-man 's land in front of point 60.4 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , bumper , climbs over the leg stump , Ashwin watches it before half-swaying out of the way Dhoni walks up and has a word with Ashwin . 60.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , good length ball on off , Ashwin gets well forward and blocks it to silly mid-on 60.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , on a good length and outside off , Ashwin is caught fishing , the ball passes the ouside edge of the bat. Haddin ca n't believe that it missed the edge 60.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , down leg , Ashwin misses the flick. Haddin dives to his left and stops the ball 59.6 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , on a length and outside off , Dhoni pushes it in front of point in his own inimitable way 59.5 R Harris to Ashwin , 1 run , straighter in line , Ashwin works it past silly mid-on and brings Dhoni on strike 59.4 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , fullish and in the channel outside off , Ashwin prods at it , gets a outside edge in front of gully 59.3 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , leading edge but does not carry to cover. Harris bowls it on a fuller length , Ashwin aims to clip it to the leg , gets a leading edge that drops in front of cover 59.2 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , on a length and on off , Ashwin is forward to block it to short leg 59.1 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , good length ball just outside off , Ashwin defends it to cover 58.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 1 run , on a length and outside off , Ashwin dabs it square on the off-side. Dhoni accepts the single on offer A short leg , short mid-wicket , backward square leg close in on Ashwin . 58.5 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , good length ball on off , Ashwin stays back and defends it back to Hazlewood 58.4 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , full and shapes in on middle and leg , Ashwin falls over the flick and mistimes it to square leg Meanwhile , Mahendra Singh Dhoni completes 10000 runs as international captain . 58.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , banged in short on off , Ashwin fends it to the off-side , adjacent to the pitch 58.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , very full and reverses in on off , Ashin plays from the crease and squirts it to the leg-side off the inside half of the bat 58.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , pitched up and around off , Ashwin comes forward and presses it towards silly mid-off 57.6 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , keeps it on a back of a length , Dhoni defends it to short cover. Australia are smelling 3-0 here 57.5 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Dhoni punches it to short cover The field closes in every over. A short cover , silly mid-off , silly mid-on in. Two slips and two gullies to go with it 57.4 R Harris to Dhoni , FOUR , short of length and outside off , Dhoni goes for his shot and cuts it powerfully in front of point. It sat up to be punished and Dhoni obliged 57.3 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , on a length and straightens outside off , Dhoni is squared up and gets an outside edge , but it bounces in front of slip 57.2 R Harris to Dhoni , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Dhoni throws his bat at it and flashes it over gully , the ball runs away to the third man fence 57.1 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , back of a length ball , defended to cover 56.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , teasing full ball outside off , Ashwin takes the bait , pushes at it and gets a healthy nick. Did that carry to Watson at first slip ? He looks disappointed and so is the bowler. It carried to Watto and he shells it. He did well to dive across to his right , but ca n't hold on 56.5 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , full and reverses in on off , Ashwin defends it to short mid-wicket 56.4 Hazlewood to Dhoni , 1 run , dug in short around off , Dhoni rocks back and pulls it through backward square leg. Short leg was ducking for cover there. There is protection in the deep though 56.3 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , good length ball on off , Dhoni blocks it to the leg-side 56.2 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , full and pushed close to off , Dhoni lifts his bat and lets it go 56.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 1 run , nice indipper from Hazlewood , Ashwin tucks it towards backward square leg , off the inside half of the bat. Hazlewood has his hands on his head 55.6 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , full toss just outside off , Dhoni eases it to short cover 55.5 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , slower delivery just outside off , Dhoni stays in the crease and punches it to short cover 55.4 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , slants back in from a length , Dhoni blocks with the bat and pad close together to mid-on 55.3 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , loose from Dhoni , short and outside off , Dhoni goes for the cut and fails to make contact , that was not far away from the outside edge 55.2 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , shortens the length around off , Dhoni gets behind the line and defends it to cover 55.1 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , back of a length around off , Dhoni goes back and knocks it to cover Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now. Just when Rahane and Pujara seemed to have taken India to safe shores , the latter was deceived by a slower one. Rahane kept battling but he too fell to an ungainly shot. Can the Indian skipper save the game ? We 'll find out as the last hour begins. . 54.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , out Caught by S Marsh ! ! Rahane 's patient innings comes to an end. India are staring at yet another overseas defeat. Banged in short just outside off , Rahane fetches the pull from there , gets it high on the bat and offers a simple catch to Marsh at mid-wicket. Rahane c S Marsh b Hazlewood 48 ( 117 ) [ 4s-6 ] Hazlewood to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 54.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , tempter outside off , Rahane moves forward and leaves it alone Leg slip moves to second slip and a short leg comes in 54.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a length close to off , blocked off the front foot to silly mid-on 54.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , good length ball outside off , Rahane comes forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 54.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , fuller and around off , Rahane gets forward and knocks it to mid-off Smith has placed himself at leg slip 54.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , full and angling in on off , Rahane pushes it to mid-on Josh Hazlewood [ 10.0-2-27-1 ] is back into the attack 53.6 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , on a length around off , Dhoni stays in the crease and blocks it to cover 53.5 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , tad too straight , tucks it behind square on the leg-side and takes the first run in 17 balls 53.4 R Harris to Rahane , no run , drags the length back , Rahane bunts it in front of cover 53.3 R Harris to Rahane , no run , touch fuller and on off , Rahane knocks it off the front foot to mid-on 53.2 R Harris to Rahane , no run , short of length on off , defended down the wicket 53.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , back of a length on off , Rahane goes back and blocks it to short mid-wicket , he took his bottom hand of the bat as he played that Ryan Harris [ 12.0-7-20-2 ] is back into the attack 52.6 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , yorker well wide of off , left alone 52.5 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , fuller and outside off , Dhoni shoulders arms Changes to round the wicket 52.4 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , bouncer on leg-stump , Dhoni stands his ground and gets his body out of the way 52.3 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , good length ball around off , Dhoni stays in the crease and taps it to mid-off 52.2 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhoni push-drives it towards cover A short leg and leg gully in place 52.1 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , short and down leg , Dhoni half-ducks and lets it go 51.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , on a length just outside off , Rahane presses forward and defends solidly 51.5 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Rahane squeezes the drive to mid-on 51.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 51.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , too full and on off , Rahane digs it out to short cover 51.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , full and on the stumps , Rahane drives it to mid-on and calls " no " for the single 51.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , almost dragged on ! Full and tails in , Rahane goes for the drive away from the body , the ball squirts off the inside edge to the on-side MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 50.6 Johnson to Pujara , out Bowled ! ! Knocked over ! The short ball softened him up and the slower one did the trick. The umpires check for a no-ball , Johnson is fine. It was the off-cutter that just straightens after pitching , Pujara plays down the wrong line and the ball hits the top of off-stump. Is there a twist in the game ? Pujara b Johnson 21 ( 70 ) [ 4s-3 ] Johnson to Pujara , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 50.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short and down leg , Pujara stays inside the line and evades it comfortably 50.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , pinged ! Short and directed at the batsman , Pujara takes his eyes off the ball and allows it to hit him flush on the helmet. He just checks if Pujara is fine and then walks back to his run-up. Che removes his helmet , checks it and is ready to go again Goes round the wicket to Che 50.3 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , good length ball on off , Rahane plays an extended forward defence past mid-off , waits for the ball to pass Warner before going through with the single 50.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , sharp bumper which rises steeply , Rahane was shaping to play that , but realizes that it is too high and lets it pass 50.1 Johnson to Rahane , no run , slower ball bouncer , Rahane goes for the pull and ca n't connect. Loose from him and it is not required at this stage 49.6 Watson to Pujara , no run , full and curling in , Pujara comes forward and blocks it to silly mid-on And he is back up again is Haddin 49.5 Watson to Pujara , no run , full and outside off , Pujara covers the line and lets it go Haddin goes back now. . 49.4 Watson to Pujara , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Pujara tucks it past short leg to mid-wicket 49.3 Watson to Pujara , no run , Watson is getting some reverse swing , Pujara presses forward and knocks it with a straight bat to mid-on 49.2 Watson to Pujara , no run , moves back in on off , Pujara defends it back to the bowler 49.1 Watson to Rahane , 1 run , full and tailing in , Rahane clips it to deep backward square leg 49.1 Watson to Rahane , no ball , Watson knocks the bails off at the bowlers end , hence umpire Kettleborough penalizes him. This one stops on the batsman , Rahane checks his shot and the ball drops in front of cover Shane Watson [ 3.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack Haddin is standing up to the stumps to Watto 48.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short and angling into the batsman , Pujara tucks it uppishly to the left of the short leg fielder 48.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , again , the length is short , Pujara has enough time to hang on the back foot and knock it to cover Now round the wicket 48.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , pitched up around off , Pujara push-drives it to mid-off 48.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , back of a length on off , Pujara gets right behind the line and blocks to the left of Johnson 48.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Pujara drops his gloves and lets it go , barely carries to Haddin 48.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , short of length on off , Pujara drops it in front of short cover Mitchell Johnson [ 10.0-0-32-1 ] is back into the attack 47.6 S Smith to Rahane , no run , drags the length short , Rahane goes back and defends it to Smith 47.5 S Smith to Rahane , no run , full toss on the stumps , Rahane whips it straight to the mid-wicket fielder 47.4 S Smith to Pujara , 1 run , drifting onto the pads , Pujara nurdles it to backward square leg 47.3 S Smith to Pujara , FOUR , a real-hit-me delivery , rank long hop outside off , Pujara rocks back and cuts it powerfully square of the wicket , no stopping that as it scooted away to the fence 47.2 S Smith to Pujara , no run , tossed up on middle and leg , Pujara blocks it off the inside part to short mid-wicket 47.1 S Smith to Pujara , no run , gives this plenty of air , Pujara drops it dead on the wicket 46.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , back of a length close to off , Rahane stays back and knocks it to short cover 46.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , full and curling in on off , Rahane plays the on-drive straight to mid-on 46.4 Hazlewood to Pujara , leg byes , 1 run , slides it onto the legs , Pujara misses the flick and the ball dribbles off the pads to backward square 46.3 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , once again he bunts the length delivery to silly point 46.2 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , good length ball around off , Pujara defends to Burns under the helmet at silly point A bat-pad in place on the off-side. . 46.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , 3 runs , back of a length outside off , Rahane rides the bounce and punches it square of the wicket for a three 45.6 S Smith to Pujara , no run , nice loopy delivery on off , Pujara is half-forward and defending in front of point 45.5 S Smith to Pujara , no run , tossed up on off , Pujara dead-bats it to the on-side 45.4 S Smith to Pujara , FOUR , nice juicy full toss and Pujara cashes in , he comes forward and clips it past the diving mid-wicket fielder for a boundary 45.3 S Smith to Pujara , no run , flighted just outside off , Pujara leans forward and blocks it to short cover 45.2 S Smith to Rahane , 1 run , half tracker on off , Rahane hangs back and whips it to deepish mid-wicket 45.1 S Smith to Rahane , no run , touch short and on off , Rahane punches it to extra cover Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 44.6 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , shapes back in from a length , Pujara presses forward and keeps it out 44.5 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , full and on off , Pujara squeezes the drive back to the bowler 44.4 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , loose from Che , shortish and outside off , Pujara goes chasing after it , he gets a thickish outside edge wide of second slip , the ball goes on the bounce to Smith 44.3 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , hint of inward movement , Pujara does well to not go hard at it , he taps it in front of mid-wicket 44.2 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , harmless short delivery outside off , Pujara leaves it alone 44.1 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , on a length just outside off , Pujara bunts it to short cover 43.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , goes right back in the crease and knocks it to the off-side 43.5 Lyon to Pujara , 3 runs , skips out of the crease , gets to close to the pitch of the ball and ends up whipping it to deep mid-wicket. Rogers does the chasing and he keeps them down to three 43.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Pujara plays away from the body , the ball goes off the inside edge to short mid-wicket 43.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , flighted on off , Pujara comes down the track and clips it to short mid-wicket 43.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tossed up on off , Pujara smothers it with a forward defensive 43.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , floated up on off , Pujara blocks off the inner half to short mid-wicket 42.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a length and on off , Rahane presses forward and defends it to mid-off 42.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , full and homing in on middle , Rahane clips and picks out short mid-wicket. Not sure he got that off the middle 42.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , too far outside off , Rahane is not going to play at those 42.3 Hazlewood to Pujara , 1 run , back of a length on leg-stump , tucked away behind square for a single 42.2 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , good length ball around off , Pujara defends it to short cover Two slips in place. . 42.1 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , fullish and on off , Pujara knocks it back to Hazlewood , who deflects it onto the stumps , Rahane had never left the crease though Josh Hazlewood [ 7.0-1-23-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , pulls the length back , Rahane punches it straight to mid-on 41.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flatter and close to off , blocked off the back foot 41.4 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , 90kph quicker delivery on the stumps , Pujara goes back and nudges it to backward square leg 41.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tossed up just outside off , Pujara defends off the inside half to silly mid-on 41.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , flighted outside off , Pujara pads it away A slip , silly point and short leg in place for Pujara 41.1 Lyon to Rahane , 3 runs , drops it short and outside off , Rahane goes right back and cuts it in front of square. The duo pick up an easy three Nathan Lyon [ 9.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 R Harris to Pujara , no run , bouncer to end the over , Pujara gets his head out of the way and lets it go. Another maiden for Harris , his third in this session 40.5 R Harris to Pujara , no run , shortish and close to off , Pujara gets on top of the bounce and dabs it to gully 40.4 R Harris to Pujara , no run , on a length close to off , Pujara defends with the bat and pad close together 40.3 R Harris to Pujara , no run , inswinging yorker on the stumps , Pujara gets his front foot out of the way and whips it to Burns at backward square 40.2 R Harris to Pujara , no run , slanted in on off , Pujara blocks it with the straightest of bats back to Harris 40.1 R Harris to Pujara , no run , tails back in with the angle from wide of the crease , Pujara leans forward and tucks it to backward square , he wanted the single but Rahane sends him back 39.6 Johnson to Pujara , 3 runs , " catch " was the shout from Johnson , it was full and outside off , Pujara drives away from the body , it was uppish but he had found the gap wide of point , Hazlewood gives chase and pulls the ball in just before the rope 39.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , Pujara defends to the fielder at silly point 39.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , fullish and just outside off , Pujara guides it towards point with an angled bat There is a fielder right under Pujara 's eyes at silly point 39.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , good length ball around off , Pujara dead-bats it in front of short cover 39.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , banged in short and angled into the batsman , Pujara arches back and lets it go , the ball goes on the bounce to Haddin , who does not collect it cleanly 39.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , Johnson continues from round the sticks , full and on off , Pujara allows the ball to hit the bat and roll to the left of Johnson 38.6 R Harris to Rahane , FOUR , a rare loose delivery from Harris , short and plenty of width on offer , Rahane rocks back and cuts it fiercely behind point for the first boundary of the session 38.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , fuller and just outside off , Rahane push-drives it wide of mid-off , Warner lets go of a wild throw , but fortunately there were two fielders backing up 38.4 R Harris to Rahane , no run , solid ! Tight line around off , Rahane moves forward and defends it to the left of Harris 38.3 R Harris to Rahane , no run , Rahane stands tall and punches the short of length delivery to point 38.2 R Harris to Rahane , no run , short of length on off , Rahane is right behind the line and defending to cover Switches to round the wicket 38.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , on a length outside off , Rahane covers the line and shoulders arms 37.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , back of a length and shapes away outside off , Pujara ignores it Mitch hides the ball as he runs in to not let the batsman know which way it is going to swing. . 37.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , good length ball on off , Pujara defends it with soft hands to cover 37.4 Johnson to Pujara , FOUR , that should give him confidence , pitched up on off , Pujara presents the full face of the bat and drives it past a diving mid-off , the ball has enough fuel to reach the fence 37.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , Pujara is not sure where his off-stump is , once again goes poking at a delivery that is well wide of off and is beaten. The Australians sense a wicket here Now round the wicket 37.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , full and teasing the batsman to go for it , Pujara lets it pass 37.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , 142kph short of length ball angled outside off , Pujara goes feeling for it before pulling his bat inside. That was a tentative poke from Che 36.6 R Harris to Rahane , no run , another solid back foot defence from Rahane 36.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Rahane gets behind the line and bunts it to cover 36.4 R Harris to Rahane , no run , fullish and on the fourth stump , Rahane pushes it to mid-off 36.3 R Harris to Rahane , no run , good length ball on off , Rahane defends it straight down the pitch 36.2 R Harris to Rahane , no run , back of a length close to off , Rahane hangs back and knocks it in front of cover 36.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , full and outside off , Rahane squeezes the drive to cover Umpire Dharmasena is having a word with Smith. Do n't know what is that about. Warner is not happy with whatever was said , Dharmasena warns him . 35.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , fires it well wide of off , Pujara lets it be and Haddin dives to his right to gather that 35.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , good length ball outside off , left alone 35.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , pitched up close to off , Pujara comes half-forward and defends off the inside part to mid-wicket That wicket of Kohli has certainly got the crowd going. We can hear it as Mitch runs into bowl. . 35.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , fuller and just outside off , Pujara pushes it away from the body to point 35.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , angled across the right-hander , Pujara leaves it alone 35.1 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , banged in short , does n't rise up much , Rahane swivles and pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg Mitchell Johnson [ 7.0-0-24-1 ] is back into the attack Another great first over from Harris. The crowd applauds his effort as he walks towards the rope. He has done it time and again for Australia. Be it Pujara 's wicket on the third day , or Dhawan 's wicket at the start of the innings today and now Kohli 's wicket at the start of the final session . 34.6 R Harris to Pujara , no run , bouncer on off-stump , Pujara gets on his knees and lets it go through to Haddin 34.5 R Harris to Pujara , no run , drags the length back , Pujara stays back and clips it to square leg 34.4 R Harris to Pujara , no run , bit too full and around off , Pujara squeezes it to mid-off 34.3 R Harris to Pujara , no run , goes wide of the crease and angles it in , Pujara turns it to short mid-wicket 34.2 R Harris to Pujara , no run , on a length close to off , Pujara comes forward and taps it to point Cheteshwar Pujara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.1 R Harris to Kohli , out Caught by Burns ! ! What a way to start the session ! Kohli stands there with his head down. The Aussies are delighted as they know what that wicket means. It was a length delivery that tails back in , Kohli leans forward and flicks , fails to keep the ball down and picks up Burns at square leg. The match again swings towards the hosts. Kohli c Burns b R Harris 54 ( 99 ) [ 4s-7 ] R Harris to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Kohli marks his guard , he is up against Harris. . Once again the Kohli-Rahane partnership has kept India in the game after they lost three quick wickets. The Australians have been defensive , not many fielders catching around the bat and plenty of easy singles on offer. Let 's see what the final session has in store for us. Is it going to be a familiar Indian collapse ? Or will the pair continue their resistance ? Answers coming up in a brief while. . Enter Kohli and with it comes all the chirp and banter. Australia may have been sensing an Indian collpase then. However , Kohli combined well with Rahane , much like how he did in the first innings. There were a few nervy moments in between - Rahane was dropped by Bucky while Kohli survived a couple of run-out calls - but India find themselves within touching distance of salvaging a draw. The series though has slipped out of their hands. Do join us after tea for the climax . Tea , Day 5 : Well , Kohli and Rahane have steered India to safer shores after being reduced to 19/3. Ryan Harris produced an incisive opening burst , trapping Dhawan lbw for a duck. In a strange move , KL Rahul was bumped up the order but departed soon after , falling to Mitch Johnson. 5/2 became 19/3 when Vijay was mortified to be out lbw though the Hazlewood ball was snaking down leg . 33.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Lyon pulls his length back on middle , Rahane blocks it back to Lyon 33.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Rahane is forward to block it back to the bowler 33.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flat and on the stumps , jammed out to cover 33.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Rahane dead-bats it 33.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , defended to the off-side 33.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , miscommunication between the wickets ? Kohli escapes another run-out. Flatter and on off , Kohli shovels it to mid-on. The fielder dives , collects the ball quickly but misses the direct hit. Watson gets the ball and passes it to Lyon , who fails to gather the throw and lets Kohli off. The Indian vice-captain , who was looking for the second is sent back. He dives and is helped by Lyon as well 32.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , full and outside off , Rahane comes on the front foot and punches it to short cover 32.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , bouncer outside off , Rahane gets his noggin out of the way 32.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , fuller and on middle and leg , that 's an easy escape route after three good balls , Rahane flicks it behind square on the leg-side 32.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , Rahane is drawn into a forward defensive push back to the bowler 32.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a good length and comes in from outside off , not close enough to off though to draw a stroke from Rahane Kohli walks up to Rahane and has a chat with him . 32.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , full and in the channel outside off , left alone 31.6 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , flatter and straighter , tucked past short leg off the back foot , the ball goes towards backward square 31.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , angled in on middle and leg from round the wicket , nudged behind square 31.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slid through on off , Kohli blocks it to short leg 31.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , looped up outside off , Kohli comes forward and drives it to cover 31.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli defends it to the leg-side 31.1 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , flatter and quicker outside off , Jinks stands tall and punches it past cover 30.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , Kohli shoulders arms 30.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , 2 runs , good length ball on middle , Kohli shuffles across and works it past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 30.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , angled across off , Kohli leaves again 30.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Hazlewood drags his length back outside off , Kohli is not interested 30.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , shapes in on middle and off , Kohli defends it back to Hazlewood 30.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , Kohli goes for an away-from-the-body drive , slices it in front of point 29.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up around off , Rahane pats it to the off-side 29.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , fuller and straighter , flicked to short mid wicket for a quick single. Follows up the 169 in the first innings and the aggressive presser with a fifty. He waves his bat and salutes the cheers 29.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Kohli looks to turn it to the leg-side , gets a soft leading edge , it does not carry back to the bowler 29.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , on the leg stump , worked past short leg , behind square leg 29.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter and just outside off , Kohli shovels it to mid-wicket 29.1 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , nice and floaty on off , dabbed to backward point via an open face 28.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , streaky but safe again. Full and outside off , Kohli reaches out and looks to drive away from the body. He gets it off the outside half of the bat. The ball dies down in front of Lyon at gully 28.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , short of a length and outside off , Kohli rides the bounce and dabs it safely to gully 28.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , FOUR , crunch ! Fuller and on the stumps , Kohli punches it straight down the ground , the ball raced away to the boundary. Slow outfield or a lightning quick one , that was always a four 28.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , good length ball outside off , Kohli covers his off stump and leaves it 28.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , Kohli reaches out and slices it in front of Rogers at backward point 28.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , blocked back to the returning Hazlewood Josh Hazlewood [ 4.0-1-13-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Lyon reverts to the fuller length , flatter in trajectory as well , jammed back at the bowler 27.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Lyon pulls his length back , Rahane goes on the back foot to block it back to the bowler 27.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , fuller and on the stumps , defended from the crease 27.3 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , Lyon goes round the wicket and straightens it just outside off , Rahane pokes at it and gets an outside edge that eludes first slip 27.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , nudged towards backward square leg 27.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through , Kohli punches it past a diving Lyon towards mid-on Nathan Lyon [ 5.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Johnson to Rahane , no run , back of a length and on middle , Rahane blocks it to the leg-side 26.5 Johnson to Rahane , 2 runs , dropped by Rogers at point. This one is on the shorter side , Rahane arches back and cuts it in the air. Rogers leaps up in the air , gets a hand to it , but it did not stick. It was n't an easy chance and the fielder only parried it over him 26.4 Johnson to Kohli , 3 runs , on a length and outside off , Kohli leans forward and drives it past the covers for three 26.3 Johnson to Kohli , leg byes , 2 runs , dug in short and down leg at 140kph , Kohli does not get bat on the glance. The ball catches the thigh pad and runs away fine. Hazlewood gets across , slides and keeps it to a couple. The TV umpire checks if it is a clean stop. Hazlewood was in contact with the rope , but that was before collecting the ball. He recovers and keeps it to 2 leg byes 26.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , wide outside off , Kohli reaches out , jabs his bat down and plays it to point. It could have been left alone 26.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , angled in outside off from round the stumps , Kohli blocks it to the off-side 25.6 R Harris to Rahane , no run , similar line and length , Rahane comes forward and defensively pushes it to the man at mid-off 25.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , pitched up and on off , Rahane bunts it to mid-off after pressing forward 25.4 R Harris to Rahane , no run , full on off , luring Rahane into a forward defensive push down the pitch 25.3 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Kohli is forward to push it to cover. He takes off for a brisk single 25.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Kohli blocks it to mid-on 25.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , dug in short and around off , Kohli defends it to the leg-side 24.6 Johnson to Rahane , no run , end of a testing over from Mitch. Fuller and around off again , Rahane taps it towards cover , looks for a quick single. It is n't there and he has to retreat 24.5 Johnson to Rahane , no run , back of a length and around off , Rahane dabs it behind point 24.4 Johnson to Rahane , no run , there 's the two-card trick. Follows up the bouncer with a fullish one outside off. Nearly found Rahane 's outside edge. The batsman was lured into pushing out , beaten on the outside edge. Haddin appeals for caught behind , but ump Dharma is not interested 24.3 Johnson to Rahane , no run , well-directed bouncer angled across , Rahane contemplated a upper cut before swaying away from the line of it 24.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , short of length on the stumps , Rahane moves back but mistimes the pull as it goes only as far as square leg 24.1 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , short of length on middle , Kohli hops up and tucks it in front of square on the leg-side 23.6 R Harris to Rahane , no run , fraction back of a length and on top-of-off , Rahane is forward to defend it to short cover 23.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , Rahane comes well forward and defends this Ryano offering down the pitch 23.4 R Harris to Kohli , 3 runs , pitched up and outside off , Kohli lunges forward and drives it in the gap at cover. The ball plugs in the deep and they get three 23.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length and on off , Kohli blocks it back to Harris 23.2 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , Ryan Harris shortens his length , dabbed in front of cover for a quick single. 1000 Test runs for Rahane as well. Out of 1000 , 992 have come overseas 23.1 R Harris to Rahane , FOUR , fuller and outside off , Rahane reaches forward and drives it behind point , this one travelled quickly to the boundary. That raises the fifty of the partnership between these two 22.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Mitch bangs this bouncer , but the line is down leg , Kohli sinks under it with no trouble 22.5 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , bent knee , balance , timing. Fuller and outside off , Kohli caresses the cover-drive , the ball dribbles away to the fence , beating Bucky 's chase. Remember , the outfield has slowed down after the rain 22.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Johnson gets some inward shape , Kohli defends it to the leg-side off an inside-edge 22.3 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , fuller and on off , drop-and-run single to short cover. Not sure if these are needed if India want to bat out and salvage a draw 22.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Rahane defensively pushes it back to the bowler from the crease 22.1 Johnson to Rahane , no run , on a good length and outside off , Rahane lifts his bat and lets it go Plenty of noise from the Indian contingent at the 'G 21.6 R Harris to Kohli , leg byes , 2 runs , a spirited shout for lbw , but is negated by the ump. The ball was slipping down leg. This was fuller and comes in on middle and leg , Kohli misses the flick. The ball beats the inside-edge and strikes Kohli on the pad. India eke out 2 leg byes 21.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli moves forward and across as he flicks it to mid-wicket 21.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , good length ball on and around off , Kohli blocks it down the pitch. The ball gets deflected to mid-off off Rahane 's bat 21.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length and comes around off , Kohli closes his bat face and taps it towards mid-wicket 21.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , slightly back of a length and on off , Kohli defends it onto the pitch with loose bottom hands 21.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , Kohli 's flowy drive is intercepted by a diving Marsh at short cover Ryan Harris [ 5.0-3-7-1 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , full and outside off , Kohli comes forward , taps it towards cover and sets off. Warner collects the ball quickly and has a shy at the bowler 's end but misses. A diving Kohli makes his ground. Australia needed a direct hit there to land the Indian vice-captain in trouble 20.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and outside off , Kohli dabs it to short cover 20.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , bumper from Mitch , follows it up with a stare ! Kohli , who was up after ducking under nods his head 20.3 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , banged in short , Kohli rocks back , gets into a good position and pulls it in front of square , the ball runs away to the deep mid-wicket fence. Mitch had his hands on his head , for the ball was in the air for a brief moment 20.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and on middle , Kohli shuffles across and clips it to Burns at mid-wicket 20.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , Kohli shoulders arms Mitchell Johnson [ 3.0-0-8-1 ] is back into the attack Mitch is back. Kohli is still out there. There has been a lot of talk about respect and verbal chatter. Who will have the last laugh ? Can Kohli walk the talk ? 19.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery on off , Rahane is forward to smother it , defended to silly-point on the bounce 19.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , pushed through just outside off , defended to the right of the keeper , towards first slip 19.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Lyon drags his length back outside off , Rahane ventures deep in the crease and punches it to cover 19.3 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , much fuller and on the fourth stump , Rahane drives it past cover and gets a brace. Smith gives the chase and hunts the ball down 19.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , on the off stump again , Rahane inches forward to dead-bat it in front of Lyon 19.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , nicely looped up on off , Rahane respects it with a front foot defence 18.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , fullish and on off , Kohli moves across off and works it to mid-on , ca n't beat the fielder 18.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , fuller on middle and leg , Kohli flicks it straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 18.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , blocked back to Watto , who loses the ball off his hand as he tries to have a shy at the striker 's end. Kohli throws a stare back at Watson 18.3 Watson to Kohli , FOUR , pitched up and outside off , Kohli is forward to drive it sweetly past the bowler , he beats a diving mid-off as well. Such was the timing and placement 18.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , similar length and on off , Kohli is forward again , this time defending it to short cover 18.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli comes forward and blocks it back to Watson 17.6 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , Rahane inches forward and dabs it wide of short cover , the misfield allows Rahane to pinch an extra run 17.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , fuller and on off , Rahane dead-bats it 17.4 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , lovely timing on that. Floated just outside off as Lyon aims to exploit the rough , Rahane lunges forward and drives it wide of mid-off , the ball skims away to the fence 17.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flat on off , Kohli plays a whippy drive to mid-on and crosses over to the other end 17.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slower through the air and around off , defended to the off-side 17.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up just outside off , Kohli drills a drive , the ball just lands in front of a diving Lyon 16.6 Watson to Rahane , FOUR , dug in short and on off , but does not have the pace of a Johnson or Harris to trouble Rahane. He swivels on the back foot , rolls his wrists and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence Two catching covers in place . 16.5 Watson to Rahane , no run , full and outside off , Jinks goes for a drive. But one hand comes off the bat as he meets the ball , mistimes it to the man at mid-off 16.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , back of a length and comes on off , Rahane is not hurried as he dabs it neatly towards gully 16.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up in the channel outside off , Rahane covers his off pole and shoulders arms 16.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , short of a length on off , some extra bounce to go with it as well , Rahane fends it to the off-side 16.1 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up and outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and drives it well , Harris at wide mid-off , gets across and makes a half-diving save Time for a drinks break. So far , Australia have justified their declaration time by picking up three wickets. Dhawan went for a duck , the move to promote Rahul backfired and Vijay got a tough one. Kohli has had two battles going on , one with the bat and the other with the mouth and he has managed to hang in there with both. Rahane has looked calm and India need these two to carry on for as long as possible . 15.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated up on off , Kohli rolls his wrists and works it to behind square leg for a single 15.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted on off , Kohli crouches low and wrists it to short mid-wicket 15.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tad too full and outside off , Kohli plays a whippy drive straight to cover 15.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , moves across his stumps and taps it to short mid-wicket 15.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , hangs back and turns it to backward square leg , he wanted the single but Rahane sends him back 15.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up outside off , Kohli lunges forward and drops it dead on the wicket 14.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , Rahane comes on the front foot and defends solidly to cover 14.5 Watson to Rahane , no run , on a length just outside off , Rahane shoulders arms 14.4 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , good length ball around off , Kohli pushes it to short cover , Rogers lets it go through and the pair sneak a run 14.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , back of a length just outside off , Kohli steers it to the right of gully , where Warner makes a diving stop and throws the ball at the stumps. He makes sure that Kohli is inside the crease , but the batsman was going nowhere 14.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , short of length on off , defended off the back foot down the wicket Only one slip and a gully in place. . 14.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , on a length close to off , Kohli prefers to hang back and knock it to short cover Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 13.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , gives this plenty of air outside off , Rahane goes for the ambitous cover drive , drags it off the inside edge back onto the pads. Oohs and aahs from the Australians A leg slip comes in place now 13.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane comes half-forward and blocks well 13.4 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , pulls the length back , Kohli taps it to the left of point , looks up at Rahane who responds with a single 13.3 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , nice loopy delivery which is too full and outside off , Kohli squeezes the drive through cover , the ball races away to the fence 13.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted outside off , Kohli lunges forward and blocks it to the off-side 13.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , little extra bounce , Kohli rides it and cuts it to cover-point 12.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length around off , Kohli knocks it wide of cover and takes a quick single 12.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , FOUR , drags the length halfway down the wicket , it does n't bounce much , Kohli goes back , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of square , even though he did n't middle it , the ball had enough legs to reach the fence 12.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , muted appeal for caught behind , short and down leg , Kohli goes for the pull , does n't connect. Hazlewood enquires with the umpire , but there was nothing on it. Rahane just walks upto Kohli and tells him to keep going 12.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pitched up just outside off , Kohli drives it straight down the ground , Hazlewood bends down and stops the ball. He mocks a throw at Kohli , who stands his ground 12.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , good length delivery on off , Kohli allows the ball to hit the bat and roll to short cover 12.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , nice shape away , the line is outside off , Kohli watches it go past him 11.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , pushed through around off , Rahane goes back and punches it to mid-off 11.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flatter and on off , Kohli knocks it to mid-on , where the fielder is slightly deep 11.4 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , flighted on middle , Rahane glances it off the inside edge behind square on the leg-side 11.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , sharp turn from outside off , Rahane hangs back and tucks it to square leg 11.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , turning into the batsman , Kohli waits for it and nurdles it to backward square leg 11.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , shortish and on off , Kohli goes deep in the crease and punches it straight into the short leg fielder Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 10.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , short of length on off , Rahane drops it with soft hands in front of point 10.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , good length ball around off , Rahane presents the full face and knocks it to mid-off 10.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , pitched up close to off , Rahane push-drives it to mid-off 10.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , short of length just outside off , Rahane stays back and knocks it to gully 10.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , angling into leg-stump , Rahane comes forward and turns it gently to mid-wicket 10.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , bit of extra bounce on the back of a length delivery , Rahane adjusts well and dabs it with a loose bottom hand to gully 9.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , full and attacking off , Kohli defends off the inside half to mid-on 9.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , slightly short and around off , Kohli has ample time to go back and block to cover 9.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length on off , Kohli turns it in front of mid-on , takes a step out for the single but decides against it 9.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump , Kohli moves forward and blocks solidly to short cover 9.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , good length ball just outside off , left alone 9.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , tad short and outside off , Kohli waits for it and cuts it late to gully , the ball bounces just in front of Lyon. Harris had his hands on his head 8.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a length close to off , Rahane presses it to cover after coming forward 8.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , cracking shot ! Short delivery on off , Rahane goes back and pulls it in the air over mid-wicket , their were shouts of " catch it " , but it was well above the fielder. It came off the middle as well 8.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , good length ball just outside off , Rahane comes forward and shoulders arms The replays are out on the Vijay dismissal , the Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was missing leg-stump. A harsh one for Vijay 8.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , full and slanting in , Rahane brings his bat down at an angle and defends to mid-on 8.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , short delivery , banged in halfway down the pitch , the line was outside off , Rahane arches back and lets it go Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 8.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , out Lbw ! ! India 's most reliable batsman has been sent back. Was it going down leg ? Umpire Dharmasena did n't think so. The ball jags back in from a length , Vijay stays in the crease and misses the flick , is struck in front of middle and leg. The angle might have taken it past leg-stump , but we will have to wait for the Hawk-Eye. However , India have lost their third and slip further. Vijay lbw b Hazlewood 11 ( 28 ) Hazlewood to Vijay , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 7.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , hint of inward movement , Kohli stays in the crease and bunts it back to Harris 7.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length on off , Kohli goes back and defends to short cover 7.4 R Harris to Vijay , 3 runs , shortens the length outside off , Vijay punches it on the up between point and cover , the ball was in the air but in the gap as well When Kohli survived the run-out chance , the stump mic picked up Haddin saying , " It 's all about you " 7.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , back of a length on off , Vijay hangs back and wrists it to mid-on 7.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , shapes away after Vijay shoulders arms to it 7.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fuller and outside off , Vijay has nothing to do with it 6.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 6.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a length just outside off , Kohli presses forward and defends to short cover 6.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , fullish and slanting in , Vijay works it off the inside part wide of mid-on 6.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good length ball with some extra bounce , Vijay plays it well , comes forward and drops it with soft hands to mid-off 6.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , tempter outside off , pitched and inviting the batsman to drive , Vijay ignores it 6.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , 3 runs , full and tails back in sharply , Kohli gets his front leg out of the way and flicks it to deep mid-wicket. Hazlewood thought he had his man Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 5.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish and on off , Vijay knocks it to mid-on and calls " no buddy , no " to Kohli 5.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , good length ball around off , Vijay defends off the front foot to short cover 5.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , again , the length is tad short and outside off , Vijay lifts his bat and lets it go 5.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , shortens the length around off , Vijay hangs back and blocks it solidly to cover , a loud shout of " no " follows it 5.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , Vijay comes forward and shoulders arms Harris lost his run-up and he pulls out from his bowling stride 5.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fuller and on off , Vijay drives it back to the bowler 4.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length on off , Kohli goes back and across , defends it to cover 4.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , a run-out chance missed. Kohli pushes the full delivery towards mid-off and takes off for a risky single , Vijay was looking at the ball and was late to say no. Kohli was almost at the non-striker 's end before he had to turn back. The throw from Warner was wayward and that allowed Kohli to make his ground. The Aussies had plenty to say to Kohli once he made the crease. The batsman lets the umpires know that the talk is unneccesary 4.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length on the hips , Kohli tucks and picks out the backward square fielder 4.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , short one followed by one that is pitched up , Kohli drives it towards mid-off , Warner fields the ball. The bat turned in Kohli 's hands hence no timing on that 4.2 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , that 's how you play the short ball Rahul , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Kohli was forward but transferred his weight back and played a forehand pull in front of square. That had a bit of top-spin on it 4.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , short and fired well wide of off , Kohli leaves it alone 3.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , full and targeting the stumps , Vijay stays in the crease and taps it to mid-on , shouts " no " for the single 3.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , on a length close to off , Vijay gets well forward and defends it to cover 3.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , good length ball on off , Vijay presses it to mid-on after coming forward 3.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , huge shout for caught behind , but umpire Kettleborough says not-out. The Australians ca n't believe it , they are all hanging around near the striker 's end. It was a peach of a delivery , goes wide of the crease , angles it in before getting it to straighten , Vijay was playing for the angle , the ball leaves him and takes the shirt on the way to Haddin. It is a top , top decision by the umpire 3.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , angling in on middle and leg , Vijay gets inside the line and turns it to square leg 3.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , back of a length just outside off , Vijay covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go There is already some banter going around Virat. The batsman for now has kept himself calm and has walked away. But till when ? 2.6 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , drags the length back , Vijay knocks it in front of cover and scampers across for another brisk single 2.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , on a length and outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 2.4 Johnson to Vijay , 2 runs , back of a length around off , Vijay drops it towards cover and takes off for a quick single , no one backing up the throw and the batsmen take the extra run 2.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , good length ball on off , Vijay prefers to stay in the crease and bunts it to cover Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.2 Johnson to Rahul , out Caught by Watson ! ! Another brain fade for Rahul. It was a short delivery angled across the right-hander , Rahul goes back and looks to pull , gets a top-edge over the slip cordon , Watto back-tracks and takes a good catch. He was in no position to play the pull and why to attack when you have lost a wicket in the previous over ? India in trouble early on. Rahul c Watson b Johnson 1 ( 5 ) Johnson to Rahul , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! A short leg in place now. . 2.1 Johnson to Rahul , no run , short of length on off , Rahul gets right behind the line and blocks it back to Johnson 1.6 R Harris to Vijay , 2 runs , too straight , on middle and leg , Vijay leans forward and flicks it past a diving square leg for a brace. Harris had something to say to Rahul , who just turned away and walked towards Vijay 1.5 R Harris to Rahul , 1 run , straying onto the pads , Rahul tucks it to deepish square leg and opens his account 1.4 R Harris to Rahul , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Rahul presents a straight bat and defends back to Harris 1.3 R Harris to Rahul , no run , shortish and outside off , left alone Lokesh Rahul , right handed bat , comes to the crease The debutant has been sent up the order. Is this to protect Pujara ? Or giving the youngster an opportunity to prove himself ? 1.2 R Harris to Dhawan , out Lbw ! ! Harris strikes with his second ball ! Dhawan goes without troubling the scorers. It was a good length ball that nips back in , Dhawan plants his front foot forward and fails to get bat on that , it was going onto middle stump. No problems in giving that out. Not the best of starts for India. Dhawan lbw b R Harris 0 ( 5 ) R Harris to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 1.1 R Harris to Vijay , 1 run , on a length close to off , Vijay pushes it towards mid-off and sets off , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end and fails to hit the target , had that hit , it would have been interesting as Vijay 's bat got stuck near the crease Only two slips in place for Harris , he has a gully and cover. . Ryan Harris , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , fuller and on off , Dhawan defends solidly back to Johnson 0.5 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on off , Dhawan knocks it to cover-point off the back foot 0.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Dhawan sways back and gets away from the line of the delivery. The ball is carrying nicely now to Haddin 0.3 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , 146kph short delivery around off , Dhawan was looking to play at that before pulling his bat inside the line 0.2 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , shortens the length on leg-stump , Vijay tucks it to mid-wicket and gets off the mark 0.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fuller and just outside off , Vijay lets it go and the ball goes on the bounce to Haddin. It was a loosener from Johnson which was bowled at 139kph Vijay and Dhawan are at the crease. Vijay is on strike. Johnson will open the attack The Australians are out in the middle. Smith is seen patting Marsh on the shoulder. The Indian openers also make their way out. A lot will depend on these two to set the tone of the innings. Johnson starts with three slips and a gully in place.. . Welcome back.. Those who think that Australia batted too long , there are two ways to look at it. First , India have been bowled out within two sessions in the past. Second , would it have been the same if it was an Ashes Test and Australia were pushing for a whitewash ? So , only time will tell whether the declaration came at the right time or not. For now , it is upto the Indian batsmen to see off the new ball and not lose wickets at the start . India need to score at over 5rpo to win. I do n't think they would be going for the win. We 'll be back soon for the second session. Do stay tuned . Marsh and Harris were content to block , block and MS was happy to set a defensive field and wait for the mistakes. Marsh was run out superbly by Kohli on 99 when the batsman went for a quick single. So still no home ton for Marsh. Australia have a lead of 383 and a minimum of 70 overs remain to be bowled in the day. Can they push for a win ? Or have they batted too long ? The second session will give us all the answers . So Australia have declared ! Play was supposed to be halted for lunch , but since the last wicket pair were in , they can extend the session by 30 minutes. After the end of the last over , Australia decided that was enough. So that brings an end to the most boring , insipid two hours of play which was interspersed with rain. Australia did n't want to push on , India were happy with Australia 's tactics and it all led to boring cricket . 97.6 Shami to Lyon , no run , Lyon shuffles across and then nudges it to towards mid-on 97.5 Shami to Lyon , no run , Lyon comes on the front foot and defends solidly to cover 97.4 Shami to Lyon , no run , Lyon stands tall and pushes it to cover 97.3 Shami to Hazlewood , leg byes , 1 run , down leg and they take a leg bye 97.2 Shami to Hazlewood , no run , full outside off , Hazlewood drives with leaden feet and misses again. No contact with the shot attempted 97.1 Shami to Hazlewood , no run , beaten by Shami. Reversed away from Hazlewood who poked out and got done in Josh Hazlewood , left handed bat , comes to the crease 96.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , out S Marsh Run Out ! ! Marsh wo n't get his ton. It was hit too firmly and Kohli dived forward with an under-arm throw which hit the stumps , catching the diving Marsh out. As soon as the throw hit , Marsh knew he was gone. Looked at the umpire and waited for the decision. Shakes his head and walks off to a standing ovation. S Marsh run out ( Kohli ) 99 ( 215 ) [ 4s-11 6s-2 ] U Yadav to S Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Has Marsh run himself out ? Brilliant from Kohli as he swoops in on the ball and under-arms a direct hit ! OUT ! What a way to get out 96.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , looks for a drop and run into the covers , but the single is n't there 96.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , beaten by the reverse , but does n't carry to Mahendra Singh Dhoni 96.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , back and across before defending to the left of Umesh 96.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , pitched up outside off , Marsh pushes it off the front foot and finds cover The field is in now 96.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Marsh gets forward and pushes it to cover , no chance of a quick single Umesh Yadav [ 21.0-2-89-2 ] is back into the attack 95.6 Shami to Lyon , no run , well wide of off and Lyon can leave 95.5 Shami to Lyon , no run , Shami goes for the attempted yorker , Lyon digs it out back to the bowler One slip and a leg slip in place 95.4 Shami to Lyon , no run , short and down leg , swings further after passing Lyon. Dhoni dives to his left to glove 95.3 Shami to S Marsh , 1 run , clipped to deep mid-wicket , for a single. Moves to 99 95.2 Shami to Lyon , 1 run , pushed to the left of mid-on and a quick single taken. Brings Marsh back on strike 95.1 Shami to Lyon , no run , well wide of off , Lyon shoulders arms 94.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , 2 runs , is that the 100 ? No ! It is n't. Marsh uses his feet and gets it to long-on , just a couple as the ball is fielded Now again round the wicket 94.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , FOUR , now the slog sweep from outside off , Marsh nailed that to the wide long-on fence. Hit really hard and it scooted away Back over the wicket now 94.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , SIX , he was aiming for that last ball. Down the track and back over the bowler 's head. Flat hit and into the sightscreen Ashwin calls for the physio now. Another delay. Some icepack being applied to the left palm of Ashwin . 94.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , dropped by Ashwin ! Marsh came down and smashed it hard , it went low to Ashwin , who got both hands and spilled it. Ashwin wrings his left hand. He is in pain 94.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , drifting in , Marsh defends it back to Ashwin 94.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slashed straight to the fielder at point , a fumble from Rahul but they do n't take the single 93.6 Shami to Lyon , no run , a solid forward defensive to mid-off 93.5 Shami to Lyon , no run , Shami was jumping up and down for an lbw , but that was slipping down leg. Reversed in and hit Lyon 's pad as he missed the flick Nathan Lyon , right handed bat , comes to the crease 93.4 Shami to R Harris , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Harris has feathered one to the keeper. Looked to guide it to third man and edged behind. Little nick and off goes Harris. Lyon is putting on his gear to come in. No declaration then. R Harris c Dhoni b Shami 21 ( 68 ) Shami to R Harris , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 93.3 Shami to R Harris , no run , length delivery , tailing back in , Harris defends to cover 93.2 Shami to S Marsh , 1 run , Marsh takes it from outside off and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , for a single 93.1 Shami to R Harris , leg byes , 1 run , drifts down leg and another leg bye as the ball hits thigh pad Baffling tactics from both Australia and India. While Australia are n't pressing forward to a declaration , India just sit and wait for something to happen. Makes it a very boring phase of play . 92.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , softly defended to cover 92.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , a bit round-arm from round the wicket , Marsh sees it and then leaves that outside off 92.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , Marsh shuffles across to off and then blocks 92.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , blocked to point 92.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , Marsh comes on the front foot and blocks 92.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , Marsh gets forward and eases a drive to point 91.6 Shami to R Harris , no run , Harris gets forward and plays a solid forward defensive 91.5 Shami to R Harris , no run , a smooth drive with the full face of the bat to mid-on 91.4 Shami to S Marsh , leg byes , 1 run , nips back in and rushes in to hit the thigh pad as Marsh misses a flick. They take a leg bye 91.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , mistimes the cut to point , went too hard at it 91.2 Shami to S Marsh , 2 runs , cut away to third man , quick couple taken 91.1 Shami to R Harris , 1 run , drifts down leg , Harris clips to fine leg , wants a second but Ashwin is in Mohammed Shami [ 24.0-3-86-1 ] is back into the attack 90.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , defended to the right of Ashwin 90.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , 2 runs , uses his feet and drives to long off , easy couple 90.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , saw that outside off delivery and then lets it go 90.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slower and tossed up outside off , Marsh leans forward to block 90.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , forward and defending to cover 90.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , Marsh gets forward and defends it back to Ashwin Lyon who is padded up , has a smile now as the cameras watch him 89.6 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , down leg and Harris fails to clip it away , rolls off the pad to the leg-side 89.5 U Yadav to R Harris , 4 runs , an all-run four ! Harris punches through cover , Che chases it all the way , but his effort was rendered futile by the batsmen Smith went inside the dressing room at the end of the last over 89.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , Marsh is a bit squared up , but gets a thick outside edge on the drive , down to third man 89.3 U Yadav to R Harris , 1 run , drifting down leg , clipped to fine leg 89.2 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , looks to drive through cover , but gets a bottom edge back to Umesh 89.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , an inside edge onto the pads and Harris calls Marsh through for a quick single 88.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , Harris gets forward to defend it to the left of Ashwin 88.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , Marsh uses his feet and reaches out to drive to sweeper cover 88.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , sliding onto off and middle , Marsh defends it back to the bowler 88.3 Ashwin to R Harris , 1 run , tucked away to deep mid-wicket , for an easy single 88.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , dragged down short , cut hard to sweeper cover 88.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , dabbed to the fielder at gully 87.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , dabbed wide of point for an easy single 87.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , that nipped back in a little , Marsh got an inside edge onto the pads as he looked to drive , the batsmen decide not to take the single 87.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Marsh looks for the drop and run to cover , Harris sends him back though 87.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , reversed away , after starting from outside off , left alone by Marsh 87.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , outside off and on a length , left alone 87.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , short of length and Marsh defends to cover. Umesh fell as soon as he delivered the ball , no harm done though 86.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , solidly blocked back to the bowler Smith has a huge smile on his face as the cameras pan to him 86.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , a bit of a soft leading edge , but dribbles to cover 86.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , lets this slide off the face of the bat to gully 86.3 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , another defence , this time to short cover 86.2 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Harris blocks to the bowler 86.1 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , Harris leans forward and defends back to Ashwin 85.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Marsh punches to mid-on to end the over 85.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Marsh covers the line and then defends the full delivery to mid-off 85.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , short of length on off , Marsh defends to cover 85.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , FOUR , edges the cut and it goes over a leaping fourth slip. Vijay the fielder and he did n't even get a fingertip on it. Raced away to the third man fence 85.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , shuffles across and defends to mid-off 85.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Marsh is beaten on the cut. Tried to pull out of the shot , but was late in doing so. Bit of extra bounce for Umesh 84.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , Harris calmly blocks the last one off the front foot 84.5 Ashwin to R Harris , 2 runs , sees the flight on that and drills a drive wide of long-off for two 84.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , dabbed to a gully fielder 84.3 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , quicker and flatter on the stumps , Harris defends to the left of Ashwin 84.2 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , turned to short mid-wicket 84.1 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , edged and does n't carry to Dhawan at first slip. Quicker from round the wicket , Harris got an edge , but it fell short of Dhawan Play should begin very shortly. So that 's great news. We should be fine for the rest of the day folks. Kohli has a chat with Dharmasena. Very bright and sunny now . Interesting to see Nathan Lyon padded up. Looks like Australia are going to bat on. The rain has stopped now. We should restart pretty soon . Hoho ! It has started to rain again. The players are going off. Dean Jones reckons that we should be fine since there is blue sky in the background. The hessian is covering the pitch . Ravichandran Ashwin [ 22.0-2-56-2 ] is back into the attack 83.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , leans out to drive and completely mistimes it , the ball dribbles to mid-off 83.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , 138kph full delivery on the stumps , Marsh shuffles across and defends 83.4 U Yadav to R Harris , 1 run , if Che had picked it up cleanly , he might have had a chance to run Marsh out. Does n't and that allows Marsh to pick up the quick single 83.3 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , pitched up outside off , Harris steers it to point 83.2 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , flicked to backward square leg 83.1 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , full on the stumps , Harris defends to mid-on 82.6 Shami to S Marsh , FOUR , width from Shami and Marsh pounces. Stays back and cuts late in the gap at gully. First boundary of the day 82.5 Shami to R Harris , 1 run , flicked to square leg , where Che dives to his right and keeps it to a single 82.4 Shami to R Harris , no run , pushed softly to cover from the crease 82.3 Shami to S Marsh , 1 run , pushed to mid-off , quick single taken 82.3 Shami to S Marsh , wide , very high bouncer and wide signalled 82.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , Marsh gets forward and then shoulders arms to one that is pitched outside off 82.1 Shami to S Marsh , no run , outside off and a leave 81.6 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , pushed to cover off the front foot 81.5 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , Harris looks to punch that through cover and mistimes it to mid-on. That came off the inside half India have n't taken the second new ball. Sensible move as the old one is reversing and India do n't want the hardness of the new ball to work against them. Could go for plenty if they do n't get it right 81.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , full on the stumps , Marsh clips it wide of mid-on. Takes a single 81.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and Marsh is back and across to defend to the right of Umesh 81.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Marsh reaches out and drives to mid-off 81.1 U Yadav to R Harris , 1 run , a bit of an inside edge onto the pads and they take a quick single 80.6 Shami to S Marsh , no run , well wide of off , Marsh shoulders arms 80.5 Shami to S Marsh , 2 runs , swings back in , Marsh clips it wide of Ashwin at mid-on. Couple of runs taken 80.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , short of length on off , Marsh pushes it to mid-off 80.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , Marsh sees the ball curve away from outside off , left alone 80.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , that 's solid from Marsh. He gets forward and then blocks firmly to mid-off 80.1 Shami to R Harris , 1 run , angling into Harris , who clips it to fine leg Just the four runs scored in the first five overs of the day . 79.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Umesh has a wry smile on his face after beating Marsh. Similar to the third delivery of the over and Marsh is playing at those ones outside off and getting beaten. Ever so close to the nick 79.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , now Marsh gets forward and then shoulders arms 79.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , yorker length and Marsh digs it out to cover 79.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , 137kph reversing away , Marsh is drawn into the defensive stroke and is beaten. Did n't cover the line well there. Good bowling from Umesh 79.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Marsh shuffles across and then defends solidly towards cover 79.1 U Yadav to R Harris , leg byes , 1 run , Umesh goes for the inswinging yorker , slips down leg , rushes off the boot and the batsmen take a quick single. Called leg byes 78.6 Shami to S Marsh , no run , short down leg and Marsh ca n't connect on the pull , poor ball that 78.5 Shami to S Marsh , no run , Marsh gets forward and pushes it to cover 78.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , down leg and Mahendra Singh Dhoni dives to his right to save a few runs 78.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , Marsh shuffles across a little and defends solidly 78.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , 138kph length delivery on off , Marsh defends it back to Shami 78.1 Shami to S Marsh , no run , reverses away on a fuller length after starting outside off , left alone 77.6 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , flicked straight to the fielder at backward square leg 77.5 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , back of a length outside off , Harris stands back and defends to cover 77.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , sliding onto the pads , flicked to fine leg 77.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Umesh beats Marsh on the walk. Angled across on a fuller length and shaped away , Marsh was pushing out and beaten comprehensively 77.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Marsh rides the bounce and plays that softly to point 77.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , short of length on off , nips back in a little , Marsh stands tall and defends it back to Umesh Umesh Yadav [ 14.0-1-73-2 ] is back into the attack 76.6 Shami to R Harris , no run , full on the stumps , clipped straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 76.5 Shami to R Harris , no run , pitched up on off , Harris gets forward and defends to cover Smith is in his baggy green and whites. Declaration ? 76.4 Shami to R Harris , no run , bit of tail into Harris , who drives to mid-off 76.3 Shami to R Harris , no run , nips back in sharply , Harris brings the bat down a bit late , but gets it down to square leg 76.2 Shami to S Marsh , 1 run , tapped in front of point and Harris asks Marsh to come through for the quick single 76.1 Shami to S Marsh , no run , well wide of off , Shami begins with a loosener , Marsh leaves 75.6 Ishant to S Marsh , leg byes , 1 run , bit of extra bounce for Ishant , strikes Marsh on the thigh and they take a leg bye 75.5 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , angled across Marsh , who sees and then lets it go 75.4 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , dug in short and Marsh ducks under that We are back and sunny now at the G. All set to go again . 09 : 35 Local Time , 23 : 35 GMT , 05 : 05 IST : If there is no more rain then restart is expected in 10 minutes time. It 's confirmed. Play will start in 10. No overs have been lost . Scratch that ! Rain is back and the pitch is covered . Good news - the covers are coming off and the umpires are out there to inspect things. We should 've play soon . Dharmasena flicks the bails off and pulls a stump out - that means rain is on the way. Bad news that. The wicket is covered. Mahendra Singh Dhoni has a smile and a chat to the umpires. The players are on the field , now they troop off . 75.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , short of length outside off at 130kph , Marsh shoulders arms 75.2 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , full and brings Marsh on the front foot , pushed to cover 75.1 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , short of length on the stumps , Marsh gets right behind the line and defends towards mid-off After a slight delay we are set to go. Ishant to start off to Marsh. 98 overs scheduled to be bowled in the day. Cracker of a day in prospect. Let 's go ! Mitchell Johnson says 'he is looking forward to today , let 's hope the rain stays away. ' He says he feels good after a day 's rest yesterday. Physically I feel good is how he describes himself . The Indians are doing their stretching and some light jogging as they wait for play to begin. Rahul touches the turf and has a little prayer on his lips as he steps in. Play should 've started by now , but not sure why the delay is. Indians are doing some light catching . Pitch report by Sourav Ganguly : Nothing has changed much since we last saw yesterday. Not many cracks or marks. Still brown grass on it. For the spinners , from an end there is nothing. There is a bit of footmark from the other end though. Overall it 's still a good batting surface . Michael Clarke in a sharp black suit is looking very dapper with the black shades to suit him as well. He has a chat with Smith standing by the pitch . Michael Jeh is a Brisbane-based former first-class player . 'The first Australian team to win a Test series in India adopted the mantra of to lose patience is to lose the battle. India might easily have adopted that philosophy on tour but they 've let too many opportunities slip. It 's entertainment aplenty but that does n't win you Test matches. So much of the cricket they 've played these last few weeks has been high quality but not much of it has been smart. ' writes Michael Jeh for Mid-day 'Johnson ( 3-135 ) claimed the wickets of tailenders Umesh Yadav and Mohammed Shami in successive overs while Harris took 4-70 in an innings dominated by Kohli 's 169. ' writes Greg Buckle for the Courier Mail . 'No. 5 Marsh countered India 's reverse-swing tactics late in the day 's play to reach an unbeaten 62 and Ryan Harris is on eight. India had resumed yesterday morning on 8-462 and added three more runs to trail by 65 on the first innings.' 'Australia , leading two-nil , need only to draw the Test to clinch the series , and David Warner expected they would bat on in the morning. India have to win to have a chance of levelling the series in Sydney and thus retaining the trophy ' Saltau adds 'Australia 's batting wobbles continued in the second innings but a half-century at the top from veteran opener Chris Rogers , and another in the middle from Marsh , stretched the home side 's lead to 326 at stumps to set up an intriguing and perhaps fiery finish to the Boxing Day Test.' She writes , 'The old ball was reversing and Virat Kohli was chirping , but Shaun Marsh ensured India would have to produce at least the second-biggest successful chase in MCG history to keep the Border-Gavaskar series alive.' Here is Chloe Saltau , Chief Cricket Writer for the Age . 'Once regarded as the next big thing in Australian cricket , Watson will next week mark a decade as a Test player with the record as a jack of all trades. On Boxing Day , he had a big score at his mercy only to lose his wicket to a lapse in concentration. As he described succinctly after play that day : " I got out again. I felt I was batting nicely and unfortunately I just got out again. It 's very disappointing. He could have offered the same explanation again on Monday after another golden opportunity went begging. He had arrived at the wicket with Australia 122 runs ahead and perhaps only a session away from breaking India 's back.' He writes , 'When Shane Watson made his debut in the 2005 Sydney Test , then captain Ricky Ponting remarked : " We 've all known Shane 's potential for a long time now. " The same could still be said today.' His piece has the headline 'Shane Watson still an untapped talent a decade after Test debut' Andrew Wu , writing for the Sydney Morning Herald , places the microscope on Watson . Before the action resumes , let us flick through the newspapers . " We know what their batting line-up is like , Kohli and ( Ajinkya ) Rahane put on a great partnership ( in the first innings ) . They had their luck but they went on with it and got big scores. That is in the back of our mind. We know the positive brand of cricket they are playing now and we have to come out with the ball and either dry it up or take those ten wickets. I think we need a few more runs than what we have got on the board at the moment , " the opener added . An early welcome as well in light of time lost due to rain yesterday. An overnight declaration looks unlikely as Warner opined that the hosts would look to add a few more runs . Australia are ahead and lead by a healthy margin of 326. However , India 's Adelaide heroics , albeit coming in a losing cause , will keep them on tenterhooks , perhaps making them think about a lead of 375 + and with it play safely for a draw and reclaim the Border-Gavaskar series. With the possibility of all results looming large , we welcome you to the final day 's play at the 'G . Top batting. Probing bowling. Verbal chatter - both on and off the field. Australia powering ahead. India bowling badly , collapsing and later getting up to fight but eventually falling short. This has more or less been the theme of the series. Kohli , Mr.Aggressive/spoilt brat ( delete by preference ) said after his 169 that India will attack a 350-360 target and go about their business positively . Many thanks for your company and comments today. Come back tomorrow and see how this Test finishes. Kohli and Mitch are expected to be the chief protagonists on day 5. Bye and cheers for now. Remember , the game will start half an hour early on the final day to accomodate 98 overs and with it compensate the time lost due to rain . Burns and Haddin departed cheaply. However , Marsh dug in before essaying some gorgeous drives. Mitch Johnson briefly hung in before he was sent off by Kohli. Ishant Sharma set the ball rolling in the final session of day 4 , testing the hosts in the channel outside off. He was duly rewarded when Burns edged one to Dhoni. Shami and Umesh supported Ishant well as India did not give away easy runs. Ashwin chipped in , showing good discipline as well . Stumps , Day 4 : Shaun Marsh 's fifty has stretched Australia 's lead to 326. What would be a safe lead according to Steve Smith ? Will they declare overnight and attack the Indian openers tomorrow ? We will have to wait for that. But , this game is nicely poised and is heading towards another exciting finish. That 's certain . 74.6 Shami to R Harris , no run , back of a length and reverses in on off , Harris miscues the attempted cut , but defends it back to the bowler in an awkward manner and keeps it out. Shami has a wry smile on his face. Well , that is that for the day 74.5 Shami to R Harris , 2 runs , fuller on middle and leg , Harris stays back and tucks it past mid-wicket for a brace 74.4 Shami to R Harris , no run , short of length and on off again , Harris punches it down the track , the ball bounces over Shami 74.3 Shami to R Harris , no run , similar line , top-of-off line , punched off the back foot to mid-off 74.2 Shami to R Harris , no run , back of a length and on the fourth stump , Harris hangs back and defends it to cover 74.1 Shami to R Harris , no run , down leg , Harris does not bother with it Mohammed Shami [ 19.0-2-73-1 ] is back into the attack 73.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , full and slanting away outside off , Marsh shoulders arms 73.5 U Yadav to R Harris , 1 run , back of a length and shapes in on middle and leg , Harris closes his bat face and clips it towards deep backward square leg 73.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and on the hips , Marsh misses the flick. The result is a leg bye as the ball wanders away in front of fine leg 73.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , good length ball on middle and off , Marsh is forward to press it to mid-off 73.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , full and slanted across off , Marsh lifts his bat and lets it go 73.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , pitched up and jagging away outside off , Marsh dangles his bat out and gets beaten on the outside edge 72.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , slides on with the arm on middle , Harris keeps it out 72.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , Ashwin gives this more air on middle and leg , Harris pats it back to the bowler 72.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , flatter on middle and leg , turned straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 72.3 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , Ash drags his length back on the fourth stump , Harris is careful in defence 72.2 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , flatter and quicker on off , Harris blocks it back to Ashwin 72.1 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , fullish on middle and leg , clipped to mid-wicket He is ready to resume and twirl his arm over . The physio is out tending to Ashwin 's hand . 71.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and on the leg stump , Marsh is hit high on the thigh pad as he misses the flick. The ball rolls to the off-side 71.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , fuller and straighter , Marsh lunges forward for the defensive push 71.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , kicks up from a back of a length and shapes away to fox Marsh. The batsman spars at it before trying to pull his bat inside the line 71.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , on a length and just outside off , Marsh pokes it out to cover 71.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , carbon copy of the previous ball with the only difference being Dhoni 's inability to glove the ball cleanly 71.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , sprayed down leg , Marsh leaves it alone Umesh Yadav [ 12.0-0-72-2 ] is back into the attack 70.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , another darter , this one is on the stumps , Harris blocks it towards cover 70.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , slides on with the arm outside off , Harris misses the cut and is beaten. Mahendra Singh Dhoni whips the bails off , but Harris ' back foot was grounded 70.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , flatter and on off , Harris is happy to dead-bat it 70.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , tossed up on the leg stump , Marsh nurdles a single to square leg 70.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slider on middle , Marsh gets behind the line and defends it to the off-side 70.1 Ashwin to R Harris , 1 run , darted close to off , Harris backs away and chops it wide of cover 69.6 Shami to S Marsh , FOUR , another superb shot from Marsh. He leans forward on the cover-drive again and sends it to the fence. He is making it count Kohli , who was running in from mid-off to celebrate the wicket with the bowler may have provoked Johnson. Kohli though was seen defending himself , saying to the umpire that he was just going to rejoice with Shami . 69.5 Shami to S Marsh , no run , full and outside off , Marsh swishes his bat out of the way 69.4 Shami to S Marsh , FOUR , on a good length and outside off , Marsh leans forward and drives it sweetly , the ball just flows away past the covers 69.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , fuller and on middle and leg , Marsh flicks and mid-wicket makes a diving save The umpires were seen having a word with Kohli after sending off Johnson. The drama continues . 69.2 Shami to R Harris , 1 run , Shami bangs this one outside off , Harris swivel-pulls it to deep backward square leg with decent control 69.1 Shami to R Harris , no run , back of a length and on off , defended to the left of Shami 68.6 Ashwin to R Harris , 1 run , much slower through the air and spins away , Harris pushes at it and gets an outside edge towards gully 68.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , pushed through by Ash again , Harris defends it to the off-side 68.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , darted flat on middle , Harris pushes it down the pitch. Ashwin tries to stop the ball with his boot , but parries it away towards mid-on. No runs though 68.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , drifting onto the pads , clipped through backward square leg 68.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , 2 runs , Ash shortens his length outside off , Marsh rocks back and cuts it past a diving point 68.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , SIX , tossed up and just outside off , Marsh uses his feet and launches it over the long-off fence. Nice way to get to a fifty and it is a timely one for Marsh 67.6 Shami to R Harris , no run , good length ball on middle , Harris presents a straight bat and defends it back to Shami 67.5 Shami to R Harris , 2 runs , fuller and straighter , Harris tucks it to deep square leg off the inside half of the bat 67.4 Shami to R Harris , no run , Shami tests Harris with a bouncer , the latter gets his head out of the way 67.3 Shami to R Harris , no run , another batsman strangled down leg ? No , says Dharma. Back of a length and down leg , Harris does not meet with the half pull/flick. The ball hits his hip and lobs to the left of leg slip , who dives and takes the ball. Neither bat nor glove involved Mitch had a few words to say as well before leaving the field . 67.2 Shami to R Harris , no run , pitched up and around off , blocked to cover Ryan Harris , right handed bat , comes to the crease 67.1 Shami to Johnson , out Caught by Rahane ! ! Mitch gets a taste of his own medicine , he has been bounced out. What 's more ? He gets a send off as well from the Indians. Shami bends his back and bowls a well-directed bouncer outside off , Johnson has to fetch it from there. He gets it very high on his bat and the ball balloons to Rahane at mid-wicket. Johnson c Rahane b Shami 15 ( 27 ) [ 4s-2 ] Shami to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 66.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed to short cover 66.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , nice tossed up on off and middle , Marsh defends it solidly 66.4 Ashwin to Johnson , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Johnson swings it to long on , on the bounce 66.3 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , slower through the air on off , Johnson loads up for a forcing shot through the off-side. But has to settle with an inside-edge to the leg-side 66.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , on the middle stump again , Johnson defends it to the leg-side 66.1 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , slid through on middle , blocked back to Ash off the back foot 65.6 Shami to S Marsh , no run , very full and attacking off again , Marsh squeezes out a drive straight to the fielder at mid-off 65.5 Shami to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and outside off , Marsh chases it , looking to cut. But Shami passes the outside edge of Marsh 65.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , Shami errs down leg , Marsh ca n't meet with the flick 65.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , hurled full on off , Marsh jams it out to mid-off 65.2 Shami to Johnson , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Johnson slaps it to cover , where Pujara misfields and allows a single 65.1 Shami to Johnson , FOUR , back of a length and outside off and Mitch flat-bats it straight down the ground with disdain , the ball sped away to the fence Mohammed Shami [ 16.0-2-57-0 ] is back into the attack Plenty of noise generated by the Indian contingent at the 'G. Shami takes over from Ishant . 64.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , nice and full on off , Ashwin gets some turn as well , but Marsh is forward to keep it out 64.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Marsh just pats it back to Ashwin 64.4 Ashwin to Johnson , 1 run , pitched up and on middle and off , Johnson drives it to cover , where the fielder dives and parries the ball away towards point , allowing the single 64.3 Ashwin to Johnson , FOUR , bang goes Mitch ! He bends down , takes it from outside off and nails the slog sweep to the deep square fence 64.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , quicker on middle , Johnson blocks it to the leg-side 64.1 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , pushed through on off , Johnson defends it to cover after inching forward 63.6 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , full and outside off , Marsh lunges forward for an expansive drive but finds Kohli at mid-off 63.5 Ishant to S Marsh , 2 runs , back of a length and on the hips , tucked away to deep square leg for a couple of runs 63.4 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , a big shout for lbw , ump Dharma though shakes his head. Ishant ca n't believe his luck. This was a nip-backer from Ishant , Marsh is rapped on the pads after offering no shot to it. Pitched fractionally outside leg , height may have been an issue as well 63.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , good length ball close to off , Marsh is forward to tap it to cover 63.2 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , back of a length on middle , Marsh gets forward and across as he drops it to the off-side 63.1 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , dug in short and hurries on middle , Marsh fends it back to the bowler off the back foot 62.6 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , slider outside off , Johnson does not bother with it 62.5 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , straight ball on middle , Johnson defends it to the leg-side off the front foot 62.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , full and outside off , Marsh uses his feet and drives it to deep extra cover 62.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slower through the air and on off , Marsh presses it to cover 62.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , floated on off , Marsh is forward to block it to the off-side 62.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed through outside off , chopped behind point 61.6 Ishant to S Marsh , leg byes , 1 run , short of length and homing in on the hips , Marsh gets an inside-edge on the flick , the ball rolls towards square leg. Oh wait , Marsh did not get any bat on it and its a leg bye 61.5 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , loose shot again. Back of a length and angled across , Marsh is beaten on the cut. Nearly nicked it through to Dhoni. Steady build-up of pressure from Ishant 61.4 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and on off and middle , defended to short cover 61.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , short and angled in , Marsh was neither ducking nor weaving. He wears it on his mid-riff. Marsh though does not flinch 61.2 Ishant to S Marsh , FOUR , Marsh almost dragged it back onto the stumps. Similar length and just outside off , Marsh goes for a cut through point , the ball takes the inside-edge and whizzes past the stumps before running fine. Ishant has his hands on his head 61.1 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , back of a length , top-of-middle line , Marsh comes halfway forward and blocks it to short cover 60.6 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , straight roller outside off , Johnson lets it through to Dhoni 60.5 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , drifts and straightens , Johnson manages his bring his bat down in time and keep it away 60.4 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , quicker delivery around off , Johnson lets it go , that was very close to the off-stump 60.3 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , slower and well wide of off , left alone A gully is in place now 60.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , tossed up just outside off , Johnson blocks it to short cover 60.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , flighted on off , Marsh chips down the pitch and eases it to long-on 59.6 Ishant to Johnson , no run , 142kph full delivery , Johnson drives it straight to mid-off 59.5 Ishant to Johnson , no run , slanted outside off , Johnson leaves it alone 59.4 Ishant to S Marsh , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Marsh drives it to the left of mid-off , Virat dives and saves three runs for the team 59.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , short of length on off , Marsh stays back and defends it to Ishant 59.2 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , lovely delivery , on a length and in the corridor of uncertainty , Marsh hangs back and pokes at it , is beaten neck and crop 59.1 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , starts with a back of a length delivery outside off , Marsh hoists his bat up and lets it go Ishant Sharma [ 16.0-4-42-2 ] is back into the attack 58.6 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , carrom ball well wide of off , Johnson ignores it 58.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , again , comes down the track and drives it to long-on 58.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slower and on off , Marsh smothers it with a forward defensive 58.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted up outside off , blocked to short cover 58.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , FOUR , lovely shot ! Floated up on middle , Marsh shimmies down the track and takes it on the full , he whips it wide of long-on , Vijay was the fielder in the deep and he should have done better. Dhoni sends him back to the rope now 58.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted on off , Marsh defends it back to Ashwin. Dhoni says , " That is a nice line Ash " Time for a drinks break. It has been India 's session so far. They have been disciplined with the ball and have picked up Burns and Haddin. Ishant was the pick of the bowlers with Shami and Ashwin playing the supporting act. If they can get through the lower-order quickly , then the match will be set up nicely for the final day . 57.6 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , edge does not carry to Dhoni , full and in the channel around off , Johnson goes fishing after it , the ball takes the outside edge and drops in front Dhoni. The ball might have kept a tad low , hence no carry on that 57.5 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , short and outside off , Johnson hangs back and flays it to backward point 57.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Marsh drives it towards short cover , Rahul dives and deflects it to mid-off 57.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , shortish and outside off , Marsh cuts and picks out Ash at backward point 57.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , full and just outside off , driven straight down the ground , Umesh bends down and fields the ball 57.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , pitched up outside off , Marsh drives to mid-off , the bat turned in his hands hence no timing on that 56.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , too straight in line , Marsh wrists it to long-on and keeps strike 56.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , goes straight on , Marsh blocks with bat and pad close together 56.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted outside off , Marsh lunges forward and defends to short cover 56.3 Ashwin to Johnson , 1 run , quicker and on the stumps , Johnson drives it to the left of Ashwin , who dives and fails to stop the ball 56.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , pushed through at 92kph , Johnson smothers it with a forward defensive 56.1 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , tossed up on off , Johnson leans forward and blocks it to short cover 55.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , shortish and around off , Marsh stands up and taps it to point 55.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , peach ! Why ca n't he bowl this more often ? Back of a length and jags away late , Marsh hangs back and prods at it , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 55.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , fires it full and outside off , left alone Coming to the Haddin wicket , the replays are out. The Snicko has picked up a noise off the bat , but there is nothing on the HotSpot . 55.3 U Yadav to Johnson , 3 runs , Johnson gets friendly half volley on the pads , he stays in the crease and clips it to deep mid-wicket for three Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 55.2 U Yadav to Haddin , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Another batsman falls down the leg-side. Haddin is not happy with the decision , but he has to walk back. Full and angled down leg , Haddin goes for the flick , the ball was not close to the pad , so the sound might have come from the bat. Umpire Dharmasena certainly thought it was bat as he raised his finger quickly. We will have to wait for the replays to confirm if it came off the bat or not. Haddin c Dhoni b U Yadav 13 ( 27 ) U Yadav to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 55.1 U Yadav to Haddin , 2 runs , Dhoni was heard saying , " Take one line and bowl to that " . Inswinging low full toss on the stumps , Haddin flicks it to deep backward square leg for a brace 54.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , this time he comes down the track and takes it on the full , whips it straight to mid-wicket 54.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , skips out of the crease , yorks himself and ends up digging it to mid-wicket 54.4 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , Haddin kneels down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 54.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , too straight from Ash , Marsh clips it past mid-wicket for a single 54.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , throws this up close to off , Marsh presses forward and blocks 54.1 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Haddin works it down to deepish mid-on 53.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , good length ball outside off , left alone 53.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , FOUR , poor bowling from Umesh , he is letting the pressure go. Full and plenty of width on offer , Marsh throws his bat at it , slices it uppishly to the right of backward point to collect the second boundary of the over 53.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , back of a length just outside off , Marsh sits back and taps it to short cover 53.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , FOUR , low full toss outside off , it was the attempted yorker , Marsh brings his bat down and laces it through cover , beat short cover and extra cover comfortably 53.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , fuller and on off , Marsh pushes it to mid-off Ashwin has gone off the field. He might have hurt is hand while trying to stop the ball in his own bowling . 53.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , overpitched outside off , Marsh creams the drive straight to short cover 52.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , bit too full and outside off , Marsh leans into the drive to deep extra cover 52.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flatter and on off , punched back to the bowler 52.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , nice loopy delivery on off , Marsh presses forward and dead-bats it to short cover 52.3 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , slows it up around off , Haddin wrists it to the right of Ashwin , he dives and parries it to long-on 52.2 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , pushed through around off , Haddin bunts it off the back foot to the off-side 52.1 Ashwin to Haddin , 2 runs , quicker and outside off , Haddin shuffles across and gets a thickish outside edge past slip , the ball was never in the air 51.6 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , drifts onto leg-stump , Haddin gets inside the line and tucks it to fine leg , the duo think about the second but do n't go through with it. The lead now touches 250 A leg slip in place now 51.5 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , back of a length on off , Haddin stands up and punches it to cover 51.4 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , pitched up outside off , Haddin middles the drive and picks out mid-off 51.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , it was angled across Marsh , who goes for the pull and chops it past the stumps , that was not far away from the sticks Two slips and a gully in place for Marsh 51.2 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Haddin drops it in front of cover , looks up at Marsh who calls him through for a sharp single 51.1 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , back of a length outside off , Haddin goes back and knocks it to cover Umesh Yadav [ 8.0-0-55-1 ] is back into the attack 50.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , throws this well wide of off , Marsh thought about going for the drive , but decided against it at the last instant 50.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slower and good revs on the ball , Marsh lunges forward and defends 50.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , tossed up on off , Marsh comes down the track and squeezes it back to Ashwin , he yorked himself there 50.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted just outside off , Marsh presses forward and blocks to cover 50.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , drifted onto the pads , Marsh clips it straight to backward square Now round the wicket to Marsh 50.1 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , pushed through at 92kph , Haddin goes deep in the crease and dabs it past slip Ashwin comes back , he has a slip and a short leg in place . Ravichandran Ashwin [ 10.0-1-21-2 ] is back into the attack 49.6 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , pitched up outside off , Marsh drives it with laden feet and picks out the extra cover fielder 49.5 Ishant to Haddin , 1 run , Ishant is growing in confidence in this spell , delivers the slower ball just outside off , Haddin pushes it past a diving cover and picks up a single 49.4 Ishant to Haddin , no run , back of a length around off , Haddin camps on the back foot and defends to cover 49.3 Ishant to Haddin , no run , bumper on middle and leg , Haddin sinks under it and evades it comfortably 49.2 Ishant to Haddin , no run , shortish and just outside off , Haddin rides the bounce and taps it to cover , calls " no " for the single 49.1 Ishant to Haddin , no run , well directed bouncer , Haddin half-ducks and lets it sail over his head 48.6 Shami to S Marsh , no run , back of a length on off , Marsh is opened up slightly as he defends it to point 48.5 Shami to S Marsh , no run , tempter from Shami , full and wide outside off , Marsh does not take the bait as he lets it pass 48.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , again , the length is short , Marsh has ample time to go back and block it to mid-wicket 48.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , shortish and close to off , Marsh goes on his toes and drops it in front of cover It has certainly gone dark and the lights have been turned on. They are slowly taking effect . 48.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , splays it down leg , Marsh ca n't meet with the glance 48.1 Shami to S Marsh , no run , short of length on the fourth stump , Marsh stands up and taps it to point It has been a good start from Ishant and Shami. They have given only 6 runs away in the 5 overs. There is a hint of reverse swing and they are keeping it in the right areas. The umpires just brought out the light meters. Not what India wanted at this stage of the game . 47.6 Ishant to Haddin , no run , good length ball on off , Haddin prefers to hang back and block , the ball goes off the bottom to cover 47.5 Ishant to Haddin , no run , wasted delivery - down leg , Haddin does not bother with it 47.4 Ishant to Haddin , no run , back of a length just outside off , Haddin goes back and across , defends it to mid-off Haddin is standing 6 inches out of the crease to cover the movement . 47.3 Ishant to S Marsh , 1 run , full and around off , Marsh drives and the ball squirts off the inside edge to deep backward square leg. Ishant went down as soon as he delivered that ball 47.2 Ishant to Haddin , 1 run , not the best of follow up deliveries , short and targeting the batsman 's ribs , Haddin jumps up and tucks it behind square , he should have had him on strike 47.1 Ishant to Haddin , no run , a beauty ! Ishant is bowling beautifully , around the off-stump and holds its line , Haddin hangs back and pokes at it , the ball beats the outside edge comprehensively 46.6 Shami to Haddin , 1 run , well judged run from Hadds , back of a length on off , Haddin taps it in front of mid-on and sets off , Vijay was slightly deep and that allowed the single to be taken 46.5 Shami to S Marsh , 1 run , tad short and on the pads , Marsh clips it off the hips to deep backward square leg 46.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , on a length angled outside off , Marsh lifts his bat and lets it go Kohli chirping away in between overs. His voice has certainly picked up . 46.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , full and on off , Marsh whips it to mid-wicket 46.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , pulls the length back on off , Marsh stays in the crease and knocks it to mid-off 46.1 Shami to S Marsh , no run , that was a brave leave. Length delivery around the off , Marsh does not cover his sticks completely as he shoulders arms , the ball straightens and was inches away from the off-pole 45.6 Ishant to Haddin , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Haddin gets right behind the line and drops it dead on the wicket Kohli was waiting for Haddin when he came out to bat. He had a few words for the Aussie wicket-keeper. Looks like he was giving back what he got while he was batting . 45.5 Ishant to Haddin , no run , Ishant pegs away in the corridor close to off , Haddin judges it well and lets it go 45.4 Ishant to Haddin , no run , lovely first start up delivery , holds its line just outside off , Haddin is drawn into the drive , the ball does enough to beat the outside edge Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.3 Ishant to Burns , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Twin failures for the debutant. It is reward for some good tight bowling from Ishant. A back of a length delivery on the fourth stump line , Burns feels for it away from the body , the extra bounce takes the edge and flies to the right of Dhoni , the Indian skipper dives and grabs the ball. It was similar to the dismissals of Pujara and Vijay. Burns c Dhoni b Ishant 9 ( 17 ) Ishant to Burns , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.2 Ishant to Burns , no run , good length on off , Burns comes half-forward and blocks it to mid-off Only a slip in place for Ishant. The field is set for reverse swing , there is a short mid-wicket and a conventional mid-wicket in place . 45.1 Ishant to Burns , no run , short of length on off , Burns dabs it to point 44.6 Shami to S Marsh , no run , on a length close to off , Marsh defends solidly back to Shami 44.5 Shami to Burns , 1 run , slanting onto the pads , Burns tucks it behind square leg for a single 44.4 Shami to Burns , no run , good length ball attacking the stumps , Burns presses forward and blocks it to mid-on 44.3 Shami to Burns , no run , tailing in on off , Burns leans forward and clips it to a squarish mid-wicket 44.2 Shami to Burns , no run , back of a length on middle , defended off the back foot to short mid-wicket 44.1 Shami to Burns , no run , tad short in length around off , Burns goes back and knocks it to cover Mohammed Shami [ 13.0-1-54-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , tight line from Ishant , in and around off , Marsh comes forward and leaves it alone. Good over that , apart from the no-ball 43.5 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , on a length close to the off-stump , Marsh has nothing to do with it 43.4 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , probes away in the channel around off , Marsh comes forward and lets it be 43.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , straight and on middle , Marsh turns it gently to mid-wicket 43.2 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump , Marsh lifts his bat and lets it go 43.2 Ishant to S Marsh , no ball , there comes the no-ball and a big one as well. Slanted across the left-hander , Marsh shoulders arms 43.1 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , angled outside off , Marsh covers the line and lets it go through to Dhoni All in readiness for the start of the post-tea session. Ishant has the ball in his hands. He will start with a slip and a gully. . India have managed to plug away with regular wickets. However , Australia are still ahead with a lead of 239. It will be interesting to see what target Smith feels safe to declare on. He will also be circumspect that India almost chased down 364 at Adelaide. The final session of day 4 is set for an exciting finish , if there is no rain . While Umesh and Shami sprayed the ball all over the place , Ishant was nice and tight. Ravi Ashwin got some good spin and prised out Rogers just before the break. Have your tea and come back to see how the last session of the day pans out. Hopefully , the weather stays fine . Burns and Marsh will now look to extend the lead further and prove their worth in the team. With a back-to-form Haddin and a spirited lower order to follow , Australia hold the aces at the 'G . Chris Rogers got to his second fifty of the game and fourth in a row. However , he failed to convert it into a big one. Watson was the first to depart , nicking off Ishant to Dhoni. Steve Smith was his usual busy self before falling to the leg-side trap. Yes , Dhoni 's ploy of deploying a leg slip was rewarded . Day 4 , Tea : India have made inroads into the Australian batting , but the hosts are ahead , sitting pretty on a 239-run lead after rain forced a delayed start to the middle session . 42.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , flat and spins in , Marsh nurdles a single to square leg 42.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed through outside off , left alone 42.4 Ashwin to Burns , 3 runs , tossed up outside off , Burns guides it well wide of slip. Dhawan runs back from there and flings a throw to Dhoni , who flicks the ball onto the stumps. But Marsh makes his ground on the third 42.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , slides on with the arm on middle and leg , Burns defends it 42.2 Ashwin to Burns , no run , Burns reaches forward and drives it towards cover 42.1 Ashwin to Burns , no run , extra bounce from a length , some turn as well for Ash. Burns dabs it to the right of MS on the bounce 41.6 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , pitched up and slanting away outside off , Marsh lifts his bat and lets it go 41.5 Ishant to Burns , 1 run , fullish and Ishant gets some inward shape , Burns flicks it to deep backward square 41.4 Ishant to S Marsh , 1 run , fuller and on middle and leg , pushed to mid-on for a well-judged single 41.3 Ishant to Burns , 3 runs , on a good length and outside off , Burns guides it wide of gully. Shami gives the chase , he was shy of diving and just about boots the ball in before going over the rope. Dhawan gathers the ball back 41.2 Ishant to Burns , no run , full and angled in on off , Burns gets it off the inside half of the bat to short mid-wicket 41.1 Ishant to Burns , no run , nice and tight outside off , Burns dabs it behind point 40.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , fuller and flatter on middle and leg , Marsh pushes it to the left of Ashwin 40.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed through outside off , looked like a carrom ball , Marsh chops it towards gully 40.4 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , tossed up on off , Burns comes forward and presses wide of cover and gets off the mark Joe Burns , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , out Bowled ! ! There 's a tongue-out celebration from Ash , Ross Taylor-esque. Another fifty not converted by Rogers. This was a bit flatter with a bit of turn in , Rogers does not move his feet and prods at it , the ball hits the inside-edge of the bat and then rolls back onto the stumps off the pad. Chris Rogers b Ashwin 69 ( 123 ) [ 4s-8 ] Ashwin to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 40.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched just outside off and spins away further , Rogers pokes out and misses. The extra bounce also foxed Rogers 40.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , full and slid across off , ignored 39.6 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , shortish and homing in on the hips , Marsh hops up and clips it behind the square leg umpire 39.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , pitched up and outside off , Rogers crunches it past a diving cover. Kohli gets across from mid-off and keeps it to just a single 39.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length and skids on middle , Rogers is cramped for room and defends it back to Ishant 39.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , FOUR , on a length and outside off again , Rogers comes forward and drills another drive , this one travels to the sweeper cover boundary. Crisply struck by the left-hander 39.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , FOUR , top shot from Rogers ! On a length and around off , Rogers hits through the line , driving it powerfully to the long-off fence. Mid-off had no chance 39.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , on a length and straight in line , Rogers leans across and flicks it to mid-wicket Ishant Sharma [ 10.0-3-24-1 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , much fuller from Ashwin and it is pushed back to the bowler 38.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slower through the air around off , Marsh dead-bats it in front of silly-point 38.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , defended back to the bowler 38.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , Marsh nudges it behind square leg. The wind knocks off the square leg umpire - Dharmasena 's hat. The wind has picked up at the MCG 38.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , full and flat on middle , Marsh defensively pushes it to the left of Ashwin 38.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , 2 runs , flatter and quicker on middle and leg , Marsh plays a punchy stroke through mid-wicket Ravichandran Ashwin [ 7.0-1-14-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , Yadav digs it mid-way down the pitch , Rogers hops up and fends it again 37.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , wide , sprayed short and wide down leg , Rogers has nothing to do with that. Another extra added to the Aussie total 37.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , short of length again , what else ? Meanwhile , Marsh clips it behind square leg and trots off to the other end 37.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , short of length and on the leg stump , Rogers rolls his wrists and pulls it to fine leg 37.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , dug in very short and on the stumps , Rogers rises with it and fends it onto the pitch 37.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish and on middle and leg , Rogers camps on the back foot and waves it towards square leg , in front of the umpire 37.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length and around off , Rogers hangs back and pushes it back to Yadav 36.6 Shami to S Marsh , no run , banged in short and climbs outside leg , Marsh gets inside the line and leaves it 36.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Rogers dabs it towards gully and takes off for an urgent single. The fielder has a shy at the striker 's end but misses and Marsh is safe. A direct hit could have made things interesting 36.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , banged in short and rises on the leg stump , Rogers swivels on the back foot and pulls it towards fine leg. Ishant gets across and makes a sliding stop , cutting it down to a couple. Ishant was quite close to touching the rope while gathering the ball. It looks a clean stop though 36.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , leg byes , FOUR , back of a length and down leg , Rogers misses the glance , but the ball takes the thigh , beats Dhoni and sneaks away fine 36.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , angled in on middle , Rogers cries 'wait wait wait ' after flicking it straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 36.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Rogers defends it behind point with soft hands 35.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , pitched up and just outside off , Marsh comes forward and drives it to mid-off 35.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , fullish and on middle and off , pressed to cover The on-field umpire thought that Rogers was out with Dhoni gloving the ball cleanly. He made a gesture , notifying the same , after calling the TV umpire . 35.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , fullish and outside off , Marsh taps it to point with an open face 35.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , good length ball on middle , Marsh defends it 35.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , FOUR , shortish and outside off , Marsh gets on top of the bounce and cuts it in the gap between gully and point , runs away to the fence 35.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , fuller and outside off , Marsh push-drives it cover 34.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish and on the stumps , Rogers fends it to the leg-side 34.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish and down leg , Rogers sets up for a pull , but does not get hold of it. The ball brushes the glove and dips on Dhoni. The Indian skipper dives forward , gloves the ball , but replays showed that it just bounced before he grasped the ball. Dhoni himself was not convinced after he gloved it Another leg-side trap ? The third umpire has been called into service. They are checking if the ball carried to Dhoni , who was diving forward to glove the ball. The TV umpire is examining it from all possible angles. One frame shows that the ball just bounced in front of Dhoni 34.4 Shami to S Marsh , leg byes , 1 run , angled in on middle and leg , Marsh misses the flick. The angle though would have taken it down leg. Rightly , the umpire negates the lbw appeal Shami goes round the stumps. Kohli makes a gesture to Dhoni and short mid-wicket comes in . 34.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , much better from Shami , teases Marsh in the channel outside off. The batsman though ignores it 34.2 Shami to S Marsh , 2 runs , tucked off the hips to deep backward square leg After the wicket of Smith , India got together in a huddle. Kohli had plenty to say there. He was in a stern discussion with Dhoni . 34.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Rogers knocks it towards cover point 33.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , on a good length and slanted across outside off , Marsh opts to leave it alone 33.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , FOUR , shortish and angling away outside off , Marsh dabs it in the gap between the slip cordon and gully. Soft hands ensured that the ball went all along the ground 33.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , pitched up further and on the fourth stump , Marsh defensively pushes it back to the bowler Shaun Marsh , left handed bat , comes to the crease 33.3 U Yadav to S Smith , out Caught by Rahane ! ! The plan has worked and Rahane at leg slip pouches a good catch. Smith shakes his head in disappointment as he walks back to the hut. A rare failure for the Australian captain. This was harmless ball slid down leg , deliberately slipped down leg I suppose. Smith glances it fine while Rahane dives across to his right and completes a low grab. S Smith c Rahane b U Yadav 14 ( 27 ) [ 4s-2 ] U Yadav to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , tucked away off the hips behind square leg. Another easy single results Two slips and two gullies in now . 33.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , shortish and on the stumps , Smith prods across and nudges it backward of square leg Umesh now has a leg slip . 32.6 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , finally a fuller one from Shami , but he drifts onto the pads of Smith , who shuffles across and flicks it behind square on the leg-side 32.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Rogers stands up tall and executes a punch wide of mid-off 32.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length and on the fourth stump , Rogers drops it in front of mid-wicket 32.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish again , skids onto strike Rogers on his thigh. The batsman tried to flick but was unsuccessful 32.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Shami shortens his length further , Rogers shuffles across , takes it from outside off and turns it to the leg-side 32.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length and on the fourth-stump line , Rogers , who is standing on the leg stump , covers his off stump and shoulders arms Mohammed Shami [ 10.0-1-46-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. India started well through Ishant , who picked the wicket of Watson. He has kept one end tight , but has not got any support from Shami or Umesh , both have been erratic. India need to keep a lid on the scoring rate , so that Australia delay their declaration . 31.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , wasted delivery , down leg , left alone 31.5 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , this is now rubbish from Umesh , sliding onto the pads , Smith shuffles across and tickles it fine , no chance for the deep backward square fielder 31.4 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , poor delivery , short and down leg , Smith gets inside the line and helps it on the way to the fine leg fence with a pull. That got what it deserved 31.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , opens the face of the bat and knocks it in front of point 31.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length on off , Smith goes back and blocks with a straight bat 31.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , too straight , on middle and leg , Smith shuffles across and works it to mid-wicket 30.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on middle , Rogers tucks it to mid-wicket , calls " no " for the single 30.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no ball , Ishant 's problem with the no-ball continue. Bumper down leg , Rogers evades it easily 30.5 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , short of length , Smith goes back and punches it towards cover , Che makes a half stop and allows the batsmen to take the single 30.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , goes wide of the crease , keeps it back of a length , Smith camps on the back foot and defends to the off-side 30.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , on a length just outside off , defended solidly off the front foot to cover 30.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good length ball on off , Smith shuffles across and turns it to mid-wicket It is overcast right now . 30.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , lifter around off , Smith ducks and gets away from the line of the delivery 29.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , again , back of a length on the fourth stump , Rogers punches it to point 29.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish and around off , Rogers hops up and drops it to cover 29.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , gets behind the line and taps it to mid-off 29.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , drags the length back , Rogers bunts it in front of cover 29.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish and just outside off , Rogers drives it to mid-off 29.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , back of a length and width on offer , Rogers rides the bounce and punches it through Jinks at gully , he should have done better Umesh Yadav [ 3.0-0-32-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good length ball just outside off , Smith presses it to cover after coming forward 28.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , short and on leg-stump , tucked away down to fine leg 28.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , goes wide of the crease and slants it across Rogers , left alone 28.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length close to off , Rogers jumps up and knocks it in front of cover 28.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no ball , effort delivery , but Ishant has overstepped. Bumper around off , Rogers sinks under it and lets it sail over him 28.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Rogers ducks inside the line and lets it pass 28.1 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , good length ball on off , Smith shuffles across and works it to deep square leg 27.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and outside off , Rogers drives it to mid-off without much timing 27.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length just outside off , Rogers back cuts it to gully , ca n't get it past Jinks 27.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , another fifty for Rogers , 4th in a row. He gets there with a superb drive , leans forward and creams it wide of cover , Umesh escorts the ball to the boundary 27.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish and around off , Rogers stands up and punches it towards cover , calls " no no " for the single 27.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up just outside off , Rogers drives and finds cover 27.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , tight line from Shami , close to the off-stump , Rogers judges it well and shoulders arms 26.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fuller and on off , Smith prefers to hang back and defend to mid-off , shouts " no run " after playing that The clouds have cleared out completely. It is back to blue skies at the 'G . 26.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shortish and outside off , Smith stands tall and punches to point , straight to fielder 26.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , angling in just outside off , Smith gets right behind the line and taps it back to Ishant 26.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good length just outside off , Smith walks across his stumps and blocks it to mid-off 26.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , short of length on off , Smith is back and defending to cover 26.1 Ishant to S Smith , 2 runs , fullish and just outside off , Smith push-drives it between cover and point for a couple 25.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , glorious shot ! Anything that is slightly pitched up and Rogers has cashed in , leans into the drive and caresses it through cover , the timing on that was excellent 25.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , slanted across the left-hander , Rogers ignores it 25.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , " catch it " shouted someone , but Rogers got it in the gap. Shortish and outside off , Rogers plays a flashy cut , the ball flies off a thickish outside edge between second slip and gully. Shami is not a happy man 25.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , good length ball around off , Rogers is half-forward and pushing to mid-off 25.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers hangs back and taps it towards cover 25.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up around off , Rogers drives it to mid-off , no timing on that 24.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , full and attacking the off-stump , Smith moves across and knocks it to mid-on. Good testing over from Ishant 24.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , short of length just outside off , Smith goes back and across , defends it to mid-on 24.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , on a length close to off , Smith shuffles across and blocks with the straightest of bats 24.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shortens the length around off , Smith dead-bats it on the wicket , the ball rolls back and hits his pad The sun is slowly peeping through the clouds. The shadows are starting to form . 24.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length just outside off , Smith was in a dilemma whether to leave or play , in the end lifts his bat up and lets it go Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.1 Ishant to Watson , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Ishant has his bunny ! He has picked up Watson for the 7th time in Tests. The umpires check for the no-ball , but Ishant is fine. It was a good length delivery in the corridor of uncertainty , Watson is drawn into the forward defensive , the ball takes the edge and goes low to the right of Dhoni , who snaffles a good take. Watson c Dhoni b Ishant 17 ( 34 ) [ 4s-1 ] Ishant to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 23.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , shapes away slightly , Rogers is squared up as he looks to defend off the back foot , the ball takes the outer half of the bat and rolls towards point 23.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , full and on off , Rogers clips it without much timing to mid-on , the bat turned in his hands hence no timing on that 23.4 Shami to Watson , 1 run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Watson drops it in front of cover and sets off for a sharp run No slips in place. India are already on the defensive. . 23.3 Shami to Watson , no run , good length ball around off , Watson leans forward and knocks it back to Shami 23.2 Shami to Watson , no run , Watson moves forward and pushes it to silly mid-on 23.1 Shami to Watson , no run , on a length close to off , Watson defends it off the front foot The tea break will be taken at 16 : 20 local time , 10 : 50 IST. The scheduled close of play is 18 : 30 local time which can be extended till 19 : 00 , 13 : 30 IST . 22.6 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , good length ball around off , Watson presses it to cover-point and calls for a quick single 22.6 Ishant to Watson , no ball , Watson misses out there , Ishant oversteps and delivers a short and wide one , Watson cuts and picks out the backward point fielder 22.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , shortish and on the stumps , Rogers tucks through mid-wicket for a single 22.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , FOUR , half volley on the pads and Rogers is onto it in a flash , he leans forward and flicks it elegantly , the ball has no problems carrying to the fence even with the wet outfield 22.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length close to off , Rogers bunts it off the back foot to cover 22.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , dropped ! The slip cordon still remains an area of concern. Dhawan gets a finger to it. Short of length angled across the left-hander , Rogers pokes at it , the ball takes the outside edge and goes low to the right of Dhawan at second slip , he deflects it onto Ashwin 's knee. The ball would have carried to Ash at first slip . 22.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , starts with one down leg , Rogers ca n't meet with the glance The players are making their way out to the middle. The conditions are still overcast. Play can be extended for an hour after the scheduled close. Ishant to start after the delay. . Looks like the covers are off again. The Indian players are warming up by the edge of the boundary. Bharat Arun is seen supervising the bowlers. We are not very far away from resumption . Well , folks go back to whatever you are doing as the rain returns. It is going to be that sort of a day. We 'll keep you posted on the latest from the 'G . The umpires have finished their inspection. Play to start at 14 : 35 local time , 9 : 05 IST , i.e. 10 minutes from now . The rain has stopped according to Chetan Narula 's latest tweet , " And it has stopped again with umpires out for inspection. Gone a lot brighter too. # AusvInd " . Hopefully , it does n't start again. Fingers crossed ! The umpires are currently inspecting the playing area. Scratch everything , it has started raining again and the covers are back on . Good news ! The rain has stopped. Now upto the groundstaff to get the ground up and ready. The first step is already in process - the covers are coming off . Rain seems to have picked up pace at the 'G. Chetan Narula just tweeted , " Increased intensity for the storm here. Gone from drizzle to proper rain now. # AusvInd " There was rain predicted later on in the afternoon , but it has arrived much earlier. The pitch has been covered and we might have a slight delay in the start of play. There was plenty of wind during the break and the ad cushions were flying around. The groundsmen are nailing the covers across the square. Stay tuned for more updates.. . Welcome back.. Australia are in the driver 's seat. They are in a position where they can call all the shots. India need some quick wickets to get back in the game , otherwise they will be chasing a huge target on the last day. Can the bowlers respond ? Or will Australia bat them out of the game ? We 'll bring you the answers soon.. . Earlier in the day , Australia needed just 11 minutes to clean up India 's last two wickets for just three runs. Showers have been forecast later on in the afternoon. Whether that comes true remains to be seen. We 'll be back soon for the 2nd session. Do stay tuned . Australia have scored at 4rpo in the 22 overs that they have batted. Now lead by 155 and with still 64 overs left in the day , if they continue in the same vein , they can think of a declaration late on even today. India have been flat with the ball with the exception of Ashwin and to a minor extent Ishant. Ashwin bowled well and was rewarded with the wicket of Warner who was threatening to take the game away from India. That wicket has pegged things back a little. But still Australia in a very good position in the game . 21.6 Shami to Watson , no run , Shami went for the yorker , but does n't get it right , clipped to one of the two men at the mid-wicket area. That will be lunch as well on day 4 21.5 Shami to Watson , 2 runs , flicked down to fine leg as Shami drifts onto the pads , Rahul comes around to field 21.4 Shami to Watson , no run , nips back in a little and Watson blocks to square leg off the back foot 21.3 Shami to Watson , no run , defended to silly mid-on 21.2 Shami to Watson , no run , punched to cover 21.1 Shami to Watson , FOUR , Watson goes on the back foot to punch and gets it wide of gully. It runs away to the third man fence , which is unguarded Last over before lunch 20.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers now goes on the back foot to block to leg 20.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , bit of an outside edge as Chris Rogers is drawn forward , does n't carry to anyone , Ashwin has a smile on his face 20.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , comes on the front foot to block 20.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers gets forward to defend 20.2 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , now Jinks at short mid-wicket fumbles and gives away a single 20.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , punched to the left of short mid-wicket , where a diving stop is made 19.6 Shami to Watson , 1 run , went for the inswinging yorker , but Watson managed to squirt out a single to mid-on 19.5 Shami to Watson , no run , Watson goes right back and defends to the silly mid-on fielder 19.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , easy pickings those , very full on middle , Chris Rogers flicks past mid-wicket , Vijay chases and keeps it to three 19.3 Shami to Watson , 1 run , stands tall and punches wide of mid-off 19.2 Shami to Watson , no run , short of length and on the stumps , Watson goes on the back foot to defend 19.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , full and on the pads , flicked to deep backward square leg 18.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , wristed to short mid-wicket 18.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flighted outside off , Watson pushes it to short cover 18.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , whipped to backward square leg , quick single taken 18.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers gets back and defends 18.2 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , comes on the front foot and wrists it to long-on 18.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , gets forward and defends to short leg 17.6 Shami to Watson , 1 run , another single , gently nudged through square leg for a single 17.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , down leg , Chris Rogers clips to backward square leg , just a single 17.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up on off , Chris Rogers leans into a fine drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 17.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , too straight from Shami , Chris Rogers whips it through mid-wicket for a couple 17.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , 135kph back of a length delivery , Chris Rogers punches it back to Shami 17.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , Shami does n't start well in a new spell. Chris Rogers reaches out and drives fluently through cover. On the rise and the ball sped away Mohammed Shami [ 4.0-1-13-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Ashwin to Watson , 2 runs , sliding well down leg , Watson whips it to deep square leg , for a comfortable two 16.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , bit of yes , no between Watson and Chris Rogers , after Watson flicked to square leg , sent back in the end and no damage done 16.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , tossed up outside off , Watson comes on the front foot to defend it back to Ashwin 16.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , nudged to short mid-wicket 16.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , shuffles across and pushes it in front of mid-on , quick single taken 16.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , forward and pushed to short cover 15.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , Watson jabs at that and then takes the bottom hand out of the way , dropped to gully in the end 15.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , Watson gets forward and solidly blocks 15.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , turns it to short mid-wicket , for a quick single 15.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , on a length and on the stumps , Chris Rogers defends to the left of Ishant 15.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers shuffles across a little and defends to mid-off 15.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , FOUR , that 's the shot of the day so far. Chris Rogers off-driving on-the-up , high elbow and all that jazz. Screamed away past mid-off 14.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , throws it up outside off , Watson lets it go 14.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , drifts in a little , Watson is forward and defending The sun is out at the G 14.4 Ashwin to Watson , 2 runs , Watson closes the face of the bat and gently turns it to fine leg for a couple to get him off the mark Slip , short leg and a silly mid-on in. Ashwin from over the wicket to Watson 14.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , gets forward and pushes it to the silly mid-on man Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 14.2 Ashwin to Warner , out Lbw ! ! Did Warner get an inside edge onto the pads ? He is n't happy at all. Looks at Kettleborough before walking off. HotSpot does n't show anything. So a top decision from Kettleborough. It was bowled slower and Warner was half-cock in the crease , missed the defence and the ball hit him on the back leg right in front. That is plumb and India have dismissed the dangerous Warner. Warner lbw b Ashwin 40 ( 42 ) [ 4s-6 ] Ashwin to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 14.1 Ashwin to Warner , no run , sliding onto middle and leg , Warner defends it back to Ashwin 13.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , neatly clipped off the legs through mid-wicket , they are happy with just a couple of runs 13.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , chipped in the air , but well wide of Ishant 's left-hand 13.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on the hips , Chris Rogers tucks it straight to the fielder at backward square leg 13.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , dug in short , Chris Rogers ducks under that 13.2 Ishant to Warner , 1 run , Warner lets that run off the face as a deep point is now placed , that man fields 13.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , short of length on the stumps , Warner defends to mid-on 12.6 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , Warner makes room and drives inside out to long-off 12.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , saw the flight and opens the face of the bat to square drive in the gap at point , they take three as Rahul slides to pull it back 12.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , full on middle , Chris Rogers softly turns it to short leg 12.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , gets forward and defends to short cover 12.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Che dives to his right at short leg to keep the batsmen at their ends 12.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , sliding on straight , Chris Rogers defends 11.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , another useless delivery down leg and it goes to Mahendra Singh Dhoni 11.5 Ishant to Warner , no run , down leg , Warner ca n't meet with the leg glance 11.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , punches on-the-up , but times it straight to the fielder at mid-off 11.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , down leg , Chris Rogers glances to fine leg , for a single 11.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no ball , Ishant oversteps , Chris Rogers defends to mid-off 11.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , leans forward to drive to point , straight to the fielder 11.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on the stumps , Chris Rogers defends off the back foot Drinks have been taken at the G. Australia off to a fast start. Warner the man doing most of the scoring. Umesh was rubbish in his opening spell and that forced Dhoni to bring Ishant and Ashwin early to stem the flow of runs. They have done so successfully so far. Warner looks in no discomfort with his hand and is batting freely . 10.6 Ashwin to Warner , no run , defensively pushed back to Ashwin 10.5 Ashwin to Warner , no run , flatter on the pads , defended to Che at short leg Hawk-Eye is in and it 's umpire 's call. Haydos on air is n't convinced , he reckons it was going down 10.4 Ashwin to Warner , no run , punches to short cover 10.3 Ashwin to Warner , no run , tucks it to the right of short mid-wicket where a sliding stop is made 10.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , leg byes , 1 run , off the pad and they take a quick leg bye 10.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , loud shout for lbw from round the wicket by Ashwin , Chris Rogers missed the sweep , was it going down ? Kettleborough had a long look and decided against it. Waiting for HawkEye 9.6 Ishant to Warner , no run , pitched up outside off , Warner gets forward and then shoulders arms. A maiden from Ishant , he has managed to pull things back for India 9.5 Ishant to Warner , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Warner gets forward and shows the full face of the bat to defend it back to Ishant 9.4 Ishant to Warner , no run , nips back in and misses Warner 's defensive shot , strikes him on the back thigh. Inside edge too as HotSpot shows Ishant is bowling from round the wicket 9.3 Ishant to Warner , no run , Warner shuffles across a little and defends to mid-on 9.2 Ishant to Warner , no run , on a length and outside off , left alone 9.1 Ishant to Warner , no run , Warner drives it back at Ishant , who bends down and stops it with his left-hand , has a stare at Warner Ishant Sharma [ 1.0-1-0-0 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers looks for the quick single after dabbing it to point , but the single is n't there 8.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , drifting in on off , Chris Rogers defends 8.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , softly pushed to short cover 8.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers defends that from the crease to cover 8.2 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , Warner rides the bounce and nudges this in the vacant square leg area Ashwin is coming from round the wicket with a slip and a short leg 8.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Chris Rogers tucks this in front of backward square leg , single taken Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 7.6 Shami to Warner , no run , now right back and across before defending it back to Shami 7.5 Shami to Warner , FOUR , pitched up outside off and too much room for Warner to work with. Belts a cover drive past the diving fielder. Only one result possible there 7.4 Shami to Warner , no run , full on middle and leg , clipped to mid-wicket 7.3 Shami to Warner , no run , 142kph back of a length delivery on off , Warner defends it back to Shami 7.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , tucked into the gap at mid-wicket for a comfortable single Chris Rogers pulls out as a bird flew past just as Shami was running in 7.1 Shami to Warner , 1 run , short of length on the stumps , Warner hops and tucks it to deep backward square leg 6.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Ishant starts with a maiden as Chris Rogers drives and finds mid-on 6.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Chris Rogers defends to short cover 6.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , wasted delivery , down leg 6.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers tries to drive through cover and mistimes it off the inside half to mid-on 6.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , 138kph length delivery angled across , Chris Rogers lets it go 6.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers hops a little and tucks it to square leg Ishant Sharma , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 5.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , softly turned wide of mid-on , quick single taken and Chris Rogers will keep strike 5.5 Shami to Warner , 1 run , pitched up on the pads , flicked to the left of square leg , Vijay slides and stops 5.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , Chris Rogers swivels on the pull and gets it through mid-wicket. Another chase for Ishant , this time only three 5.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , shuffles across to off and plays a free flowing drive with the full face of the bat , straight to the fielder at mid-off 5.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers pushes it off the back foot to mid-on 5.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , short and on the stumps , Chris Rogers ducks under that 4.6 U Yadav to Warner , no run , 'wait on ' is the loud groan from Warner as he laces a drive straight to the fielder at point 4.5 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , Warner is batting beautifully. Harmless short delivery on the stumps , no oomph into that and it sat up for Warner to pull hard into the deep mid-wicket fence. He is up and running 4.4 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , too much width from Umesh and Warner reaches out to carve it over gully. Knelt down and then smashed it away. Intentionally played it up and over 4.3 U Yadav to Warner , 4 runs , they run four again ! Warner mistimed the pull wide of mid-on , tried to short-arm jab that and got it in the gap , Ishant chased and slid to pull it back , but they are very quick and make it four 4.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Jinks dives to his left at gully and makes a half-stop , but ca n't prevent the single 4.1 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , driven to mid-off and a quick single taken 3.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , short and Chris Rogers mistimes the pull to the fielder at backward square leg 3.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , stays back and defends to point 3.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , bit of extra bounce on that from Shami , 144kph short of length delivery on off , Chris Rogers defends it back down the track and is a little surprised. He took his bottom hand out as soon as he played that 3.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , turns it to Ishant at mid-on 3.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , now the outside edge falls short of Dhawan at 2nd slip. Chris Rogers is a tad squared up by that delivery from Shami , edges it behind , but is lucky that it did n't carry. Shami is a disappointed man 3.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers punches it to mid-on from the crease 2.6 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , 144kph overpitched delivery and Warner just sumptously drives wide of mid-off. Got his foot forward and laced the drive along the carpet. He has gotten off to a swift start and does n't seem to be in any pain while batting - danger signs for India 2.5 U Yadav to Warner , no run , well wide of off , Warner lets it go 2.4 U Yadav to Warner , no run , Umesh is lucky that he has got away there. It was full and wide , but Warner crashed that straight to the fielder at point 2.3 U Yadav to Warner , no run , now onto the drive is Warner , but fails to find the gap , to the cover-point fielder 2.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , gets forward and defends solidy to cover and a loud shout of 'no run' 2.1 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , Umesh is very unlucky there. He bowled a pacy 145kph delivery on the stumps , Warner was late on the defence and the inside edge sneaked over the stumps and to the right of Mahendra Singh Dhoni who had no chance. That brings up 3000 Test runs for Warner 1.6 Shami to Warner , 1 run , Warner swivels on the pull and sends it to deep backward square leg , for a comfortable single 1.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , short of length on the hips , Chris Rogers tucks it down to deep backward square leg 1.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up on off , Chris Rogers ' bat turns in the hand and that ensures no timing on the drive , the ball dribbles to short cover 1.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers gets forward and then defends with an open face to point 1.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers rises tall and then inside edges the back foot defensive onto the pads , the ball rolls away Only two slips and a gully 1.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , 140kph short of length delivery on off , Chris Rogers defends to short cover Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 U Yadav to Warner , no run , hops back and whips this to mid-on , shouts a loud 'no run ' to Chris Rogers 0.5 U Yadav to Warner , no run , 142kph back of a length delivery on middle , Warner defends to mid-on 0.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , too straight and Chris Rogers is off the mark with a tuck to deep backward square leg 0.3 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , short on the stumps , Warner lifts one leg up in the air and pulls to deep backward square leg 0.2 U Yadav to Warner , 4 runs , now they run four ! Warner punched that into the gap at cover , KL Rahul gave a spirited chase and with a head-first dive pulled it back , but they ran four. Again short and wide from Umesh. Poor bowling 0.1 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , not a great start from Umesh. Short and wide outside off , plenty of room for Warner to cash in. He cracks the cut wide of point. The ball races away. Gift for Warner first up Warner and Chris Rogers are at the crease. Warner is on strike. U Yadav will open the attack The players are back at the G. Overcast conditions should suit the bowlers. But will India capitalise on those conditions ? Interesting to see how they bowl on this. Umesh will take the new ball against Warner. Here we go . India just added 3 runs today and Australia have a lead of 65. Will that prove to be crucial come the end of the game tomorrow ? Australia need to bat aggressively and set India a target. Remember India nearly chased down a score at Adelaide , so Australia will be wary of giving the visitors any sniff of coming back into the series. Also it 's India who have to do all the running as they are behind 0-2. We 'll be back soon for the Aussie reply . 128.5 Johnson to Shami , out Caught by S Smith ! ! Edged and taken. India 's innings lasted just over 10 minutes today. Full and outside off , Shami threw his bat at that , the edge travelled at head height to 2nd slip where Smith grabbed it. Shami c S Smith b Johnson 12 ( 30 ) [ 4s-1 ] Johnson to Shami , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Now round the wicket 128.4 Johnson to Shami , no run , Shami defends that back of a length delivery to point 128.3 Johnson to Shami , 2 runs , pitched up and Shami plays a cover drive in the air , but in the gap at cover for a couple 128.2 Johnson to Shami , no run , 140kph short delivery , rises high and Shami arches back to leave it 128.1 Johnson to Shami , no run , Shami played that in the air , on the bounce to point , punched it hard , but straight to the fielder 127.6 R Harris to Ishant , no run , looked like a slower delivery from Harris , Ishant picks it and drives hard , but straight back to the bowler 127.5 R Harris to Ishant , no run , comes back in a bit , Ishant though drives well to mid-off 127.4 R Harris to Ishant , no run , pitched up on off , Ishant stays in the crease and defends 127.3 R Harris to Ishant , no run , Ishant pushed out at that and poked feebly , before belatedly pulling his bat inside the line 127.2 R Harris to Shami , 1 run , that 's a slog to deep mid-wicket. Shami takes the single 127.1 R Harris to Shami , no run , nips back in a long way and Shami is beaten on the flick , would 've slid down leg , there was no real appeal for the lbw Ryan Harris [ 25.0-7-69-4 ] is back into the attack Snicko picked up a deflection. It went off the shoulder of the bat. So a good decision from the umpire 126.6 Johnson to Ishant , no run , 137kph short ball from Johnson , bent his back and got lift out of it , Ishant did well to arch back and sway out of the way Short leg in place for Ishant 126.5 Johnson to Ishant , no run , hops onto his toes and blocks that to point Ishant Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 126.4 Johnson to U Yadav , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Gone ! Snorter that and Australia strike 2nd ball. Umesh tried to rise with the bounce and drop it down , but could only feather an edge to Haddin. Clear sound as the ball went past bat. Only bat was near the vicinity of the ball. Similar to yesterday , Australia have a wicket off the 2nd ball of the day. U Yadav c Haddin b Johnson 0 ( 2 ) Johnson to U Yadav , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 126.3 Johnson to U Yadav , no run , shouts of 'catch ' as Umesh fended out at that short delivery , but it fell in the vacant short leg area. Why is there no short leg ? Cloudy conditions greet us on day 4. Chance of showers later in the afternoon says the forecast. Smith is walking alongside Johnson and has a smile on his face. The Indian tailenders come out too. Mitchell Johnson will complete his over. Three slips in place . Pitch report by Sourav Ganguly : Still a very good batting surface. Not a lot of scratch marks on the surface. The cracks have n't widened. It has held together. Nothing drastic will happen on the surface. India will bat last on day 5 and it should n't be a concern. Ravi Ashwin will be a factor on this . Weather Watch : It is quite overcast at the 'G. Forecast for showers , 70 % chance of rain . It 's time to round off the print section. Another intriguing day 's play awaits us . " I think he ( Kohli ) is the future. He will be captain of India. You need positivity. You need positive captains. MS will captain at the World Cup , then we 'll have to see what happens after that. I like his ( Kohli 's ) passion. You 've got to have passion. It should mean something to you , any job you do. I like him , I like what I see , " Sourav Ganguly was quoted as saying in Daily Telegraph . 'Apart from the danger of an altercation on the field - and if you do n't think that could be ugly , just remember one player has a bat in his hand - there is the simple matter of the batsman being entitled to peace and quite will he 's out in the middle ' adds the former Aussie captain 'The more players talk on the field , the more likelihood there is something personal will be said. If something personal is said at the wrong time there will eventually be an altercation on the field. When that happens it will be players who are punished and as is almost always the case , the administrators will escape scot-free , despite being guilty of allowing the problem to escalate to this point.' Ian Chappell , writing for Mid-day explores the verbal banter . 'It was a total misjudgment on my part , Haddin conceded before play. But later that morning Haddin made up for the bumble the best way possible , dismissing that same man Pujara with a catch Victorian favourite son Dean Jones described as the greatest he 's seen by a wicketkeeper at the MCG. Suspended at chest height above the ground , Haddin managed to clasp the ball in the webbing of his right glove to mark his 250th , as Shane Watson ducked for cover behind him.' 'Haddin was under the blowtorch heading into the Boxing Day Test , but his drought-breaking half-century and spectacular grab may have regenerated his career. The vice-captain grassed Indian batsman Cheteshwar Pujara with a simple chance off Josh Hazlewood late on day two that would have kept him up at night.' Here is Ben Horne , focussing on Haddin in his piece for the Courier Mail . 'Kohli and Rahane welcomed it , worked with it , tamed it , turned it back on the Australians.' 'Both are just 26 , both entering their prime. All of the remade top order are contemporaries. As they grow and harden together , the frontiers will not hold the fears they did for previous generations. They have neither complexes nor inhibitions. On Sunday , Kohli and Rahane were not sweeping out of the Chennai dust or peppering short boundaries at Delhi , but were at the MCG , meeting fire with fire. There was pace and bounce , mother 's milk to Australians , enough of each to account for Cheteshwar Pujara and Murali Vijay inside the first hour , enough still perhaps to play a part in the tepid-looking dismissal of MS Dhoni later in the day.' He writes , 'Of Kohli 's nine Test centuries , six have been made outside India , four of them now in Australia ( and five against Australia ) . The dapper and dashing Rahane 's three centuries were compiled at Wellington , Lord 's and the MCG , and there was his 96 also at Durban , all in the past 12 months.' Greg Baum 's special for the Age has the headline 'The cream rises for India' Will the Aussie bowlers polish off the Indian tail quickly ? Or can Shami , Ishant and Umesh wag and help India further cut down the deficit ? Hello and welcome to the penultimate day at the MCG. As is the norm , let us have a peek at the newspapers . Harris though refuted the statement saying that everyone in the dressing room respects the Indian vice-captain. Well , well , what is an India-Australia clash without drama and verbal volleys ? Kohli was in a rampaging mood at the press conference as well , saying 'I told him ( Johnson ) to throw the ball at the stumps and not on my body. I respect a few of them. I have no reason to respect anyone who does not respect me. I 'm not out there to gain anyone 's respect. I 'm out there to play cricket.' Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane struck fluent centuries as India took the fight to the Aussies , both with the bat and mouth. While Kohli was about flash , fist pump and spunk , Rahane was circumspect and calm. Yet , the Mumbai batsman outscored Kohli. However , a mini collapse - 5/53 - kept Australia ahead in the contest . Rahane : 'I am enjoying my batting. The Lord 's hundred gave me confidence. We just wanted to play our natural game and our intent was positive throughout. I just played on the merit of the ball. Virat ( Kohli ) just told me to back myself. It was a matter of one game and I backed myself. It is a good batting track.' Kohli : 'I dont know ( how good I am ) . I made a few changes from England. Mentally , I was preparing myself back home to be positive against Johnson , Harris and Co. I do n't want to let the bowler bowl in the nice spot. It is sort of working for me. I am trying to cover that fourth stump area by standing outside the crease. I sort of try my best not to let the bowler settle too much. The second innings at Adelaide was special. It was a mentally draining game for us. Today was special as well , batting with Jinks. The match is nicely poised. The wicket is slowing down and there is rough. You saw Rahul get out of the rough. Ashwin will come into play in the second innings. Absolutely ( when asked if India would go for a 350-360 chase ) . The intent is there. " Before we leave , feast on Ganguly 's coversation with the heroes of the day . In the interim , debutant KL Rahul fell to a wild shot. Dhoni and Ashwin followed suit soon after. Harris was the pick of the Aussie bowlers , taking 4/69. The rough has come into play and Lyon will aim to exploit that tomorrow. Do rejoin us for day 4 to see if the Indian tail wags to wipe out the deficit or Australia exert control. Until then , take care and tata ! Rahane shrugged off an iffy start and continued to score at a brisk pace en route to his third Test ton , all of those coming overseas. Kohli 's innings was a special one too. It contained his staple shots - the wristy flick , the cover-drive and pull among many others. He was briefly bogged down after being hit on the calf by Mitchell Johnson. Kohli though was stirred up and attacked Mitch towards the close of play , before the latter had the last laugh . Tons from Kohli and Rahane led India 's spirited reply as they reduced the deficit to 68. The massive 262-run stand was the highlight of the day. However , Australia hit back in the final session , taking 5 wickets . 126.2 Johnson to Kohli , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Mitch has the last laugh. And oh boy , what a catch from Haddin ! Was this better than the first one he took today ? This was fired full and outside off , Kohli looks to squeeze out a drive , the ball takes the outside edge. Haddin flies across and snaffles a one-handed catch in front of Watto at first slip. Nonetheless , it has been a sublime knock from Kohli. He gets a rousing ovation as he walks back to the hut. Shami accompanies him as well and that 's stumps on day 3. Kohli c Haddin b Johnson 169 ( 272 ) [ 4s-18 ] Johnson to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 126.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off only clocks 126kph , blocked down the pitch Last over of the day coming up . 125.6 Lyon to Shami , no run , floated on off , Shami comes forward and defends it to silly-point Three men around the bat now . 125.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , quick fizzer at 94kph , low full toss on middle , flicked to deep square leg 125.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Lyon gives this one plenty of air too , Kohli lunges forward in defence 125.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , looped up on off , Kohli comes forward and dead-bats it 125.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pitched up and just outside off , driven back to the bowler. Lyon makes a half stop 125.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli stays back and defends it to the bowler 124.6 Johnson to Shami , no run , fullish and angled in on off , Shami defends it right back at the bowler 124.5 Johnson to Shami , no run , shortish and outside off , Shami dabs it to backward point 124.4 Johnson to Shami , no run , back of a length and zips past the hanging blade of Shami 124.3 Johnson to Shami , no run , dug in short and just outside off , Shami gets behind the line and fends it to the off-side 124.2 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length , tucked out to backward square leg 124.1 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , has Kohli taken a special liking to Mitch ? On a length and outside off , Kohli gets under it and lifts it over mid-off. Kohli blows a kiss to Mitch. The bowler is not impressed 123.6 Lyon to Shami , no run , Lyon pulls his length back , Shami stays in his crease and keeps it out 123.5 Lyon to Shami , no run , flatter and on middle , Shami is forward to block it on the pitch 123.4 Lyon to Shami , no run , pushed through on the stumps , Shami dead-bats it 123.3 Lyon to Shami , no run , Shami comes forward to defend it 123.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Kohli smashes it in the air , past the outstretched hand of Lyon. Ump Dharma was also ducking for cover. It was struck with fierce power. The umpire now has a smile , looking at the funny side of it 123.1 Lyon to Shami , 3 runs , dropped short and wide outside off , Shami goes back and cuts it in front of point. Harris runs back and manages to cut it down to three Nathan Lyon [ 27.0-3-103-2 ] is back into the attack 122.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Kohli tries to heave this Johnson offering from off but does not get hold of it. Drags it to mid-on off the inside half of the bat 122.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and on off , Kohli taps it past the bowler towards mid-off 122.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Johnson drags his length back , blocked to the bowler 122.3 Johnson to Shami , 1 run , slower ball , which is straighter in line , Shami nearly chipped it back to the bowler. The ball bounces in front of Mitch , he deflects it to the leg-side and gives away a single 122.2 Johnson to Shami , no run , tempter outside off , Shami pokes and is beaten on the outside edge 122.1 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , full and outside off , Kohli swishes at it and goes over cover. The bat twisted in Kohli 's hand as he met the ball. Mid-off gets across and keeps it to just one 121.6 Hazlewood to Shami , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , pushed to short cover , straight to the fielder 121.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , on the shorter side and the line is on off , Kohli clips it behind square on the leg-side 121.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a length and just outside off , Kohli just defends it in front of the bowler 121.3 Hazlewood to Shami , 1 run , on a length and outside off , tapped to cover. The fielder has a shy at the bowler 's end , but misses. Rogers does the backing up 121.2 Hazlewood to Shami , no run , much fuller and outside off , Shami feels for it and gets beaten comprehensively 121.1 Hazlewood to Shami , no run , back of a length and around off , Shami taps it to the off-side Josh Hazlewood [ 24.0-6-73-0 ] is back into the attack 120.6 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , good length and outside off , Kohli drives uppishly and slices it over cover for back-to-back fours. This Mitch-Kohli battle has been one of the highlights of the day 120.5 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , on a length and outside off , Kohli leans forward and creams a drive past the covers. Kohli and Mitch exchange a few words as well. The latter even has a smile on his face 120.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , slid down leg , Kohli does not bother with it 120.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , driven behind point. Again , Kohli does not take the single on offer 120.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , full and outside off , Kohli reaches out and slices it to the off-side sweeper. He farms the strike 120.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and outside off , steered towards gully Mitchell Johnson [ 26.0-5-118-0 ] is back into the attack 119.6 Watson to Shami , no run , full and outside off , Shami reaches forward and slices it to point 119.5 Watson to Shami , no run , back of a length and on off , Shami punches it to short cover , straight to the fielder 119.4 Watson to Shami , FOUR , short of length and outside off , Shami hops up and lifts it over the slip cordon for a four 119.3 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , too full and outside off , drilled straight down the ground , so much so that it rattles the stumps at the Shami 's end. The ball gets deflected to the off-side and Kohli sneaks in a single 119.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , Kohli takes it from outside off and whips it towards mid-on. There is a misfield , but Kohli denies the single 119.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , fuller and coming in on middle and leg , Kohli mistimes the flick to mid-wicket 118.6 R Harris to Shami , no run , short of length and on off , Shami fends it in front of cover 118.6 R Harris to Shami , wide , banged in short and down leg , Shami gets his head out of the way. Wided by the ump for height 118.5 R Harris to Shami , no run , fuller length ball on off , Shami gets forward and defends it towards cover Harris is covering his hand as he is delivering it. He is searching for some good reverse 118.4 R Harris to Shami , no run , pitched up and outside off , Shami lets it pass 118.3 R Harris to Shami , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Shami dabs it to the slip cordon Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease 118.2 R Harris to Ashwin , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Chipped back at the bowler. Ashwin gone for a duck. How soft was that ? This may have stopped a bit on the pitch , Ashwin is early into the push and lobs it back at Harris. He goes for it with his right hand , balances it against his stomach and just about manages to hold on , tumbling onto the ground. Australia have clawed their way back in this final session. Ashwin c and b R Harris 0 ( 4 ) R Harris to Ashwin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 118.1 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , fullish and comes in on off , Ashwin inches forward and knocks it to short cover 117.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery ball on the fourth stump , Kohli stretches forward and pushes it back to Watson 117.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , on a length and on off , Kohli inches forward and taps it back to the bowler 117.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , Kohli shortens his length and on off , Kohli gets on top of the bounce and fends it in front of cover 117.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , similar length and on the stumps , Kohli defends it again 117.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , good length ball on middle , Kohli comes forward and bunts it past the bowler , towards mid-on 117.1 Watson to Kohli , FOUR , maiden 150-plus score in Tests for Virat Kohli. He raises his helmet again to celebrate. Can he convert it into a daddy ton ? Fuller and on middle and leg , Kohli flicks it beautifully past mid-on to reach the landmark 116.6 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , a big appeal for lbw from Harris , but the umpire does not budge. Harris does well to beat Ashwin 's flick and hit him on the pads. The ump reckons that the ball would have gone down leg. Hawk-Eye confirms it as well 116.5 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , fuller and on the stumps , Ashwin defends it After Rahul was put down by Siddle , Kohli made a gesture , perhaps asking Rahul to go for his shot whole-heartedly. However , it was not to be as Rahul did not get hold of the big slog sweep . Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 116.4 R Harris to Dhoni , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Dhoni is caught fishing outside off , yet again. Harris is pleased as punch , he has his third. This was a teasing good length ball outside off , Dhoni jabs at it and edges it through to Haddin at a good height. Dhoni c Haddin b R Harris 11 ( 23 ) [ 4s-1 ] R Harris to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 116.3 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni comes down the track , Harris shortens his length on off , Dhoni has to settle with a block to the leg-side 116.2 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , pitched up on the fourth stump , Dhoni gets forward again , push-drives it to mid-off 116.1 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , full on off , Dhoni gets forward and taps it to short cover 115.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , another solid defence to round off the over , this time to the man at mid-on 115.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , very full and on off , Kohli closes the face of his bat and clips it to mid-wicket 115.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , on a length and on off , Kohli defends it back to Watson with a straight bat Haydos on air terms Rahul 's dismissal as 'brain explosion' 115.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli works it to short mid-wicket 115.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , Kohli aims for a dab-and-run single in front of cover , but it is n't there. He has to retreat 115.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , Kohli stretches forward and pushes it to mid-off Shane Watson [ 13.0-2-56-1 ] is back into the attack 114.6 R Harris to Dhoni , 2 runs , full and outside off , Dhoni leans forward and drives it to deep extra cover. Picks up a couple 114.5 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , Harris pulls his length back , tucked backward of square leg 114.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , another one comes in , just outside off , Kohli plays it to the leg-side off the inside half of the bat 114.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fine inswinging yorker from Harris , Kohli jabs his bat down and squirts it to square leg 114.2 R Harris to Dhoni , 1 run , pushed back to the bowler , who shies at the stumps and gives away an overthrow 114.1 R Harris to Dhoni , no run , an appeal for lbw , the umpire does not agree with Harris ' plea. Back of a length and outside off , Dhoni steps out , shuffles across and misses the flick. He is hit above the knee roll , but the impact was outside off. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball would have bounced over the stumps as well Ryan Harris [ 22.0-6-64-2 ] is back into the attack 113.6 Lyon to Dhoni , 3 runs , too full and outside off , Dhoni plays a powerful bottom-handed drive and sends it past a diving cover. Hazlewood runs back , gives the chase and saves a run for the hosts 113.5 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni pushes it to the man at short mid-wicket 113.4 Lyon to Dhoni , FOUR , pushed through just outside off , Dhoni sweeps it firmly to the backward square leg boundary. He timed that well enough to find the fence 113.3 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , Lyon shortens his length , Dhoni defends it back to the bowler 113.2 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , fullish and outside off , Dhoni lunges forward and drives it to cover 113.1 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , nicely tossed up outside off , Dhoni slips on his heel while attempting the lap sweep after stretching forward , just gets it wide of short leg 112.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and on off and middle , punched and Kohli finds mid-on 112.5 Johnson to Dhoni , 1 run , banged in short and rises on the leg stump , Dhoni pulls it behind square leg off an inside-edge , which ricochets off the body 112.4 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , teaser outside off , Dhoni pushes out and gets an outside edge that bounces in front of Smith at second slip 112.3 Johnson to Dhoni , no run , full and speared on off at 140kph , blocked back to Mitch 112.2 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length and on off , Kohli opens the face of the bat and dabs it wide of cover 112.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and just outside off , Kohli plays an extended front foot punch to mid-off Mitchell Johnson [ 25.0-5-116-0 ] is back into the attack Kohli and Dhoni punch gloves after a chat . 111.6 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , much fuller and just outside off , Dhoni comes forward and taps it down the pitch. Lyon himself cleans it up 111.5 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , the bowler goes wide of the crease from over the wicket and darts it flat just outside off , punched back to Lyon 111.4 Lyon to Dhoni , no run , Lyon tosses it up on the rough , Dhoni lunges forward and pushes it to mid-off 111.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery on off and middle , tucked to backward square leg 111.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , straight roller on middle , Kohli gets forward and drives it back at Lyon 111.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through outside off , Kohli turns it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 110.6 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni steps out , Hazlewood drags his length back outside off. Ignored 110.5 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , back of a length and may have been just outside off , Dhoni walks across and misses the flick. Quite close to his dismissal at the Gabba. Yes , outside off 110.4 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , fuller and on the stumps , blocked back to the bowler After Rahul made a mess of the slog sweep and edged it , Kohli put his head down in disappointment . 110.3 Hazlewood to Dhoni , no run , full and outside off , Dhoni fiddles with it and gets beaten comprehensively 110.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , fraction short and on off , Kohli plays a half pull/paddle to deep square leg 110.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , push-driven down the track to mid-on MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 109.6 Lyon to Rahul , out Caught by Hazlewood ! ! Lyon has the debutant now. What was Rahul doing here ? He takes it from the rough outside off and aims for a slog sweep , only gets a top-edge that flies backward of square leg. Hazlewood settles under it and pouches it safely. Definitely a case of nerves for the debutant. Rahul c Hazlewood b Lyon 3 ( 8 ) Lyon to Rahul , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 109.5 Lyon to Rahul , 2 runs , in the air and Siddle drops it , back-tracking from mid-wicket. Sign of nerves from Rahul ? Rahul uses his feet , does not meet the pitch of the ball. Yet he goes though with the loft. He mistimes it high in the air over mid-wicket. Siddle runs back , tumbles and grasses it A silly-point also in place to go with short leg 109.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , slower through the air on middle , blocked to short leg 109.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , on middle , Rahul stays back and works it to short leg 109.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flighted delivery on off , Rahul is well forward to smother it 109.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , pushed through flat and quick on off , Kohli nudges it behind square leg for a single 108.6 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , fuller and straighter , Rahul almost falls over and mistimes the flick. The ball lands in front of the man at mid-wicket 108.5 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , good length ball again , just outside off , Rahul comes forward and blocks it to the off-side 108.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , good length ball on off , Kohli shuffles across a bit and works it to mid-wicket for a single. He now reaches his highest Test score 108.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , tight line on the fourth stump , Kohli is solid in defence 108.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , similar length , this one is shade outside off , Kohli stretches forward and presses it to cover 108.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli gets forward and defensively pushes it to the left of Hazlewood , towards mid-off 107.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , slower and on off , Kohli crouches low and nudges it to mid-wicket 107.5 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , the debutant off the mark straightaway , Rahul leans forward and clips it through short leg Lokesh Rahul , right handed bat , comes to the crease The players take drinks with that wicket. It was complete domination from India after tea. Kohli and Rahane seemed to come out with an attacking mindset as they took on the bowling. Johnson was put through the sword as he gave away plenty in his spell after the break. Will the wicket of Rahane bring Australia back in the game ? We 'll wait and watch. . 107.4 Lyon to Rahane , out Lbw ! ! A magnificent innings comes to an end. Umpire Dharmasena took a long time before raising his finger. It was a full delivery on off-stump , Rahane goes down on his knee and misses the sweep , struck on the back thigh in front of off. Kohli walks up to him , pats him on the back. Rahane goes to a standing ovation. A much needed wicket for Australia as these two were taking the game away from them. Rahane lbw b Lyon 147 ( 171 ) [ 4s-21 ] Lyon to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 107.3 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , flighted on middle and leg , Rahane kneels down and sweeps it behind square , the fielder in the deep was brought in and he had no chance of stopping that 107.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , pushed through outside off , Rahane ca n't connect with the cut shot. A bit of oohs and aahs from the Australians Now round the wicket 107.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn , then dabs it past slip for a single 106.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , good length on the fourth stump , Kohli gets it off the outside half of the bat to deepish point 106.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a length close to off , Kohli covers the line and knocks it to mid-on 106.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , leg byes , 1 run , this is the first extra of the innings. Shows you how disciplined the Australian bowlers have been. Sliding onto the legs , Rahane ca n't meet the glance , the ball rolls away to fine leg off the pad 106.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , tad too full and close to off , Rahane squeezes the drive back to the bowler 106.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , 3 runs , fuller and outside off , Kohli presses forward and drives it to deep extra cover. That three brings up the 400 for India This is the highest partnership for India outside the sub-continent in the last 10 years . 106.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , short delivery outside off , Kohli pulls off the toe-end to short mid-wicket , Marsh makes a fine stop A slight delay as the batsmen take a drink . 105.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Kohli takes it from there and eases it to long-on using his wrists 105.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , floated up outside off , Kohli plays a copybook forward defence to cover 105.4 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , goes deep in the crease and works it wide of mid-wicket , for a single 105.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , slower and around off , Rahane defends it down the wicket 105.2 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , superb shot ! Overpitched outside off , Rahane leans into the drive and hits it through the cover region. The partnership is now worth 250 105.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flatter on leg-stump bowled from round the wicket , Kohli nurdles it to backward square leg 104.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , in and around the off-stump , Rahane presses it to cover and says " no " to the single 104.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a length outside off , Rahane comes forward and shoulders arms. That is a rarity in this session 104.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , shortens the length on off , Kohli shuffles across and tucks it to deep square leg 104.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Rahane punches it to cover-point 104.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , cracking shot ! These two are making batting look easy now. Short and width on offer , Rahane cashes in with a cut shot , it was in the air but he had picked the gap as well 104.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , good length ball around off , Kohli drives it on the up towards mid-off , Rogers does the tiding up Josh Hazlewood [ 20.0-6-60-0 ] is back into the attack 103.6 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , bit too full outside off , Rahane pushes it gently past cover , it is good enough for him to come back for the second 103.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up outside off , turns back in , Rahane covers his stumps and lets it go 103.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Rahane is forward and blocking to cover 103.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Kohli plays a whippy drive past Lyon and down to long-on 103.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and drives it crisply to cover , good stop by Marsh diving to his right 103.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , goes back and defends it to cover 102.6 Johnson to Rahane , no run , slower delivery from Johnson , Rahane backs away and steers it on the bounce to Watto at first slip 102.5 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , fullish and on off , Kohli turns it off the inside half of the blade wide of mid-on This is the first time that Johnson has gone wicketless after conceding 115 runs . 102.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , pitched up on off , Kohli pushes it to mid-on 102.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , fuller and around off , Kohli moves forward and knocks it to cover 102.2 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Rahane stays on leg-stump and cuts it to deep backward point 102.1 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Kohli works it towards mid-on and sets off for a sharp single Smith still continuing with Johnson , even though he has given away 27 runs in his last two overs . 101.6 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , straight roller outside off , Rahane plays for the turn and gets a thickish outside edge past slip 101.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up on off , Kohli pushes it to long-on for another comfortable single Now round the wicket 101.4 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , spinning in , Rahane gets inside the line and glances it to long leg 101.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , drags the length back , Kohli nudges it to square leg 101.2 Lyon to Kohli , 2 runs , slower on off , Kohli stays low and works it past short leg for a brace 101.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted on off , Kohli wrists it to deepish mid-on , he calls " no , no " as he hit that bit too well Nathan Lyon [ 20.0-3-68-0 ] is back into the attack 100.6 Johnson to Rahane , FOUR , India on the attack. Johnson has leaked 27 runs in his last two overs. Short and not much venom in that , Rahane stays leg-side and pulls it in front of square for the third boundary of the over 100.5 Johnson to Rahane , no run , back of a length on middle , Rahane backs away and punches it to mid-off 100.4 Johnson to Rahane , FOUR , looks like Rahane has shifted gears. He is not coming anywhere close to the line of the ball , moves away to the leg-side and drives the full delivery past Kohli , the mid-off was square and had no chance of stopping that 100.3 Johnson to Rahane , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Rahane backs away and knocks it to mid-on , he played that awkwardly 100.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , back of a length on middle and leg , Rahane tries to repeat what he did on the first ball , mistimes it to mid-wicket 100.1 Johnson to Rahane , FOUR , bang ! Rahane plays a T20 shot. He was expecting a short ball from Johnson , backs away and forehands the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence. Nobody saw that coming , certainly not me. He also brings up his highest Test score 99.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Kohli taps it to cover and walks away sidewards. He is feeling some discomfort in his left hand. The physio was out in the last over tending to it , he had some ice pack put on it . 99.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up just outside off , Kohli push-drives it to cover 99.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length close to off , Kohli stays in the crease and bunts it to the off-side 99.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fullish and on off , Kohli pushes it back to the bowler 99.2 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , on a length close to off , Rahane knocks it towards cover and the duo scamper across for another single. Harris is not too pleased with that , he wanted to bowl at one batsman and these two have not allowed that happen 99.1 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , full and homing in , Kohli wrists it to mid-on and sets off for a quick single 98.6 Johnson to Rahane , no run , now tests Rahane with a short delivery , the batsman is upto it , rolls his wrists and taps the pull to mid-wicket. An expensive over from Johnson , 15 runs came off it 98.5 Johnson to Kohli , 3 runs , excellent batting , Johnson pitches one up , Kohli gets a good stride forward and drives it through cover for another three 98.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length around off , Kohli drops it in front of cover 98.3 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli putting on a exhibition now. Plays the third pull shot in a row and it was the best of the lot. Goes on the back foot , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of square. There was a man in the deep , but he had no chance of cutting that off 98.2 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , a more controlled pull shot this time. Short delivery , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Kohli rocks back and pulls it behind square , no chance for Burns of stopping that 98.1 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , " catch " were the shouts but it just evaded Burns , who got a fingertip. Short delivery on the stumps , Kohli swivels and pulls it in the air , Burns at mid-wicket dives to his left , gets a finger but ca n't hang on. That brings up the 200-run stand , first for India this year 97.6 R Harris to Rahane , no run , on a length just outside off , Rahane presses it to cover-point after coming forward 97.5 R Harris to Kohli , 3 runs , full and angling in on off , Kohli leans forward and clips it through mid-wicket for three 97.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , good length ball close to off , Kohli defends off the inside part to mid-wicket 97.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length around off , Kohli goes back and across , blocks it to mid-off 97.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , drags the length back , Kohli stays in the crease and bunts it in front of cover 97.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a length just outside off , Kohli plays a solid forward defence to cover 96.6 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , on leg-stump , nurdled away down to fine leg 96.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , fuller and on off , Kohli pushes it off the front foot to mid-on 96.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Kohli toe-ends the pull to mid-on , he practices the shot afterwards 96.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , angled across the right-hander , Kohli has nothing to do with it 96.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length on off , Kohli gets behind the line and defends to the right of Johnson 96.1 Johnson to Rahane , 3 runs , shortish and on the fourth stump line , Rahane rides the bounce and steers it through point. Another three taken Mitchell Johnson [ 21.0-5-82-0 ] is back into the attack 95.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , short of length on off , Kohli hangs back and taps it towards gully , shouts " no " as Rahane was on his way for the single 95.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up on off , Kohli check-drives it straight down the ground , Harris bends down and gets a hand , the ball goes past the stumps but Rahane was home 95.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length outside off , Kohli covers the line and ignores it 95.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Kohli shuffles across and defends to cover 95.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fuller and in the channel around off , Kohli plays a loose drive , the ball dribbles off the inside section of the bat to mid-wicket 95.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length around off , Kohli stands tall and punches it to point Harris to start off after tea. Kohli is on strike. . It has been all India in the second session. The unbeaten 189-run stand has seen them avoid the follow-on. Both batsmen got to their respective hundreds and also negated the second new ball. India will be hoping for more of the same. Can these two continue what they have been doing for another session ? Answer coming up shortly as the players make their way out to the centre. . The Aussie bowlers tested the duo outside off before resorting to the short-pitched shuff. However , Rahane and Kohli have survived it all while blunting the second new ball. Do join us back after the tea break to see if these two continue the good work or if Australia strike back . Kohli was briefly put off in the wake of Mitch Johnson striking him on the calf while having a shy at the stumps. He benefitted from Watto shelling a catch in the slip cordon and later composed himself to notch up his 6th Test century overseas , steering clear of Sehwag and Ravi Shastri. This is also Kohli 's fourth ton in Australia . Tea , day 3 : The session completely belonged to India. Kohli and Rahane scored centuries each to trim the deficit to 194. Rahane started off in a nervy manner , but settled down nicely to drive India forward. In fact , he has proceeded to outscore Kohli . 94.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , another short ball , Rahane hops up and quells it to cover 94.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , dragged short and around off , Rahane rolls his wrists and pulls it to square leg 94.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , fullish and on off , Rahane comes forward and defends it towards mid-on 94.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , short of length on middle , Kohli hops up and works it towards square leg for a single 94.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fuller and outside off , Kohli plays a punchy drive to mid-off 94.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , good length ball , nips back in from outside off. Too high on the thigh pad. There was not even an enquiry from Hazlewood 93.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on the fourth stump , Rahane works it to the right of the bowler 93.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , nice and fullish on middle , Rahane is content to dead-bat it 93.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , pushed through just outside off , Rahane softly punches it back to the bowler 93.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , eased down to long-on 93.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Lyon shortens his length , defended to the right of the bowler 93.1 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , top knock from Kohli , his 3rd Test ton of the tour. He pumps his fist , leaps for joy and salutes the applause from the MCG. Fuller and outside off , Kohli plays a punchy drive wide of the covers. He has a big grin on his face Nathan Lyon [ 19.0-3-63-0 ] is back into the attack 92.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , tapped to mid-on and Kohli will keep strike. Good running between the wickets again 92.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the pitch and outside off , Rahane ramps it over the slip cordon. Warner gets across and hauls the ball back in with one hand , before recovering and flinging back a left-handed throw 92.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , take that , says Rahane. Banged in short and on the stumps , Rahane rocks back , gets into a good position and pulls it in front of square on the leg-side 92.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , snorter ! Banged in short and angled into Rahane , who gets into an awkward tangle as he tries to upper cut. The batsman manages to glove it onto the pitch. Hazlewood throws a stare 92.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , pitched up and on off , Rahane is drawn forward into a block to short cover 92.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , short of length and on off , Kohli nudges it in front of mid-on and takes off for an urgent single 91.6 Watson to Rahane , FOUR , fuller and outside off , Rahane leans forward and just eases a drive past cover. The ball flows away to the fence. Rahane 's balance was a sight to behold there This is now a record partnership for India at the MCG . 91.5 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Kohli steers it to point , where Lyon makes a diving stop , keeping it to just a single 91.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Kohli plays an extended front foot punch back to Watto 91.3 Watson to Kohli , 2 runs , on the off stump , Kohli shuffles across and wrists it past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 91.2 Watson to Rahane , 1 run , on a length and on the fourth stump , Rahane dabs it in front of point for a quick single. Kohli responded in kind as well 91.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rahane stands tall and plays a solid punch to cover , ca n't beat the fielder 90.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , better judgement from Kohli. Full and pushed outside off , Kohli flags it through to Haddin 90.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , banged in short and outside leg , Kohli ducks under safely 90.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , another teaser outside off , this time Kohli is sucked into playing at it. The outside edge though does not carry to gully. The Indian vice-captain is looking twitchy 90.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fullish and outside off , Hazlewood gets a bit of inward movement , but it does not interest Kohli 90.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Kohli rides the bounce of this short one outside off and dabs it down to gully with soft hands 90.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , Kohli is halfway forward as he knocks it to short cover Josh Hazlewood [ 17.0-5-52-0 ] is back into the attack 89.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , Rahane gets forward and defends it well to cover 89.5 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length ball on off , Rahane , having reached three figures shakes off the jitters and blocks it to the off-side 89.4 Watson to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane lifts the helmet off his head and soaks in the applause. Kohli embraces Rahane in a hug. The former pats the Mumbai batsman. Rahane gets to his 3rd Test ton , 1st against Australia. Rahane chases this wide one outside off , flashes hard. The ball flies over gully 89.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , nice and tight on off again , Rahane defends it to short cover again 89.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , Rahane solidly blocks it to short cover 89.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length ball on off , Rahane prods across and turns it to short mid-wicket before saying 'no ' to his partner Shane Watson [ 11.0-2-44-1 ] is back into the attack 88.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Johnson tests Kohli with another well-directed bouncer , the latter sinks under it 88.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and drives it towards mid-off. Rogers tumbles and stops the ball 88.4 Johnson to Kohli , 2 runs , too full and straight from Johnson , clipped past mid-wicket for a brace 88.3 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , on a length and outside off , pushed towards cover 88.2 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , short of length and just outside off , dab-and-run towards cover point for a speedy single. Lyon has a shy at the bowler 's end but misses. Kohli puts in a sprawling dive and makes his ground 88.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , bouncer from Mitch , climbs over a half-ducking Kohli 87.6 R Harris to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane finally connects with the upper cut and moves to 96. Dug in short and outside off , Rahane ramps it up and over the slip cordon 87.5 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , on a length and on off again , Kohli shuffles across a touch and works it towards mid-on for a single 87.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a length and on off , Kohli , who was initially shaping up for a flick , changes his mind at the last moment and defends it back to Ryano 87.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length and just a shade outside off , Kohli inches forward and defends it to short cover 87.2 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , fuller and curling in on off , Rahane looks to drive , gets it off the inside half of the bat , the ball wanders away wide of mid-wicket 87.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rahane lifts his bat and lets it go This Kohli v Mitch mini-battle is heating up. Despite Watto dropping it , the latter seems to hold the edge. Kohli has to settle down and not let his concentration waver . 86.6 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , straighter in line , Rahane tucks it to mid-wicket and jogs across for a single 86.5 Johnson to Rahane , 2 runs , fuller and close to off , Rahane slices a drive , the man at backward point , makes a half-stop , taking pace off the ball. The result is a couple 86.4 Johnson to Rahane , no run , Mitch bangs this short and outside off , Rahane attempts another upper cut. Makes no connection again 86.3 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli survives another nervy moment. This was a top bouncer from Mitch , hurries onto Kohli , who can only top-edge the pull. The ball lobs in the air. Haddin rushes forward , follows the ball and dives. However , the ball drops in front of him By the way , this is only the second 150-plus partnership for India in Tests this year . 86.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , full and slanted across , Kohli shoulders arms 86.1 Johnson to Rahane , 1 run , short of length on the leg stump , Rahane swivels on the back foot and pulls it to deep square leg , who runs in and gathers the ball cleanly. 150 of the partnership up Another of those impromptu drinks breaks ? Oh wait , the physio is out working on Jinks ' arm. Meanwhile , Hazlewood has a chat with Mitch . 85.6 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , banged in short and rises on off , Rahane keeps his eyes on the ball and plays a well-controlled pull to deep square leg and keeps strike 85.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , streaky from Rahane but he gets away with that. Short and rising outside off , Rahane is beaten on the upper cut. He would have been better off had he left that alone 85.4 R Harris to Rahane , no run , good length ball attacking off , much better from Ryano. Rahane gets forward and pats it to mid-on 85.3 R Harris to Rahane , FOUR , swerving down leg , Rahane just helps it fine. There was nobody in the deep , the man was square and Rahane earns another four 85.2 R Harris to Rahane , no run , good length ball on off , Rahane comes forward and defensively pushes it back to the bowler 85.1 R Harris to Rahane , FOUR , fraction short and outside off , Rahane rocks back and cuts it away behind point , the ball races away to the fence. That cracking hit sends the Indian supporters into a tizzy 84.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and on the fourth stump , Kohli comes well forward and knocks it to short cover. That rounds off an eventful maiden 84.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , good length ball close to off , Kohli is halfway forward as he dabs it behind point. Fortunately for India , Kohli did not jab at it 84.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , full but pushed far too wide outside off , so much so that Haddin takes it in front of first slip. Left alone by Kohli 84.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , similar delivery on off , Kohli gets right behind the line and once again blocks it in front of cover 84.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , fullish and on off , Kohli is back to defending 84.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , edged and dropped ! Watto is the culprit. Kohli 's concentration has been shot after that incident. This was another teaser outside off , Kohli pushes at it with hard hards. The outside edge is found , Watson dives to his left , but shells it. The ball just popped out at the last moment 83.6 R Harris to Rahane , no run , tight line on off again , Rahane is equally tight in defence 83.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , on a good length and jags back in from outside off. However , it does not threaten off and Rahane shoulders arms 83.4 R Harris to Rahane , FOUR , fuller and shapes in , Rahane flicks it well , Hazlewood gets across from mid-on , dives but the ball slides through to beat him en route to the deep boundary 83.3 R Harris to Rahane , no run , Ryano perists with the same line , he shortens his length though on the fourth stump. Rahane taps it towards square point again 83.2 R Harris to Rahane , no run , good length ball around off , Rahane dabs it in front of point Kohli had a few words with the umpire after he was hit by Mitch. Rahane calms him down. I am not sure if Kohli has calmed down though 83.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , pitched up and coming in , Rahane drives it to mid-on 82.6 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , edged and safe ! Mitch has his hands on his head. This was the sucker ball - full and outside off - Kohli is lured into an away-from-the-body drive , the ball catches the outside edge and flies past the 2-man slip cordon. It runs away to the third man fence 82.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , on a length and outside off , Kohli steers it to the man at point 82.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , this one shapes in on middle and leg , Kohli flicks and finds mid-wicket 82.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and outside off , Kohli flashes and is beaten on the outside edge 82.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Kohli is on the floor ! Mitch puts his hand up in apology straightaway. This was pitched up and on off , Kohli drives it back at the bowler , who collects the ball and has a shy at the stumps. In the process , Mitch hits Kohli on the calf. The bowler checks on the batsman and even pats him on the back 82.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , fraction back of a length and on off , Kohli defends it back to Johnson from the crease That will be drinks. India have done well to survive the first hour after lunch. However , it was not Johnson and Harris whom they faced in that period. The real test is now as Australia have taken the second new ball. The visitors will want these two to continue in the same fashion as one wicket might trigger a collapse. Can Kohli and Rahane keep going ? Or will Australia strike with the second new ball ? We 'll find out soon.. . 81.6 R Harris to Rahane , no run , shortish and outside off , Rahane hoists his bat up and lets it pass 81.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , back of a length on off , Rahane drops it in front of cover , looks for the single but Kohli is not interested 81.4 R Harris to Rahane , no run , fullish and closer to the off-stump , Rahane push-drives it to mid-off , calls " no " to Kohli 81.3 R Harris to Rahane , no run , nice shape on that , but the line is too far outside off , easy leave for Rahane 81.2 R Harris to Rahane , no run , shortens the length and gets it to straightens , Rahane waits on the back foot and dabs it to gully 81.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , back of a length and shaping away outside off , Rahane lifts his bat and lets it go Ryan Harris [ 15.0-4-40-2 ] is back into the attack 80.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , on a length close to off , Kohli pushes it to the left of Johnson , the fast bowler does well to bend down and get a hand to it , Kohli was looking for the single but retreats as he saw the bowler get a hand 80.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , good length ball around off , Kohli defends to mid-off , the bat turned in his hands when ball made contact 80.4 Johnson to Rahane , 3 runs , short delivery , climbs onto the batsman , Rahane goes for the pull and gets it over mid-wicket , he was not in control of that shot 80.3 Johnson to Rahane , no run , well wide of off , left alone 80.2 Johnson to Rahane , no run , pitched up just outside off , Rahane drives it towards cover , where Marsh makes a tumbling stop , he parries it to mid-off 80.1 Johnson to Rahane , no run , on a length angled outside off , Rahane lets it go , goes to Haddin on the bounce Mitchell Johnson [ 16.0-4-66-0 ] is back into the attack The second new ball is available and Australia have taken it immediately. Johnson returns to have a first crack with the new cherry. Important phase in the game coming up. Fasten your seat belts folks.. . 79.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , goes back and knocks it to the right of Lyon 79.5 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , gets to the pitch and drives it towards mid-off , for a single 79.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off , Rahane presses forward and blocks 79.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , dropped ! Lyon has put down a sitter off his own bowling. He did n't expect the ball to come his way. Flighted around off , Rahane checks his drive and chips it back to the bowler. Lyon puts his hand up and lets the ball burst through his hands. What a breakthrough that would have been just before the second new ball ! 79.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , slower and on off , Kohli works it along the ground to long-on 79.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up just outside off , Kohli stays leg-side and drives inside out to cover , straight to the fielder 78.6 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , floated up close to off , Kohli drives it to long-off and retains strike 78.5 S Smith to Rahane , 1 run , there comes the loose delivery , short and on the stumps , Rahane rocks back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket , he should have hit that in the gap 78.4 S Smith to Rahane , no run , flighted on off , Rahane presses forward and defends well. Smith is hitting the right areas in this over 78.3 S Smith to Rahane , no run , gently tossed up delivery , Rahane drives it straight to Marsh at short cover 78.2 S Smith to Rahane , no run , drags the length back , Rahane goes back and punches it to Smith 78.1 S Smith to Rahane , no run , nice loopy delivery on off , Rahane plunges forward and blocks 77.6 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , easily done , waits for the ball to arrive and then milks it behind square leg for a single 77.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , goes right back in the crease and defends to the right of Lyon 77.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , pushed through outside off , Rahane was shaping up to play the cut , but decides against it 77.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted on off , Kohli crouches low and nudges it to backward square leg 77.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , rolls his wrists and turns it to short mid-wicket 77.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up close to off , Kohli knocks it to the right of the bowler after coming forward 76.6 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , flighted around off , Kohli eases the drive to long-off 76.5 S Smith to Rahane , 1 run , stays back and nurdles it to backward square leg , for a single 76.4 S Smith to Rahane , FOUR , lovely shot ! Smith dishes out a friendly full toss just outside off , Rahane comes forward and caresses the drive , he beat the cover and mid-off fielder to perfection. Smith hangs his head back as soon as the ball passed the mid-off fielder 76.3 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , much better , flighted on off , Kohli goes back and works it to square leg 76.2 S Smith to Rahane , 1 run , another half tracker , Rahane swats the pull to deep mid-wicket 76.1 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , starts with a long hop , Kohli mistimes the pull to deepish mid-on , the extra bounce did n't allow him to get the timing right Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 75.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off , Rahane dead-bats it to the right of the bowler 75.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , slower and outside off , Rahane lunges forward and knocks it to cover 75.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , touch short and outside off , Rahane goes back and cuts it to point , he missed out there 75.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , gives this plenty of air , invites the batsman to go for the drive , Rahane takes the invitation , drives and gets an inside edge towards short mid-wicket. That was very well bowled 75.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , closer to the off-stump , Rahane inches forward and blocks to the right of Lyon 75.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up outside off , Rahane smothers it with a forward defensive 74.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , fullish and outside off , Kohli moves forward and pushes it to extra cover 74.5 Watson to Rahane , 3 runs , Rahane emulates Kohli , leans forward and flicks it handsomely through mid-wicket , the pair run three before Burns hunts the ball down 74.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , low full toss just outside off , it was the attempted yorker , Rahane brings his bat down and jams it to cover 74.3 Watson to Kohli , 3 runs , too straight from Watto , on off and middle , Kohli leans forward and clips it elegantly to deep mid-wicket , these two are quick between the wicket , come back easily for the third 74.2 Watson to Kohli , FOUR , the drives keep flowing from Kohli 's bat , another top shot. Tad full and outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and push-drives it to the left of mid-off , Hazlewood had no chance of catching up with that , it was too sweetly timed 74.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , good length ball around off , Kohli plays the perfect forward defence to cover Shane Watson [ 10.0-2-34-1 ] is back into the attack 73.6 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , this was not all that short , but Rahane went deep in the crease and pulled it to deep square leg , his back leg was very close to the stumps 73.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up just outside off , Rahane gets a good stride forward and blocks 73.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , goes back and defends to the right of the bowler 73.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted on off , Kohli stays low and wrists it to long-on 73.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , rolls his wrists and taps it to the left of short leg 73.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , turns it gently to short mid-wicket Nathan Lyon [ 15.0-2-56-0 ] is back into the attack 72.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , low full toss on leg-stump , Kohli clips it behind square leg for a single 72.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , 3 runs , slightly overpitched outside off , Rahane leans forward and check drives it wide of mid-off , Rogers gives a spirited chase and pulls the ball in just before the rope. That also brings up the 100-run stand 72.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , loose from Rahane , fuller and just outside off , Rahane pushes away from the body , the ball rolls off the inside half back to Hazlewood 72.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Kohli helps it on the way to deep backward square leg with a pull shot 72.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fuller and on off , Kohli is forward and blocking to mid-on 72.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli defends it to mid-on 71.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , fuller and just outside off , Rahane drives it to mid-off , that was also well timed 71.5 Watson to Rahane , FOUR , cracking shot ! It was short and outside off , Rahane transfers his weight onto the back foot and punches it to the left of point. The HotSpot showed that it came right off the middle 71.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , hangs back and drops it in front of point , takes a couple of steps down the wicket for the single , but Kohli sends him back 71.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , fullish and on off , Rahane presents the straightest of bats and defends it to Watson 71.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , shortish and around off , Rahane pats it in front of cover , looks for the single which is not there 71.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , back of a length outside off , Rahane punches and finds the point fielder 70.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fuller and outside off , Kohli watches it carefully and shoulders arms 70.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , back of a length around off , Kohli hangs back and bunts it to mid-on 70.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , short of length on off , Kohli plays the short-arm pull straight to mid-wicket 70.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane brings up his 3rd fifty of the series. Waves his bat at the crowd and Kohli comes up and congratulates him. It was a back of a length ball on middle , Rahane tucks it to the unmanned mid-wicket region 70.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , drops it to the off-side off the back foot , searches for the single which will get him to his fifty 70.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , loose shot , shortish and outside off , Rahane plays a flashy cut and misses , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 69.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , fifth delivery in the over which is short of length , Kohli taps it towards cover and shouts a loud " no " for the single 69.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , Kohli goes right back and pushes it towards cover. This length is not troubling Kohli one bit 69.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , again , the length is short , Kohli has enough time to go back and block it to Watson 69.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Kohli camps on the back foot and knocks it to cover 69.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , in the channel just outside off , Kohli has nothing to do with it 69.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , shortens the length close to off , Kohli goes back and across before defending to cover 68.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , goes back and dabs this towards point , calls " no " for the single 68.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , terrific shot ! Rahane not shy taking on the short ball. The deep square leg region was unprotected , Rahane rocks back and pulls it uppishly to the fence. It was not a pacy delivery , hence Rahane had the time to play that shot 68.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , good length ball around off , Rahane presents the full face and defends to Hazlewood 68.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a length and width on offer , Rahane drives through the line and picks out the point fielder , that came right off the meat of the bat 68.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , angled in on off , Rahane defends off the inside part to mid-wicket 68.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , 3 runs , short and outside off , Kohli rides the bounce and cuts it behind point , he was in complete control of that shot. Another three for the batsman 67.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , back of a length just outside off , Rahane is back and defending to mid-off 67.5 Watson to Kohli , 3 runs , that 's bread and butter for Kohli , full on off and middle , Kohli shuffles across , presses forward and clips it past a diving short mid-wicket , the duo think about the fourth run but decide against it 67.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli moves forward and knocks it back to Watson 67.3 Watson to Kohli , 2 runs , too straight , on the middle-stump line , Kohli leans forward and tucks it behind square leg , takes on the fielder from the deep and makes it comfortably Two slips in place for Watto 67.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , goes back and wrists it softly to short mid-wicket 67.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , back of a length on off , Kohli gets right behind the line and defends to the left of Watson Shane Watson [ 7.0-1-25-1 ] is back into the attack 66.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , pulls the length slightly back , Rahane hangs back and bunts it to cover 66.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , teaser outside off , full delivery , Rahane comes forward and lets it pass 66.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , 2 runs , short delivery , dug in halfway down the wicket , Rahane pulls it up and over square leg , no one in the deep and he comes back for the second 66.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , nice shape on that , moves away outside off , Rahane covers the line and shoulders arms 66.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a length outside off , Rahane watches it go past him , hardly carried to Haddin 66.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , straightaway on the mark , makes the batsman play with a length delivery on off , Rahane comes half-forward and blocks it down the wicket The players slowly make their way out to middle. India 's first target will be to avoid the follow-on which is still 107 runs away. Hazlewood to start off . Pujara went early after which Vijay and Kohli fought an intense battle against Johnson and Harris. The former then succumbed to Watson. Rahane started off in a nervy manner , but has settled down since. Another thrilling session of Test cricket on the way. Welcome back for the post-lunch session.. . More fascinating action awaits us. It 's a glorious day at the G and we 'll be back soon after a little break. Do stay tuned . Rahane had an iffy moment when his edge eluded Haddin and slip , but he has provided the perfect foil for Kohli. This stand is rattling along at a good pace and India would be hoping for more of the same. Enthralling two hours of cricket and it was a treat to watch the Harris v Kohli and Johnson v Vijay battles. Gripping action. And a note to the Indian bowlers - just take a look at the first hour of today on how the Aussies bowled. That DVD should be sent to them immediately for viewing pleasure . Rahane and Kohli 's stand has balanced the session out for India. It looked a bleak sight when Che walked off to the 2nd ball , edging behind , but ever since Kohli came in , he has looked right on the money. Drives flowed from his bat and his footwork was brilliant as he played every ball on its merit. His leaving outside off was very good too. Vijay looked composed until he was hit on the helmet by Johnson and then flashed at Watson to give his wicket away . 65.6 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , leans out and lets it run off the open face into the unguarded point area , takes a single and they go off for lunch A leg slip added for the last ball before lunch 65.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , full on the stumps , clipped past a diving mid-wicket Now round the wicket 65.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , stretches out and smothers it to short cover 65.3 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane goes on the back foot and nudges it to deep backward square leg 65.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , leans forward into a drive into the covers 65.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Rahane gets forward and defends to point with an open face Last over before lunch 64.6 Johnson to Kohli , no run , dug in short and down leg , Kohli ducks under that and lets it go 64.5 Johnson to Kohli , no run , 143kph , short of length and rising , Kohli stands tall and drops it near the slip cordon 64.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , slower delivery at 126kph , Kohli shuffles across and dead-bats it to mid-off 64.3 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , Johnson has his hands on his head. Kohli knew what he was doing. Rocks back and then plays the late cut , in the air , but wide of gully. Races away 64.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , short of length on the stumps , Kohli defends to the right of Johnson 64.1 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , when the ball is full , Kohli is ready to pounce. Slightly too full and Kohli punches it past Rahane and beats mid-off 63.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , comes on the front foot and defends to the left of Lyon 63.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , driven to cover where Bucky deflects the ball away with a dive , but they do n't take the single 63.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , gets back and taps to point 63.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , leans forward and blocks solidly 63.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , goes on the back foot and pushes it back to Lyon 63.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , softly defends to the vacant silly point region 62.6 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli is back in form after twin failures at Brisbane. He gets to fifty with a controlled dab through gully. Rode the bounce well and played it in the gap. Raises his bat as the Indian contingent clear their throats. Has a hug with Rahane and gets back to business. Top effort so far 62.5 Johnson to Kohli , 2 runs , incoming short delivery , Kohli helps it on the way to deep backward square leg Now round the wicket 62.4 Johnson to Kohli , 2 runs , short of length on the hips , clipped neatly wide of mid-wicket for a couple 62.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , back of a length on the stumps , Kohli gets right behind the line and defends 62.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , driven back to Johnson who does n't stop it cleanly 62.1 Johnson to Rahane , 3 runs , pitched up outside off , Rahane reaches out and squeezes it into the gap at point. Another three runs Mitchell Johnson [ 14.0-4-47-0 ] is back into the attack 61.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , sees the tossed up delivery outside off and plays his trademark whippy off-drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 61.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , leans forward and defends to short cover Now round the wicket , Lyon 61.4 Lyon to Rahane , 3 runs , rocks back and cuts in the air , but well wide of point. They take three 61.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up outside off , Rahane defends to short cover 61.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , gets forward and wrists it to a deep mid-on 61.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , punches it back to Lyon 60.6 R Harris to Rahane , no run , Rahane drives and Harris makes a half-stop on his followthrough 60.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , short of length on off , Rahane gets back and defends 60.4 R Harris to Rahane , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone 60.3 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli swivels and plays an awkward looking pull to deep square leg , was n't in control of the shot 60.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Kohli reaches out and drives to point Back over the wicket to Kohli 60.1 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , short from round the wicket , Rahane pulls it down to deep backward square leg 59.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Kohli goes deep in his crease and defends to short leg 59.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Kohli defends to short leg 59.4 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , swept from a middle and leg line to deep backward square leg 59.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , the straight roller outside off , Rahane lets it go 59.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , goes on the back foot and defends to short cover 59.1 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , rocks back and cuts wide of point for a couple of runs 58.6 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , controls the pull and gets a single to deep square leg , to keep strike Now round the wicket 58.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , short of length on the stumps , defended with a solid straight bat down to mid-on 58.4 R Harris to Rahane , FOUR , harmless short delivery down leg , Rahane helps the pull on its way beating fine leg 's dive. He has quickly moved onto 30 now 58.3 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , drop and run into the covers , easily done 58.2 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , short and dug in , Rahane rolls his wrists to keep the pull down to deep backward square leg 58.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , well wide of off , Rahane lifts his bat and lets it go 57.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tight bowling and Kohli is happy to block it back to Lyon 57.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed to short cover off the front foot 57.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , defended in front of cover point and both batsmen decide against a single in the end 57.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter and Kohli defends off the back foot to short leg 57.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up outside off , defended to the left of the bowler 57.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Kohli nudges it to the right of short leg where Burns makes a good stop 56.6 R Harris to Rahane , no run , pitched up outside off and the tempter , Rahane is n't interested 56.5 R Harris to Rahane , no run , short and Rahane does well to sway out of the way , dropped his wrists as well 56.4 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , quick single to mid-off after pushing in front of the fielder. Good stuff 56.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Kohli covers his off stump and then leaves 56.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , it swings after Kohli leaves , Haddin gloves easily 56.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , Kohli drills a drive back at Harris who fields Ryan Harris [ 12.0-4-30-2 ] is back into the attack 55.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , drifting into leg , worked away to deep backward square leg , for a single 55.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Smith dives to his left at short mid-wicket to save the single 55.4 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , he goes back and nudges it to deep backward square leg 55.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up outside off , Rahane leans forward to defend 55.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , prefers to go back and plays it to short leg 55.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , turns it through short leg for a single 54.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane rides that well and then dabs that wide of gully. It was coming back in , but he arched back and played it right into the gap with control 54.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , pitched up on off and middle , forward defence to short mid-wicket 54.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane plays a lovely cover drive now , easing it past Rogers at mid-off , the ball wins the race. Rahane is off to a quick start 54.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , Rahane looks at the toe end of his bat after mistiming a square drive to point 54.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , shuffles across and then nudges it into the gap at short mid-wicket , for a single 54.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pushed off the front foot and Mitch gets across from mid-on to stop the ball 53.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Rahane gets back and punches to mid-on 53.5 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , magnificent on-drive , just looked a mere push and the timing on that beats Rogers ' dive at mid-on. Second boundary of the over 53.4 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , edged and eludes slip. Rahane went for the big drive and edged it behind , it went right in between Haddin and slip. Lyon has his hands on his head. That was a iffy stroke from Rahane 53.3 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , shortish and turning in , Rahane rocks back and punches it through cover for a couple 53.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , goes on the back foot and nurdles to deep backward square leg , for a single A slip and a short leg in place 53.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up outside off , Kohli gets forward to defend to short cover Nathan Lyon [ 8.0-0-32-0 ] is back into the attack 52.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , homing in on off , on a fuller length , Rahane plays a solid forward defence to short cover 52.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , that can be dangerous , he shuffles across and exposes middle and leg , but flicks it from there down to fine leg 52.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , and now gets forward to shoulder arms , saw the length outside off and left it well 52.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , FOUR , he is good at pulling too. As soon as the ball is short , he swivels on the pull and beats deep backward square leg , did n't bother to keep it down 52.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , 3 runs , pitched up outside off , Rahane emulates Kohli and drives handsomely to deep extra cover , Bucky Rogers chases and keeps it to three. The feet moved nicely there from Rahane 52.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , back of a length outside off , rising too , Rahane lifts his bat and lets it go 51.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , straight on off and middle , Kohli flicks and finds short mid-wicket. He keeps practicing the shot afterwards , wanted to get it through square leg 51.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , big stride forward and even the forward defences are rushing to the fielders. Short cover which has moved back to cover , fields 51.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , shuffles across to off and gently turns it to short mid-wicket 51.3 Watson to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli has the Indian crowd on their feet. Driven on the up past a diving short cover. Minimal backlift and that extended front foot punch. Timing , needless to say is once again exquisite and it races away 51.2 Watson to Rahane , 3 runs , short delivery banged in , no real pace , Rahane rocks back and pulls over mid-wicket for a comfortable three - that gets him off the mark 51.1 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length delivery outside off , left alone 50.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Hazlewood is pegging away and Kohli is content to defend to short cover 50.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , nips back in a tad and Kohli defends to mid-on 50.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , wide of the crease and angled in , Kohli defends off the back foot to short cover 50.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Kohli 's bat face closed and he pushes the on-drive to mid-on 50.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , gets forward to drive to mid-off , no real timing on that shot as the ball goes straight to the fielder 50.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , dug in short outside off , Kohli arches his back and sways out of the line 49.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up outside off , Rahane plays a solid forward defence to short cover Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease Vijay is a disappointed man and keeps rehearsing the leave as he walks back to the pavilion. With that wicket , drinks have been taken. Che fell 2nd ball and since then Vijay and Kohli looked promising. The latter is batting superbly and some of his cover-driving has been outworldly. Just when it looked like serene progress , Watson got Vijay out. Gripping Test cricket in the first hour when Harris and Johnson set up brilliant battles with Kohli and Vijay respectively . 49.5 Watson to Vijay , out Caught by S Marsh ! ! Vijay has played a loose shot and given his wicket away. Bit of extra bounce on the short delivery outside off , Vijay went for the cut and edged it to Marsh at 1st slip. Good catchable height and Marsh makes no mistake. Watson has both his arms in the air in celebration. Vijay c S Marsh b Watson 68 ( 135 ) [ 4s-7 ] Watson to Vijay , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.4 Watson to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 49.3 Watson to Vijay , no run , goes on the back foot and wrists it to short mid-wicket 49.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , good stop at point , diving to his left , Vijay leant into a square drive , but did n't hit the gap 49.1 Watson to Vijay , no run , Vijay defends the length delivery on the stumps to mid-on Kohli 's batting the best that I can remember in Test matches recently. The feet are moving nicely. Each ball is being played exactly as it should be played. The bat is meeting the ball right off the middle. He looks to be in top form . 48.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , gets back and watchfully defends to short cover 48.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , turns it to short mid-wicket 48.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , Kohli defends solidly to short cover 48.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay gets forward to defend and a thick inside edge squirts to the right of square leg where Burns dives and keeps it to a single 48.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , wide of off , Vijay shoulders arms 48.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , that was a brave leave. Was n't too far away from off stump , Vijay shoulders arms trusting the bounce Josh Hazlewood [ 9.0-4-19-0 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , Kohli got his front foot a bit too across that time , but managed to push the full delivery on off and middle to mid-on 47.5 Watson to Kohli , 2 runs , turns this through mid-wicket for a couple of runs 47.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , nipped back in , but Kohli defends off the back foot to mid-on 47.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , Kohli rides the bounce and taps it to short mid-wicket 47.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , gets forward and defends to short cover 47.1 Watson to Kohli , 2 runs , punched past the bowler , Josh Hazlewood gives chase and pulls it back. Just two , poor running for it was an easy three Shane Watson [ 4.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay defends the incoming delivery to gully 46.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , slower delivery outside off , bounces twice before going to Haddin Now round the wicket 46.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , well played that ! Johnson digs it in short , Vijay does well to arch back and sway out of the way 46.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay is on the back foot and defending to mid-off 46.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , well wide of off , Vijay shoulders arms 46.1 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , Vijay is n't fazed by the short deliveries from Johnson , when the overpitched one comes , he puts it away. Leant on it and then eased it into the gap at cover. Johnson closes his eyes and walks back to his mark 45.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , comfortably defended off the back foot to short cover 45.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , 142kph nip-backer , Kohli defends with bat and pad close together 45.4 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , shuffles across a tad and nudges it to deep backward square , wants two and takes on Mitch to make it. Good running 45.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Harris is relentless , on a length and on off , Kohli defends to short cover 45.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back and across before blocking to short cover 45.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , short and down leg , Kohli lets it go after half-ducking 44.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , leaves the final delivery all alone. That was a very sharp over from Johnson and Vijay did well to survive that 44.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 142kph short delivery , Vijay this time does well to duck under that one , it flies past his head 44.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short of length outside off , Vijay does well to shoulder arms 44.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short of length on the stumps , Vijay defends off the back foot towards point 44.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay has been pinged on the helmet ! He takes his eyes off it and ducks. Hit on the left ear and then the ball deflects onto the shoulder. Lyon walks up to Vijay and asks him whether he is fine , Vijay nods and then walks up to Kohli to have a smile. Johnson just stares and goes back to his mark 44.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Vijay played that well ! Searing short delivery , Vijay rose to defend , but the glove saved him , he took his bottom hand off the bat to ensure it did n't carry behind. Drops well in front of Haddin 43.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , Kohli plays a firm drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 43.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , a bit too straight this time , Kohli softly nudges it to mid-wicket 43.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back and across before blocking off the back foot to short cover 43.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , looks to push off the front foot , a thick outside edge and fielded at gully diving to his right 43.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , takes the bottom hand off and plays with soft hands to gully 43.1 R Harris to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli is batting beautifully. A length delivery outside off , Kohli just leant into a front foot push - that 's all and the ball screamed past short cover. Harris ca n't believe that it has gone to a boundary. Exceptional sound as the ball met bat 42.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , 140kph short delivery into the ribs , Vijay looks to defend and is hit on the gloves , the ball drops dead in front of the slips. Vijay was n't happy with the way he played that 42.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , another bouncer , Vijay this time ducks under it 42.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short and down leg , Vijay is quick to pull his left shoulder in and leave it 42.3 Johnson to Kohli , 3 runs , Kohli hits on top of the bounce , a square drive and into the gap at cover , three more runs as Lyon pulls it back. They thought about a fourth , but settle for three 42.2 Johnson to Kohli , no run , gets across to cover off stump and defends to that man at silly mid-off 42.1 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Kohli shuffles across a little and defends to the covers There is a man at silly mid-off now for Kohli against Johnson 41.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , the attempted yorker , but outside off , Vijay digs it out 41.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , rises onto his toes and looks to defend , a thick outside edge , but lands well in front of point 41.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , 140kph length delivery on off , Vijay taps it wide of short cover and looks for the quick single , is n't there 41.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , full on off , pushed back to Harris 41.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , pitched up and Vijay pushes to mid-off 41.1 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , punched firmly and Kohli hit it too straight at Harris , who made a half-stop , Bucky fumbles at mid-off , but they settle for a single 40.6 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , streaky that but Vijay gets away , pushed out and the soft outside edge went in the gap at gully. Still no third man and it will be a boundary for Vijay 40.5 Johnson to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up on middle and leg , Kohli flicks to deep backward square leg , only a single 40.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , shuffles across a little and defends to square leg 40.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , 141kph and well wide of off , the sucker delivery , but Kohli watchfully shoulders arms 40.2 Johnson to Kohli , FOUR , Kohli looks in fine nick today. Tad overpitched from Johnson and another punchy off-drive from Kohli. The timing is excellent and it races away past mid-off 40.1 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , defended wide of short leg and a quick single is taken. Burns did well , but Kohli was just in 39.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up outside off , Kohli gets a good stride forward and then shoulders arms Three slips and a gully 39.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , 143kph short delivery , Kohli is quick to duck under that 39.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , 139kph back of a length delivery , Kohli defends off the back foot to short cover 39.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , punched firmly back to Harris who fields 39.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , dug in short and at pace , Kohli half-ducks and lets it go Kohli is standing well outside his crease 39.1 R Harris to Kohli , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Kohli gets forward and then plays a superb check drive wide of cover , the ball raced away. Harris has his hands on his head , but that was a top , top shot 38.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , dug in short , but down leg , Vijay sees it goes over his left shoulder and lets it go 38.5 Johnson to Kohli , 3 runs , Kohli is off the mark with a nice shot. Reached out and caressed the full one outside off , through covers. Good enough for three more runs as the ball is hunted down 38.4 Johnson to Kohli , no run , Kohli was shaping for the flick and then decided to defend with a full face of the bat to mid-on 38.3 Johnson to Kohli , no run , 143kph short of length delivery , Kohli hops a little and defends off the back foot to cover-point 38.2 Johnson to Vijay , 3 runs , nice off-drive , leant forward and just punched it wide of mid-off. They take an easy three runs 38.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , pitched up and angled across outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 37.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , solidly in behind that off stump delivery , defended to short cover That catch made it 250 dismissals for Haddin. Fitting catch to mark the landmark 37.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 37.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Harris hits the bat hard as he gets it to nip one back in , Kohli is on the walk and awkwardly defends it towards mid-on 37.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , leaves the first ball alone , barely carried to Haddin Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.2 R Harris to Pujara , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Amazing take ! Haddin makes up for his error last evening. That is a sensational one-handed grab to his right. Pujara played a nothing stroke and guided it with an open face , as he was unable to ride the bounce , it was going to Watson at 1st slip , but Haddin acrobatically leaps and snaffles a magnificent take , still airborne as the ball nestled in the webbing. Pujara c Haddin b R Harris 25 ( 71 ) [ 4s-2 ] R Harris to Pujara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.1 R Harris to Pujara , no run , pitched up outside off , Pujara leans forward and push drives it to cover All set for the first ball of day 3. Ryan Harris will bowl to Che. Another brilliant day at the G. Temperatures expected to touch a high of 29 degree celsius . Pitch report by Sourav Ganguly : 'Brown grass on the wicket. As the match has progressed the grass has gotten browner. Not much for Nathan Lyon to play with. There is a bit of rough from the footworks for a left-hander. But India do n't have many left-handers. So that wo n't be a factor. India will have to see the first hour through. The first hour of day 3 will decide the fate of this Test match.' Meanwhile , Mitch Marsh has already been ruled out of the final Test in Sydney . 'The 28-year-old battled through the pain barrier to play in Melbourne , but there are renewed questions now about his immediate playing future looking ahead to the Sydney Test. Warner will be desperate to play the fourth Test at the SCG , given it 's the place where his great mate Phillip Hughes tragically played his last innings just over a month ago.' 'Warner has significant bruising to his right arm and was unable to clench his fist. The explosive run-scorer was unable to field on day two and is well and truly in the wars after also being smacked on the thumb on the final day of the second Test in Brisbane.' Here is Ben Horne reporting on Warner 's injury for for the Daily Telegraph 'In doing so he dragged his team from a delicate spot at 5-259 overnight to a powerful first innings total of 530.' She writes , 'He danced down the pitch , he carved through the covers , he pulled out the reverse sweep and invented a couple of other shots besides. The only thing Steve Smith did n't do in the first innings of the Boxing Day Test was post the first double century of his burgeoning Test career. By the time Australia 's young captain was bowled by Umesh Yadav for 192 before tea on the second day at the MCG , he had boosted his Test average to 51.26 , passed 2000 Test runs and eclipsed David Warner as Australia 's most prolific batsman in 2014.' Chloe Saltau 's report for the Age has the headline 'Smith puts India to the sword' 'The queues towards the coffee shops remained long but as the final session arrived , demands for cooler liquids had taken over , even if the mercury levels did n't rise to any great extent. And the roar that welcomed the final ball of the day was as rousing as the earlier one. Only that there were around 40,000 more people who were making themselves heard around the MCG. This was Boxing Day' 'The Boxing Day Test has over the years become like this mythological epic that you grow up hearing about , and have a fair idea of the atmosphere thanks to Channel 9 and the coverage in India. But being there at the MCG with minutes for the first ball can be surreal' Bharat Sundaresan , writing for the Indian Express , focusses on the MCG Boxing Day atmosphere ''On the last tour of Australia , Dhoni said the seniors needed to be rotated because they were too slow on the vast outfields. When Virender Sehwag , who responded with a brilliant catch , rejected that perception , Dhoni blamed the media for searching for a rift in the camp. The BCCI bosses though asked coach Duncan Fletcher to help cool things between Dhoni and the seniors.' 'In Brisbane , it was Dhoni who junked the convention of not making public what happens in the dressing room , announcing that there had been 'unrest'. Not once but twice after the second Test defeat , he firmly drew the media 's attention to the fact that there was upheaval as India batsmen caved in on Day 4. Hindustan Times revealed that old friends Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli had a go at each other while the batting was unraveling. However , two days later , Dhoni had made a U-turn , dismissing the report as a figment of imagination , even trashing it as a comic Hollywood mix. It was n't the first time the India skipper was contradicting his own comments.' N Ananthanarayan , writing for the Hindustan Times , throws the spotlight on the unrest in the Indian dressing room . First-up , help yourself to our daily dose of the print section . Pujara has struggled in his 69-ball stay and was dropped on 12 by Haddin off Josh Hazlewood , but managed to see off day 2 unbeaten. The first hour of play will be crucial. Hello and welcome to Day 3 of the third Test . Steve Smith scored an imperious century , adding another chapter to his growing legend. Each of India 's front-line bowlers hit centuries as well. However , the visitors finished the day better than they started thanks to Vijay 's steady fifty. He now has the third highest Test aggregate by an Indian opener Down Under . The less said about the Indian bowling , the better. There are not many demons in the pitch. Can the Indian batsmen capitalize on this good start and stand up to the hosts ? Or will another Great Indian collapse resurface ? Do rejoin us tomorrow to catch all the action. Until then , take care and goodbye . Dhawan showed good patience , leaving balls outside off before he nicked off to the slip cordon. Early on , Australia were propelled to 530 by Steve Smith 's 192 - a brilliant innings which saw him become the first Australian to score hundreds in his first two Tests as captain. The lower-order also wagged prodigiously , piling the misery on the Indian bowlers . Stumps , day 2 : Vijay 's fifty has steadied the Indian ship , Dhawan wasting a promising start notwithstanding. However , Australia are still on top with the visitors trailing by 422 runs. India will look up to Vijay to carry on and continue to build a sturdy platform for the likes of Kohli and Rahane tomorrow. Pujara has been susceptible to the incoming ball , but has fought it out . 36.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , outside off again , well-judged leave from Vijay 36.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , pitched up and outside off at 142kph , Vijay lets it pass to Haddin 36.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , Johnson reverts to the short ball , this one clocks 141kph , Vijay rises with it and fends it onto the pitch again 36.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , floated fuller at only 124kph , Vijay jams it onto the pitch in front of the bowler 36.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , banged in short and rises on off again , Vijay drops it to the off-side after pulling his bottom hand off the bat. Pujara looks for a quick single , but is sent back by the opener 36.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short of length at 144kph , Vijay misses the defence and is stuck around the mid-riff area Last over of the day coming up . 35.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , pushed through on off , Pujara stays in the crease and offers another solid defence 35.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , slower through the air on off , Pujara gets forward to smother it 35.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , nicely looped up on off , Pujara inches forward and dead-bats it to the leg-side 35.3 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , Vijay plays a whippy drive to long-on 35.2 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , slower through the air on off , Vijay uses his feet and drags it over mid-on. Not well-timed but Vijay gets a four. With just two overs left in the day , this was uncalled for from the Indian point of view 35.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted delivery , on a good length and on off , Vijay defends it well to the off-side 34.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , pitched up and outside off , Pujara taps it straight to the fielder at point 34.5 Johnson to Pujara , FOUR , good length ball close to off , Pujara plays at it , the ball runs between slip cordon and gully , more off a controlled outside edge to the third man fence Oh hello ! Shami has his pads on . 34.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , very full and pushed far too across off to draw a stroke from Pujara 34.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , on a length and on middle , Pujara blocks it to the right of the bowler 34.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , good length ball around off , Pujara defends it to short cover. Vijay was looking for a quick single , but has to retreat 34.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , full and just outside off , left alone by Pujara 33.6 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , Vijay just about gets enough bat on the sweep and plays it fine for a couple of runs. And that brings up Vijay 's fourth 50-plus score of the series. He raises his bat and salutes the cheers. India will want him to kick on though 33.5 Lyon to Pujara , 3 runs , shortish and bounces over the stumps , Pujara makes a bit of room and cuts it towards sweeper cover. A stiff-looking Harris chases the ball , slides and tags it back to Marsh 33.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tossed up on off , Pujara pokes it out in front of point 33.3 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay takes it from outside off and sweeps it to fine leg 33.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted and full on off , forward and blocked to the left of the bowler 33.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , pushed through outside off , Vijay bends down and misses the sweep as he is hit on the pad. Vijay may have got an inside-edge also I guess. Ump Dharma is unmoved 32.6 Johnson to Pujara , no run , fraction back of a length and attacking the stumps , Pujara blocks it back to Johnson The crowd keep clapping , bang on the ad boards. They are having a party at the MCG . 32.5 Johnson to Pujara , no run , back of a length and on off , tapped to square point now 32.4 Johnson to Pujara , no run , on a length and close to off , Pujara dabs it towards backward point 32.3 Johnson to Pujara , no run , straighter in line at 142kph , Mitch hits the bat hard. Pujara defends it back to the bowler 32.2 Johnson to Pujara , no run , pitched up and wide outside off , Pujara does not bother with it 32.1 Johnson to Pujara , no run , dug in short and outside off , Pujara drops his gloves and sways away from the line of it 31.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , nicely floated up on off , Vijay defends it down the pitch , it came more off the inside part of the bat 31.5 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , tucked to square leg from an off stump line. He gets off strike 31.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Lyon gets some quick turn on off , Pujara defends it with his bat-pad close together 31.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , flatter and on off , Pujara blocks it in front of short leg 31.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Lyon gives this some air on off , Pujara lunges forward in defence 31.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , pushed wide outside off , Pujara pads it away 51,566 is the official attendance at the 'G today . 30.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , banged in short again , rears up on off , Vijay fends it safely after taking his bottom hand off the bat handle 30.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , shortish and outside off , Vijay thought about wafting at it before drawing his bat inside the line 30.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , hurled on a length and outside off , Vijay wo n't play at those 30.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , banged in short and rises on off , Vijay blocks it to the left of the bowler 30.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , similar ball , in fact this one is wider , Vijay shoulders arms 30.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , back of a length and slanting away outside off , Vijay lifts his bat and lets it go Mitchell Johnson [ 5.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack Vijay and Pujara sip some drinks and punch gloves . 29.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , full and fired at the stumps , Vijay eases a drive down to long-on 29.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay uses his feet , Lyon pulls his length back. The ball lobs off the thigh pad to Burns at short leg. The muffled appeal is turned down by the umpire 29.4 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , Lyon gives this more air on middle , Vijay goes down on his knees and sweeps it to fine leg 29.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , tossed up on middle , Vijay is happy blocking it 29.2 Lyon to Pujara , 3 runs , Pujara uses his feet , gets a very full ball and jams out a drive past a diving cover. Three is the result 29.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , nicely tossed up and spins in to hit Pujara high on the pad. Some extra bounce to go with that as well 28.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , pitched up and around off , Vijay taps it to mid-off and half-waves his bat to Pujara 28.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Hazlewood goes very short , bangs in a bumper. Vijay just sits under it 28.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , slightly back of a length and hurries in on off , Vijay manages to keep it out. Gets an inside-edge to the leg-side 28.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , back of a length and around off , Vijay dabs it to short cover 28.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , pitched up and teasing Vijay just outside off. He does not take the bait , left alone 28.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , 2 runs , on a length and on middle and leg , Vijay works it past mid-wicket. The opener also scampers back for the second. Good running between the wickets 27.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , turned past short leg. Burns actually got a hand on it and deflected it behind square on the leg-side 27.5 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , flatter on off , Pujara uses his feet , whips it to mid-on and takes a quick single. The fielder throws the stumps down with a direct hit but Pujara was in 27.4 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , pushed through quicker and outside off , dabbed towards point 27.3 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , on middle and leg , nudged towards backward square leg for a single 27.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , tossed up on the stumps , blocked back to the bowler 27.1 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , clipped down to long on for a single 26.6 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , blocked in front of point with an open face 26.5 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , dropped ? Yes , it carried to Haddin and he puts down a simple catch. This was fullish and probing away close to off , Pujara pokes and gets an outside edge. Haddin attempts the catch with one glove. It pops in and pops out. Haydos on air reckons that the keeper may have been wrong footed there. That 's a lucky reprieve for Pujara 26.4 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , back of a length and sliding across off , Pujara flashes at it and gets beaten. Loose shot from Pujara 26.3 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , dug in shortish and on off , Pujara gets behind the line and fends it back to the bowler 26.2 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , similar length on middle , Pujara defends it to the leg-side 26.1 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , good length ball on off , Pujara gets forward and solidly blocks it back to the bowler 25.6 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , Pujara takes a couple of paces forward and tickles it to fine leg 25.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , fired flatter and quicker around off , Pujara punches it to mid-on , ca n't beat the fielder 25.4 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay plays another sweep , this one is directed to deep backward square leg 25.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , slower through the air on off , Vijay is forward to keep it out 25.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , pushed through on off , Vijay sweeps and hits it straight to the fielder at short leg , who deflects it to mid-wicket 25.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , pushed through at 90kph , Vijay defends it to the leg-side 24.6 Hazlewood to Pujara , 2 runs , fuller and comes in on middle and leg , tucked to deep mid wicket for a couple of runs 24.5 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , short of length and outside off , Pujara plays away from the body. But does so with soft hands , guiding it to gully. Lyon there puts in a diving save 24.4 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , back of a length and on off , Pujara gets on top of the bounce and blocks it down the pitch 24.3 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , blocked towards point from the crease 24.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , 3 runs , good length ball outside off , Vijay eases forward and drives it towards sweeper cover. The ball is hunted down before the rope. Vijay earns three 24.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Hazlewood continues with his examination outside off , Vijay lets it pass 23.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , pushed through on off , Vijay is quick to bend down and sweep it down to fine leg 23.5 Lyon to Pujara , 1 run , Pujara allows the ball to come to him before running it behind point via an open face 23.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Lyon gives this more air and loop on the stumps , Pujara defends it back to the bowler 23.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , flat and quick on off , Pujara takes a step out and squeezes it out to mid-on 23.2 Lyon to Pujara , no run , slid across off , Pujara pads it away past slip 23.1 Lyon to Pujara , no run , pushed through on off , turned to short leg. Well stopped by Burns 22.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Hazlewood teases Vijay outside off. And that 's the fifth leave of the over 22.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , outside off again , Vijay lifts his bat and lets it go 22.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Hazlewood sustains the inward shape from outside off. However , it does not do much to take off. Wondering about Vijay 's reply ? No reply 22.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , very full and hurled in at the base of off , jammed out in front of cover 22.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , full and wide outside off , Vijay shoulders arms again 22.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , back of a length , zips in late and climbs over off. That hardly puts off Vijay , who offers another leave 21.6 Lyon to Pujara , no run , looped up nicely , Pujara smothers it in front of the bowler 21.5 Lyon to Pujara , no run , Pujara drags his length back on middle and leg , defended to short leg. Burns makes a good stop there 21.4 Lyon to Pujara , no run , slower through the air , with a hint of turn. Pujara defends it watchfully 21.3 Lyon to Pujara , no run , flighted delivery on off , Pujara lunges forward and defensively pushes it back to Lyon 21.2 Lyon to Pujara , FOUR , pushed through fuller outside off , Pujara plays a good cover-drive. The ball has enough legs to reach the fence Lyon has a slip in place . 21.1 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay takes it from outside off and wrists it behind square on the leg-side Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 20.6 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , short of length and outside off , Pujara drops his wrists and allows it through to Haddin 20.5 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , back of a length and around off again , defended to cover 20.4 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , Hazlewood pulls his length back , blocked towards mid-on 20.3 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , Hazlewood errs too straight , Burns at square leg dives to his right and makes amends for it , intercepting Pujara 's well-timed flick 20.2 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , shortish and on off , Pujara hangs back and defends it to cover 20.1 Hazlewood to Pujara , no run , slightly back of a length and on off , Pujara hops across and drops it dead on the leg-side Hazlewood takes over from Ryano . Josh Hazlewood [ 4.0-1-12-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Watson to Vijay , no run , Watson plugs away outside off , Vijay is content to let these go 19.5 Watson to Vijay , no run , pitched up and teasing Vijay in the channel outside off. The batsman is not interested at all 19.4 Watson to Vijay , no run , fullish and on the fourth stump line , defended back to the bowler 19.3 Watson to Vijay , no run , Vijay looks for a drop-and-run single to cover , but decides against it at the last moment 19.2 Watson to Vijay , FOUR , good length ball just outside off , this was not a bad ball. Vijay leans forward and caresses the drive past cover. Burns chases and only escorts the ball to the fence. The timing and balance was exquisite from Vijay 19.1 Watson to Vijay , no run , back of a length and just a shade outside off , Vijay comes forward and fends it to short cover. Solidly blocked again 18.6 R Harris to Pujara , no run , another bouncer outside off , Pujara arches his back and evades it 18.5 R Harris to Pujara , no run , nice and full on off , Pujara defends it in front of short cover 18.4 R Harris to Pujara , no run , banged in short and whizzes past the nose of Pujara , who does well to half sway away from the line 18.3 R Harris to Pujara , no run , angling in on middle , Pujara gets behind the line and taps it to mid-on 18.2 R Harris to Pujara , no run , fuller and around off , Pujara stays in the crease and defends it down the track 18.1 R Harris to Pujara , no run , back of a length and top-of-off line , blocked to short cover 17.6 Watson to Vijay , no run , this one kicks up from a length outside off , shapes away as well. Nice carry through to Haddin after Vijay lets it pass 17.5 Watson to Vijay , no run , very very close to the off pole. But Vijay shows good judgement and shoulders arms 17.4 Watson to Vijay , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Vijay stands up and punches it towards cover-point 17.3 Watson to Vijay , no run , good length ball on off , Vijay comes forward and blocks it to short cover 17.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , pitched up further in the channel just outside off , left alone 17.1 Watson to Pujara , 1 run , tight delivery from Watson. Fuller and coming in on off , Pujara pushes and gets an inside-edge that sneaks away fine Time for a drink. India started well with both Vijay and Dhawan looking positive. The pair added 50-runs for the first wicket before the latter threw his wicket. Everyone expected Harris to be the bowler to watch out for and the big man has lived upto it. India will ideally want these two to remain unbeaten till end of day . 16.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , good length ball just outside off , Vijay does not bother with it 16.5 R Harris to Pujara , 1 run , slants back in from a fuller length , Pujara comes forward and defends off the inside half to the right of mid-on. Harris has his hands on his head , he knew how close he was there of trapping Pujara in front of the stumps 16.4 R Harris to Vijay , 1 run , fuller on off and middle , Vijay works it towards mid-on and calls Pujara for a brisk single , good response from Che 16.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , short of length on off , Vijay hangs back and blocks it to the off-side 16.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , a beauty ! Vijay was beaten neck and crop. Back of a length and straightens a touch , Vijay looks to defend off the back foot , but the ball beats the outside edge 16.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , shortish and around off , Vijay goes back and across , defends it to cover 15.6 Watson to Pujara , no run , bit of extra bounce on that occasion , Pujara does well to play it with soft hands in front of cover , the ball hit the splice of the bat 15.5 Watson to Pujara , no run , drags the length back on middle , Pujara defends off the inside part to mid-wicket 15.4 Watson to Vijay , 1 run , fuller and on off , Vijay wrists it wide of mid-on for a quick single 15.3 Watson to Vijay , no run , short of length on off , Vijay blocks solidly off the back foot 15.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , back of a length around off , Vijay knocks it off the back foot to cover 15.1 Watson to Vijay , no run , wicket-to-wicket from Watto , Vijay hangs back and defends it down the wicket 14.6 R Harris to Pujara , no run , lifter on leg-stump , Pujara sinks under it and allows the ball to go through to Haddin 14.5 R Harris to Pujara , no run , on a length and on off-stump , Pujara presses forward and defends it to mid-on 14.4 R Harris to Pujara , 2 runs , tailing into the batsman , Pujara gets his front leg out of the way and flicks it through mid-wicket for a brace Three slips , a gully and short leg in place for the new batsman 14.3 R Harris to Pujara , no run , good length ball outside off , Pujara lifts his bat and lets it go Cheteshwar Pujara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 14.2 R Harris to Dhawan , out Caught by S Smith ! ! Dhawan throws away yet another start. It was a good low catch from the Australian skipper. Slightly back of a length and around off , Dhawan pokes at it feebly , the ball takes the outside edge and goes low to second slip , Smith bends down and snaffles it inches from the ground. Dhawan c S Smith b R Harris 28 ( 51 ) [ 4s-3 ] R Harris to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.1 R Harris to Vijay , 3 runs , pitched up outside off , Vijay comes forward and drives it through cover , he just pushed it and the ball went almost went to the boundary 13.6 Watson to Dhawan , FOUR , poor delivery to end the over , short and plenty of width on offer , Dhawan flashes the cut behind point and the ball races away to the boundary. That brings up the 50-run stand. Second time in two games that the opening pair has added 50-plus 13.5 Watson to Dhawan , no run , short and down leg , left alone 13.4 Watson to Dhawan , no run , short of length on off , Dhawan gets behind the line and defends it back to Watson 13.3 Watson to Dhawan , no run , on a length outside off , Dhawan lifts his bat and lets it go 13.2 Watson to Dhawan , FOUR , fantastic shot ! It was tad overpitched and Dhawan pounced on it. He leans into the drive and creams past a diving cover fielder , the sweet timing takes the ball to the fence 13.1 Watson to Dhawan , no run , good length on off , Dhawan presses it to short cover after coming forward Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 12.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , bumper to finish off a testing over , Vijay ducks under it and lets the ball sail over him 12.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , nips back in from short of length , Vijay ekes out an inside edge onto the thigh pad , the ball rolls behind square , Burns dives and keeps Vijay at the striker 's end 12.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish and on off , Vijay turns it gently to mid-on 12.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , " catch " were the shouts from the close in fielders. Tails back in from a length , Vijay misses the flick and the ball lobs off the pad and drops in front of Harris. No bat or glove involved Peter Siddle is the substitute on for Warner . 12.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , on a length close to off , Vijay comes forward and blocks solidly to mid-off 12.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish and on off , Vijay presses forward and defends it to cover 11.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Dhawan comes forward and shoulders arms 11.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , bumper on off , Dhawan arches back , drops his gloves and lets it go through 11.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , good length ball on off , Dhawan comes on the front foot and defends well 11.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , on a length in the corridor of uncertainty , Dhawan moves forward and does not go hard at the ball , it takes the outside edge and goes towards third slip , Marsh dives to his left and stops it 11.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , connects with the clip this time , too straight from Hazlewood , Vijay tucks it to fine leg 11.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Vijay misses out on his favourite shot , full and angling in , Vijay leans forward and inside edges the flick onto the pads , the ball rolls in front of cover 10.6 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , Harris probes in the channel around off , Dhawan covers his stumps and shoulders arms 10.5 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , back of a length outside off , Dhawan lets it be 10.4 R Harris to Vijay , 3 runs , fullish and close to off , Vijay allows the ball to come and push-drives it through cover , the timing on that lets him come back for the third 10.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , that is a Harris special ! Full and straightens enough , Vijay is drawn into the drive , his feet go nowhere as the ball fizzes past the outside edge. Oohs and aahs from the close in fielders 10.2 R Harris to Dhawan , 1 run , on a length close to off , Dhawan drops it towards cover and sets off for a quick single , Vijay responds in kind Dhawan backs away as Harris comes onto bowl. There was some movement behind the bowler. He immediately apologizes to Harris . 10.1 R Harris to Vijay , 1 run , too straight from Harris , Vijay works it wide of mid-on and gets to the other end Ryan Harris [ 2.0-1-7-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , back of a length outside off , Dhawan plays inside the line and lets it go 9.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , shortens the length close to off , Dhawan stands up and drops it dead to the off-side 9.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , again , in the area just outside off , Dhawan covers the line and lets it pass 9.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , angled across the left-hander , Dhawan has nothing to do with it as he shoulders arms 9.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of length on off , Dhawan goes back and knocks it to mid-off 9.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , Dhawan plays an extended forward defence to point 8.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , the tempter from Johnson , full and draws the batsman into the drive , Vijay 's feet go nowhere as he plays away from the body and is beaten comprehensively 8.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , back of a length outside off , Vijay watches it settle into Haddin 's mitts 8.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , dug in halfway down the wicket , Vijay arches back and lets it go through to Haddin 8.3 Johnson to Dhawan , 3 runs , short and just outside off , Dhawan made the room for himself by staying leg-side of the ball , cuts it through point for three 8.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , full and hint of inward movement , Dhawan brings his bat down and jams it to mid-on 8.1 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , back of a length on leg-stump , Vijay tucks it to the vacant mid-wicket region 7.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , shortens the length outside off , Dhawan watches it go past him 7.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 4 runs , they run four ! Pitched up outside off , Dhawan drives it through the line past a diving point fielder , by the time Lyon chased the ball and threw it back , the duo had run four 7.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of length on middle , Dhawan gets behind the line and blocks it to the left of Hazlewood 7.3 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , on a length close to off , Dhawan inches forward and defends off the outside half to point 7.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 7.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , 3 runs , fullish and just outside off , Vijay presses forward and drives it to the left of mid-off , the long boundaries does not allow the ball to reach the fence Warner has not taken the field as he was hit on the forearm during practise . 6.6 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , good length ball on off , Dhawan defends with the bat and pad close together 6.5 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan misses out on a scoring opportunity , drifted onto the pads , Dhawan ca n't lay bat on the glance and the ball goes off the pad to Haddin 6.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , bumper on off , Dhawan sways back and gets away from the line of the delivery , he also dropped his wrist 6.3 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , shortens the length on leg-stump , Vijay tucks it to the left of short leg and sets off 6.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , back of a length just outside off , Vijay is not interested in playing that 6.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , well outside off , left alone 5.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , bouncer aimed at the batsman , Dhawan does well to sit down , arch back and let it go through to Haddin. He has a smile soon after he played that 5.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , fuller and just outside off , Dhawan inches forward and drives it to mid-off , straight to the fielder 5.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , shortens the length outside off , Dhawan lifts his bat and lets it go 5.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , back of a length on the leg-stump , Vijay gets an inside edge onto the thigh pad , the ball rolls behind square and Dhawan calls him for a quick single 5.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 3 runs , nicely played by Dhawan , leans into the drive and caresses it through cover , he did n't try to overhit , just relied on timing. The duo take three 5.1 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short and too far outside off , left alone Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 4.6 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , drags the length back slightly , Vijay plays it with loose bottom hands , the ball runs off the thickish outer half through the slip cordon , Johnson 's pace takes it to the fence 4.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , a beauty ! Johnson probes away in the corridor around off , Vijay comes forward and pokes at it , the ball whizzes past the outside edge. He should have left that alone 4.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , good length ball just outside off , Vijay shoulders arms 4.3 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , fabulous shot ! It was a VVS Laxman like flick. Full and on the stumps , Vijay uses his supple wrist and clips it beautifully through square leg to pick up his second boundary 4.2 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , sliding onto the pads , Dhawan helps it on its way to fine leg with a glance 4.1 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , shortish and on off , Dhawan hangs back and knocks it in front of point , thinks about the single but aborts it after taking a couple of steps 3.6 R Harris to Dhawan , 1 run , almost dragged on ! Dhawan brings his bat down in an angle , the ball squirts off the inside edge to backward square leg. The back of a length delivery straightened a bit 3.5 R Harris to Dhawan , 2 runs , fuller and close to off , Dhawan drives it without much timing past mid-off , it is good enough for a couple 3.4 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , back of a length slanted across Dhawan , left alone 3.3 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , good length ball , holds its line around off , Dhawan comes on the front foot and defends well 3.2 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , shortish and just outside off , Dhawan hoists his bat up and lets it pass 3.1 R Harris to Dhawan , FOUR , superb shot ! That should get him going. Overpitched outside off , Dhawan gets a good stride forward and creams the drive through the vacant cover region , the timing takes it to the fence 2.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , good length ball on off , Vijay moves forward and pushes it to mid-off 2.5 Johnson to Vijay , no run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Vijay was surprised by the extra bounce , he takes his bottom hand of the bat and fends it to the left of short leg. Sunil Gavaskar is impressed with the way Vijay played that 2.4 Johnson to Vijay , no run , too full and wide outside off , Vijay thought about going after it , but decides against it 2.3 Johnson to Vijay , no run , on a length well wide of off , Vijay ignores it 2.2 Johnson to Vijay , FOUR , lovely shot ! It was pitched up around off , Vijay comes half-forward and drives it past Johnson , it did n't come out off the middle , but the timing on that was excellent as it raced away to the boundary 2.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fullish and outside off , Vijay leans forward , opens the bat face and drives it to point Mitchell Marsh has been ruled out of the Sydney Test. He pulled his hamstring during the Gabba Test and a scan today confirmed that he is going to miss the fourth game of the series as well . 1.6 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , short of length on off , Dhawan camps on the back foot and bunts it to point 1.5 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , good length ball angled across the left-hander , who shoulders arms 1.4 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , shortens the length on off , Dhawan brings his bat down at an angle and jams it onto the pads , the ball dribbles towards gully 1.3 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , in the channel around off , Dhawan covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go. A good confident leave from the Delhi opener 1.2 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Dhawan has nothing to do with it 1.1 R Harris to Dhawan , no run , short of length on middle , Dhawan hangs back and defends it to mid-off Ryan Harris , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Johnson to Vijay , no run , fuller and close to off , Vijay drives off the inside half back down the wicket , Johnson deflects it onto the stumps but Dhawan was always in 0.5 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , excellent running to open his account , drops it with soft hands towards point and sets off for a quick single 0.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on off and middle , Dhawan tucks it to the man at short leg 0.3 Johnson to Vijay , 1 run , straightens a touch on middle , Vijay clips it off the inside part to fine leg and gets off the mark 0.2 Johnson to Vijay , no run , short of length outside off , Vijay lets it go and the ball goes on the bounce to Haddin. Two deliveries almost in the same area and two different kind of carry. Shows you how the pitch is playing A short leg is also in place 0.1 Johnson to Vijay , no run , right on the money is Johnson , back of a length on top of off-stump , Vijay trusts the bounce on the wicket and shoulders arms. That is a brave leave and only an in-form batsman would have been able to judge that Vijay and Dhawan are at the crease. Vijay is on strike. Johnson will open the attack The Indian openers stride out to the middle. Vijay will take first strike. He is up against Mitch Johnson. Three slips and a gully to assist the left-arm quick. . The Indian batsmen have around 37 overs to survive. A lot will depend upon Vijay , who has been the in-form batsman for the visitors. If India have to reach anywhere close to the Australian total , Vijay along with Dhawan should give them a good start. Will they be able to do that ? We 'll find out soon. Sit back as another enthralling session of Test cricket is on the way . While Ashwin was quite decent at one end , the three-pronged pace attack was abysmal. Perhaps , things could have panned out differently had they pitched the ball up further. A huge task beckons the Indian batsmen. Can the batsmen stand up and prevent India from sliding to their fifth successive overseas series loss ? Do join us after the tea break to see how this Test goes forward . Later on , Ryan Harris joined the party , crashing 74 in a 106-run stand with his captain. In the interim , Johnson starred in a cameo. The ending could have been rosier had Smith got to his maiden double ton. However , it hardly takes sheen off his remarkable innings and Australia are very much in the box seat . Another Smith special and Australia have surged to 530. He was ably assisted by the lower-order batsmen as India were shot to pieces. The day began with India 's short ball ploy backfiring badly - a strategy that was likened to schoolyard cricket by Haydos on air. Haddin took on the bouncer and played himself into form with a brisk fifty . 142.3 U Yadav to S Smith , out Bowled ! ! No double ton for Smith. He walks off to a standing ovation. India have finally bowled out the hosts for 530. This was a good length ball , Smith shuffles far too across off , but does not meet with the scoop. The ball hits the top of middle. On another day , Smith would have made good connection on that. Selfless batting from the New South Wales sensation. S Smith b U Yadav 192 ( 305 ) [ 4s-15 6s-2 ] U Yadav to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 142.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , short of length on middle , Smith flat-bats a pull to long-on. Does not take the single again 142.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball outside leg , following Smith , who was backing away. Lofted inside-out , the ball lands in front of long-off. The Aussie captain declines the single on offer Josh Hazlewood , left handed bat , comes to the crease 141.6 Shami to Lyon , out Bowled ! ! That 's the reward you get when you invest in a much fuller length. Lyon has to go for 11. This was fast and full , Lyon goes for an almighty swing , loses his shape and misses his shot. The ball hits the leg stump. Can Hazlewood hang in there and help Smith to his maiden 200 ? If the last game is anything to go by , he can bat. Lyon b Shami 11 ( 15 ) [ 4s-2 ] Shami to Lyon , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 141.5 Shami to Lyon , FOUR , Are India still persisting with the short ball ploy ? Banged in outside leg , Lyon moves back and pulls it in a controlled fashion , beating fine leg 141.4 Shami to Lyon , no run , outside leg as Lyon aims to make room. Lyon swings but meets only thin air 141.3 Shami to Lyon , FOUR , back of a length and outside off , Lyon joins the party , bending his knee and lifting it over cover 141.2 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , short of length on the leg stump , Smith steps out , ends up forehanding it towards deep square leg. Smith was like he was swatting a fly 141.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length and on middle , Smith backs away and flashes it to sweeper cover. Smith denies the single Mohammed Shami [ 28.0-4-129-3 ] is back into the attack 140.6 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Smith shuffles across and nudges it to square leg. Smart work from Smith , he keeps strike 140.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , banged in short on middle and leg , cramping Smith for room. The Aussie captain awkwardly fends it back to Yadav 140.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , lowish full toss on off , Smith steps away and steers it down to third man for a brace. He moves to 190 140.3 U Yadav to Lyon , 3 runs , shortish and on middle , Lyon makes room and slices it over cover. Umesh gathers the throw and deflects the bails off , but a diving Lyon was comfortably in 140.2 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , back of a length and outside off , Lyon plays with soft hands and guides it to gully , on the bounce 140.1 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , good length delivery close to off , Lyon gets forward and drives it to the man at mid-off 139.6 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , Smith is just toying with Ashwin here. This was pushed through on off , Smith reverse sweeps it and finds the third man fence. So , make that three fours of that over 139.5 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , Smith comes down the track , manufactures a full toss outside off and forces it to the sweeper cover fence 139.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , darted down leg , Smith looks to help it away but misses 139.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith uses his feet and drills it back at the bowler , Ashwin gets a hand onto the ball , but it popped out , for it was struck with immense power. Smith had the ump ducking for cover as well 139.2 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , Smith backs away outside leg , Ashwin shortens his length and follows Smith , who just powers it past the outstretched hands of Ashwin 139.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flatter on middle , Smith defends it back to the bowler I assume that Steve Smith has set the declaration watch on . 138.6 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , back of a length and bounces over the slashing blade of Lyon. Dhoni takes it cleanly 138.5 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , good length ball on off , Lyon gets forward and push-drives it back to the bowler 138.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , fullish and on off , Smith shuffles across and milks it behind square leg for a single 138.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , on a good length and outside off , Smith throws his bat at it but makes no contact with the ball 138.2 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Smith backs away , then reaches out and carves it away to the deep backward point boundary to raise the 500 of the innings 138.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , on a length and outside off , Smith makes room and lofts it over cover. Che runs across from deep extra cover , but the ball keeps going over him. He just about gets a fingertip on the ball and parries it away. Only a harsh man would call that a drop By the way , 74 is Harris ' career-best Test score . 137.6 Ashwin to Lyon , no run , pushed through on the leg stump , Lyon misses the flick and is rapped on the pads. Definitely going down leg 137.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith makes room again , Ashwin follows him , the batsman still manages to drive it forcefully to long-on 137.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed through quicker , defended back to the bowler 137.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith uses his feet , Ash is aware of it as he darts it flat on the leg stump , jammed out to the leg-side 137.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , straighter in line , blocked back to the bowler 137.1 Ashwin to S Smith , SIX , massive ! It keeps getting better for Smith. He now reaches his career-best Test score. He dances down the track , meets the pitch of this ball and launches it high and over long-on 136.6 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , outside off , Lyon lets it be. 'That 's the over ' says the ump 136.5 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , good length ball on off , Lyon comes forward and blocks it to cover 136.4 U Yadav to Lyon , no run , back of a length and skids through outside off , Lyon just allows it through to Dhoni 136.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , on a length and on off , dabbed wide of cover for a single 136.2 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , Smith shuffles across and plays a half pull/flick to deep backward square. The result is a brace 136.1 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , Steve Smith welcomes Yadav back into the attack and how ! Back of a length , top-of-off line , Smith clears his front leg and smashes it to the cow corner boundary Umesh Yadav [ 29.0-3-110-2 ] is back into the attack 135.6 Ashwin to Lyon , no run , Ashwin gives this more air outside off , Lyon is halfway forward as he presses it to cover 135.5 Ashwin to Lyon , no run , flat and on middle , Lyon jams it back to Ashwin Nathan Lyon , right handed bat , comes to the crease 135.4 Ashwin to R Harris , out Lbw ! ! Harris ' fun is over , Ashwin has his third wicket. This was pushed through and straighter on middle , Harris sets up for a sweep , but misses it completely as he is struck on the pad. The umpire raises his finger to give Harris the marching orders. R Harris lbw b Ashwin 74 ( 88 ) [ 4s-8 6s-1 ] Ashwin to R Harris , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 135.3 Ashwin to R Harris , SIX , tonked ! Harris has a big smile on his face , the crowd enjoyed that blow as well. Smith walks up to Ryano and shakes his glove. Pushed through around off , Harris slogs it high and over long-on for a maximum 135.2 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , milked to square leg 135.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , flat on middle , Smith steps out and drills it hard to long-off. That single brings up the 100 of the stand as well 134.6 Ishant to R Harris , no run , pitched up and targetting the off stump , Harris inches forward and defends it back to Ishant 134.5 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , on a length and outside off , some extra bounce and away movement to go with it , Smith adjusts and guides it backward of point 134.4 Ishant to R Harris , 1 run , similar length , this time a bit wider , Harris looks to cut it away , but mistimes it wide of cover. However , it is good enough to tick over the strike 134.3 Ishant to R Harris , 2 runs , back of a length and on the fourth stump , Harris hangs back and punches it in the gap at cover for a couple of runs 134.2 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , pitched up and just outside off , Smith opens the face of the bat and steers it towards third man 134.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , on a length and outside off , Smith backs away , swings and misses 133.6 Ashwin to R Harris , 2 runs , fired down leg again , Harris tickles it fine , Ishant at short fine , dives and makes a half stop , keeping it down to two 133.5 Ashwin to R Harris , FOUR , looks like Harris has cut loose. Quicker and around leg stump , Harris bends down and nails the slog sweep to the fine leg boundary. Dhoni is not a happy captain 133.4 Ashwin to R Harris , 2 runs , pushed through quicker on middle , Harris backs away and drills a drive to deep extra cover , gets a couple 133.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , milked behind square on the leg-side for a single 133.2 Ashwin to R Harris , 3 runs , edged and safe ! This was looped up just outside off , Harris pushes at it with his feet in cement , the outside edge is found , but goes wide of reach of a diving first slip 133.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Smith uses his feet and plays a whippy drive to long-on 132.6 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , Steve Smith - you champion ! He raises his bat and salutes the cheers. Another milestone ticked - 150 * . This was banged in short and climbs just outside off , Smith pulls it to the leg-side 132.5 Ishant to R Harris , 1 run , good length ball on off , Harris stays in the crease , drops it in front of short cover and sets off. Smith responded in kind as well. The fielder has a shy at the stumps at the bowler 's end but misses 132.4 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , fullish and on off , Smith picks it from there and wrists it to deep square leg for a single 132.3 Ishant to R Harris , 1 run , much fuller and straighter , Harris atttempts a flick , gets an inside edge that trickles down to fine leg 132.2 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and close to off , Smith initially shaped up for a cut , but has to settle with a chop in front of point 132.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shortish and outside off , does not rise much though. Not much pace on that either - 129kph - Smith sways away and lets it go through to Dhoni The drink would have tasted sweeter for Harris. Meanwhile , Smith is on 147. Ishant will resume after the break . Time for a drinks break. The story remains the same for India. They have no clue as to how to wrap up the tail. Harris also has brought up his fifty with Smith playing second fiddle. India are just going through the motions and waiting for a declaration. When will that come ? We 'll find out how these two go about in the next one hour . 131.6 Ashwin to R Harris , 2 runs , carrom ball on leg-stump , Harris tickles it fine and scampers back for the second 131.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , worked away to deep square leg for a single 131.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith goes for the reverse sweep , he does not connect as the ball hits him on the body 131.3 Ashwin to R Harris , 1 run , there it is ! Harris joins the party , brings up his 3rd Test fifty. He pumps his fists as he completes the single. Smith walks up to him and congratulates him. Drifted onto the pads , Harris works it to backward square leg 131.2 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , straighter one on middle and leg , Smith nudges it to mid-wicket 131.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 2 runs , flighted on off , Smith shimmies down the track and drills the drive straight down the ground , Umesh gets across from long-off , dives and saves two Ashwin comes round the sticks 130.6 Ishant to R Harris , no run , the wait continues for Harris , knocks the back of a length delivery to cover 130.5 Ishant to R Harris , no run , good length ball on off , Harris pushes it to mid-off and searches for a single which is not there 130.4 Ishant to R Harris , no run , fullish and outside off , Harris guides it with an open face to backward point 130.3 Ishant to R Harris , leg byes , 2 runs , Harris has to wait for his fifty , sliding onto the legs , Harris ca n't get bat on the glance , the ball dribbles off the pad to fine leg 130.2 Ishant to R Harris , no run , delivers from wide of the crease , Harris stays in the crease and turns it to short mid-wicket 130.1 Ishant to R Harris , no run , short of length on off , Harris camps on the back foot and taps it to point 129.6 Ashwin to R Harris , 1 run , slider on the pads , Harris nudges it to backward square leg 129.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , slower and on off , Harris smothers it with a forward defence 129.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , flighted around off , Harris jams it to the off-side rather awkwardly 129.3 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , turns it gently to short mid-wicket 129.2 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , quicker and on off , Harris comes slightly forward and defends 129.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 3 runs , lovely drive , gets right to the pitch of the ball and caresses the drive past diving cover , Umesh does not pick up the ball cleanly and allows the batsmen to take three 128.6 Ishant to R Harris , no run , back of a length on off , Harris bunts it to point and shouts a loud " no " for the single 128.5 Ishant to R Harris , no run , nips back in from short of length , Harris stays rooted to the crease and is hit high on the pad 128.4 Ishant to R Harris , 2 runs , dug in halfway down the wicket , Harris top-edges the pull to fine leg , the fielder was square and the batsmen pick up two. A conventional fine leg would have gobbled it up 128.3 Ishant to R Harris , no run , back of a length around off , Harris goes for the pull and ca n't connect , he was cramped for room there and the ball was not too far away from the off-pole 128.2 Ishant to R Harris , no run , well directed bumper , Harris ducks under it and lets it go 128.1 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , good length ball outside off , Smith dabs it to deep backward point Ishant Sharma [ 28.0-6-91-0 ] is back into the attack 127.6 Ashwin to R Harris , FOUR , third boundary of the over and the third cut of the over. Quicker delivery just outside off , Harris stays leg-side of the ball and late cuts it behind point , Ishant accompanies the ball to the fence 127.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , tossed up on off , Harris presses forward and knocks it point Ashwin goes round the wicket 127.4 Ashwin to R Harris , FOUR , pushed through outside off , Harris waits for it and back cuts it wide of the slip fielder , the pace on the ball took it to the third man fence 127.3 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , flighted on off , Harris comes half-forward and blocks 127.2 Ashwin to R Harris , FOUR , half tracker outside off and Harris latches onto it , goes deep in the crease and cuts it past a diving cover , Umesh gives chase in vain 127.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , comes down the track and eases it to long-on 126.6 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , pulls the length back , Smith tucks it to backward square leg 126.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , shapes back in on off , Smith shuffles across and pushes it to mid-on 126.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , fullish and just outside off , Smith drives it towards cover , where Rahul makes a good stop 126.3 Shami to R Harris , 1 run , back of a length close to off , Harris glides it to backward point 126.2 Shami to R Harris , FOUR , superb shot ! The ball goes back in the same direction in which it came. Half volley on off , Harris presents a straight bat and drives it down the ground for a boundary 126.1 Shami to R Harris , no run , nip-backer from short of length , Harris is cramped for room , he fails to get his bat down in time and the ball pings him in the mid-riff 125.6 Ashwin to R Harris , 1 run , floated on off and middle , nurdled away behind square leg for a single 125.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up on off , Smith eases the drive down to long-off 125.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , hangs back and punches it to short mid-wicket 125.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , drops it in front of cover , takes a step out of the crease and says " no " to the single 125.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , another solid forward defence from the Australian captain 125.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted on off and middle , Smith dead-bats it down the wicket 124.6 Shami to R Harris , no run , pitched up outside off , Harris drills the drive straight to mid-off , either side of the fielder and it would have resulted in another boundary 124.5 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , easily done , opens the face of the bat and steers it to deep backward point 124.4 Shami to R Harris , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Harris dabs it behind square and sets off for a sharp run 124.3 Shami to R Harris , no run , back of a length around off , Harris stands up and punches it to cover 124.2 Shami to R Harris , no run , hint of inward movement , maybe some reverse swing , Harris covers the line and drives it to mid-on 124.1 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , full and outside off , Smith opens the bat face and drives it to deep backward point 123.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , on the middle stump line , Harris hangs back and turns it to FSL 123.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , nice floaty delivery , Harris smothers with a forward defence 123.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , flatter and on off , Harris stays in the crease and blocks 123.3 Ashwin to R Harris , 2 runs , spinning back into the batsman , Harris nurdles it to long leg and hares back for the second 123.2 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , flighted on middle , Harris defends it to short mid-wicket 123.1 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , short and outside off , Harris cuts and finds Che at cover 122.6 Shami to R Harris , 1 run , Shami drags the length back , Harris drops it in front of point and takes off for a single. He seems to be in no trouble against this Indian bowling attack . 122.5 Shami to R Harris , FOUR , stand and deliver ! Half volley just outside off , Harris drills the drive past the diving Shami , no chance for the mid-off fielder to stop that 122.4 Shami to R Harris , no run , back of a length on off , Harris punches and picks out cover 122.3 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , short of length on off , Smith guides it to deepish point with an angled bat , they thought about the second but decide against it 122.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Smith shuffles across and bunts it back to the bowler 122.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , good length ball on off , Smith moves across and defends it to cover Mohammed Shami [ 25.0-4-114-3 ] is back into the attack 121.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , quicker delivery bowled at 95kph , Harris leans forward and blocks it to short mid-wicket 121.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , smothers the spin with a solid forward defensive 121.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , throws this up and invites Harris to go for it , he does n't take the bait as he blocks it to cover 121.3 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , turned straight into the man at FSL 121.2 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , tad short and around off , Harris makes a bit of room and cuts it to cover , calls " wait " to Smith 121.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , pushed through on off , punched down to long-off 120.6 U Yadav to R Harris , FOUR , top shot ! Short delivery without much venom , Harris stood in the crease and muscled the pull over mid-on , he did n't bother to run as he knew that went off the middle 120.5 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , goes wide of the crease and angles it in , Harris inside edges the flick onto the pads , the ball rolls away to point 120.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Smith punches it to deepish backward point 120.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , shuffles across to off and blocks it to mid-on 120.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Smith is not to the pitch as he knocks it back to Umesh 120.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length on off , Smith stands up and defends it to cover 119.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , Dhoni goes up for a caught behind appeal , nothing from Ash. Umpire Dharmasena shakes his head and says not-out. Fired down the leg-side , Harris ca n't lay bat on ball , it might have kissed the pad on the way to MS. He also took the bails off , but Harris had back foot well inside the crease 119.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , flat and on off , Harris stays in the crease and bunts it towards cover 119.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , tucks this wide of mid-wicket , he wanted the single but Smith was not too keen 119.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , floated up on off , Smith gets to the pitch and wrists it down to long-on 119.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , gives this bit more air , Smith presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 119.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith comes down the track and drives it to silly mid-on , Rahul does well to make a half stop 118.6 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Smith plays it with soft hands to point and retains strike 118.5 U Yadav to R Harris , 3 runs , short and outside off , Harris cuts it in front of point , Kohli gives chase and pulls it back just inside the rope. Another three taken 118.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , pitched up just outside off , Smith drives it towards cover , Jinks makes a fine stop but ca n't prevent the single 118.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fullish and on off , Smith prefers to hang back and block it down the pitch 118.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , another wasted delivery - down leg , left alone Just a lone slip in place. A more defensive field for Smith. . 118.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , drifted down leg , Smith shuffles across and ca n't meet with the glance 117.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , quicker and on off , Harris push-drives it back to Ashwin. Another tight over from him 117.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , flighted on off , Harris smothers it from the crease 117.4 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , stifled appeal for lbw , the umpire is unmoved. The slider on leg-stump , Harris misses the clip and is rapped on the pads , the ball was heading down leg 117.3 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , slows this up on off , Harris presents the straightest of bats and defends 117.2 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , touch quicker on middle , Harris comes slightly forward and blocks 117.1 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , straight roller , Harris bunts it from the crease towards point 116.6 U Yadav to R Harris , 1 run , too straight from Umesh , nurdled away to deep backward square for a single 116.5 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , good length ball on off , Harris presents the full face and blocks it in front of cover 116.4 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , on a length just outside off , Harris does n't bother to come in line as he drives it to mid-off 116.3 U Yadav to R Harris , 2 runs , banged in halfway down the wicket , does not rise up much , Harris swivels and pulls it behind square , Vijay gets around and keeps it to two 116.2 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , back of a length on off , Harris hangs back and punches it to the bowler 116.1 U Yadav to R Harris , no run , gentle 131kph length delivery around off , Harris is half-forward and defending to cover Umesh Yadav [ 26.0-3-97-2 ] is back into the attack 115.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flatter and on off , punched off the back foot to cover 115.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , meets the pitch of the ball and whips it straight to Jinks at short mid-wicket 115.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up just outside off , Smith leans forward to defend , the ball rolls off the inside half to short mid-wicket 115.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , turns it off the back foot to short mid-wicket 115.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , comes well forward and dead-bats it down the wicket 115.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted on off , Smith presses forward and defends to silly mid-on Once again India gather around in their customary huddle. I wonder what the talk will be in those huddles ? Ashwin to start off proceedings after lunch . India have let the game slip away for the 11th time in overseas conditions , thrice in the last three games. Haddin was brought back to form and he hurt India by scoring quickly. As has been the norm , Smith has held one end up solidly and with him still out there , Australia will know when to declare. Welcome back for the post-lunch session. Can India take the last three wickets quickly and wrap up the innings ? Or will Australia extend their dominance in the Test ? Things about to unfold in a jiffy.. . Australia are all set to take the score to whatever they need , before they think about a declaration. Whether that happens in the second session remains to be seen. We 'll be back soon after a break. Do stay tuned . As often has been the case in recent times , India ca n't seem to put two days together in a row. There was no intensity , no plan , no real strategy to get the Aussies out today. Plan A was to bowl short and hope for a wicket , but both Ishant and Shami just simply were n't good enough with the short balls. There was no pace on those ones and Haddin feasted on them. Dhoni 's captaincy - for the nth time overseas - has simply been clueless. Things just drifted away from India in a flash . Australia have scored 130 runs in that session in 25 overs. The ploy of bowling short to Haddin backfired and instead it gave the veteran his first fifty in 15 innings. Smith was serene at the other end and duly completed his third hundred in the series. Johnson came and enjoyed himself against rubbish bowling from India. Ashwin dismissed him just before lunch to give India their 2nd wicket of the session . 114.6 Shami to R Harris , no run , harmless short delivery , Harris ducks under it and it loops to Mahendra Singh Dhoni. Harris tucks his bat under his arm and off he goes. That will be lunch on day 2 114.5 Shami to R Harris , no run , Harris defends from the crease to short mid-wicket 114.4 Shami to R Harris , no run , Shami is lucky that it has n't gone to a boundary. Short and down leg , Harris gloves the pull straight to the fielder at leg slip 114.3 Shami to R Harris , no run , short and down leg , Harris ducks under that 114.2 Shami to R Harris , 2 runs , down leg and flicked to deep backward square leg , for a couple of runs This will be the last over before lunch 114.1 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , Smith opens the face of the bat and lets it run off the face down to third man 113.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , 'nice bowling ' says MS after Harris defends to the right of Ashwin 113.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , down leg , flicked to fine leg 113.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , down the track and punched to silly mid-on , who makes a good stop 113.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed to that silly mid-on fielder 113.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , defended back down the track 113.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith gets forward and defends to the very short silly mid-on fielder 112.6 Shami to R Harris , no run , Harris takes the bottom hand off after defending to short mid-wicket 112.5 Shami to R Harris , no run , Harris gets in line and defends solidly to mid-off 112.4 Shami to R Harris , 4 runs , they run four ! Harris played a nice drive on the up , the ball is chased by two men , it 's a long boundary and they take on the throw , decided to run four 112.3 Shami to R Harris , FOUR , Shami does n't seem to learn. He keeps on bowling short , hip height to Harris who gets inside the line to pull fine , beating fine leg 112.2 Shami to R Harris , no run , angling in , Harris tucks it to mid-wicket 112.1 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , drifts down leg , clipped to fine leg 111.6 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , Harris plays that late and gets it in front of slip 111.5 Ashwin to R Harris , no run , tossed up on off , Harris blocks it back to Ashwin Ryan Harris , right handed bat , comes to the crease 111.4 Ashwin to Johnson , out Stumped ! ! Johnson has given it away. Charged Ashwin and is stumped by a mile. Is n't to the pitch of that and his heave does n't connect , the ball misses the bat and bounces over the stumps , Dhoni does the rest. Johnson st Dhoni b Ashwin 28 ( 37 ) [ 4s-5 ] Ashwin to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 111.3 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , slowish and Johnson gets back to tuck to mid-wicket 111.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , drifts into middle , Johnson blocks Now bat-pad and slip in place for Johnson 111.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , comes down the track and whips this to mid-wicket Some problem with the ball. They are changing it. Dhawan and Dhoni have a chat. Slight delay 110.6 Shami to Johnson , no run , another firm drive to mid-off 110.5 Shami to Johnson , FOUR , that 's the best of the lot from Johnson. Leans forward and plays a gorgeous drive on the up past mid-off , split short cover too. Lovely smooth extension of the arms and a clean connection 110.4 Shami to Johnson , FOUR , dismissed by Johnson. Length outside off , angled across , Johnson clubs it past the diving mid-on 110.3 Shami to Johnson , no run , Johnson was lining up for the pull , but then punches to short cover 110.2 Shami to Johnson , no run , short of length and Johnson punches to point 110.1 Shami to Johnson , no run , full outside off , Johnson leans into a off-drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-off Mohammed Shami [ 22.0-4-94-3 ] is back into the attack 109.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith wanted to drive to long-on , but it came off the thick outer half back to Ashwin. Smith is n't happy for not putting it away for a single. Punches the bat in frustration 109.5 Ashwin to Johnson , 1 run , drifted in , Johnson pushed it to the left of short cover , a fumble and a single taken 109.4 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , flatter and defended to short mid-wicket 109.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives to long-on 109.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , gets forward and defends to cover 109.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith is beaten in the flight as he comes down the track , tries to work it to leg , a soft leading edge to point 108.6 Ishant to Johnson , no run , down leg and only Dhoni 's dive to his right saved four more runs. Straight off the pad and Dhoni did well 108.5 Ishant to Johnson , FOUR , Johnson is smiling and why would n't he. Harmless short delivery down leg , Johnson easily pulls it down to fine leg 108.4 Ishant to Johnson , no run , short of length on the stumps , right behind it is Johnson 108.3 Ishant to S Smith , 3 runs , Smith comes on the front foot and drives on the up into the gap at cover. Another three 108.2 Ishant to Johnson , 1 run , short ball rears up on Johnson , who mistimes the pull to deep backward square leg 108.1 Ishant to Johnson , no run , angled across Johnson , who shoulders arms 107.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , that dropped on Smith , but the batsman adjusted well to dead-bat 107.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flatter and outside off , Smith defends to mid-off 107.4 Ashwin to Johnson , 1 run , Johnson saw the flight and then heaved it to deep backward square leg 107.3 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , flatter and worked to mid-wicket Round the wicket with a slip and a short leg in 107.2 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , on leg stump , Johnson gets forward to defend 107.1 Ashwin to Johnson , no run , turned to short leg Ravichandran Ashwin [ 27.0-7-60-1 ] is back into the attack Shane Warne : 'Staggering that Ashwin has n't bowled an over at all this morning.' 106.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , left alone 106.5 Ishant to Johnson , 1 run , driven wide of mid-off , a direct hit but Johnson has made it. The throw deflected to fine leg , but they are happy with one 106.4 Ishant to Johnson , no run , back and across , before defending to mid-on 106.3 Ishant to Johnson , no run , tries to drive through mid-off , off a thick inside half back to Ishant 106.2 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , inside edge onto the pads , hesitation between Smith and Johnson as the ball goes to short cover , Smith stopped and then had to hare across. Ishant was too slow and an easy single in the end 106.1 Ishant to S Smith , 2 runs , India 's fielding is going to pieces now. Driven wide of mid-off , Kohli fires in a horrid throw over the keeper , blames the fielder for not backing up. Extra run gifted away 105.6 U Yadav to S Smith , 3 runs , Smith wanted to go over cover , he was off balance as he played it , sliced it over mid-off. They take three 105.5 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , looked like a cutter on the stumps , Johnson whips it to square leg 105.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , on the pads , tucked to deep square leg 105.3 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , another short one , Johnson swivels on the pull to deep backward square leg 105.2 U Yadav to Johnson , FOUR , now holds the pose ! Pitched up and Johnson just sweetly timed the loft straight down the ground. High elbow and all that as he displayed the shot to the photographers 105.1 U Yadav to Johnson , FOUR , Johnson has swatted the pull with one leg up in the air. Bit of Brian Charles Lara in that. It was short and Johnson put it away , beating deep fine leg to his right 104.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , Smith comes on the front foot and pushes to mid-off 104.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good delivery that one , bit of shape away and extra bounce beats Smith 's attempted iffy flash 104.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shuffles across to off and defends to mid-off 104.4 Ishant to Johnson , no ball , 1 run , Johnson nudges this into the vacant short mid-wicket area , Ishant oversteps again 104.3 Ishant to Johnson , no run , pitched up on middle , Johnson turns it to mid-on 104.2 Ishant to S Smith , 3 runs , pitched up outside off , Smith opens the face of the bat and drives to the left of the diving point. They take three 104.1 Ishant to Johnson , leg byes , 1 run , down leg and they take a leg bye as it deflects off the pad Ishant Sharma [ 25.0-6-74-0 ] is back into the attack The physio is out there and Smith takes a breather. The players too. They sip on some drinks 103.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , Umesh now hits Smith flush on the groin. It nipped back and Smith was looking for the flick , missed and it hit him on the box. Down he goes 103.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , sliding down leg again , Smith flicks and misses , off the pad and to the keeper 103.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , wasted delivery - down leg 103.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , 140kph length delivery outside off , Smith shoulders arms 103.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , now safely leaves that full one alone 103.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith is beaten on the drive. The feet did n't move there 102.6 Shami to Johnson , no run , angled across on a fuller length outside off , Johnson shoulders arms 102.5 Shami to Johnson , no run , short and on the stumps , Johnson ducks under it 102.4 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , looks to defend , but the inside edge runs away to deep square leg 102.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length on the stumps , defended 102.2 Shami to Johnson , 1 run , what was Shami doing there ? Misses a run-out chance as he is n't in any position to collect the throw from Che. It was defended wide of mid-off , confusion between the batsmen , Johnson is sent back and he would 've been out if Shami had collected the throw , instead the bowler leaves the throw and it does n't hit direct 102.1 Shami to S Smith , 3 runs , half volley outside off , Smith leans into the drive and gets it into the gap at cover. Two fielders chase and they manage to keep it down to three 101.6 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , another short one , Johnson ducks under that 101.5 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , Johnson ducks too early and misjudges the short one , takes one flush on the right bicep. That must have stung but Johnson is n't showing any emotion 101.4 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , punched firmly , but straight to the fielder at mid-off With Rohit not there , who is going to sledge Johnson ? Or have the Indians learnt their lesson ? Will keep a close eye on any chatter out there 101.3 U Yadav to Johnson , no run , well wide of off , easy leave for Johnson 101.2 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , pitched up on the stumps , Smith flicks to deep backward square leg 101.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , short of length outside off , left alone Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 100.6 Shami to Haddin , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Shami gets Haddin out. Good catch from MS. Haddin was trying to leave that outside off delivery alone , but was late in doing so , the ball hit the bottom edge and the keeper went to his left to take a smart catch. Lucky wicket that for India , but they wo n't mind it. Haddin c Dhoni b Shami 55 ( 84 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] Shami to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 100.5 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , takes on the short ball and gets the pull wide of mid-wicket for a single 100.4 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , pathetic bowling from Shami. Too straight and that allows Smith to get inside the line to play a leg glance. Third time in 2 overs off Shami Smith has done that and the inevitable result is a boundary 100.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , shuffles across and then defends solidly to mid-off 100.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , pitched up on off , Smith gets forward and dead-bats it 100.1 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , Smith has done it ! Third hundred in the series in three matches. He gets there with a deft little leg glance , beating fine leg. He takes the helmet off and soaks in all the applause. The G stand up and give him a terrific ovation. Whadaaplayyaaaa ! 99.6 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , short down leg , Smith pulls to deep backward square leg The field has been set for the short ball 99.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , well down leg and that 's a wasted delivery Now Umesh round the wicket. Again short stuff ? Deary me ! 99.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , defends to mid-on , no chance of a quick single that time 99.3 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , short and outside off , begging to be hit , that sat up and Smith obliged , pulling wide of mid-on. Now on 95. The 100-run stand is up as well 99.2 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , drifting onto the pads , tapped into the vacant mid-wicket area for a single 99.1 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , short of length outside off , Haddin stands tall and punches to point Looks like they have taken drinks after 45 minutes. All Australia this morning. After a disciplined bowling performance yesterday , India have n't turned up today. Age old problem rearing its head again. They bowled short and bowled Haddin into form. Smith looks unstoppable at the other end . 98.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , driven back to Shami , who half stop the ball in his followthrough 98.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , Smith defends to cover-point off the back foot 98.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , pitched up on off , Smith defends from the crease to point 98.3 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , too straight from Shami , Smith gets inside the line and glances fine , to the fine leg fence. 2000 Test runs for Smith. Now averages 50 98.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , in the corridor of uncertainty , on a full length , Smith lets it go 98.1 Shami to Haddin , 1 run , pitched up and Haddin aims for a big hit down the ground , inside edged down to fine leg Mohammed Shami [ 19.0-4-75-2 ] is back into the attack 97.6 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , singles are coming with ease in that vacant mid-wicket area , another one nudged there 97.5 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , drifting into the pads , Smith flicks to deep square leg 97.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , stands tall and then opens the face of the bat to defend to gully. Rode the bounce well there 97.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , defends to cover and a loud shout of 'no run' 97.2 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , magnificent shot ! Tad overpitched outside off , Smith leans forward into the drive and plays a crisp shot wide of cover. No-one moved on the field. All along the turf too. Picture perfect from Smith 97.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , shuffles across and then defends to mid-on , straight to the fielder 96.6 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , tucked down to deep backward square leg to bring up the 300 96.5 Ishant to S Smith , FOUR , back of a length outside off , Smith opens the face of the bat and then punches wide of gully. No third man and another boundary for the Aussies 96.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , 135kph length delivery outside off , Smith sees it well and then lifts his bat and lets it go 96.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shuffles across to cover off and then pushes it to mid-on 96.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , Smith covers his off stump and then lets that one that is n't threatening off go 96.1 Ishant to Haddin , 1 run , nip-backer , Haddin is late in getting his bat down , but manages to play it to the vacant mid-wicket area , a single taken 95.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , nice shape away from Umesh , but starts it too wide of off , easy leave 95.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , well wide and down leg , Smith misses out on the clip 95.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , 137kph length delivery outside off , left alone 95.3 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , on the hips , clipped to deep square leg 95.2 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , that shaped away from Haddin , who poked out and got beaten. Just about carried to MS 95.1 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , short of length outside off , dabbed to the left of gully , a diving stop made Umesh Yadav [ 20.0-2-69-2 ] is back into the attack 94.6 Ishant to Haddin , 1 run , Haddin is back ! He gets to fifty - his first one after 14 innings at Test level. It had to come against India. His last fifty before this was against England in the final Test of the Ashes. He gets there with a push into the short mid-wicket area 94.5 Ishant to Haddin , no run , nips back in and slides down leg , catches Haddin on the thigh pad 94.4 Ishant to Haddin , FOUR , Haddin is now playing with gay abandon. A forward press and then back to steer the length delivery wide of gully. Raced away 94.3 Ishant to Haddin , no run , Ishant pulls the length back and forces Haddin to defend off the back foot 94.2 Ishant to Haddin , FOUR , Bang ! What a shot that is ! Pitched up on off , Haddin cleared his front leg and then played a T20 stroke , lofted over mid-off. So cleanly hit 94.1 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , Smith turns it with soft hands into the vacant area at mid-wicket , wants two but can only get one 93.6 Shami to Haddin , no run , back of a length on off , Haddin defends comfortably to mid-off 93.5 Shami to Haddin , FOUR , fab shot ! Nothing wrong with that delivery , on a length and outside off , Haddin forces it from the crease into the gap at cover. He just creamed that and then stood there nonchalantly after playing the shot. Third boundary of the over 93.4 Shami to Haddin , no run , short of length on the stumps , Haddin defends solidly Are India playing Haddin into form with the overdoing of the short stuff ? Now Shami has decided to come over the wicket. Change of plan ? 93.3 Shami to Haddin , FOUR , Haddin is feasting on the short balls. Yet another delivery that had no effort , sat up to be hit and Haddin forehanded it wide of mid-on. Bit of topspin put into the shot and that ensured it went wide of the fielder 93.2 Shami to Haddin , no run , 136kph good short delivery , more oomph and effort put in , Haddin sees it goes over his head and bails out of the hook shot 93.1 Shami to Haddin , FOUR , Haddin has smashed that ! Backs away and flat-bats the short ball over mid-on. Knew the short one was coming and belted it 92.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shuffles across to cover off and then defends to mid-on 92.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , that nipped back in , but not enough to threaten off , Smith shoulders arms Now Ishant loses his run-up 92.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fuller length outside off , Smith opens the face of the bat and defends to gully Back over the wicket to Smith 92.3 Ishant to Haddin , 1 run , short on the stumps , Haddin pulls comfortably to deep backward square leg 92.3 Ishant to Haddin , no ball , Ishant oversteps and delivers a short ball , Haddin did well to sway out of the way , bent his back and then lets it go 92.2 Ishant to Haddin , no run , down leg and short , Haddin gets inside the line and lets it go 92.1 Ishant to Haddin , no run , short and wide outside off , Haddin tries to fetch it from there and misses out on the pull Even Ishant is coming round the wicket , with the same field that Shami had 91.6 Shami to Haddin , 1 run , more control from Haddin this time on the pull , kept it down and it was travelling to Kohli at deep backward square , he manages to stop it cleanly 91.5 Shami to Haddin , FOUR , predictably the short ball arrives and Haddin is ready for it. Rocks back and then swivels on the pull , beats deep backward square with a fine shot. Shami is n't a happy man Che has come in at short leg. Leg slip in too. Shami to bowl from round the wicket 91.4 Shami to Haddin , no run , short of length on off , Haddin shuffles across and then defends solidly to mid-off 91.3 Shami to Haddin , no run , punched to cover and a shout of 'no mate ' from Haddin to S Smith 91.2 Shami to Haddin , no run , 137kph nip-backer from Shami , on a fuller length , Haddin gets forward and defends to mid-on 91.1 Shami to S Smith , 3 runs , short and wide first up from Shami , a gentle loosener , Smith crashes it through cover for three , Rahul the fielder chasing 90.6 Ishant to Haddin , no run , Haddin stands tall and then defends to point , a loud shout of 'no ' from Haddin 90.5 Ishant to Haddin , no run , Haddin saw that till the last moment and then left that back of a length delivery outside off all alone. Good probing line that 90.4 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , nicely punched into the gap at cover , easy single taken 90.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , short of length on middle , Smith shuffles across and defends to mid-on 90.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , run , 131kph pitched up delivery on off , Smith defends from the crease to mid-off 90.2 Ishant to S Smith , no ball , run , short and wide outside off , Smith missed out there , went too hard at it and completely mistimed it. The ball rolls away on the off-side. Ishant has overstepped too 90.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , short of length outside off , Smith sees it well and then lifts his bat and lets it go The Indians are in a huddle while the Aussie batsmen are out in the middle. Loud music is blaring out of the speakers at the ground. Brilliant day to play cricket in - 23 degree celsius with not a cloud in the sky. Clear skies , bright and sunny. Ishant will start off. He has two slips and a gully in place . It was an absorbing first day with both teams having their moments in front of a big crowd adding to the atmosphere of a proper cricketing showpiece. Today promises to be the same , perhaps even better . Meanwhile , Aaron will fly back to India in the wake of his grandfather 's demise and will rejoin the side on December 31st . 'But a running mix-up appeared to break Rogers ' concentration , and the left-hander nicked the next ball from Shami and was caught behind for 57. It was Rogers ' third half-century in as many innings but he chastised himself as he left the field , knowing he had let slip a shot at a century on Boxing Day.' She writes,'Smith led Australia 's fightback after the Indian bowlers first dried up the runs in the period after lunch and then removed Chris Rogers and Shane Watson for half-centuries in the space of six balls. The partnership between Watson and Rogers put Australia in a decent position at lunch , after Umesh Yadav landed the first blow before there was a run on the board.' Chloe Saltau 's report for the Age wears the headline 'Steve Smith holds Australia together against India at MCG' 'NSW sensation Smith looks set to score his fifth Test hundred of the calendar year. Channel Nine commentary veteran and ex-Test skipper Bill Lawry said Smith 's ability to score runs at will was almost getting to the Bradman-like stage.' Here is Greg Buckle for the Herald Sun showering praise on Steve Smith. 'After hitting a century in a man-of-the-match performance in a winning side at the Gabba , Smith assessed the situation perfectly yesterday and shelved his attacking instincts at times in a bid to shield Australia 's tail from the second new ball. Smith yesterday joined teammate David Warner in Test cricket 's 1000-runs club for 2014.' 'At the G today , the Ishant Sharma-led pace battery fired all cylinders. They kept attacking the good areas and gave very little boundary scoring opportunities. The pace trio of Ishant , Shami and Umesh Yadav conceded only 17 boundaries and kept a check on the flow of runs.' 'The way the events unfolded on the first day of the third Test at the Melbourne Cricket Ground definitely checked a few concerns , if not all. The seamers were containing the batters , Ashwin the lone specialist spinner , applied pressure from his end and the energy on the field was heartening.' He says , 'Before the Boxing Day Test match , India had issues to address seamers leaking runs , spinners struggling and the inability to maintain pressure.' Sahil Malhotra 's piece for the Indian Express has the headline : 'India hit right notes on Day 1 at the MCG' 'India played its first ever Boxing Day Test in 1985 , when its batsmen put up an impressive batting display , piling up 445 runs in reply to Australia 's 262. The match ended in a draw. India have played a Boxing Day Test at the MCG in each of their subsequent five tours 1991 , 1999 , 2003 , 2007 and 2011 , with each of those matches resulting in a defeat.' 'The Boxing Day tradition in cricket precedes the one in football. It began in Australia when Victoria and New South Wales ( NSW ) met in a thrilling Sheffield Shield match at the MCG from 26 December 1856. The game itself was a timeless match , but resulted in the visitors , in this case NSW winning by three wickets.' 'In case you 're still confused , Boxing Day has nothing to do with boxing. Boxes ? Maybe. Or simply , consider Boxing Day as the British equivalent of America 's Thanksgiving. For a start , there are multiple theories about Boxing Day 's origins or the term 's etymology. The oft quoted among them being that it traces its inception to the Middle Ages in Britain , where workers were given gifts and presents ( known as Christmas Boxes ) usually on the first weekday after Christmas , in recognition of their service through the year.' Venkat Ananth , writing for the live mint explores the curious history of sport and Boxing Day . Smith 's early wicket will turn the pendulum in India 's favour while a big century towards the hosts. Good morning and welcome to day 2 of the Boxing day Test. As is the norm , let us have a gander at what the newspapers have in store for us . India made inroads into the Aussie batting while Steve Smith proceeded to score a key 72 * , ensuring that the honours were shared on the first day at the 'G. Drafted in place of Aaron , Shami picked himself up after an ordinary opening spell and later bombarded Haddin with bouncers. Ashwin delivered a long , tidy spell , helping Dhoni control the proceedings , at least when his opposite number was at the non-striker 's end . Steve Smith though dropped anchor , scoring his fourth 50-plus score in this series and is still batting on 72. Haddin , who was peppered with an assortment of bouncers , is far from set. The game is still hanging in the balance. Who will take the game by the scruff of its neck ? Do join us back tomorrow to find out. Until then , take care and goodbye . Umesh enjoyed a brilliant start , getting rid of the in-form Warner for a duck. However , Rogers and Watson added 115 for the second wicket to steady the ship. Just when the duo were looking to open up their wings , India bounced back , striking twice in two overs in the middle session. Then , Shaun Marsh and debutant Joe Burns failed. Ashwin plugged away at one end , choking the flow of runs , from which the likes of Umesh and Shami benefitted . Stumps , Day 1 : It 's even-stevens at the end of the opening day. Australia have put up 259 runs on the board after chosing to bat. The visitors have prised out 5 wickets . 89.6 Shami to Haddin , no run , not the bouncer ! Double bluff from Shami , full and just outside off , Haddin taps it in front of point to close out day 1 A leg slip and a short leg swoop in . 89.5 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , good length ball around off , Smith shuffles across , milks it to short mid-wicket for a quick single 89.4 Shami to Haddin , 1 run , dug in short and rises onto the batsman , who tucks it backward of square leg Shami switches to round the stumps . 89.3 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , on a length and on off , Smith shuffles across and works it wide of mid-on. The fielder cuts it down to just a single 89.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , full and slanted across off , ignored by Smith 89.1 Shami to Haddin , 1 run , banged in short on the leg stump , Haddin manages to deflect it to fine leg and get off strike Mohammed Shami [ 16.0-4-51-2 ] is back into the attack Last over of the day coming up. And Shami will bowl it. Over the wicket to Haddin . 88.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good length ball outside off , Smith is forward and defending it to cover 88.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good length ball outside off , Smith lets it be. And again , Dhoni does not glove it cleanly 88.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , short of length and outside off , Smith does not get hold of the cut. Mistimed to gully 88.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , Ishant Sharma sustains the inward movement , Smith gets an inside-edge onto the pad. The ball lobs in front of the slip cordon 88.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fullish again , curves in from outside off. It was not far away from off but Smith judged it well to leave it alone 88.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up and around off , blocked back to Ishant 87.6 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , banged in short and rises outside off , Haddin weaves his head out of the way and evades it 87.5 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , on a length and on off at 140kph , Smith prods across and nudges it past square leg 87.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length and hurries on off , Smith defends it to cover , after taking his bottom hand off the bat 87.3 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , mighty full at the base of the leg stump , squeezed out to fine leg for a single 87.2 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Haddin shuffles across , looks to work it to the leg-side and gets a soft leading edge to the off-side 87.1 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , short of length and outside off , Haddin backs away , looks to swish it over the slip cordon but misses Umesh continues from round the stumps 69,993 is the official attendance at the G on the opening day of the iconic Boxing Day Test . 86.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , short of length and outside off , Smith stands tall , punches well and finds the man at backward point 86.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fuller and on off , Smith comes forward and across as he taps it to mid-on 86.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , much fuller in the channel outside off , left alone. Dhoni does not glove the ball cleanly 86.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , Smith does not bother with it 86.2 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pitched up and on off , Smith leans across as he turns it to mid-on 86.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fuller and just outside off , Smith plays it down to gully , soft hands ensured that it did not carry to the fielder 85.6 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , banged in short from round the stumps , Haddin is caught in a tangle and gets pinged on the shoulder. Haddin took his eyes off the ball and paid for it 85.5 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , back of a length and outside leg , Haddin shuffles a long way across off and flags it through to Mahendra Singh Dhoni 85.4 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , Yadav slides this down leg , Haddin misses the glance 85.3 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , nips back in very close to the off stump , Haddin knows it wo n't hit off and shoulders arms 85.2 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , back of a length and outside off , Haddin rides the bounce and dabs it to point with soft hands 85.1 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , short and wide outside off , Haddin flashes at it with little feet movement and gets beaten. Loose shot that from Haddin 84.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , shortish and shapes in close to off , Smith defends it back to the bowler and cries 'no run ' to Haddin 84.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , much fuller and just outside off , Smith comes forward and presses it to wide mid-off 84.4 Ishant to Haddin , 1 run , pitched up and around off , pushed towards sweeper cover. Haddin settles with a single 84.3 Ishant to Haddin , no run , similar length and on off , blocked in front of cover 84.2 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Smith stands tall and punches it wide of mid-off 84.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , fuller and just outside off , Smith opts to shoulder arms 83.6 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , much fuller and comes in on middle , Haddin is rooted to the crease as he pushes it to cover 83.5 U Yadav to Haddin , 2 runs , shortish and outside off , Haddin stands tall and unfurls a punch past cover to get a couple 83.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , dug in shortish and just outside off , pulled away past mid-wicket 83.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , a big appeal for lbw and ump Dharma shakes his head. This was a good length ball , beats Smith 's defensive and strikes him on the pad. The impact was outside off. Not sure if there was an inside-edge on that. It would have hit the top of off and umpire 's call would have prevailed. Anyway , Haddin will move on and so will we 83.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , short and outside off , Smith attempts a flat-batted pull and mistimes it to mid-on. Not enough power behind that hit 83.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , fuller and on middle and leg , Smith clips it to deep square leg Umesh Yadav [ 17.0-1-62-2 ] is back into the attack Here is Yadav , not Shami , sharing the second new ball with Ishant . 82.6 Ishant to Haddin , no run , zipping through the channel outside off , back to leaving the ball is Haddin 82.5 Ishant to Haddin , FOUR , width on offer and Haddin takes it on , slashing it up and over gully. No third man in place and Haddin exploits it well 82.4 Ishant to Haddin , no run , edged and dies down in front of Rahane at gully. Slightly back of a length and shapes away just outside off , Haddin pokes at it , the ball takes the outside edge , but does not carry 82.3 Ishant to Haddin , no run , back of a length and curves back in and outside off , Haddin knows the whereabouts of his off pole and shoulders arms. Much better judgement from Haddin 82.2 Ishant to Haddin , no run , good length ball just outside off , Haddin does not resist his temptation. Pushes at it and is beaten on the outside edge 82.1 Ishant to Haddin , no run , on a length and outside off from over the wicket , Haddin lifts his bat and lets it go Ishant Sharma [ 17.0-4-48-0 ] is back into the attack India take the second new ball now. Ishant will make first use of it. He has 3 slips , a gully and a short leg to assist him. Shami is back on the field as well . 81.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Ash keeps plugging away on and around off , Smith is sound in defence 81.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , loopy around off , pressed into the covers 81.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower through the air on off , Smith takes a couple of paces forward and defends it 81.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , straighter and attacking the stumps , blocked to mid-on again 81.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flat and quick on off , Smith bunts it to mid-on 81.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on off , Smith is forward to defend it past the bowler , towards mid-on 80.6 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Smith 's supple wrists come to the fore again as he fetches it from there and whips it down to long-on 80.5 Vijay to Haddin , 3 runs , dropped short and wide outside off , Haddin rocks back and cuts it past the covers. Rahane gives the chase and saves a run for the touring party 80.4 Vijay to Haddin , no run , slides on with the arm on off , Haddin keeps it out 80.3 Vijay to Haddin , no run , back of a length and hurries on off , Haddin moves deep in his crease and punches it back to Vijay 80.2 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , Smith takes it from outside off and wrists it to long-on for a comfortable single 80.1 Vijay to S Smith , no run , slower through the air on middle , Smith stays back and works it to mid-wicket Now , considering Shami 's off the field , will India delay taking the second new ball ? Yes , they delay it and Vijay will continue . 79.6 Ashwin to Haddin , SIX , Ashwin gives this more air outside off , Haddin takes the aerial route and launches it over the bowler 's head for a maximum. A good hit that and it breaks the shackles as well 79.5 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , a bit flatter on off , blocked back to the bowler 79.4 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , nice and tossed up outside off , Haddin drives and finds cover 79.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith comes on the front foot and drives this flighted delivery outside off to long-off 79.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , fullish and around off , tapped to the left of the bowler 79.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on the fourth stump , forward and blocked back to Ash 78.6 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , Ash pushes this through on middle and leg , Smith wrists it backward of square leg 78.5 Vijay to S Smith , no run , nice and floaty on off , Smith comes forward and smothers it 78.4 Vijay to S Smith , no run , darted flat and quick on the leg stump , clipped to mid-wicket 78.3 Vijay to S Smith , no run , straighter one on middle , defended back to the bowler 78.2 Vijay to S Smith , no run , flighted and full on middle and leg , nudged to square leg 78.1 Vijay to S Smith , no run , drifting down leg , Smith ca n't meet with the glance 77.6 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , this one skids off the deck and hurries onto Haddin. The batsman manages to keep it out 77.5 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , tossed up and spins in from outside off , Haddin gets behind it and defends it well 77.4 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , low full toss on off and middle , Smith eases forward and drives it to long-on Shami is in some discomfort. He goes off the field . 77.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , looped up on off , Smith comes forward and blocks it back to the bowler 77.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up and full outside off , Smith leans into a good looking cover-drive , but ca n't beat the fielder 77.1 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , pushed through outside off , dabbed in front of point 76.6 Vijay to Haddin , 1 run , flighted on middle and leg , Haddin nudges it to deep mid-wicket and retains strike 76.5 Vijay to Haddin , no run , slider on leg-stump , Haddin turns it to backward square 76.4 Vijay to Haddin , no run , pushed through around off , Haddin hangs back and blocks it in front of cover 76.3 Vijay to Haddin , no run , half tracker outside off , Haddin cuts and picks out backward point , either side and it would have been a boundary 76.2 Vijay to Haddin , no run , waits for the ball to turn and works it to backward square 76.1 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , drifting onto the pads , Smith whips it behind square leg for a single. Smith reaches 1000 Test runs for this year Murali Vijay [ 2.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 75.6 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , nice loopy delivery , Haddin inches forward and defends , the ball hits the sticker on the bat 75.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , comes forward , gets to the pitch and eases it to long-on 75.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , another solid forward defence from the Australian skipper 75.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith presses forward and blocks it to Ashwin 75.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower and bit of turn , Smith defends off the inside part towards mid-wicket 75.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , quicker and on off , bunted off the back foot to mid-on Drinks are on the field now. The first hour after tea has belonged to India. They got rid of Marsh early and sent back the debutant Burns cheaply. Smith has held one end up , but they are targeting Haddin with short pitch stuff. A wicket or two will tilt the day in India 's favour and if these two remain not-out , then Australia will be happy at the end of the day . 74.6 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , lifter on the stumps , Haddin sinks under it and evades it comfortably 74.5 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , not much pace on the short delivery , Smith has all the time in the world to swivel and pull it to fine leg 74.4 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Haddin is hurried into the pull , the ball hits the splice and goes to deep mid-wicket 74.3 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , shortish and on leg-stump , Haddin turns it to the left of short leg 74.2 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , short of length on off from round the wicket , Haddin rides the bounce and blocks well 74.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , India happy to let Smith take the single , they want Haddin on strike. Back of a length on off , Smith eases it to mid-on 73.6 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , straight roller just outside off , Haddin jabs at it , the ball goes off a thickish outside edge , the slip fielder runs back and prevents the single 73.5 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , flatter and attacking the stumps , Haddin is happy to stay back and block to to the on-side 73.4 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , 93kph quicker delivery , Haddin hangs back and keeps it out to short mid-wicket 73.3 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , flighted on middle and leg , blocked to short mid-wicket 73.2 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , middle stump line , Smith nudges it past short mid-wicket for a single 73.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , throws this up gently , Smith defends it back to the bowler 72.6 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , bouncer on leg-stump , Haddin half-ducks and lets it go. He played that much better as compared to the previous ones 72.5 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , bumper angled across the right-hander , Haddin was once again not looking at the ball , he manages to sway out of the way 72.4 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , short and down leg , Haddin walks too far across his stumps and fails to meet with the glance , it was not far from leg-stump Round the sticks to Hadds.. He pulls out as there some disturbance behind the bowler. . 72.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , good length ball on off , Smith moves across and wrists it to deepish mid-wicket 72.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fullish and close to off , Smith is not fully forward as he knocks it to mid-off 72.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length around off , Smith rides the bounce and punches it to cover 71.6 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , pushed through just outside off , Haddin drives it to cover , shouts " no " for the single 71.5 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Haddin shuffles across and defends it to short mid-wicket 71.4 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , floated up on off , Smith push-drives it to long-on 71.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , defended down the wicket 71.2 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , drags the length back , Haddin knocks it to the vacant cover region and gets off the mark 71.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , flighted on off , Smith eases it down to long-on 70.6 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , aimed right at the batsman , Haddin takes his eyes off the ball and takes a blow on the body , it hit him flush on the forearm. However , Haddin showed no sign of pain Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease Round the wicket to Haddin. Short leg in place. . 70.5 U Yadav to Burns , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Umesh strikes ! There is not going to be any heroics from the debutant. It was a short of length delivery around off , Burns goes for the pull , gets an inside edge to Dhoni , who takes a good catch moving to his left. Umpire Kettleborough was quick to give the marching orders. Burns c Dhoni b U Yadav 13 ( 27 ) [ 4s-2 ] U Yadav to Burns , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 70.4 U Yadav to Burns , no run , full and angling in , Burns clips and finds the mid-wicket fielder 70.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 3 runs , Smith brings up yet another fifty , his 4th fifty plus score in the series. Fullish and outside off , Smith opens the bat face and square drives it to sweeper cover , gets back for the third before the ball is fielded 70.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , on a length close to off , Smith comes forward and bunts it to cover 70.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length well wide of off , no chance Smith is going to play at those Umesh Yadav [ 14.0-1-55-1 ] is back into the attack 69.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , fires it into the blockhole , Burns manages to bring his bat down and jam it to short mid-wicket. Ashwin thought he went through the batsman 's defences 69.5 Ashwin to Burns , no run , smothers the spin with a solid forward defense 69.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , slows it up a bit , Burns stays back and blocks 69.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , pushed through on off , Burns punches it to the right of Ashwin , who dives and stops the single 69.2 Ashwin to Burns , no run , flatter and on off , punched back to the bowler 69.1 Ashwin to Burns , no run , tad quicker and around off , Burns hangs back and knocks it to cover 68.6 Ishant to S Smith , no run , pulls the length back slightly , Smith gets right behind the line and defends it to Ishant 68.5 Ishant to S Smith , no run , good length ball on off , Smith shuffles across and works it towards mid-wicket , Kohli dives and stops the single 68.4 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , Smith watches it carefully and lets it pass 68.3 Ishant to S Smith , no run , angling in on off , Smith defends it off the inside half to mid-wicket 68.2 Ishant to S Smith , FOUR , lovely shot ! Full and on off , Smith moves across his stumps and flicks it to deep mid-wicket , the timing and placement was precise on that 68.1 Ishant to S Smith , no run , back of a length just outside off , punched straight to Vijay at cover 67.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , goes deep in the crease and whips it to deepish mid-wicket to keep strike 67.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , hangs on the back foot and works it to short mid-wicket 67.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , gets well forward and defends it back to Ashwin 67.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted on off , Smith presses forward and blocks 67.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower and on off , Smith drives it to the right of the bowler 67.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 4 runs , drops it short and just outside off , Smith makes room and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side , Ishant was the one giving chase , Smith spotted that and called Burns for the fourth 66.6 Ishant to Burns , no run , full and angling in , Burns leans forward and wrists it to mid-on , no chance of a single 66.5 Ishant to Burns , no run , good length on the fourth stump , Burns presses forward and plays it with soft hands to cover 66.4 Ishant to Burns , no run , much better , gets a good stride forward and defends solidly to cover 66.3 Ishant to Burns , no run , shortens the length around off , Burns defends it off the inside part to the on-side 66.2 Ishant to Burns , FOUR , " gets a boundary , but I do n't like it " , says Matthew Hayden. Back of a length around off , Burns plays the dab away from the body , pierces the gap between gully and backward point. The pace on the ball takes it to the boundary 66.1 Ishant to Burns , no run , nice way to start a new spell , beats the outside edge. Short of a length and just outside off , Burns tries to force it off the back foot , lucky that the ball did n't take the outside edge Ishant Sharma [ 15.0-4-40-0 ] is back into the attack 65.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , quicker delivery bowled at 91kph , Smith camps on the back foot and blocks 65.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower on middle and leg , Smith turns it to FSL 65.4 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , fired into the blockhole , Burns squeezes it through the vacant cover region 65.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , flighted on off , Burns inches forward and blocks it down the wicket 65.2 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , Burns not afraid to take the aerial route , skips down the track and chips it over mid-wicket , he did n't middle it but has enough to register his first boundary in Tests 65.1 Ashwin to Burns , no run , straighter one on middle , Burns stays back and blocks it to short mid-wicket 64.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , on a good length close to off , Smith presses forward and defends solidly to cover 64.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , pitched up around off , Smith presents the full face of the bat and defends it back to the bowler , Shami throws the ball straight at Smith , hits him on the pad. The Australian skipper is not too pleased with that , he has a few words for Shami 64.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , good length ball not close enough to make Smith play , left alone 64.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length close to off , Smith mistimes the punch to cover , he went too hard at that 64.2 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , poor delivery ! Short and down leg , Smith swivles and pulls it to fine leg , the fielder was very square and had no chance of stopping that 64.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , on a length well wide of off , left alone 63.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , slightly quicker and on off , Burns goes back and defends it to the off-side 63.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , slower on middle and leg , Smith milks it to deep backward square for a single 63.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , takes a step out of the crease and pushes it back to Ashwin 63.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up just outside off , defended to cover off the front foot 63.2 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , turns into the batsman , Burns helps it on its way with a nurdle 63.1 Ashwin to Burns , no run , floated up on off , Burns lunges forward in defence 62.6 Shami to Burns , 3 runs , Burns opens his account in Test cricket with a extended forward defensive through cover , the timing on that was superb as it allowed the batsmen to pick up three 62.5 Shami to Burns , no run , full and tailing in on off , Burns drives it crisply and picks out mid-on 62.4 Shami to Burns , no run , back of a length around off , Burns blocks it down the wicket 62.3 Shami to Burns , no run , short of length on off , Burns hangs back and bunts it in front of cover , calls " no " for the single 62.2 Shami to Burns , no run , tests the debutant with a bouncer , Burns is upto it , gets down and lets it sail over him 62.1 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , goes wide of the crease and pitches it up just outside off , Smith drives it wide of mid-off and sets off for a quick single 61.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , drags the length back , Burns has ample time to go back and knock it towards cover 61.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn and then nurdles it behind square leg for a single 61.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , meets the pitch of the ball and whips it to short mid-wicket , fine diving stop by Jinks 61.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , goes deep in the crease and keeps it out with a straight bat 61.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted around off , Smith leans forward and blocks it down the wicket 61.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , gets forward and turns it to short mid-wicket Joe Burns , right handed bat , comes to the crease In walks the debutant , Burns at number 6. . 60.6 Shami to S Marsh , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Good start for India after tea. It is a very loose shot from Marsh. Touch short and just outside off , Marsh goes for the cut , ends up nicking it to Dhoni , who takes the easiest of catches. Another failure for Marsh against India. He did n't have the room to play the cut there. S Marsh c Dhoni b Shami 32 ( 83 ) [ 4s-4 ] Shami to S Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 60.5 Shami to S Marsh , no run , fullish and on off , Marsh plays the on-drive straight to mid-on Switches to over the wicket 60.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , on a length just outside off , Marsh presses it to mid-off after coming forward 60.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , back of a length around off , Marsh goes back and across , defends it to cover 60.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , angling in on off , Marsh is half-forward as he bunts it in front of cover Shami goes round the wicket 60.1 Shami to S Smith , 3 runs , pitched up outside off , Smith does not get fully forward as he drives it through cover , the long boundaries do not allow Smith to get a four 59.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , floated up just outside off , Marsh drives it straight into the man at silly point , Rahul was the fielder in the firing line Now round the sticks to the left-hander 59.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , flighted on off , Smith eases the drive to long-on 59.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , presses forward and blocks solidly Goes back over the wicket 59.3 Ashwin to S Smith , SIX , fabulous shot ! Tossed up on off , Smith shimmies down the track and lofts it well over the long-off fence. It is a very difficult shot to play against the turn , but Smith made that look easy 59.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , turns it off the back foot to FSL 59.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , starts from round the wicket , Smith gets to the pitch and drives it back to the bowler The players are out in the middle. Ashwin to start off proceedings.. . Welcome back to the final session. India pulled things back with some tight bowling. Ashwin was disciplined with his line and lengths and the fast bowlers revolved around him. Both teams have won a session each. Who will take the upper hand on day 1 of the Boxing day Test ? Answer coming up shortly. . Ashwin bottled one end up and tightened things for the opposition in a kind of spell that Dhoni loves from his spinner. Vijay also got some turn in his brief stint with the ball. Coming to the three-pronged pace attack , it was good in patches. Take a short break and come back to see who snatches the initiative at the close of the opening day . Tea , Day 1 : After fifties from Rogers and Watson , India hit back taking out the duo in 2 overs to restore parity. While the left-hander was out nicking off to Dhoni , Watson was pinned plumb in front by Ashwin. Since then , Marsh and Smith have dug in to keep the much improved Indian bowlers at bay , guiding Australia to 174/3 . 58.6 Shami to S Marsh , no run , angled around off , Marsh defends it to the leg-side 58.5 Shami to S Marsh , no run , pitched up and just outside off from round the wicket. Shami gets it to cut in late , but only after the ball passes the batsman , who was shouldering arms 58.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and around off , Marsh shuffles across and taps it to mid-wicket 58.3 Shami to S Marsh , FOUR , width on offer , fraction short to go with it. Marsh waits for it and cuts it in the gap between the gully and slip cordon. The ball runs away to the third man fence 58.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , moving away with the angle outside off , Marsh is content to lift his bat and let it go 58.1 Shami to S Marsh , no run , good length ball on middle , Marsh comes forward and defends it back to Shami 57.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower through the air , Smith skips down the track and drives it back to Ashwin 57.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , 3 runs , straying onto the hips , tucked away to deep square leg , Marsh gets three 57.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , Ash looks to exploit the rough outside off from round the stumps. This one gripped and turned past the outside edge of Marsh. Dhoni did not glove the ball cleanly. Was that a drop ? We need replays to confirm it 57.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed through quicker , Marsh jams his bat down , gets an inside-edge which lobs off the pad to the leg side 57.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , drifting down leg , Marsh tentatively works it to mid-wicket 57.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed through on a back of a length on middle , nurdled behind square leg Ravichandran Ashwin [ 14.0-5-23-1 ] is back into the attack 56.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , drifting onto the leg stump , Smith clips it to square leg 56.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , fuller and around off , Smith comes forward and defends it to cover 56.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length and on off , Smith defends it to cover 56.3 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , back of a length and on middle , Smith shuffles across and flicks it fine , the fielder was square. Smith has moved on to 23 56.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , Shami errs down leg. Smith shaped up for the flick before belatedly bailing out of the shot 56.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , fullish and on the fourth stump , Smith comes forward and drives it down the track , towards mid-on Mohammed Shami [ 11.0-5-32-1 ] is back into the attack 55.6 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , leg stumpish from Vijay , Smith just helps it behind square leg and keeps strike 55.5 Vijay to S Smith , 2 runs , floated outside off , Smith backs away a bit and drives it inside-out to sweeper cover 55.4 Vijay to S Smith , no run , Smith uses his feet and drives it back to Vijay , who dives to his right in his follow-through and stops the ball 55.3 Vijay to S Marsh , 1 run , too straight in line , worked past mid-wicket for a single. The duo look for a brace , but decide against it at the end 55.2 Vijay to S Marsh , no run , slower through the air on off , forward and pressed into cover 55.1 Vijay to S Marsh , no run , flighted delivery on middle , patted back to Vijay 54.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , pitched up and on off , drawing Smith forward into a defensive push back to the bowler 54.5 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , back of a length and close to off , Smith plays a half pull/flick to deep square leg for a brace 54.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , straying on the hips , flicked behind square on the leg-side for a comfortable single 54.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , clipped to mid-wicket from an off stump line 54.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and on off at 140kph , defended back to Yadav 54.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , dug in shortish and outside off , Smith hangs back and punches it to Rahul at cover for a quick single 53.6 Vijay to S Marsh , no run , darted quicker and turns away late , beating the attempted cut of Marsh. So , Vijay 's first over ends the same way it began 53.5 Vijay to S Marsh , no run , straighter one on off , tapped back to the bowler 53.4 Vijay to S Smith , 1 run , nice and loopy on off , Smith eases forward and drives it to long-on 53.3 Vijay to S Marsh , 1 run , floated and just outside off , dabbed in front of point for a quick single. Smith responded in kind and no alarms in the end for the hosts 53.2 Vijay to S Marsh , no run , slider outside off , left alone 53.1 Vijay to S Marsh , no run , pushed through outside off and spins away further , Marsh goes for a flashy drive and gets beaten Murali Vijay , right-arm off break , comes into the attack M Vijay will roll his arm over now . 52.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length on middle , Smith sits back and tucks it to the man at square leg , the Aussie skipper ca n't beat the fielder 52.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , 142kph , Yadav strives for extra pace but drags this one down leg and Smith does not bother with it 52.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length and shapes in on off , Smith stays back and clips it to mid-wicket 52.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Marsh shuffles across and flicks it towards deep square leg 52.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , fullish and outside off , Marsh offers no shot 52.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , slightly back of a length and on the fourth stump , Marsh prods across and defends it in front of mid-wicket 51.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 4 runs , it 's an all run four. Ashwin loses his length , drags it short and outside off. Smith moves deep in the crease and punches it towards sweeper cover , Ishant gets across and hauls the ball in. However , the batsmen run four 51.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed through straighter , worked to short mid-wicket 51.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flatter on middle and leg , worked to short leg , who makes a half stop 51.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , a bit slower through the air on off , forward and smothered 51.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed through quicker on off , blocked to cover 51.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , nicely flighted on off , defensively pushed back to Ash 50.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and around off , Marsh blocks it to the off-side 50.5 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , fuller and straighter , flicked to deep square leg 50.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , nips back in from outside off , rapping Smith on the pad. Smith was in a dilemma whether to leave it or play it. Eventually he is too late on the shot. The ball though did not do much to threaten the off stump and hence the lbw appeal is shooted down The slip cordon has been reinforced. Three slips in now . 50.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , straying on the hips , tucked away past mid-wicket 50.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Yadav drags his length back around off , dabbed in front of cover 50.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , FOUR , pitched further up and outside off , Marsh shows the full face of the bat and drives it past the bowler. Virat Kohli gave up the chase , he had no chance of hunting that down , for the timing on that was superb Umesh Yadav [ 11.0-1-44-1 ] is back into the attack 49.6 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , aha , that 's a Steve Smith special. Ash tosses this up on off , Smith jumps out of his crease and goes inside out in the gap between mid-off and the covers and earns a four 49.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , fuller and straighter , Marsh leans across and plays a whippy drive to long-on 49.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , darted on middle and leg again , defended in front of short leg 49.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , straighter on middle and leg , blocked to the left of Ash 49.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flatter and quicker on middle , Marsh dabs it in front of point 49.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith uses his feet , Ashwin drags his length back , the batsman eases it to long-on for a single 48.6 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , another bouncer , this one climbs over a ducking Marsh to round off the over 48.5 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , Marsh comes forward and blocks it towards mid-off 48.4 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and on off , Marsh blocks it to short leg 48.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , well-directed bouncer from round the wicket , whizzes past the nose of Marsh. The batsman though did well to yank his head out of the way 48.2 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , good length ball outside off again , this only cuts in late after passing the batsman , who had ignored this Ishant offering as well 48.1 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Marsh covers his off pole and shoulders arms 47.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on middle , Smith chips out and drives it to the right of the bowler , towards mid-on 47.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , Marsh gives the charge again. Ashwin though is alert it to dart it short and outside off. The batsman adjusts and chops it behind point for a single 47.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , fuller and flatter on middle and leg , flicked to mid-on 47.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , FOUR , quicksilver feet movement from Marsh. He comes down the track , meets the pitch of the ball and lofts it over mid-on with authority 47.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , Ashwin gives this much air , pressed to cover 47.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slid through outside off - in the cutting radar of Marsh. He obliges and finds backward point 46.6 Ishant to S Marsh , 1 run , Ishant strays on the hips of Marsh , clipped away backward of square leg and with that single the latter will keep strike 46.5 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , similar ball outside off , Marsh lifts his bat and lets it go 46.4 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and slants away with the angle outside off , Marsh lets it be 46.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and skids on middle and leg , sort of tucks up the left-hander for room. Marsh can only defend it in front of mid-wicket 46.2 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , Ishant retorts with a bouncer , Marsh keeps his eyes on it before ducking underneath 46.1 Ishant to S Marsh , FOUR , this should do Marsh 's confidence a world of good. Fuller and outside off , Marsh leans forward and drives it crisply past a diving mid-off , the rich timing carries it to the fence 45.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , nice and loopy from the spinner , Smith skips out of the crease and drives it back at the bowler 45.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , wicket-to-wicket stuff from Ash , blocked back to the bowler 45.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , blocked back to the bowler 45.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , full and quick on off , Smith squeezes it past the bowler to mid-on 45.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , a bit flatter and on off , Smith defends it from the crease 45.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up outside off , Smith comes down the track and drives it to cover , straight to the fielder 44.6 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , fraction back of a length , but too close to off to go for a cut. Yet Marsh attempts a cut and mistimes it in front of point 44.5 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , on a length and just outside off , Marsh ignores it 44.4 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , an appeal for caught behind from Ishant and Dhoni. But it is turned down. Where did the deflection come from ? It came off the shirt. Well spotted ump. This was not all that short and just outside off , Marsh looks to pull and misses. The ball brushes the shirt en route to Dhoni 44.4 Ishant to S Marsh , no ball , outside off , Marsh lifts his bat and lets it go. Ishant 's no-ball troubles have resurfaced again. The ump is also not happy with Ishant 's landing area 44.3 Ishant to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and hurries onto the batsman , who blocks it back to Ishant 44.2 Ishant to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Smith stands tall and punches it wide of the covers for a single 44.1 Ishant to S Marsh , 1 run , fuller and straighter , tucked wide of mid-on Ishant Sharma [ 12.0-3-32-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , straight roller on off , Smith watchfully blocks it back to the bowler 43.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery , defended in front of the bowler 43.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith comes down the track and drives it back to Ashwin again. Ashwin bends down in his follow-through and makes a half stop 43.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , straighter one from Ashwin , blocked back to him 43.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith uses his feet and drives it back at the bower 43.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , worked to mid-on 42.6 Shami to S Marsh , 1 runs , short and on leg-stump , Marsh swivels and pulls it to fine leg , he will keep strike 42.5 Shami to S Marsh , no run , fuller and on the fifth stump line , Marsh was initially looking to chase it , but later opts to leave it alone 42.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , dug in shortish and on off , Marsh drops it in front of cover 42.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , good length ball , very straight in line. Marsh employs a straight bat to defensively push it back to Shami 42.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , Shami now shortens his length , similar line , Marsh sets up for a cut , but does not get hold of it. He can only chop it in front of gully 42.1 Shami to S Marsh , no run , much better from Shami. That 's the ideal line and length on this MCG pitch - pitched up in the channel outside off. The batsman shows good judgement , shouldering arms 42.1 Shami to S Marsh , wide , no run , 134kph bumper on the leg stump , Marsh half ducks and lets it sail through to Dhoni Time for a drinks break. India have managed to pull things back with the wickets of Rogers and Watson. Shami seems to have improved in this session and Ashwin is holding one end up. They need to keep going if they have to restrict Australia to a decent first innings total . 41.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , skips out of the crease and drives it to mid-off , he sets off for a quick single and gets it comfortably , Vijay has a shy but does not hit the target 41.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith opens his account off the 18th ball , gets to the pitch and on-drives it to long-on 41.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , middles the drive but picks out the mid-off fielder , he hit it too hard 41.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted on off , Smith pushes it back to the bowler 41.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , straight roller just outside off , Smith comes down the track and looks to work through the on-side , closes the bat face early and gets a leading edge to cover 41.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , defended off the back foot to the right of Ashwin 40.6 Shami to S Marsh , no run , on a length close to off , Marsh brings the bat down in an angle and jams it to short point 40.5 Shami to S Marsh , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Marsh is not bothered with it as he leaves it to Dhoni 40.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , drags the length back outside off , left alone 40.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , probing line from Shami , in and around off-stump , Marsh covers the sticks and shoulders arms 40.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , pitched up and on the fourth stump , Marsh inches forward and lets it go 40.1 Shami to S Marsh , no run , fuller on middle , Marsh comes half-forward and turns it to mid-on 39.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith is happy to sit back to Ashwin and defend to the off-side 39.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith moves forward and clips it to short mid-wicket 39.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Smith prefers to hang back and keep it out 39.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , turns it to FSL 39.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted on off , defended off the back foot to the left of the bowler 39.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , bit too full on off , Marsh works it wide of mid-on and gets off strike. Ashwin not happy with himself 38.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , fuller and just outside off , Smith covers the line and shoulders arms 38.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , short of length on off , Smith plays a copybook back foot defence 38.4 Shami to S Marsh , leg byes , 1 run , another one on the pads , Marsh misses the glance and the ball thuds off the thigh pad 38.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Marsh gets inside the line and lets it go 38.2 Shami to S Smith , leg byes , 1 run , strays onto the legs , Smith ca n't meet with the clip , the ball dribbles behind square off the pads 38.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length on off , Smith goes right back and defends with the straightest of bats 37.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , floated up and hint of turn , Marsh comes forward to block , gets a thickish outside edge to point. Ashwin has his hands on his head 37.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , fires this outside off , left alone. Dhoni tells him to bowl the off-spinner and not try anything 37.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , tosses this up gently on off , defended off the front foot to cover 37.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slider down leg , Marsh tucks it to FSL Shaun Marsh , left handed bat , comes to the crease 37.2 Ashwin to Watson , out Lbw ! ! Ashwin rewarded for some tight bowling. The Indian contingent in the crowd erupt. Watson throws away yet another start. Flighted close to off , Watson kneels down and misses the sweep , is struck in front of off-stump. Umpire Dharmasena had no hesitation in raising the finger. India are back in the game. Watson lbw b Ashwin 52 ( 89 ) [ 4s-4 ] Ashwin to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 37.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flatter and just outside off , Watson stays back and bunts it in front of cover 36.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , Smith misses out on a scoring opportunity , drifted down leg , Smith is early into the flick , gets a soft leading edge to mid-on 36.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , shortens the length on off , Smith goes back and knocks it to the right of Shami Dhoni employing the leg slip for Smith as well 36.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length around off , Smith gets right behind the line and defends solidly 36.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , greets the Australian skipper with a bouncer , Smith half ducks and gets inside the line of the delivery Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Nicked off ! The single which was not taken costs Rogers his wicket. It is one of the best deliveries that Shami has bowled all day , fuller and just outside off , Rogers pushes at it away from the body , the ball kisses the outside edge and settles nicely into Dhoni 's gloves. Rogers falls for the third time in the 50s. Chris Rogers c Dhoni b Shami 57 ( 126 ) [ 4s-5 ] Shami to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , overpitched outside off , Rogers square drives it to deepish point , slight miscommunication between the two men , but no harm done , Rogers wanted the single but Watson was not interested Mohammed Shami [ 7.0-1-30-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , tossed up just outside off , Watson comes out of the crease , does n't get to the pitch , hence defends it back to Ash 35.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , touch quicker around off , Watson is neither forward nor back as he pushes it back to the bowler 35.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , takes a couple of steps out of the crease and blocks it back to Ashwin 35.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flighted around off , Watson lunges forward and defends down the wicket 35.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , turned off the back foot to FSL 35.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , presses forward and blocks it to the off-side Ravichandran Ashwin [ 5.0-2-4-0 ] is back into the attack 34.6 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Watson is hurried into the pull , mistimes it to deep square leg 34.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , short of length on off , Watson goes back and defends towards mid-wicket 34.4 Ishant to Watson , no run , lifter on middle and leg , Watson sinks down and lets it thud into Dhoni 's mitts 34.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Kohli is not having the best of days in the field , Rogers punches it towards mid-off , Kohli gets a hand and lets it go through , gives away an easy single 34.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Rogers gets right behind the short of length delivery , defends to the right of Ishant 34.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , bouncer on middle and leg , Rogers ducks and lets it pass 33.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , shortish and on leg-stump , Rogers glances it wide of leg slip and down to fine leg 33.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , bumper at 144kph , Rogers sits down and gets away of the line of the delivery 33.4 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , full on middle , Watson leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket , that came right off the middle 33.3 U Yadav to Watson , no run , angling in on off , Watson defends with the bat and pad close together 33.2 U Yadav to Watson , no run , back of a length on off , Watson jumps up and blocks it with a straight bat 33.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , turns it off the front foot to mid-on 32.6 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , Watson 's love affair with the G continues , his 5th fifty at the venue. It is also his first since the Boxing day Test last year. Good length ball on off and middle , Watson works it wide of mid-on and takes a sharp single 32.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , shortens the length on the fourth stump , Watson guides it straight to gully 32.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , just a bit of width and Rogers is quick to latch onto it , goes back and punches it through the vacant cover region , Kohli gives chase and ca n't prevent the batsmen taking three 32.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers hops up and pats it to mid-off 32.2 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , these two are doing it easily , Watson goes back and knocks it to cover for a quick single. Ishant has a few words with MS regarding the field placements 32.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , on a length close to off , defended back to the bowler 31.6 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , Watson plays this around his pads , clips it to deep backward square leg. Had he missed , that would have been close 31.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , shortish and around off , Rogers jumps up and plays it with loose hands towards cover , another well judged single 31.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers gets behind the line and turns it to mid-wicket 31.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , bumper down leg , left alone 31.2 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Watson leans into the drive to the left of mid-off , Kohli dives and makes a fine stop , saved a couple there 31.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , short of length on the hips , Rogers tucks behind square , Che gives chase but it is the fielder from fine leg who keeps them down to one 30.6 Ishant to Watson , no run , lifter on leg-stump , Watson was hurried into ducking under it , nice carry through to Dhoni 30.5 Ishant to Watson , no run , pitched up just outside off , Watson drives it to the left of Ishant , who bends down and stops the ball 30.4 Ishant to Watson , no run , good length ball on off , Watson defends off the inside part of the bat to mid-wicket 30.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Rogers brings up his 3rd fifty in a row , his 8th overall. Drops this in front of cover and takes off immediately for the single , Watson goes up to him and congratulates him 30.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Rogers stays in the crease and knocks it to the right of the bowler 30.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no ball , Ishant oversteps , digs it in short , Rogers sinks under it and lets it sail over him 30.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length close to off , Rogers drops it in front of mid-off 29.6 U Yadav to Watson , FOUR , a misfield from Kohli brings up the Australian hundred. Full and on the fourth stump , Watson squeezes it to mid-off , Kohli moves to his right but was late as the ball races past him. He should have been much quicker 29.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , back of a length just outside off , Rogers stands up on his toes and punches it through the cover region , good enough to come back for three Umesh also has a leg slip for Rogers. He also has two slips and a gully in place 29.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Rogers hangs back and bunts it to mid-off 29.3 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , too straight , on middle and leg , Watson leans forward and whips it to deepish mid-wicket 29.2 U Yadav to Watson , no run , on a length close to off , Watson presses it to cover after coming forward Umesh stopping in his tracks. For the nth time . 29.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , good length ball around off , Watson defends solidly off the front foot to mid-off Umesh Yadav [ 8.0-1-30-1 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , well directed bouncer , close to the batsman , Rogers sits down and gets his head out of the way 28.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , defends this off the back foot towards mid-off 28.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , again , shortish and around off , Rogers plays it with soft hands down the wicket 28.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length around off , Rogers rides the bounce and knocks it towards point 28.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on leg-stump , Rogers tucks it behind square and sets off , Watson sends him back as the fielder swoops in quickly India seem to be continuing with the plan of bowling short to Rogers as there is a leg slip in place. Rogers pulls out since there was some movement behind Ishant. Not the first time that is happening. . 28.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , starts with a bumper on the stumps , Rogers ducks and evades it comfortably Indians are waiting on the boundary edge waiting for the umpires to make their way out. They gather around in a huddle and Dhoni gives them a few pointers before they disperse. Rogers marks his guard once again. Ishant will resume the attack after lunch.. . Hello again... India moved away from the plan of bowling full after the wicket of Warner. Rogers and Watson have made use of that by scoring at a brisk pace. The latter was dropped on 37 by Dhawan off Shami. How much is that going to cost India ? We will find out soon.. . Whether he will carry on to make it count remains the big question. That has been his bugbear all throughout his career. India need to reassess their tactics and come back strongly in the second session , or else it will be chasing leather all day long. We 'll take a break and come back soon. Do stay tuned . After the first three overs it has been Australia all the way. That sums it up nicely then. India got Warner for a duck and then suddenly forgot their lines and lengths. Since that wicket , the runs have started to flow with both Watson and Chris Rogers feasting on short and wide stuff. Shami has been the major guilty party - frankly his bowling has been horrible ; which raises severe question marks over his selection ahead of Aaron. Watson has a great record at the G and he has got a start here . 27.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , leans out and then defends solidly. That will be lunch as well 27.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , quicker and flatter , Watson goes back to defend 27.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , takes a step out and blocks 27.3 Ashwin to Watson , 2 runs , a fumble from Kohli at long-on gives away an extra run. He went to his right and misfielded. The crowd get behind his back 27.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , Watson gets forward and defends 27.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , a bit of a thick inside edge as Watson plays that to mid-wicket Last one before lunch 26.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , full and outside off , left alone 26.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , short and wide outside off , a buffet ball , before lunch , Chris Rogers rocks back and cuts late , getting the gap at point 26.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , punched to cover , straight to the fielder Leg slip goes out 26.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , the ploy of bowling short continues. Well down leg and for some reason Chris Rogers is n't happy. He was gesturing to the umpire and then shook his head. Shami wears a wry smile on his face MS asks Shami to come over the wicket 26.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , another one dug in short and down leg , Chris Rogers ducks under that 26.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , poor bowling from Shami. Short and down leg from round the wicket , left alone Replays show that the drop by Dhawan would 've carried to first slip 25.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , tucked to short leg 25.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , punched wide of cover , easy single 25.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , gets forward and defends to cover 25.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , stays back and blocks 25.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , straight roller outside off , left alone 25.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , stays back and steers to point 24.6 Shami to Watson , no run , short and wide outside off , cut straight to the fielder at point 24.5 Shami to Watson , 2 runs , dug in short and pulled hard to Ishant at deep backward square leg , there is a fumble which allows the second 24.4 Shami to Watson , no run , short and down leg , easily let go 24.3 Shami to Watson , no run , driven in the air , but well in front of mid-off 24.2 Shami to Watson , no run , dropped by Dhawan at 2nd slip. Watson pushed out at it and got an outside edge , Dhawan dived across to his left as he felt that it would n't have carried to Ash at 1st slip. He got two chances , but could n't hold on. Ashwin pats Dhawan on the shoulder after the drop 24.1 Shami to Watson , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone Mohammed Shami [ 5.0-1-24-0 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , more air on that and it 's driven to Jinks at short cover. A slight fumble , but they do n't take the single 23.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , driven straight to the fielder at short cover 23.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , stays back and defends 23.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , full face of the bat and then defended back to Ashwin 23.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , pushes at it and gets an inside edge onto the pads. Chris Rogers very unsure about his footwork 23.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , gets forward and defends to that man Forward short leg moves to silly point 22.6 U Yadav to Watson , 2 runs , full on off , Watson plays a wristy flick to deep mid-wicket for a couple of runs 22.5 U Yadav to Watson , no run , gets forward and defends to mid-on Watson stops Umesh. Some movement behind the bowler again. Frustrating nuisance ! 22.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Chris Rogers shuffles across and nudges it into the gap at mid-wicket Umesh loses his run-up. Has to rebowl that one 22.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , leg byes , FOUR , straight off the thigh pad and beats a diving Mahendra Singh Dhoni to his right. No bat or glove 22.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers once again gets a leading edge which does n't carry back to Umesh. He was into the flick early 22.1 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , Watson gets an inside edge that nearly clips leg stump. Chris Rogers is quick to call his partner for the single 21.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , pushes Chris Rogers back with a quicker delivery , defended off the back foot 21.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , uses his feet and a soft leading edge back to Ashwin , did n't carry though 21.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , leans forward to block to short cover 21.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , turned to short fine , straight to the fielder 21.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , slower and on off , Chris Rogers defends 21.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , punched to short cover 20.6 U Yadav to Watson , no run , short one this time to Watson , who ducks 20.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , down leg , glanced to fine leg where KL Rahul prevents the second 20.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , Umesh is n't happy after digging that in short. Chris Rogers once more ducks 20.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up outside off , Chris Rogers wanted to drive through that cover , but gets a thick inside edge down to mid-on 20.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , down leg and that 's another wasted delivery 20.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , down leg and short , Chris Rogers ducks under that 19.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , Watson gets forward and defends to cover 19.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , nudged wide of FSL and the single is on 19.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers survives by getting an inside edge onto the pads. Pushed forward to defend and played down the wrong line 19.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , turns it to FSL 19.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , looks to work to leg and gets a soft leading edge back to Ashwin Round the wicket with a slip and a short leg 19.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers prefers to play back and defends it back to Ashwin Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 18.6 U Yadav to Watson , no run , down leg and Watson ca n't connect with the glance 18.5 U Yadav to Watson , no run , nips back in , but the line is down leg , Watson wears one on the pad 18.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , gloved , but well in front of Jinks at leg slip. He ca n't stop the ball and they take a single 18.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , dug in short , Chris Rogers ducks under that 18.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length and Chris Rogers punches into the point area 18.1 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , full and down leg , Watson flicks to fine leg for a single Umesh Yadav [ 5.0-1-23-1 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , good running. Drops it with soft hands into the vacant short cover region and sets off 17.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , short and down leg , Chris Rogers pulls straight to the fielder at deep backward square leg. Mistimed that 17.4 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , now the quick single is taken after Watson defends into the vacant short mid-wicket area 17.3 Ishant to Watson , no run , pitched up on off , Watson gets forward and defends to the left of Ishant 17.2 Ishant to Watson , no run , Watson drops it with soft hands in front of gully , no quick single on offer 17.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , Watson shuffles across to cover off stump and then defends 16.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , defended to mid-off 16.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , short and down leg , Chris Rogers ducks under that 16.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers rises onto his toes and defends to square leg 16.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , nudged to mid-on Round the wicket now to Chris Rogers 16.2 Shami to Watson , 1 run , short on the stumps , Watson swivels on the pull and gets it down to deep backward square leg 16.1 Shami to Watson , no run , short of length outside off , Watson pushes it to mid-off off the back foot 15.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers punches hard , but finds point 15.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , on a good length and outside off , Chris Rogers lifts his bat and lets it go 15.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , nicely driven , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 15.3 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , leans on the front foot and defends into the gap at cover for an easy single 15.2 Ishant to Watson , FOUR , Watson once again takes it from outside off and then pulls through mid-wicket. Kept it down and beat deep mid-wicket 15.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Chris Rogers awkwardly nudges that off his hips behind square 14.6 Shami to Watson , FOUR , third boundary of the over and Shami is a disappointed man by the end of it. It was short and wide outside off , Watson stands tall and cuts powerfully into the gap at point 14.5 Shami to Watson , no run , full on off , Watson gets forward to defend it back to Shami Now a man goes back for that shot at deep mid-wicket 14.4 Shami to Watson , FOUR , top pull shot ! Takes it from outside off and then nails it over mid-wicket. Played it in the air and got it in the gap 14.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , on the pads , Chris Rogers gets inside the line and tucks it to deep backward square leg 14.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , shuffles across and defends to silly mid-off 14.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , this time Chris Rogers gets four. Similar shot to the last one. Opens the face on that and cover drives , beating Ishant 's chase 13.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , they wanted to run four , but settle for three. It was overpitched outside off and Chris Rogers leant on the cover drive , nicely played and long chase ensures one run is saved 13.5 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , Watson shuffles across and then nudges it softly through mid-wicket for a single 13.4 Ishant to Watson , no run , back of a length on off , Watson defends to point 13.3 Ishant to Watson , no run , gets forward and defends into the covers , sends Chris Rogers back 13.2 Ishant to Watson , no run , short of length outside off , Watson drops it to gully 13.1 Ishant to Watson , no run , Watson is beaten as he pushed at it. It swung in rapidly after passing the bat. Mahendra Singh Dhoni does well to stop it Drinks time. India started off well with three maiden overs and the wicket of Warner , but slowly Chris Rogers and Watson have settled down. The former looks in good touch with his punchy punches and lovely drives straight down the ground. Shami has been disappointing so far in his 3-over spell. Still a long way to go though . 12.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , stands tall and punches through cover for a couple of runs 12.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , was that a leave ? Or did he play at that ? On second viewing , Chris Rogers pulled his bat inside the line and lets it go 12.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , now Shami hits Chris Rogers on the splice. The batsman shuffling across and defends to silly mid-off 12.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , finally makes Chris Rogers play and then beats him. Exaggerated seam movement and bounce too for Shami , that makes the ball beat the bat by a long way. Che applauds that nut 12.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , too wide of off to make Chris Rogers play 12.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , way outside off and Chris Rogers wo n't play at that 11.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Ishant did n't bend down properly and lets it go past him. They take a single after that misfield 11.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , opens the face of the bat and finds the gap at point with a punch. Couple of runs 11.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , punched firmly , but straight to the fielder at short point 11.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , gets half forward and defends to silly mid-off 11.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , there was an appeal for lbw as the Indians reckoned it was pad first. Thigh pad and then onto bat , before going to gully. Chris Rogers wanted to leave that and was late in doing so. The height saved him 11.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on the stumps , Chris Rogers defends to mid-on Ishant Sharma [ 4.0-2-7-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Shami to Watson , no run , attacking the stumps is Shami , Watson is back and across before blocking 10.5 Shami to Watson , no run , tries to punch it through cover , gets an inside edge back down the wicket 10.4 Shami to Watson , no run , loud call of 'no ' from Watson after Chris Rogers looked for the quick single 10.3 Shami to Watson , no run , Watson gets forward to defend and gets a soft outside edge , does n't carry to Dhawan though 10.2 Shami to Watson , no run , adjusts his radar and bowls it outside off , Watson lifts his bat and lets it go 10.1 Shami to Watson , no run , wasted delivery , down leg , Watson ca n't meet with the glance 9.6 U Yadav to Watson , 3 runs , Watson gets forward and then opens the face of the bat to steer it into the gap at gully. Jinks runs after it and prevents the boundary 9.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , on the hips , nudged to deep backward square leg Now silly mid-off comes in to stop that shot 9.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , FOUR , bit too full from Umesh and Chris Rogers cashes in. Lovely off-drive , beating Kohli at mid-off 9.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers ' bat face closes as he aims for a drive down the ground , Umesh dives to his right to stop the ball 9.2 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , on the pads , clipped to deep backward square leg 9.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , 141kph length delivery on off , Watson gets forward and defends it back to Umesh 8.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , poor bowling from Shami. Short and wide outside off , Chris Rogers reached out and cut it wide of point. Easy pickings 8.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , 136kph full delivery outside off , Chris Rogers sees and then lets it go 8.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , outside off and left alone 8.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , 'catch ' was the cry as Chris Rogers leant forward to square drive , one-bounce to Jinks at gully 8.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , drags the length back , Chris Rogers defends to mid-off 8.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , Shami comes on and gives away the first boundary of the day. Overpitched on off , Chris Rogers gets forward and drives through mid-off , beats Kohli 's chase Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 7.6 U Yadav to Watson , no run , outside edge does n't carry to Dhawan at third slip. Umesh has a wry smile on his face after Watson edged his defensive stroke 7.5 U Yadav to Watson , 2 runs , drifting on the pads , nudged to fine leg for a couple 7.4 U Yadav to Watson , no run , Watson shuffles across and then defends to mid-on 7.3 U Yadav to Watson , no run , 143kph pacy delivery from Umesh. Not at all short and Watson is completely beaten on the pull. Not far away from the off stump that one 7.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Chris Rogers punches wide of mid-off for an easy single 7.1 U Yadav to Watson , 3 runs , Watson is completely opened up by that leg stump delivery , the leading edge is found and the ball squirts away through gully for three runs Watson is unhappy that someone is walking behind the bowler. He stops Umesh twice 6.6 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , Watson is a bit late on the defensive stroke. The bat comes down at an angle and the inside edge runs behind square 6.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , nice on-drive , high elbow and all that. Shami gives chase and keeps it down to three 6.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , sliding down leg , Chris Rogers fails to meet with the flick , the ball hits the thigh pad 6.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , outside off and on a length , Chris Rogers shoulders arms after seeing it well Now round the wicket 6.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , good length and angled across , Chris Rogers lifts his bat and lets it go 6.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , flicked straight to the fielder at backward square leg. Che the fielder 5.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Chris Rogers shuffles across and then clips it near short mid-wicket for a single 5.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , 143kph , may have bounced extra , Chris Rogers takes his bottom hand off the bat after defending 5.4 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , drop and run into the covers , good stuff as he spotted that the man was a bit deep. Chris Rogers responded in kind too 5.3 U Yadav to Watson , no run , nice shape away from Watson , who shoulders arms 5.2 U Yadav to Watson , 2 runs , pitched up on the stumps , neatly clipped to fine leg where Shami comes around 5.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , short of length on the stumps , Watson defends to the left of short leg 4.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , well outside off and Chris Rogers will leave that 4.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , inside edge onto the pads , but does n't carry back to Ishant. Chris Rogers 's front foot did n't move across properly that time 4.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers is beaten. He wanted to leave that and then played at it very late. The ball kept low and went past the edge 4.3 Ishant to Watson , 1 run , that hurried onto Watson , who mistimed his pull into the vacant mid-wicket area 4.2 Ishant to Watson , no run , nips back in , Watson tucks it to Che at short leg 4.1 Ishant to Watson , 2 runs , slightly closed face , but wide of short mid-wicket , another couple of runs A leg slip and a short mid-wicket in place for Watson against Ishant 3.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers closes the face of the bat and nudges it to backward square leg. That was clocked at 144kph 3.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , in the corridor of uncertainty , carrying through to MS after Chris Rogers shoulders arms 3.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , punched to point , the ball hits the practice wickets and completely fools Shami , he lets it go through his hands as he went down too early. Another couple 3.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , nerves ! KL Rahul the fielder. He runs after the ball and gets the slide all wrong. Looked comical there , but recovered in time. Can not prevent the two though 3.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , 142kph delivery on the stumps , Chris Rogers softly defends back down the track. The ball hit the splice of the bat that time 3.1 U Yadav to Watson , byes , 1 run , Dhoni gives away a bye and that will be the first runs of the match. Regulation take but he fluffed it , letting it through his mitts Three overs and three maidens from India - a far cry from the opening day at Adelaide where they were cut to pieces 2.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , 138kph back of a length delivery , Chris Rogers hops and defends to the right of Ishant 2.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , that is a good delivery but Chris Rogers has left that , hoisting his bat over his head. Good carry to Mahendra Singh Dhoni Some movement behind Ishant and Chris Rogers is n't happy. He wants that to be sorted 2.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers gets forward and drives well , but picks out mid-off 2.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers hops a little and defends towards short cover , sends Watson back who was taking steps to get to the other end 2.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , well wide of off , Chris Rogers wo n't play at that 2.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers defends it back to Ishant Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.6 U Yadav to Warner , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! Gone ! That 's a big wicket. Warner is gone for a duck. Umesh made Warner play at that , it might have bounced a tad extra , Warner jabbed at it and it went low to Dhawan at 3rd slip who took a good catch. Umesh is jumping around in joy. The pressure built up in the first 11 deliveries has told. Warner c Dhawan b U Yadav 0 ( 6 ) U Yadav to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.5 U Yadav to Warner , no run , 140kph length delivery on the pads , tucked to square leg 1.4 U Yadav to Warner , no run , Warner tried to cut that through point , but mistimes it to mid-off 1.3 U Yadav to Warner , no run , 'wait on ' is the call as Warner shows the full face of the bat to push to mid-off Three slips and a gully in place 1.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , on a good length and outside off , Warner gets forward and shoulders arms 1.1 U Yadav to Warner , no run , short of length on the hips , Warner hops a little and jabs it to the right of square leg Umesh Yadav , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , good first over from Ishant. A maiden. Chris Rogers unsure whether to leave or play that one , eventually he lets it go , but was in a dilemma there Rogers takes a couple of deep breaths and then composes himself. He is set to go again 0.5 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers has been pinged ! He has a wry smile on his face after getting hit on the box. He is down , but not out. He misjudged the length of the delivery and then shouldered arms , it hit him right where it pains the most 0.4 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , angled across on a fuller length , Chris Rogers sees that and then shoulders arms 0.3 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , false stroke from Chris Rogers. He reaches out to drive and it squirts off the inside half back to Ishant 0.2 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , too straight this time from Ishant , on the middle stump line , worked to mid-on 0.1 Ishant to Chris Rogers , no run , good line and length first up from Ishant , full and outside off , left alone Chris Rogers and Warner are at the crease. Chris Rogers is on strike. Ishant will open the attack The players are walking out. The Indians are first in. The openers then stride out. Great atmosphere at the G. Cracking opening session in prospect. Ishant will bowl to Rogers first up . Dhoni : 'We have to. It 's a difficult position to be in. If we concentrate on the process and forget about the result , then it will be fine. We should bowl well in the first session , the wicket will do something early on. The preparation has been good for the last couple of days. It 's fantastic , it 's a big stadium , the weather is great - overall it should be exciting for the players and the spectators.' Smith : 'We will have a bat please. I hope so. It looks a pretty good track , hopefully we will start well and get a good first innings total. It was great to have all the families around and Christmas yesterday. I have grown up as a kid seeing all this and hopefully it will be another good week. We have two changes.' Pitch report : 'Absolutely magnificent ' is the phrase used to describe the pitch by Dean Jones. 'It might be a good toss to lose , the pitch has a tendency to be slowish early on. As this match will go on , it will get better and better to bat on.' So Mohammed Shami comes in for Varun Aaron while Rahul replaces Rohit Sharma. Both big calls. Only time will tell whether those decisions prove to be right . India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Murali Vijay , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Lokesh Rahul , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Ishant Sharma Australia have won the toss and have opted to bat Also , KL Rahul will make his debut for India . The good news for the Indians is that Bhuvneshwar 's recovery has progressed well and he might play this Boxing Day Test at the G. His comeback will add heft to both batting and bowling . Australia playing XI : David Warner , Chris Rogers , Shane Watson , Steven Smith ( c ) , Shaun Marsh , Joe Burns , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Ryan Harris , Nathan Lyon and Josh Hazlewood . " Stuff like that makes good stories for the tabloid and maybe it helps them sell it. As far as the reality is concerned , there 's been nothing like that. " Meanwhile , MS Dhoni has quashed all speculations surrounding the Dhawan-Kohli flare-up. Here is what the Indian skipper had to say. " Virat [ Kohli ] used a knife. He stabbed Shikhar [ Dhawan ] , who just recovered out of that then we pushed him to bat. These are all stories. Marvel , maybe Warner Bros or somebody should pick up this and make a nice movie out of it. " Will the Aussies continue their winning ways ? Or can India bounce back to stay alive in the series ? Let us find out . The news is that Clarke has joined the Channel Nine commentary team for this Boxing Day Test . 'Bucky responded with a pair of half centuries - the second of which was absolutely crucial in guiding Australia to victory - that showed his class and experience.' 'Hadds might n't have made a big impression in the runs column over the past couple of Tests but he has been flawless with the gloves , taking nine catches at the Gabba and three catches and a stumping in Adelaide. Watto , too , has n't had the batting success he 'd have hoped for this series despite a couple of promising starts. But he bowled some crucial overs in Brisbane , claiming the wicket of Rohit Sharma , and has caught well in the slips.' The injured Australian skipper writes 'Personally , I hope all three of them are on the plane to England for next years Ashes series. They bring so much more to the table than just their batting.' Michael Clarke 's column for the Daily Telegraph has the headline ' Do n't judge veterans just on batting form' However , Starc does not figure in the Playing XI . 'I think it 's a sign of how promising and versatile he is that whenever there 's a vacancy whatever the conditions , wherever in the world the match is , he 's always in the selectors ' minds. He 's definitely high in the next crop coming through. It is easy to forget Starcy is still 24. He 's way ahead of where I was at 24 ' adds the 35-year old pacer . 'Starcy is a bloody hard worker. He just has n't yet had a chance to show it over a long period in Tests , having yet to play more than two in a row in his three-and-a-bit years since debuting. Whether it 's guys coming back from injury , or different reasons , he has been the man that 's in and out , unfortunately. Andy Bichel was one of those guys years ago. ' writes Ryan Harris for the Age 'Hard , fast and bouncy wickets are something Axar is looking forward to. " My type of bowling suits the kind of wickets we get in Australia. I like the bounce in a pitch and if given a chance , I will show that I can do well , " he said. Axar , who got four wickets against Saurashtra on Sunday , has played nine ODIs since his debut against Bangladesh in June this year , taking 14 wickets.' 'Axar Patel 's career is on the up. After making his one-day international debut in June this year , the Gujarat all-rounder is now packing his bags for Australia.' Here is Suresh Parekh for the Mumbai Mirror , exploring Axar 's success story . 'When asked what is the most annoying aspect of Rohit 's dismissals , Chappell said , " The most annoying thing is he 's wasting an enormous talent. He gets out so softly all the time. " ' He writes , 'Nothing excites former cricketers more than seeing a highly talented player with a bright future. And nothing is more frustrating than seeing a player not living up to his potential. Rohit Sharma is a case in point as the Mumbai middle-order batsman has disappointed former Australia captain-turned-commentator Ian Chappell , who liked what he saw when he watched Rohit play his first one-day international against Australia in Brisbane during the 2007-08 season. Seven years later , Rohit has not hit the high notes Down Under although he got starts in the first innings of the Adelaide and Brisbane Tests where India lost by 48 runs and four wickets respectively.' Clayton Murzello , writing for the Mid-day delves into the Jekyll-Hyde nature of Rohit Sharma Hope you all had a great Christmas ! Good morning and welcome to the third Test of the Border-Gavaskar series. Before the flip of the coin , let us have a peek at the newspapers . The Indian bowlers were good in patches but failed to seize the key moments. Ishant and Co. forced Australia to earn their stripes in the second innings , which would have left them wondering how a 200 + target would have panned out . On the other hand , Jadeja is out of the remainder of the Test series because of a shoulder injury. Axar Patel , a like-for-like replacement , has been drafted into the squad. In all likelihood , Ashwin will continue to be the front-line spinner . Dhawan , who was under as much pressure as Rohit , showed fight en route to 81 , braving a wrist injury. Kohli was also hit in the nets but both have been passed fit for the Melbourne Test . The visitors have talked the talk , but have failed to walk the talk. The verbal volleys backfired badly with Rohit Sharma coming under the microscope for the nth time. He has not stood up to pressure and is far too prone to throwing his starts away. Will India take a gamble on Lokesh Rahul and play him in the middle order ? The hosts , however , resemble a well-oiled machine and will be keen to carry on and inflict another whitewash on India . Australia 's premier spinner , Nathan Lyon , has backed his out-of-form team-mates , Shane Watson and Brad Haddin , to bounce back from their recent lean form with the bat. Shane Watson has had a couple of starts so far in the series but has n't gone past 33 while Brad Haddin has managed only 66 runs from his last 8 innings with the bat. Moreover , Watto 's fitness had also come under a cloud of doubt after being pinged on the head by a Pattinson bouncer in the nets . The new kid on the block is Queensland batsman , Joe Burns , who replaces the injured Mitch Marsh. Burns lends more flexibility to the side and will slot in at Number 6. Burns will be Baggy Green Number 441 . However , a one-match man hangs over Smith 's head after his side was punished for slow over-rate during the second Test. Meanwhile , Mitch Johnson has sounded a warning to the opposition , saying that the sledging and mind games will continue. Ryan Harris , who was ruled out of the Gabba Test due to a quad strain will return. Warner , who suffered a blow to his thumb , is also fit and ready for the third Test . The sorry Indian capitulation played out again as the visitors slid to 2-0 after making 408 in the first innings , riding on Murali Vijay 's century. Then Mitchell Johnson , spurred on by sledging was at it , both with the bat and ball , ripping out India. Steve Smith scored 133 in the first innings and won the Man of the Match award , capping off a memorable captaincy debut , emulating Greg Chappell . Auckland : 64/5
