Graphs Both India and Australia have fought tooth and nail although the scoreline ( 2-0 ) may suggest otherwise. We have witnessed two young captains rise up to the challenge. The verbal duels have also added plenty of spice to the contest. Hope you enjoyed our coverage to the hilt. The two teams will resume hostilities in the Tri-Nation series , which also features England. Do join us for that and many thanks for your company and comments. Until then , take care and tata . Some views from the twitterati : Bishan Bedi : Everything considered draw at SCG fair result & OZ deserving Series ' win.Sadly Tests r over & what remains is exhaustive ODI 's & not T20 's ! ! Anjum Chopra : Steve Smith takes the MoM and Man of the Series awards for his record breaking efforts with the bat # AusvInd. What a moment ! Well played ! Rajneesh Gupta : The 5870 runs in the series makes it the highest run-scoring four-match series ever,ahead of 2003-04 # AUSvIND series that produced 5651 runs Glenn McGrath : Congratulations to @ stevesmith49 & the Aussie team on regaining the Border/Gavaskar Trophy. Well played boys # AUSvIND Mohandas Menon : The last team before India to draw two successive Tests in Australia : South Africa in November 2012. Before that NZ in Nov-Dec 2001 Series summary : The tragic passing of Phillip Joel Hughes cast a pall of gloom over the series and its start was rightly deferred to allow the cricketing fraternity mourn the passing away of a bright young talent. Finally , cricket had dug in and got through to tea . 1st Test , Adelaide : It was a timeless classic. After two and a half days of dull , drab cricket , the series hurtled to action with the Aaron-Warner altercation. The likes of Kohli , Dhawan , Smith were also in the thick of verbal chatter. Batting first , Australia posted 517 with Warner ( 145 ) , Clarke ( 128 ) and Smith ( 162 ) scoring centuries each and dedicating it to Hughes. Kohli scored twin hundreds on captaincy debut and nearly powered India to a famous win. After Kohli 's 115 and Rahane 's 62 helped India to cut down the deficit to 73 , Warner scored his second ton of the match to set up a 364-run target. Vijay set the foundation with 99 to go with his fifty in the first innings , while Kohli scored a stunning 141 before Lyon completed a 12-fer to secure a 1-0 lead for the hosts. The game also marked Kohli 's readiness for Test leadership . 2nd Test , Brisbane : Batting first India made 408 on the back of M Vijay 's rock-solid 144. The Indian opener was ably assisted by Rahane 's 81 along with handy contributions from Dhoni and Ashwin. Debutant Hazlewood picked up a 5/fer in the first innings. Then the Indian bowlers had the Aussies in a tight spot at 6/247 , before Mitch combined well with Steve Smith in a counter-attacking stand. Smith , taking over the captaincy from the injured Michael Clarke endorsed his succession into the latter 's big boots - emulating Greg Chappell , scoring a ton in his debut innings as Australia Test skipper. Starc and Lyon also joined in the fun as the hosts surged to 505. Dhawan 's injury then created unrest in the Indian camp and they simply froze in the face of some excellent bowling. From a promising 76/1 India slipped to 143/7 before eventually getting bowled out for 224. The wayward Indian bowlers improved their line and lengths in the second innings , forcing Australia earn their stripes , while also leaving themselves wondering how a 200 + target would have panned out . 3rd Test , Melbourne : Skipper Steve Smith was at it again , scoring his 3rd ton of the series. He was involved in another counter-attacking stand , this time with Haddin at the 'G , taking the hosts to a massive 530. Rahane and Kohli led India 's reply with contrasting , yet exquisite centuries but India suffered another late order capitulation - from 409/3 to 465 all-out. While Rogers got to his fourth fifty in a row , Marsh ran himself out for 99. Australia , sitting on a 2-0 lead , looked to play safe by batting on and with it killed the chances of a result. As Smith himself stressed in the presser , the hosts ' first priority was to wrap up the series and reclaim the Border-Gavaskar trophy. Facing a 384-run target in 70 overs , India were rocked early as they were reduced to 19/3 before Kohli , Rahane and Dhoni mounted a fight to snap India 's 5-Test losing streak with a creditable draw. Shortly after the conclusion of the MCG test , MS Dhoni called it a day in Tests , citing the heavy workload of playing all formats. Statistically , he is India 's most successful captain. But is he the best Indian Test captain ever ? Well , that is a debate for another day ! 4th Test , Sydney : The Aussies batted first and batted big again as centuries from Warner and Smith propelled them to 572. There were other stars as well with Watto , Marsh and Burns , chipping in with fifties each. The Indian pacers sprayed the ball all round the shop , simplifying things for the hosts. India were off to a disastrous start , losing Vijay for a duck. However , Rahul scored a fine century , which saw him come to terms with the tempo of Test cricket , after a nightmarish debut. Kohli was at it again , making 147. For the first time in the series , the lower-order showed resistance through Ashwin and Bhuvneshwar to eat into Australia 's first innings lead. Australia lost Warner early in the second innings. Ashwin got the ball to jump and turn. The hosts though counter-attacked and hit their way to 251 , before announcing a rather predictable overnight declaration. Vijay was back to his usual solid self , Rohit also fought his way to 39 but a late-order wobble forced India to veer off the winning path and settle with a draw. Take no credit from the likes of Lyon and Starc though. They maintained top discipline and very nearly made it 3-0 . Smith : " I think at the start of the series we wanted to win it. India played pretty well today and I am satisfied with 2-0. We have a good bunch of guys together. I am looking forward to the World Cup too. We have had very good batting pitches. I am pleased with the way our bowlers have gone about their business. It has been nice to score a few runs this series. We cashed in and I am happy with my performances. Mitch is a world-class performer ( when asked if Australia missed Johnson in this match ) . Starc was aggressive and it is very exciting for us even in the future. To win a series , it is very satisfying for us. " Here is Smith in conversation with Ganguly and Gavaskar . Kohli : " I think we played well in the second innings , there was a mixture of patience and intent. Jinks showed a lot of character and determination. Eventually , it was a satisfying effort , but crossing the line would have been better. There have been some positives , but only in patches. The batsmen have stepped up , the bowlers need consistency. What matters is taking 20 wickets in Tests. We know we are lacking and we have to improve. At the end of the day , we have to back our strengths. We have to back the guys. The Aussie bowlers know how to set-up batsmen and we have to learn from them. We need to take something from the opposition. After the time in England , I have learnt a lot. I stand on middle and when I shuffle I get to the off stump. I have been a step ahead of the bowler. Few knocks in a winning cause would have been sweeter. I hate losing. That is the bottomline. When I see people like you all , there is great respect. I want our guys to have the same respect and presence. That is what you play for. " Here is Kohli in conversation with Ganguly. The current Indian skipper with the past master. Both wear their hearts on their sleeve. But , who is the most aggressive ? We leave that to you . Smith collects the Border-Gavaskar trophy from the two legends. The Aussies get on the podium and pose for the photographers . Steve Smith : " Very good series win. That was the most important thing for us. It was a tough day at the office. The ball spun and bounced but a couple of chances did not go to hand. India did well to hang on. It was nice to get on the horse after dropping a couple. I have enjoyed batting in this series. To make four hundreds in the series is satisfying. Michael ( Clarke ) is still there. I am here only temporarily. They are a great bunch of guys and I am proud of the way the boys have played. We are a very good one-day side as well. I am looking forward to the tri-series and then the World Cup. " Virat Kohli : " Firstly , thanks to the Indian people who have supported us and the Australian fans , who have given us a tough time. We wanted to play hard cricket and give a fight. I am proud of the way we played in the series. It could have gone either way. I am sure Australia would have enjoyed the competition as well. They composed themselves after the tragic incident ( Phil Hughes ' death ) and it was commendable on their part as well. Well , at tea time , I was not 100 % sure if we wanted to go for the target. After Vijay got out , I thought we could go for it and we are not coming here in a long time. If it does not happen , it does not happen. It 's worth taking the risk. The guys have stepped up to show character and determination. In Australia it is not easy , Rahul showed maturity. Vijay has been solid for us and Rahane too. Exciting times for us , going forward. Absolutely ! If we believe in it and if we think about it we can win the World Cup ( wild cheers ) . So far , we have played good cricket in Australia and this experience will help us. " Double delight for Steve Smith. He is the Man of the Match and the Man of the Series as well . Presentation time : Once again , Vijay showed impeccable judgement outside off and scored his 5th fifty-plus score of the series , while also surpassing Sehwag 's tally of 464 to record the most runs by an Indian opener in a Test series in Australia. However , both Vijay and Kohli , fell at a crucial juncture after tea to trigger off an Indian capitulation. Even as Raina and Saha fell to ducks , Rahane showed steel to guide India to a draw in the company of Bhuvneshwar Kumar . The final day began on an expected note with Steve Smith declaring on Australia 's overnight score , giving India a target of 349 in 90 overs. The Indian openers began steadily before Lyon plunged into the action , removing KL Rahul for 16. With the Aussie bowlers bowling disciplined line and lengths , Vijay and Rohit put their heads down and grafted hard , stitching together a 56-run stand to rebuild the Indian innings . Smith : " India hung on well. We did not get there , but I am really proud of the boys ' efforts. " Virat Kohli comes out and hugs Kumar. The Indian captain takes a stump as a souvenir. India endured another mini collapse , losing 4 wickets for 30 runs , but the lower-order rallied in the company of Rahane to salvage a draw. The Aussie bowlers dished out everything they had , from quick bouncers to ripping turners , but the visitors managed to salvage a draw ! Smith shakes hands with Kumar and then with Rahane. India hang onto a draw , Australia take the series 2-0 ! 89.5 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , FOUR , dropped short on the stumps , rocked back and pulled away over mid-wicket 89.4 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , spinning down leg , helped behind square leg. The Indian dressing room applauds 89.3 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , skids low on off , Bhuvneshwar watches the ball and keeps it out off an under-edge onto the pad. The ball spins back as well , but Bhuvneshwar kicks it away with his pad 89.2 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , flighted delivery on off , dabbed past silly-point. Bhuvneshwar half-waves his bat to Rahane 89.1 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , FOUR , pitched up outside off , Bhuvneshwar drills a drive to the long-off fence We are down to the last over of the series. India have all but arrived on safe shores. Meanwhile , Lyon has 6 balls to push them to danger and pull off a heist for the hosts . 88.6 Starc to Rahane , no run , bouncer down leg , Rahane plays inside the line of it 88.5 Starc to Rahane , no run , nasty lifter angled into the body , Rahane fends at it , the ball grazes the glove but dies in front of gully 88.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , good length ball , defended down the track 88.3 Starc to Rahane , 2 runs , overpitched and outside off , driven past cover. Rahane gets across for a couple 88.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , yes ! Bouncer outside off , leaps up like a spitting cobra. Jinks has an iffy waft at it and gets beaten Smith waving his arms like a traffic cop and setting his field. Backward square has been whisked to the deep. Short stuff on the menu ? 88.1 Starc to Bhuvneshwar , 1 run , angled outside off from round the stumps , squirted past gully to third man off the outside edge for just a single. Rahane gets the strike Mitchell Starc [ 18.0-7-33-2 ] is back into the attack Australia need 3 wickets. India need to bat out 12 balls . 87.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floaty delivery on off , dead-batted to the left of Haddin 87.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , angled in on middle from round the stumps , defended to the leg-side 87.4 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , flat and slid through on off , jammed through vacant cover-point for a brace. Every ball kept out is being applauded by the Indian change room 6-men around the bat . 87.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , spins in sharply on off , Rahane works it in front of point 87.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , fullish and just outside off , tapped past silly-point 87.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up nicely , some bounce as well , Rahane misses the defensive push , the ball lobs in front of short leg off the pad Just 18 balls to go ! Can Lyon or Smith do a Clarke today ? 86.6 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , no run , back of a length and outside off , dabbed in front of point from the crease 86.5 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , short of length on the stumps , Rahane rocks back and pulls it wide of a diving short fine leg. Bucky was the fielder there 86.4 R Harris to Rahane , no run , back of a length and on off , blocked solidly 86.3 R Harris to Rahane , no run , extra bounce on this length ball outside off , Rahane employs soft hands and dabs it to gully 86.2 R Harris to Rahane , no run , banged in short and rises on Rahane , who stays back and fends it safely 86.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , good length ball on off , defended Ryan Harris [ 12.0-3-33-0 ] is back into the attack In 2008 when these two played at this very venue , with 15-odd minutes to go , Clarke went W W . . W to snatch the game away from India. Anything can happen , for that is the beauty of the game ! 85.6 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , darted flat on the stumps , drilled to short mid-on 85.5 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , FOUR , too full and outside off , Bhuvi crunches the drive past the covers , the ball trickles away to the fence. A bit of glove love between Bhuvneshwar and Rahane to go with that 85.4 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , spins in from outside off , Bhuvneshwar gets right behind the line and blocks it back to the bowler 85.3 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , flighted delivery on middle , blocked to the leg-side Whoa ! 7-men around the bat . 85.2 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , extra bounce on this one outside off , Bhuvneshwar pads it away , the ball takes the arm-guard and loops wide of a diving silly-point 85.1 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , pushed through on off , defended by Bhuvneshwar These two are fighting hard for India. They need to keep out 30 balls to salvage a draw . 84.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , good length ball on middle , turned backward of square for a four. I am not sure if Rahane was looking for a four , he wanted to pinch the strike 84.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , fraction short on off , Rahane hops up and fends it to short leg 84.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , a carbon copy of the second delivery of the over , left alone 84.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , leg stumpish , eased to fine leg. Rahane refuses the single on offer. He does n't want to expose Kumar to Hazlewood 84.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rahane covers his off pole , lifts his bat and lets it go 84.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump , forward and knocked in front of point Josh Hazlewood [ 16.0-7-27-2 ] is back into the attack 83.6 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , spinning down leg , Bhuvneshwar goes for a half-hearted pull and waves it to backward short leg , who dives and stops the ball 83.5 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , spins in quicker on the leg stump , blocked to backward short leg 83.4 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , nicely tossed up , Bhuvneshwar gets across to dead-bat it Another close-in fielder. 6-men around the bat . 83.3 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , fended in front of a forward-diving backward short leg 83.2 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , extra bounce and spins in from outside off , Bhuvneshwar somehow keeps it out 83.1 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , quicker and spins down leg , missed flick from Bhuvi. Hadds does not collect it cleanly Nathan Lyon [ 27.0-4-96-2 ] is back into the attack Lyon 's back. The hard new ball gripped and turn for Ash yesterday. Let us see how Lyon operates. 5-men around the bat . 82.6 Starc to Rahane , no run , short and angled across , Rahane yanks his head out of the way 82.5 Starc to Rahane , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Rahane rises with it and cuts it past cover , the rich timing carries it away to the fence. Rahane wears a wry smile on his face. He wants a single to keep strike for the next over 82.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , similar length but the line is much better now - outside off - Rahane does not bother with it 82.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , short and down leg , wasted delivery from Starc 82.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , fiery bumper sails over to Haddin as Rahane sways away from the line of harm 82.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , short of length and climbs over off , Rahane leaps up and quells it to cover 81.6 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , 2 runs , comes in a bit , but it is straighter in line , tucked away to deep square leg Two catching covers swoop in now . Rahane walks up to Bhuvneshwar and has a word with him . 81.5 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , 2 runs , pitched up and outside off , Bhuvi laces a drive past cover for a couple 81.4 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , no run , back of a length and around off , Bhuvneshwar hangs back and defends it to cover 81.3 R Harris to Rahane , 1 run , Harris goes wide of the crease and delivers this good length ball , Rahane pushes this wide of cover 81.2 R Harris to Rahane , no run , jumps up from a back of a length on off , Rahane hops up , deals with the extra bounce with soft hands and fends it in front of point 81.1 R Harris to Rahane , no run , back of a length and around off , blocked solidly to the off-side Ryan Harris [ 11.0-3-28-0 ] is back into the attack Lyon 's off. Here is Harris with 3 slips and 2 gullies . 80.6 Starc to Rahane , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Rahane is up on his toes as he punches it towards sweeper cover. He takes the single he had sought for 80.5 Starc to Rahane , no run , pitched up on middle , Rahane is drawn forward into a defensive stroke to short mid-wicket 80.4 Starc to Bhuvneshwar , 1 run , pitched up and tails on middle , Bhuvi flicks it in front of square on the leg-side. Bhuvi looks for the second but Jinks wants to farm the strike 80.3 Starc to Bhuvneshwar , no run , short and dragged down leg , Bhuvneshwar lets it be 80.2 Starc to Bhuvneshwar , no run , Starc gets some inswing but slides it down leg , Bhuvneshwar misses the flick. Hadds dives and gloves the ball well Add a short leg as well . 80.1 Starc to Bhuvneshwar , no run , fuller and teasing Bhuvneshwar outside off , he resists and lets it go Mitchell Starc [ 16.0-7-27-2 ] is back into the attack Australia take the second new ball straightaway. Mitch Starc will make first use of it with three slips and a pair of gullies . 79.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , Lyon drags his length back a touch on off , pushed back to the bowler off the back foot 79.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane lunges forward in defence 79.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Rahane keeps it out off the inside part of the bat 79.3 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , 1 run , flat and drifting on the leg stump , nudged through the legs of short leg for a single 79.2 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , Lyon drags his length back on off , defended to one of the two short leg fielders 6-men around the bat now 79.1 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , spins in on off , defended off the back foot 78.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , full and hurled in on off , Rahane jabs his bat down and survives 78.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , good length ball reverses in on off , nudged to short mid-wicket off the inside part of the bat 78.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , outside off , left alone The tracker shows that the ball was just clipping leg. Umpire 's call would have prevailed even if there was DRS in the series . 78.3 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , 1 run , reverses in on the pads , glanced fine for a single Jinks passes on some tips to the incoming Kumar. The latter is greeted by a FSL and a short mid-on . Bhuvneshwar Kumar , right handed bat , comes to the crease 78.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , out Lbw ! ! Another one bites the dust. Ashwin is gone ! Fuller and swings in on middle , Ash falls over the flick and is rapped on the pads. Ump Richard Kettleborough ponders for a moment and then raises his finger to give Ashwin the marching orders. Hazlewood is mobbed by his teammates. That would have clipped the leg stump. Ashwin lbw b Hazlewood 1 ( 22 ) Hazlewood to Ashwin , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 78.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , outside off , left alone Coming back to the bat-pad decision , Ump Dharma referred it to the TV umpire , while notifying his opinion that it was NOT OUT . 77.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on middle , solidly blocked to short leg 4-men around the bat 77.5 Lyon to Ashwin , 1 run , flatter and on off , jammed in front of point for a single 77.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted delivery on the fourth stump , defended past silly-point off the front foot 77.3 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , spins in sharply on off , Ashwin blocks it off the back foot 77.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted delivery on off , Ashwin lunges forward to smother it 77.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , skids off the deck and stays low on off , Ash stoops low as well to keep it out 76.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , fraction short on off , half pulled/paddled to square leg 76.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , Rahane respects this good length ball and dabs it to cover 76.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , back of a length and on off , Rahane gets right behind the line and blocks it to the off-side , adjacent to the pitch 76.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a length and on off , Rahane is drawn into a forward defensive back to Hazlewood 76.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , good length ball outside off , left alone 76.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , pitched up and reverses in , tapped back to the bowler 75.6 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flatter on middle and leg , Ash gets across and defends it to the leg-side 75.5 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , looped up nicely on off , Ash prods at it. The ball catches the inside-edge , pops up in the air off the pad , but just about drops low in front of Marsh at silly-point. He claims the catch. Umpire Dharma initially thought that the ball had bounced and gestured the same to Lyon and the close-in Aussie fielders. Just to be sure he sends it upstairs. The TV ump has a closer look at it and deems it NOT OUT and rightly so . 75.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , turns in from outside off on middle , Ash defends it to short leg off the back foot 75.3 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , spinning down leg , glanced to fine leg 75.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , blocked off the back foot. Lyon looks to exploit the rough 75.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , keeps low outside off , Rahane crouches and pushes it to silly-point Drinks are on the field now. India are struggling here. For them , a draw now becomes a priority as a win looks too far fetched an idea. With 4 wickets in 30 runs , it has been another disastrous performance from the lower middle order. Raina departed for a duck and so did Saha. Now , the onus is on Rahane and Ashwin to see the remaining overs out. Can India draw this game ? Or will Australia run through the last four wickets ? Let 's find out . 74.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , banged in short and wide outside off , Ashwin is happy to drop his wrists and leave it for the keeper 74.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , straying on the pads , Rahane tucks it away to deep backward square leg and gets to the other end 74.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , slightly fuller and outside off , Rahane does n't offer a shot A silly mid-off is in place now 74.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , angling on middle and leg , Rahane defends it back to the bowler 74.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , slightly wide outside off and back of a length , Rahane shoulders arms even though the ball shapes in a touch after pitching 74.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , length delivery around off , Rahane comes forward and defends it with a straight bat Josh Hazlewood [ 13.0-6-25-1 ] is back into the attack Hazlewood comes into the attack , replacing Starc. So , things wo n't get any easier for the Indians 73.6 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , gives this one more air outside off , Ashwin leans into the drive , drags it back towards the bowler off the inside half of the bat 73.5 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , slightly flatter and pitched on middle , the ball spins past the batsman , who left it alone for the keeper 73.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , floated up just outside off , Ashwin drives it into the off-side A leg gully has been added now 73.3 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , tossed up just outside off , Ashwin comes on the front foot and drives it back to the bowler 73.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Ashwin goes back and defends 73.1 Lyon to Ashwin , byes , 2 runs , floated up on middle and spins past the batsman , beats the keeper as well , the batsmen run for two byes before Warner from leg slip hunts it down 72.6 Starc to Rahane , FOUR , straying on the pads , Rahane glances it to the fine leg fence , that was a poor delivery from Starc 72.5 Starc to Rahane , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Rahane hangs back and blocks it into the covers India lost 4 wickets in the space of 30 runs , another collapse for the Indians. From a position of strength , they have thrown it away for the nth time 72.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , on a good length and outside off , Rahane opens the face of the bat and dabs it into the off-side 72.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane defends off the front foot Comes round the wicket now 72.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , on the pads from Starc , Rahane clips it into the on-side 72.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , back of a length delivery angling away , Rahane defends it into the off-side after jumping up Coming back to Saha 's wicket , he misjudged the length of the ball. He should have gone forward to that delivery , but he chose to go back even though the length was pretty full . 71.6 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , floated up on middle stump line , Ashwin turns it into the on-side after pressing forward 71.5 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , slows this one and drags it short as well , Ashwin goes back in the crease and blocks 71.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Ashwin drives it back to the bowler off the front foot 71.3 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Ashwin leans forward and blocks 71.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , floated up just outside off and turning in towards the batsman , Ashwin defends it into the on-side off the front foot Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 71.1 Lyon to W Saha , out Lbw ! ! India are in deep trouble as Saha goes now. It was the easiest decision of the day. It was tossed up just outside off , Saha goes deep in the crease and was looking to defend , the ball keeps very low and hits him right in line with middle stump. Umpire Dharmasena raised his finger very quickly and again , an Indian collapse is on the cards. W Saha lbw b Lyon 0 ( 6 ) Lyon to W Saha , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 70.6 Starc to Rahane , FOUR , full toss from Starc , Rahane helps it on its way to deep backward square leg fence and bags four 70.5 Starc to Rahane , no run , back of a length outside off , Rahane lifts his bat and lets it go 70.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , slightly fuller outside off , Rahane drives it into the off-side after opening the face of the bat 70.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , on a length and outside off stump , pushed into the off-side 70.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , on a good length and shapes away from the length , Rahane was looking to defend , ends up getting squared up because of the away movement 70.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , on a good length and angling in just outside off , Rahane defends from the crease 69.6 Lyon to W Saha , no run , tossed up around off , Saha presses forward and dead-bats it 69.5 Lyon to W Saha , no run , good turn and bounce for Lyon there , it was a flighted delivery on off and turning in sharply , Saha was leaning forward to defend , the ball spins past the bat and hits him on the thigh pad 69.4 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , drags this one short and just outside off. Rahane punches it through the covers and gets to the other end A silly point in place as well 69.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg , Rahane hangs back and turns it towards leg slip 69.2 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off and turning back in , Rahane blocks it into the on-side 69.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane defends off the front foot 68.6 Starc to W Saha , no run , length delivery around off , Saha covers the line and defends solidly 68.5 Starc to W Saha , no run , angles this one on the pads , Saha flicks it to square leg 68.4 Starc to W Saha , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Saha pushes at it with soft hands , the ball takes the outside edge and bounces just short of the slip cordon Wriddhiman Saha , right handed bat , comes to the crease 68.3 Starc to Raina , out Lbw ! ! Raina bags a pair. Two ducks in two innings and third consecutive duck in Tests. After bowling those delivery down leg , Starc gets this to swing back in from a good length , Raina was looking to defends , he fails to put his bat on the ball and the ball hits him in line with off and middle , there was a huge appeal and the umpire raised his finger in a flash. Poor batting display from Raina Raina lbw b Starc 0 ( 3 ) Starc to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 68.2 Starc to Raina , no run , slighlty back of a length delivery going down leg , Raina was looking to tuck it into the on-side , he misses , the keeper dives to his right and collects , he thought there was an edge there , but the bowler did n't appeal at all 68.1 Starc to Raina , no run , fuller in length and angling down leg , Raina fails to tickle it fine , the keeper collects 67.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up just outside off and turns back in , Rahane was caught in the crease as he looks to work it into the on-side , he misses and is hit on the pads , there was a huge appeal from the bowler , but the impact was high there and ump Dharmasena is quick to point that out 67.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flatter delivery that spins back in sharply from a length , Rahane was looking to defend , there was extra bounce , but Rahane dropped his wrists to tackle the ball 67.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery on off , Rahane comes on the front foot and defends 67.3 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off and middle , Rahane leans forward and blocks 67.2 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , tossed up just outside off , Rahane drives , but hits it uppishly , the ball just about manages to evade the mid-off fielder and the batsmen take two , Rahane 's heart must have been in his mouth when he played that shot 67.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flatter delivery on the stumps , Rahane defends solidly Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease Kohli 's wicket will definitely hamper India 's hopes of chasing this down. Can they do it without Kohli ? Or will they play for a draw now ? We will find out . 66.6 Starc to Kohli , out Caught by Watson ! ! The Indian captain is gone and Starc is delighted to have his man. What a bowling change by Smith. It was on a fuller length little wide outside off and shapes away as well , Kohli goes chasing after it , gets an outside edge that goes low towards the first slip fielder , where Watson dives to his right and takes a good catch. Kohli c Watson b Starc 46 ( 95 ) [ 4s-3 ] Starc to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 66.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Kohli covers the stumps , gets behind the line of the ball and presents the full face of the bat 66.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , slighlty back of a length and outside off , Kohli waits back and guides it behind square on the off-side after opening the face of the bat 66.3 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , edged and four ! It was fuller in length and just outside off , Kohli goes for the expansive drive , he ends up slicing it past a diving Lyon at gully , he ca n't get his hand on the ball and the ball runs away to the fence , it was close to the fielder though and Kohli was not in control of that shot 66.2 Starc to Kohli , no run , length delivery around off , Kohli comes on the front foot and pushes it into the off-side with an angular bat 66.1 Starc to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery angling in on off and middle , Kohli clips it to short mid-wicket , who dives to make the stop , the ball races towards the fielder there as it was timed sweetly by Kohli Mitchell Starc [ 12.0-6-15-0 ] is back into the attack Starc comes into the attack now. He will start from round the wicket 65.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Kohli goes deep in the crease and turns it behind square , he will keep the strike 65.5 Lyon to Kohli , 2 runs , overpitching outside off , Kohli jams the drive through the covers and gets back for the second 65.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter and spinning in on leg , the ball bounces extra as Kohli was looking to flick , he misses and the ball clips the thigh pad and loops up for Warner at leg slip , the Aussies started appealing , but the umpire turned it down immediately 65.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slows this one around off and middle , Kohli hangs back and turns it to FSL , who dives and stops the ball 65.2 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , tossed up just outside off , Rahane leans forward and pushes it into the off-side , the batsmen pinch a quick run 65.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , shortish delivery outside off , Rahane was backing away to cut that one , the ball bounces extra and the keeper collects it awkwardly at the end A leg slip is also in place for Lyon 64.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , in the channel outside off , Kohli gets behind the line and defends it into the off-side 64.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , 2 runs , angles this one on middle stump line , Kohli shuffles across and works it through the mid-wicket region , the batsmen come back for the second easily 64.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , slightly wide outside off and fuller in length , Kohli lifts his bat and lets it go 64.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , 2 runs , 'Catch it ' was the call from the fielders around the bat , it was fuller in length and just outside off , Kohli leans forward and drives it uppishly past short cover , the batsmen take two as the ball rolls away through the covers 64.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and around off , Kohli defends off the back foot 64.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Kohli leaves it alone 63.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , gives this one more air on middle and leg , Rahane goes deep in the crease and turns it behind square 63.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , again shortish and on the pads , Rahane turns it past FSL , but the batsmen do n't take a single 63.4 Lyon to Rahane , FOUR , poor delivery from Lyon , a rank long hop on the pads , Rahane pulls it to the deep backward square leg fence , that was a great shot from Rahane 63.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated up on off and middle , Kohli works it to deep backward square leg for a single 63.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter on middle and leg , Kohli waits on the back foot and turns it into the on-side 63.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slows this one on middle , Kohli was looking to work it into the on-side , he closes the bat face a little too early , gets a leading edge that bounces just short of the bowler who dives to his right while attempting to catch it , the ball hits the hand and then pings the bowler on his forehead Nathan Lyon [ 18.0-2-81-1 ] is back into the attack Nathan Lyon comes back into the attack. A slip and a FSL in place 62.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and pushes it into the covers after opening the face of the bat , he sets off for a single after seeing that the fielder was a little deep , completes the run with ease though 62.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , angles this one on the pads , Rahane tucks it away to square leg and gets to the other end 62.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , 2 runs , length delivery outside off , Rahane gets drawn into the push , the ball takes the outside edge and runs past backward point , the batsmen take another couple 62.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , late inswinger on off and middle , Rahane works it to short mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 62.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , length delivery with a hint of away movement outside off , Rahane leans forward and defends with a straight bat 62.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , 2 runs , fuller in length and just outside off , Rahane comes forward and drives it past a diving cover for a brace to get off the mark 61.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , slightly back of a length and on the stumps , Kohli rocks back and punches it back to the bowler 61.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , length delivery shaping in on off and middle , Kohli works it towards square leg Haddin is now upto the stumps 61.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , angles this one closer to the off stump line , Kohli punches it to the right of the bowler 61.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , slightly back of a length just outside off , Kohli waits for it and guides it to gully from the crease 61.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , another full one just outside off , Kohli drives and rolls his wrists on it , the ball rolled away towards mid-on , who dives in front to make the stop 61.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery on off and middle , Kohli eases it towards mid-on 60.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , huge appeal for lbw , but that was probably going down leg , it was just short of a good length and angling into the pads , Rahane fails to connect with the clip , he wears it on his pad , but it was going away past leg with the angle 60.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , length delivery outside off and shaping back in , Rahane leaves it alone Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease The question that now arises is that with Vijay gone , will India still go for the chase ? Only time will tell . 60.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Vijay is gone. Poor way to get out ! It was short and outside off , Vijay chases it as he looks to cut it through the off-side , but he ends up edging it as there was a hint of away movement on that one , the keeper takes the simplest of catches. This is a crucial break for the Aussies. Vijay c Haddin b Hazlewood 80 ( 165 ) [ 4s-7 6s-2 ] Hazlewood to Vijay , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 60.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , length delivery from Hazlewood that shapes back in on off and middle , Kohli works it to deep square leg off the inside half of the bat 60.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Kohli goes on the back foot and defends it to the right of the bowler 60.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and on off , Kohli stands tall and defends solidly 59.6 Watson to Vijay , FOUR , slighlty shorter in length and outside off , Vijay stays back in the crease and cuts it square of the wicket , the fielder from point gives chase , but the ball beats him to the fence 59.5 Watson to Vijay , no run , fuller and on off , Vijay bunts it to the right of the bowler , who gets a hand on it but ca n't stop it completely , the ball rolls away towards mid-on 59.4 Watson to Vijay , leg byes , 2 runs , straying on the pads yet again , Vijay fails to glance it fine , the ball clips the thigh pad and runs away fine , the batsmen run for two leg byes before the ball is hunted down 59.3 Watson to Vijay , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Vijay comes on the front foot and blocks it towards point 59.2 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , angles this one way down leg , Kohli waits for it and helps it towards fine leg for a single 59.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , fuller length delivery angling in on middle , Kohli clips it towards short mid-wicket , who has to move to his left and puts in the dive to stop the ball 58.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , FOUR , fuller in length and around off , Vijay goes across and whips it through the mid-wicket region , it was a little uppish , but in the gap and the ball races away to the fence 58.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , just short of a good length and shaping in on middle , Vijay waits on the back foot and turns it behind square with soft hands 58.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , just short of a good length and slighlty wide outside off , Vijay dabs it towards gully 58.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , 3 runs , slightly fuller on off and middle , Kohli drives it past the non-striker , Harris from mid-on gives chase and manages to flick it back just before the rope , saves a run for his team A floating slip and a gully in place for Hazlewood 58.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , length delivery angling in on off , Kohli comes on the front foot and blocks 58.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , fullish delivery on the pads , Vijay moves across and clips it towards short mid-wicket , who dives to his right and makes a half-stop , the ball rolls away a little further from him and the batsmen take a single Josh Hazlewood [ 9.0-6-6-0 ] is back into the attack Hazlewood will share the attack with Watson 57.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , length delivery around off , Kohli defends it back to the bowler 57.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , length delivery outside off , Kohli leaves it alone , the ball shapes back in as it goes past the batsman and dies down on its way to the keeper A slip , catching cover and catching mid-wicket in . 57.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , pitched up on off , worked to square leg 57.3 Watson to Kohli , 2 runs , good length ball around off , wristed behind square on the on-side 57.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , pitched up on the fourth stump , Kohli comes forward and presses it to cover 57.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , back of a length , top-of-off line , Kohli gets across and taps it to short mid-wicket Despite going for runs , Lyon has sustained turn and bounce , much like how Ashwin operated on day 4. In stark contrast to India though , the pacers have backed up the offie. Do join us after tea for what must be an engaging session . Rohit and Vijay rebuilt the innings steadily until Steve Smith pulled off a blinding catch , diving to his right at slip , to remove the former for 39. Then Vijay got to his fifty and has exhibited more positive intent since then , often using his feet to put off Lyon. Kohli though is the key for the visitors if they are to force a victory from here . Tea , day 5 : The final session has been wonderfully set up. India need 189 runs in 33 overs to pull off a stunning win. Australia need 8 wickets. All four results are still possible at the SCG. Given Virat Kohli 's feisty attitude , do n't be surprised if India attack the target of 349. We witnessed an ODI-like session on the fourth evening. Is another one in store for us in the final session of this Test series ? 56.6 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , googly from Smith but it is dropped a short and outside off , clipped wide of mid-wicket 56.5 S Smith to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery on middle , forward and smothered back to Smith 56.4 S Smith to Kohli , no run , floated and wide outside off , Kohli reaches out and drives it in front of point 56.3 S Smith to Vijay , 1 run , Smith drags his length back , half pulled/whipped wide of mid-on 56.2 S Smith to Vijay , no run , flighted delivery on off , defended to cover 56.1 S Smith to Vijay , no run , straight roller on middle , blocked back to Smith Steven Smith [ 1.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack 55.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , tossed up around off , Vijay goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep backward square leg for a single , he will keep the strike 55.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , floated up around off , Vijay leans forward and defends , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away towards FSL 55.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , looks to go forward , but ends up working this flighted delivery on middle to short mid-wicket 55.3 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , flighted around off , Vijay goes for a sweep , manages a soft top edge that flies over vacant leg gully 55.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , slides on with the arm on middle and leg , worked behind square leg off the back foot 55.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through outside off , Kohli goes back and across as he defends it back to Lyon 54.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , pitched up and comes in with the angle on off , patted to the man at short cover from the crease 54.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , bouncer outside off , loads of height on this , Vijay lets it be 54.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , on a length and outside off , tapped in front of point with an angled bat 54.3 Starc to Kohli , 3 runs , dug in short and outside off , Kohli swivels on the back foot and pulls it in front of square to bring up the fifty of the partnership By the way , Vijay usurps Sehwag ( 464 ) and snatches the record for the most runs by an Indian opener in a Test series in Australia ! 54.2 Starc to Kohli , no run , back of a length and outside off , Kohli hangs back and dabs it in front of point with an angled bat 54.1 Starc to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , forward and tapped to mid-off 53.6 Lyon to Vijay , SIX , Vijay goes bangggg again ! Lyon tosses this one up on off , Vijay races down the track and launches it over the wide long-on fence. 16 came off that over 53.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , tossed up on off , Vijay comes down the track and defends it back to the bowler 53.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , a foot outside outside off , Vijay misses the sweep and gets a bit of glove on it 53.3 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , use of the feet again , Vijay does not meet the pitch of the ball. Yet he drags it towards cow corner off the inside half of the bat 53.2 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , Vijay reaps reward for positive intent. He comes down the track , takes it on the full and strikes it over mid-on 53.1 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , Vijay takes it from outside off and sweeps it to the backward square leg fence 52.6 Starc to Kohli , no run , on a length and just outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and defends 52.5 Starc to Vijay , 1 run , straying on the pads and was fuller in length , Vijay flicks it uppishly behind square on the on-side and gets to the other end 52.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , another full delivery on off and middle , Vijay pushes it back towards the bowler 52.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Vijay guides it towards point after opening the face of the bat 52.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , length delivery just outside off , Vijay leaves it alone , but the ball was n't that far away from the off pole 52.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , fraction back of a length and outside off , Vijay lets it be 51.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay comes down the track and plays a whippy drive to long-on , he also brings up his 10th Test fifty with this single , this is also his 5th 50-plus score in this series 51.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , forward and defended 51.4 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , fuller on middle and leg , whipped away to long-on 51.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , on a good length on middle and leg , Kohli gets an inside-edge onto the pad. The ball drops in front of short leg 51.2 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , pushed through on the leg stump , Vijay gets enough bat on the sweep to short fine. Warner collects the ball and flings a throw to the bowler 's end. Vijay is in though 51.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted delivery on off , Vijay uses his feet and presses it to cover 50.6 Starc to Kohli , no run , fuller in length and around off , Kohli comes on the front foot and blocks it back to the bowler 50.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , angling in around off , Kohli gets behind the line and defends solidly 50.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , sprays this one down leg , Kohli fails to glance it fine and the keeper collects 50.3 Starc to Kohli , no run , length delivery outside off , Kohli was looking to defend , the ball beats him as it stayed low , bounces well short of the keeper as well 50.2 Starc to Kohli , no run , on a good length and on off and middle stump line , Kohli works it to mid-wicket 50.1 Starc to Kohli , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , blocked to the leg-side 49.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , pushed through outside off , Vijay hunts for another ambitious reverse-sweep. He ca n't lay bat onto it again 49.5 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Kohli goes on the back foot and milks it to square leg 49.4 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay nurdles a single to square leg 49.3 Lyon to Vijay , no run , extra bounce on this one outside off , Vijay reverse-sweeps , the ball grazes the top of his thigh , shirt and the keeper has it covered , albeit not cleanly. The pressure of a volley of dots tells on the opener 49.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , straighter and fuller , paddled behind square leg 49.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , pushed through , gets some spin off the rough , poked through vacant leg slip Nathan Lyon [ 14.0-2-56-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Starc to Kohli , no run , angled in on middle and off , drawing Kohli into a forward defensive back to Starc 48.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , mighty full and fired outside off at 141kph , Kohli squeezes it out in front of square on the off-side 48.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , shortish and outside off , dabbed in the cover-point area 48.3 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , nicely played by Kohli ! He rides the bounce of this back of a length ball outside off and dabs it between slip and gully. The ball trickles away to the third man fence even as Smith runs back , chases and tries to haul the ball in after a slide 48.2 Starc to Kohli , no run , angled in on off on a back of a length , Kohli prods across and defends it to the leg-side 48.1 Starc to Kohli , 2 runs , pitched up and just outside off , some away movement as well , Kohli gets a controlled outside edge past gully 47.6 Watson to Vijay , byes , FOUR , another one sprayed down leg , beats Vijay 's flick and beats a diving Haddin as well 47.5 Watson to Vijay , no run , swerving down leg , Vijay does not meet with the glance. Haddin is onto the ball , moving to his left 47.4 Watson to Vijay , no run , drop in pace - the line is around off. Vijay waits on it and then opens the face of the bat , dabbing it gently in front of point 47.3 Watson to Vijay , no run , pitched up and outside off , left alone. Vijay 's awareness of his off-stump has been admirable 47.2 Watson to Vijay , no run , Vijay runs down the track , Watson drags his length back a bit , the former adjusts and pats it down the track , back to Watto 47.1 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , fullish and coming in , Kohli milks it past a diving mid-wicket for a single Shane Watson [ 4.0-1-14-1 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , pitched up in the channel of uncertainty , belated leave from Vijay 46.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , Starc goes wide of the crease and angles it in on off , gets it to reverse away as well. Vijay defends it to short cover 46.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , pitched up and shapes in on off , Vijay nudges it towards square leg 46.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , back of a length and curls away wide outside off , Vijay does not bother with it. Haddin moves to his right to glove the ball in front of first slip 46.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , fuller and outside off , forward and pushes to short cover , straight to the fielder 46.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , good length ball holding its line wide outside off , Vijay chases it with little feet movement , gets an inside-edge onto the pad , the ball rolls to the off-side. Vijay was lucky that he did not drag it back onto the stumps Mitchell Starc [ 7.0-4-5-0 ] is back into the attack 45.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli gets across and taps it down to mid-on 45.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , Kohli comes forward and presses it wide of cover 45.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fullish ball around off , Kohli prods across and turns it to short mid-wicket 45.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length and around off , Kohli gets right behind the line to defend it to cover The Indian skipper is standing outside the crease to counter the movement. Indeed , Kohli has perked up his technique after the failures in England . 45.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , teasing fullish ball outside off with some away movement , left alone 45.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , Kohli lunges forward and drives it to short cover , where Marsh dives and parries the ball back towards the bowler 44.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , good length ball coming in on off , Kohli gets an inside-edge behind square on the leg-side 44.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Hazlewood errs in line , veers down leg. Kohli misses the flick 44.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , inswinging yorker on off , top ball. Kohli is up to the task as he jams it to the right of Hazlewood 44.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pitched up and well outside off , Kohli comes forward and then lifts his bat and lets it go 44.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , 2 runs , fuller and tails in , Kohli closes his bat face and works it past mid-wicket for a brace 44.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , leg byes , 1 run , straying down leg , Vijay does not meet with the glance. The ball brushes the pad and sneaks away fine 43.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , similar length and around the fourth stump , dabbed to short cover 43.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fullish and just outside off , forward and pressed to cover 43.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Kohli inches forward and pushes it to the leg-side off inside half of the bat 43.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fullish and coming in on off , Kohli clips it towards mid-wicket , where Bucky makes a good diving save 43.2 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , good length ball outside off , Kohli comes forward and pushes it firmly past cover for a brace 43.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length and on off , Kohli gets across and drops it to the leg-side Ryan Harris [ 9.0-2-26-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. The game is nicely balanced at this time. India lost the wicket of Rohit , all thanks to a sensational catch from Smith. Hazlewood has been bowling really well and has troubled the batsmen on quite a few occasions. The pitch has also started to behave a little indifferently and it wo n't be easy for the Indian batsmen. Let 's see if Kohli and Vijay can guide India to a zone of safety first . 42.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , slightly fuller and angled in on middle stump line , Kohli works it to mid-on and sets off for a single , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but Kohli reached the other end just in time 42.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a good length and outside off , Kohli was pushing at it , the ball keeps low , shapes away and beats Kohli , the batsman was surprised there with the bounce 42.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , 1 run , too straight this time , Vijay tucks it away to deep backward square leg off his pads , this is only the second run the Indians have scored off Hazlewood 42.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good length ball just outside off , Vijay comes on the front foot and pushes at it , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls away towards the square leg region 42.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , fuller in length and angling in around off , Vijay clips it to mid-on after shuffling across slightly 42.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , on a good length and shaping away outside off , Vijay shoulders arms and the ball did n't bounce much on its way to the keeper 41.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , touch slower this time from Watson and outside off , Kohli goes across the stumps and dabs it to gully after opening the face of the bat 41.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , fuller around off , Kohli defends off the front foot A leg slip is in place now 41.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off and middle , Kohli works it to mid-on 41.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Kohli was looking to drive , but checks his shot , the ball goes a little uppishly towards mid-off , who gets down on his knees to stop the ball 41.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , slightly back of a length and jags back in from outside off , Kohli stays back and punches it back to the bowler 41.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , length delivery just outside off and with a hint of inward movement , Kohli shuffles across and clips it into the leg-side 40.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , in the channel outside off and holding its line , Vijay lifts his bat and lets it go 40.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , angling in on middle stump line , Vijay moves across a touch and works it to mid-on 40.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , on a good length and tailing in on off and middle , Vijay gets right behind the line and defends solidly this time 40.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , length delivery just outside off , Vijay jams his bat on the pitch and defends 40.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , just short of a good length and shapes in sharply around off and middle , Vijay fails to work it fine and there was extra bounce on that as well , the ball loops up towards gully after hitting the box , the Australians thought that Vijay got some part of his bat on it , but ump Kettleborough got it spot on and says 'Not Out' 40.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , slightly fuller outside off , Vijay takes a step forward and drives it to point , he was playing away from his body there 39.6 Watson to Kohli , FOUR , just short of a good length and outside off , Kohli was trying to dab it through the third man region , but there was some extra bounce on this one , he ends up playing it uppishly , but luckily it went in the gap between the slip and gully , collects four for that 39.5 Watson to Kohli , 2 runs , length delivery slightly wide outside off , Kohli goes forward and across , he opens the face of the bat and knocks it through the covers to get off the mark with a brace 39.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , angles this one down leg , Kohli was looking to glance it fine , but fails to connect and the keeper collects 39.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , banged in short and outside off , Kohli ways away from the line and lets it go 39.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , another one that 's closer to the off stump in line , Kohli comes on the front foot and bunts it back to the bowler 39.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , on a length and on off , Kohli leans forward and defends it back to the bowler 38.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , banged in short and outside off , the batsman lets it go to the keeper 38.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good length ball , which shapes in , Vijay works it to mid-on 38.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , fuller and tails back in on off and middle. Vijay misses the flick , the bat hits the boot. Hence , he could not meet the ball. He gets hit in line with off and middle but umpire Richard Kettleborough says NOT OUT. Vijay escapes and he will move on . 38.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Vijay uses his feet and pushes this one down the track 38.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , similar line and length , tapped to cover 38.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , fuller one outside off , blocked carefully Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.6 Watson to Rohit , out Caught by S Smith ! ! What a catch from Smith ! He compensates for the dropped chances in the first innings with that screamer. It was slightly back of a length and outside off , Rohit was looking to guide it past the slip fielder with a dab , but hits it uppishly. Smith at the lone slip dives to his right and plucks it out of thin air with his right hand. Watson gets a breakthrough once again. Rohit c S Smith b Watson 39 ( 90 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] Watson to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.5 Watson to Rohit , no run , on a good length and around off , Rohit defends 37.4 Watson to Rohit , FOUR , poor bowling from Watson , straying on the pads yet again , Rohit works it away fine , Starc in the deep puts in the dive after running across , but ca n't stop the boundary 37.3 Watson to Rohit , no run , length delivery on off , Rohit defends off the front foot 37.2 Watson to Rohit , no run , on a length and angling in on the pads , Rohit works it into the on-side from the crease 37.1 Watson to Rohit , no run , length delivery around off , Rohit pushes it back to the bowler off the front foot 36.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fuller and on middle , Vijay works it into the on-side 36.5 R Harris to Vijay , FOUR , fuller in length and around off , Vijay drives it back to the bowler , who is livid with the drop and throws the ball back towards the stump , the ball just kicks from the pitch and goes over a leaping Haddin and runs away to the fine leg fence for four overthrows , captain Smith was not happy there 36.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , dropped ! Marsh has put one down , it was fuller in length and outside off , Vijay leans forward and drives it straight to Marsh at short cover , who ca n't hold onto it and Vijay survives , Marsh stretched his right hand to pluck it out , he failed to grasp it properly and then tried to juggle against his body , but luckily for Vijay , he could n't and ends up flooring the ball 36.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , full outside off , Vijay leaves and the ball did n't bounce much and dies down on its way to Haddin 36.2 R Harris to Rohit , 3 runs , slighlty fuller from Harris , Rohit eases it past the non-striker , the mid-on fielder gives chase and by the time , the ball is hunted down , the batsmen take three 36.1 R Harris to Vijay , 3 runs , on a good length and outside off , Vijay leans forward and pushes it through the covers , the fielder gives chase , but the batsmen take three The stomper makes its appearance yet again as the groundsman tries to level the area around the batting crease 35.6 Watson to Rohit , no run , length delivery on middle stump line , Rohit works it to mid-wicket 35.5 Watson to Vijay , 1 run , straying on the pads again , Vijay tucks it off his pads through backward square leg for a single 35.4 Watson to Rohit , 3 runs , tails back in on middle and leg , Rohit whips it uppishly through mid-wicket and the batsmen have ample time to take three 35.3 Watson to Rohit , no run , angles this one in from outside off , Rohit moves across and looks to work it through the leg-side , he ca n't connect and wears it on his pad , the bowlers was interested there , but it can never be given out A floating slip and a gully in place 35.2 Watson to Rohit , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Rohit clips it towards mid-on and shouts a loud 'No ' for the single 35.1 Watson to Rohit , no run , a bit too straight to start with , Rohit tucks it away to square leg Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Shane Watson comes into takes the attack , replacing Lyon 34.6 R Harris to Rohit , 1 run , angling in on the pads , Rohit tucks it away towards square leg and sets off for a single , Vijay responds as well and Rohit will keep the strike 34.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , bowls an outswinger this time , Rohit stays back and guides it to gully after opening the face of the bat 34.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , another off-cutter from Harris that comes back in on off and middle , it was back of a length as well , Rohit fails to work it into the on-side and wears it on his thigh pad 34.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , slightly fuller this time and outside off , Rohit drives it to short cover off the front foot 34.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , another good ball from Harris , it was a short delivery just outside off that shapes back in , the ball did n't rise as much as it was expected to and hits Rohit high on the thigh pad as he looks to tuck it away into the on-side 34.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , back of a length delivery that jags back in from outside off , Rohit looks to defend as he hops in the crease , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and rolls away into the off-side 33.6 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , gives this one more air and allows the ball to bounce extra on middle and leg , Rohit tries to fend it away , the ball just about evades a diving leg slip and the batsmen take a single , Rohit will keep the strike 33.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , slightly quicker and on middle and leg , Rohit clips it behind square and was looking for a single , but is sent back by his partner 33.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flighted delivery on middle and leg this time , Sharma goes half forward and turns it into the leg-side 33.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , tossed up on middle and leg , Rohit works it into the on-side 33.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , was looking to step out of the crease , but decides to defend this delivery on leg to short mid-wicket 33.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , floated up around off and middle , Rohit watches it closely and defends Lyon will come round the wicket 32.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Vijay punches it to cover-point off the back foot 32.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , length delivery outside off , Vijay stays in the crease and dabs it behind square on the off-side with an angular bat 32.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , on a good length and outside off , Vijay comes forward and bunts it towards cover-point after opening the face of the bat 32.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , closer to the off stump now and on a length , Vijay blocks it back to the bowler 32.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , in the channel outside off , Vijay leaves it alone 32.1 R Harris to Rohit , 1 run , slowish length delivery that shapes away just outside off , Rohit was pushing at it away from his body , he gets an outside edge that runs past gully for a single , Rohit did well to play it with soft hands there Vijay has some issues with his left shoulder. The physio was out to tend to him. Looks fine to continue though 31.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , slows this one just outside off and spinning in towards middle and leg , Vijay stays back and tucks it away behind square , Rohit was looking for a single there and has to rush back in after Vijay was not interested in the single. Also , the fielder was quickly onto the ball as well and hence , it was a good decision from Vijay 31.5 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , flatter outside off , Vijay hangs back and dabs it square of the wicket after opening the face of the bat , the batsmen take two 31.4 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , steps out of the crease and converts this loopy delivery into a full toss , Rohit helps it down to long-on and gets to the other end 31.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Rohit leans forward and defends 31.2 Lyon to Rohit , SIX , what a shot ! It was floated up outside off , Rohit gives the charge and launches it straight down the ground for his second maximum of the innings , the sound off the bat was great as Rohit smashed that one A leg slip is in place as well 31.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , tossed up slightly wide outside off , Sharma steps out of the crease and blocks it into the off-side 30.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , angles this one down leg , Vijay was looking to nudge it into the on-side , he fails to connect and the ball dies down on its way to Haddin , it 's a maiden over for Harris 30.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , slightly fuller and outside off , Vijay comes forward and drives it wide of mid-off 30.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , length delivery just outside off , Vijay comes on the front foot and bunts it to short cover 30.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , length delivery just outside off , the ball keeps a little low as well , but Vijay tackles it well as he defends it back on the track Two slips and a gully in place 30.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , on a good length and outside off , Vijay stays back , opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards the point region 30.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Vijay leans forward and drives it wide of mid-off Ryan Harris [ 5.0-1-14-0 ] is back into the attack Harris will share the attack with Lyon 29.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , tosses this one just outside off , Rohit defends as the ball spins back in towards off and middle 29.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Rohit was looking to sweep there , there was extra bounce and Rohit gets a top-edge onto the helmet grille , luckily Rohit did n't get hurt or anything , but must have been surprised there 29.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , tossed up outside off , Rohit puts his front foot outside the line of off and leaves it alone 29.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , touch flatter outside off and there was extra bounce on that one as well , Rohit hangs back and turns it to FSL 29.2 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Vijay goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep backward square leg for a single 29.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Vijay goes deep in the crease and defends Vijay will take the strike first up. A slip and a FSL in place The players are out in the centre as well. Nathan Lyon will start the proceedings . Welcome back to the post-lunch session. The umpires are walking out to the middle. Can India push for a win ? Or will they be content with a draw ? We will find out soon. It 's a little overcast out there and with rain expected in the afternoon , the game could well get over before the scheduled close of play . Lyon though continued to probe , despite going for a few boundaries and eventually got one to bounce extra and forced Rahul to glove it to leg gully. Rohit came on and escaped a very close stumping call off the first ball and since then Australia turned on the squeeze. India took 40 balls to score a run as Hazlewood bowled a tight line , helping Lyon to attack more. Vijay and Rohit survived a few close moments and managed to carry their bats to lunch. It is a bit gloomy out there , but the pitch is doing its bit every now and then. We are in for an exciting finish. Take a break and join us back for a riveting post-lunch session . Lunch , Day 5 : It was an interesting session of play. India won most of the first hour , but Australia controlled things nicely after the dismissal of Rahul. They bowled as many as five consecutive maiden overs during that phase , putting the brakes on the scoring rate. Both Vijay and Rahul batted cautiously at the start , but once Lyon came on after 5 overs , they played their shots and took the attack to the off-spinner . 28.6 Starc to Rohit , no run , full and right on the off stump , Rohit defends off the front foot 28.5 Starc to Rohit , no run , back of a length from Starc , Rohit defends easily off the back foot 28.4 Starc to Rohit , no run , nice and full outside off stump , Rohit defends off the front foot 28.3 Starc to Rohit , no run , extra bounce on this short of length delivery , Rohit controls it well as he defends well with soft hands 28.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , on the off stump , Rohit gets right behind the line of this good length delivery and defends well 28.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Rohit defends off the front foot This is the last over before lunch . 27.6 S Smith to Vijay , 2 runs , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Vijay drives it wide of mid-off for a quick single , the fielder has a shy at the bowler 's end and misses and India get an extra run , thanks to the overthrow 27.5 S Smith to Vijay , no run , shortish and outside off stump , punched towards cover again 27.4 S Smith to Rohit , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches the short ball to cover , where the fielder makes a diving save 27.3 S Smith to Rohit , no run , low full toss outside off stump , Rohit punches it to mid-off 27.2 S Smith to Vijay , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Vijay drives uppishly to sweeper cover 27.1 S Smith to Rohit , 1 run , short and spinning away outside off stump , Rohit rocks back and cuts it to sweeper cover Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack The skipper brings himself on . 26.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , full and well outside off stump , Vijay defends 26.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Vijay watchfully defends Back to round the wicket . 26.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , full and outside off stump again , Vijay blocks 26.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , fullish and around the off stump , Vijay defends 26.2 Starc to Rohit , 3 runs , good shot from Rohit. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Rohit allows the ball to come and plays a punchy cut shot , beats point , the fielder gives chase and saves one 26.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , Starc goes over the wicket now ! Short of a length down the leg-side , Rohit tries to nudge it away but misses 25.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , spinning down the leg-side , nudged into the on-side 25.5 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Rohit drives it down to long-on 25.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , full from Lyon , Rohit defends 25.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Rohit mistimes the sweep shot , it goes off a soft top-edge but does n't carry to backward square leg 25.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flighted delivery from Lyon , Rohit defends 25.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Rohit dances down the track , Lyon drops it short , Rohit awkwardly gets his thigh pad in the way and manages to kick it out 24.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , Vijay offers a compact forward defence as Starc ends the over with a full ball 24.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , fullish and outside off stump , left alone 24.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , full and on the off stump , Vijay defends 24.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , fullish and on the off stump , blocked 24.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , Vijay defends well from the crease this time 24.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , Starc starts off from round the wicket. Straightaway gets some extra bounce on this good length delivery , Vijay adjusts well and defends well Mitchell Starc [ 4.0-2-2-0 ] is back into the attack After the end of the over , Haddin had a few words for Rohit . 23.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , darts this around the off stump , Rohit digs it out 23.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , on the stumps , blocked 23.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flighted delivery from Lyon , Rohit defends 23.3 Lyon to Rohit , SIX , advances and lofts the flighted delivery over mid-off. Good use of the feet from Rohit. He got close to the pitch of the ball and muscled it flat over mid-off 23.2 Lyon to Rohit , FOUR , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Rohit gets down on one knee and sweeps it fine to fine leg. Harris gives chase in vain 23.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , floated up just outside off stump , Rohit defends off the front foot 22.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good lift on this good length delivery , Vijay lets it go 22.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Vijay defends 22.4 Hazlewood to Rohit , 1 run , fullish and outside off stump , Rohit taps it to cover and those are the first runs off his bowling. Gee ! He conceded a run in 28 balls 22.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , short of length delivery shaping back into the right-hander , defended into the off-side 22.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Rohit defends with an angled bat 22.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Rohit defends 21.6 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , second run for Rohit Sharma ! Flatter delivery outside off stump , tapped to point 21.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Rohit steps out again , but Lyon fires this wide outside off stump , Rohit adjusts and gets his pad behind the line 21.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , in the airrrrr but safe ! Flighted delivery spinning back into the right-hander alarmingly , Rohit looks to fend , the ball hits the glove and goes to the left of Burns at forward short leg. Burns actually was moving to his right initially and hence he could n't get to the ball 21.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Rohit looks to give the charge to the bowler , but Lyon drags his length back and keeps him calm 21.2 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps the flighted delivery along the ground through backward square leg 21.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Vijay defends and gets an inside edge onto pad Fourth maiden over in a row for Hazlewood. Maybe the Indian pacers can take a leaf out of his book. He 's not trying anything silly and just bowling in the corridor of uncertainty . 20.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , inswinging fuller length delivery on the off stump , Rohit flicks it to mid-wicket 20.5 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , that 's a poor stroke from Rohit. Bumper on the stumps , Rohit plays a lazy pull shot and gets beaten. He was n't going for it whole-heartedly , but gets away with it 20.4 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , back of a length outside off stump , Rohit gets an inside edge onto pad as he tries to defend 20.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , good leave. Covers the off stump and allows the short of length delivery to go through 20.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , 'no , wait , wait ' says Rohit after tucking this short of length delivery to mid-wicket 20.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , Rohit shoulders arms 19.6 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , Vijay gets down on one knee and sweeps the flighted delivery along the ground to long leg 19.5 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , first run in 40 balls ! Rohit has taken 21 balls to get off the mark. Flighted delivery from Lyon , Rohit flicks it through backward square leg 19.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , nice and straight on the stumps , Rohit blocks 19.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , steps out but Lyon drags his length back , Rohit flicks it towards mid-wicket 19.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , on the off stump turned , into the on-side 19.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Rohit defends off the front foot India have n't scored a run since the departure of Rahul . 18.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , and another maiden. Good length delivery just outside off stump , Vijay defends 18.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , back of a length again , blocked 18.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Vijay defends 18.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , extra bounce on this good length delivery but Vijay handles it well , defends with one hand and the ball hits the splice of the bat 18.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Vijay shoulders arms 18.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good length delivery tailing back into Vijay , defended into the on-side Brilliant bowling from Australia , they have now bowled four successive maiden overs. It will be interesting to see how Vijay and Rohit react . 17.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , blocked to short leg 17.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , beaten again ! Rohit leans forward to defend , but the ball does n't spin much and goes past the outside edge 17.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , waits for the ball to spin back in and flicks the flighted delivery to mid-wicket 17.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , nice and full , Rohit softly drives it towards mid-off 17.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , steps out and defends the flighted delivery into the off-side 17.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , past the outside edge this time ! Rohit tries to defend this flighted delivery off the front foot but misses 16.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Vijay blocks 16.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , fullish and just tailing back in , Vijay defends and gets a thickish inside edge that goes into the on-side 16.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , this is good bowling from Hazlewood , 10th dot ball from him and Vijay is forced to just defend this into the off-side 16.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , appeal for caught behind , but Haddin was n't interested at all ! Good call from umpire Kettleborough ! Short of a length delivery nips back in , Vijay fails to defend , the ball brushes the thigh pad en route to the keeper 16.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , too wide to make Vijay play 16.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good length delivery well outside off stump , Vijay shoulders arms The hammer comes out again to level the area near the batsman 's crease . 15.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , floated up outside off stump , Rohit defends it to point , takes off for a run but Vijay says no 15.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , defends with soft hands and the outside edge does n't carry to first slip 15.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , advances and flicks the flighted delivery to short leg , Burns has a shy at the stumps but misses. A direct-hit would have been very close 15.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , widish flighted delivery ball , Rohit lunges forward to keep it out 15.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Rohit defends with his bat very close to the pad , the ball takes an inside edge and kisses the pad 15.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , floated up just outside off stump , Rohit defends well off the front foot 14.6 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , short of length on the off stump , defended off the back foot 14.5 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , that 's a brave leave ! Vijay moves forward , covers the off pole and leaves the short of length delivery alone. The ball jags back in and almost shaves the off stump 14.4 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , shortish and outside off stump , left alone 14.3 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , Rohit takes off for a run as Vijay defends this wide of cover but the latter yells out a loud 'no , no ' to his partner 14.2 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , short of length delivery wide outside off stump , Vijay shoulders arms 14.1 Hazlewood to Vijay , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Vijay defends off the front foot Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 13.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Rohit advances and pads this flighted delivery , it flies over leg gully 13.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , on the off stump , turned away into the off-side 13.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Rohit defends well off the front foot 13.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , wow ! What a start for Rohit. Flighted delivery well outside off stump , Rohit lunges forward to defend , he loses balance and just lifts his back foot in the air , Haddin whips the bails off , but Rohit manages to drag it back just in time Stumping check sent upstairs. Did Rohit Sharma ground his back foot ? Well , well , is it on the line ? Are the bails fully off the groove ? Maybe there was just an inch behind the crease but it 's a tough call. The third umpire is taking a long hard look at it. Is he going to give the benefit of the doubt to the batsman ? Not Out is the call ! Rohit Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now. The Indian openers began well after Australia declared on their overnight score , thus setting India a target of 349 in 90 overs. Lyon though plunged into the action , spinning the ball sharply in addition to getting extra bounce. Rahul is gone and Australia are 9 wickets away from making it 3-0. The visitors need to have wickets in the shed if they are to attack the target in the last session . 13.2 Lyon to Rahul , out Caught by Warner ! ! Catch it is the cry , the Australians appeal and umpire Dharmasena nods. Lyon gives Australia the breakthrough ! Flighted delivery from Lyon , Rahul comes down the track to negate the spin , but the ball bounces extra as it hits the rough patch , Rahul tries to defend but the ball takes the glove and goes straight into the hands of leg gully. The Australians are absolutely elated. Rahul c Warner b Lyon 16 ( 40 ) [ 4s-3 ] Lyon to Rahul , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.1 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Vijay flicks it to deep square leg 12.6 R Harris to Rahul , FOUR , 5 dot balls , the pressure was building and Rahul plays a lovely shot through the off-side. Top shot sir ! Full and outside off stump , Rahul leans forward and punches it along the ground past mid-off and it races away 12.5 R Harris to Rahul , no run , widish from Harris , testing Rahul on that occasion , but he lets it go 12.4 R Harris to Rahul , no run , Harris lands this around the short of length region , Rahul defends off the back foot 12.3 R Harris to Rahul , no run , first loose shot from Rahul and he shakes his head. Full and juicy outside off stump , Rahul goes for the cover-drive , but the ball jags away off the surface and beats the outside edge 12.2 R Harris to Rahul , no run , nice punch off the back foot to mid-on. He got right behind the line of this short of length delivery and played it well 12.1 R Harris to Rahul , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Rahul drives with an angled bat to point 11.6 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay plays the dangerous sweep shot again , but misses and gets hit on the pad. The impact was outside off stump though 11.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flatter ball from Lyon , Vijay defends 11.4 Lyon to Rahul , 3 runs , excellent cricket all around ! Lyon tosses it up nicely outside off stump , Rahul opens the face of the bat and drives it along the ground knowing that there is no one behind square on the off-side , Davey Warner gives chase from leg slip , puts in the dive and pulls it back just inside the boundary 11.3 Lyon to Rahul , leg byes , 2 runs , spinning down the leg-side , Rahul misses the flick , the ball rolls to fine leg off the thigh pad 11.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , goes on the back foot and defends the shortish ball 11.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , shouts of catch it from the Aussie fielders , but there was no bat/glove ! This flighted delivery hits the rough patch and turns alarmingly , Rahul takes his bat out of the way and gets hit on the thigh pad 10.6 R Harris to Rahul , 1 run , short ball on the off stump , Rahul controls the pull and sends it to deep backward square leg Kohli is seen having a chat with Ravi Shastri . 10.5 R Harris to Rahul , no run , back of a length ball , blocked off the back foot 10.4 R Harris to Rahul , FOUR , edgedddd but safe ! Rahul plays away from the body and gets away with it. The good thing about it is that he played with soft hands. Good length delivery outside off stump , Rahul looks to defend , the ball moves away very late , takes the edge and goes between second slip and gully 10.3 R Harris to Rahul , no run , Rahul leans forward and looks to defend this good length delivery but gets an inside edge onto pad 10.2 R Harris to Rahul , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Rahul defends late and sends it towards gully 10.1 R Harris to Rahul , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Rahul punches this off the front foot to mid-on 9.6 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , another edge but this time wide of the man at slip. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Vijay pushes hard at it and gets away 9.5 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , dropped , but it 's a tough chance. Excellent ball from Lyon. He opts to flight this nicely despite being hit for a six , Vijay plays a loose drive , gets a thin outside edge , Haddin was late to react as well and it hits his right knee and flies over first slip 9.4 Lyon to Vijay , SIX , this time he goes all the way ! Flighted delivery on the off stump , good use of the feet from Vijay , he gets very close and slogs it over mid-wicket 9.3 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , leans forward and drives the flighted delivery to sweeper cover 9.2 Lyon to Vijay , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Vijay mistimes the sweep into the on-side Now Smith has a man at silly mid-on . 9.1 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , good shot and he wants to attack Lyon. Nicely floated up by Lyon , Vijay steps out again and drives it very hard , Rahul did very well to take his bat out of the way at the non-striker 's end as it came very fast 8.6 R Harris to Rahul , no run , short of length delivery and just shaping back into the right-hander , Rahul blocks off the back foot 8.5 R Harris to Rahul , no run , good length ball around the 6th stump line , Rahul offers a compact forward defence 8.4 R Harris to Rahul , no run , good stride forward to cover the off pole and he lets this short of length delivery go through to Haddin 8.3 R Harris to Rahul , no run , nice and full around the off stump , Rahul punches it off the front foot to mid-off 8.2 R Harris to Vijay , 1 run , the bat turns in his hands as he tries to drive this through the off-side , the full ball rolls towards mid-wicket 8.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , just a hint of inswing on this good length delivery , Vijay flicks and picks out wide mid-on Ryan Harris [ 2.0-1-4-0 ] is back into the attack 7.6 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , too full and Vijay easily taps it to cover for a run 7.5 Lyon to Vijay , no run , floated up outside off stump , Vijay looks to cover-drive the ball but gets the inside half of the bat and it rolls back to Lyon 7.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Lyon fires this in around the off stump , Vijay manages to defend it into the off-side 7.3 Lyon to Vijay , FOUR , good shot from Vijay. Flighted delivery well outside off stump , Vijay uses his feet , gets to the pitch of the ball , there was enough room to free his arms and he swung it away over mid-off 7.2 Lyon to Vijay , 2 runs , Vijay goes for the sweep again , but gets a soft top-edge the ball goes past the keeper to fine leg 7.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , on the shorter side from Lyon , Vijay hangs back and tucks it into the on-side 6.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , back of a length outside off stump , Rahul defends off the back foot 6.5 Starc to Rahul , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Rahul drops his wrists and lets it go 6.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , Rahul plants his front foot forward and defends the incoming length ball to mid-wicket 6.3 Starc to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay taps this good length delivery wide of cover and steals a quick single 6.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , short of length short of length angling into the right-hander , but it 's not close enough to make Vijay play 6.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , Starc comes round the wicket and delivers a good length delivery , it was well outside off stump and Vijay easily let it go Already , Lyon is troubling the batsmen . 5.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , Rahul steps out and looks to play the lofted hit , but gets an inside edge onto pad , it pops in the air but luckily for Rahul , there was no one at silly-point 5.5 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , hangs on the back foot and flicks it along the ground to backward square leg 5.4 Lyon to Vijay , no run , Vijay looks to advance but Lyon keeps him calm by dragging his length back 5.3 Lyon to Rahul , Leg byes , 1 run , well played Rahul ! Sharply spinning back into the right-hander , Rahul plays with soft hands , the ball brushes the thigh pad and rolls behind square on the on-side Leg gully too comes on now . 5.2 Lyon to Vijay , 1 run , brave sweep shot from Vijay. Flighted ball outside off stump , Vijay gets down on one knee and times the shot very well and sends it to long leg 5.1 Lyon to Vijay , no run , starts off with a sharply spinning ball. It pitches outside off stump and goes down the leg-side , Vijay lets it go and Haddin takes it well behind the sticks Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Lyon comes on. He has a slip and forward short leg in place . 4.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , shortish and angling away from the right-hander again , easily left alone 4.5 Starc to Rahul , no run , probing ball from Starc. Short of a length delivery angled across , Rahul takes his bat out of the way 4.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , short and down the leg-side , Rahul was just ball-watching on that occasion 4.3 Starc to Rahul , no run , Starc wants Rahul to play away from the body , but the latter watches the ball very well , covers the off pole and leaves it alone 4.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , back of a length delivery closer to the off stump , Rahul lets it go through to Haddin 4.1 Starc to Rahul , no run , short and angling away from the right-hander , good bounce but it 's too wide to make Rahul play. Haddin takes it above his head 3.6 R Harris to Vijay , no run , back of a length delivery again , defended easily Well , the fielder is not quite a short cover , but he 's more a widish silly mid-off . 3.5 R Harris to Vijay , no run , on the shorter side again , blocked off the back foot 3.4 R Harris to Vijay , no run , short of length delivery nips away , Vijay lets it go Now there is a fielder at straightish short cover . 3.3 R Harris to Vijay , no run , fullish and around the off stump , Vijay defends off the front foot Nathan Lyon is seen warming up . 3.2 R Harris to Vijay , no run , 'no buddy , no ' says Vijay after blocking this good length delivery off the front foot towards cover 3.1 R Harris to Vijay , no run , a nothing short of length delivery on the off stump , blocked so easily off the back foot 2.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , Rahul defends with his bat very close to the pad. He lets the inswinger come and blocks it off the front foot 2.5 Starc to Rahul , no run , short and steeply rising on the batsman , Rahul hops and defends 2.4 Starc to Vijay , 1 run , cries of catch it as Vijay flicks uppishly , but he played it late and sent it well wide of the man at backward square leg. Good inswinger from Starc , but it was just down the leg-side , allowing Vijay to easily employ the flick shot 2.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , Vijay is not going to play at those ! That was way outside off stump 2.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , again very short and very wide , left alone 2.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , short of length delivery angling away from the right-hander , Vijay shoulders arms The groundsman uses the stomper to even up the area where the batsman takes his stance . 1.6 R Harris to Rahul , no run , Harris bangs it short , but sprays it down the leg-side , Rahul lifts his bat and lets it go 1.5 R Harris to Rahul , FOUR , top shot sir ! Nice and full from Harris , Rahul leans forward and just pushes it past the bowler through mid-off. The ball races away to the boundary. So Rahul and India open their account in style 1.4 R Harris to Rahul , no run , good length delivery well outside off stump , Rahul lets it go 1.3 R Harris to Rahul , no run , nice shape into the right-hander but Rahul handled it well. He waited for the length ball to come , covered the swing and blocked it nicely from the middle of the bat 1.2 R Harris to Rahul , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Rahul defends off the front foot 1.1 R Harris to Rahul , no run , good length delivery on the stumps , Rahul defends Ryan Harris , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Starc to Vijay , no run , hugeeee shout for LBW , not given ! My Word , what was Vijay trying to do there ? Starc is bringing it into the right-hander , this length ball pitched just outside off stump and shaped back in , Vijay simply shoulders arms and gets hit on the thigh pad , luckily for him , the impact was very high. Poor judgement from Vijay on that occasion and he gets away with it 0.5 Starc to Vijay , no run , fullish and down the leg-side , Vijay tries to tickle it away but misses 0.4 Starc to Vijay , no run , short of length delivery wide outside off stump , Vijay shoulders arms 0.3 Starc to Vijay , no run , full and swinging back into the right-hander , but it goes down the leg-side 0.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , full and swinging in on the off stump , Vijay digs it out 0.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , teasing fuller length delivery outside off stump , Vijay was tempted to play at it but he let it go through to Haddin Vijay and Rahul are at the crease. Vijay is on strike. Starc will open the attack Mitchell Starc has the new ball. He has three slips and a gully in place. Vijay marks his guard and we are good to go . The players make their way out . Pitch report : " It is a very hot day in Sydney. There will also be a shower around. We saw the ball spin yesterday. Ashwin got a lot of turn. It wo n't change much today. The surface has come off and there will be plenty of turn and bounce. The rough will cause a lot of problems. Lyon will perhaps invite the batsmen to drive the ball. India will have to play the way they did in Adelaide. India will have to play session by session and play positively. If they play each ball by merit , they will survive. India will have to shut shop if they ca n't win " reckon Sourav Ganguly and Sunny Gavaskar . It 's official - the Aussies have declared on the overnight score of 251/6 - India face a target of 349 in 90 overs . Given that no visiting team has successfully chased even 200 at the SCG in the past , Smith must be tempted to declare overnight. Rain has also been predicted in Sydney today. Rain or no rain , a big busy days awaits us . It 's time to bring the curtains down on this segment . He writes , 'The ball was ruthlessly dismissed to the different corners of the field. Australia had put its foot on the accelerator. The Australian onslaught in the final session , on a surface that offered spin , also reflected poorly on the Indian bowling and fielding. The visitors , shockingly , conceded 213 runs after tea as Australia raced to 251 for six in 40 overs , leading India by 348 runs going into the final day of the fourth Test here at the SCG. Focus will be on the weather too. The forecast for Saturday is cloud-cover without rain. You can never tell , though , and it did drizzle here towards the end of the day 's play.' S Dinakar 's report for the Hindu wears the headline 'Australia tightens grip on the Test' 'From those 18 balls he conceded 45 runs , but the Indian quick did get an ever-so-minor victory when he took the catch to dismiss Burns for 66 off just 39 balls.' 'The Aussies looked like they would only reach a lead of about 300 before Burns cut loose as the clouds rolled into Sydney , smashing eight fours and three sixes in a brutal knock that would have been at home in the Big Bash League. He saved the harshest punishment for Yadav , who had a day to forget even though he bowled just three overs.' Here is Carly Adno of the Courier Mail on Burns ' belligerence 'For this , salute above all Kohli. He is in the sort of form that Steve Waugh once compared to how he imagined it was to drive a Formula One car , or ride a thoroughbred in a Group One race. It is an immense and ever surging force , yours , but barely in your control , thrilling , but requiring care. Among his many distinctions is that he has now made centuries in each of his first three innings as captain.' The veteran associate editor writes , 'Historically , individual Indians have scored heavily in Australia think Tendulkar , Laxman , Dravid but teams have fallen away. This series has been different. Australia has made 500-plus scores in the first innings of every Test , but India has made at least 400 on its own account , and should again in this match. Batting capacity earned them a draw in Melbourne , and gives them a chance of salvaging another here. For India in Australia , a draw is a mini-win.' Greg Baum 's piece for the Sydney Morning Herald has the headline : 'Kohli rides the runaway train' 'Umpires Richard Kettleborough and Kumar Dharmasena convened for a mid-pitch chat before referring the decision upstairs to third umpire Simon Fry. After a long delay and myriad replays from multiple angles , the decision to send Kumar packing after a gritty 30 from 75 balls had commentators and viewers perplexed given the seemingly inconclusive evidence.' 'It was hardly a confident appeal from the man who caught it. A befuddled Shane Watson belatedly asked the question , when Indian batsman Bhuvneshwar Kumar edged Nathan Lyon behind. The full-pitched delivery hit the bat at around the same time as the ground.' Tom Descent , writing for the Age , delves into Bhuvneshwar 's controversial dismissal . As is the norm , let us have a gander at the newspapers . The hosts though will have to be wary of Kohli , who loves chasing , even in whites. Kohli 's twin specials in Adelaide almost took India to the finish line. It will be interesting to see if India go for the target or settle for a draw. In all likelihood , Australia will declare on their overnight score of 251. Hello and welcome to the final day of the final Test . Ashwin picked up 4 wickets , exploiting a crumbling pitch , but quick fifties each from Rogers , Smith and Burns ensured that Australia 's lead swelled close to 350. India are left playing catch-up for the nth time this series. Having watched Ashwin spin , loop , rip and bounce the ball yesterday , Lyon himself will fancy his chances of spinning out the Indian batsmen. Moreover , he is the leading wicket-taker in the series with 21 scalps . Meanwhile , for India it will be a question of survival. Will Kohli inspire his troops to attack the target like he did in Adelaide ? On the weather front , there is a storm hurtling towards Sydney tomorrow. Hopefully it stays away and we get treated to an enthralling climax. Looking forward to your company on Day 5 too. Until then , take care and goodbye ! After the departures of Smith and Marsh , the baton was passed over to Burns , who had the license to express himself. Haddin was also at it , propelling Australia. For India , it was all about Ashwin , who had earlier made a gutsy fifty with the bat. The bowling from the pacers was tripe - they continued to leak runs from one end - putting too much pressure on Ash. With the pitch misbehaving alarmingly , Lyon will be Australia 's key towards forcing a win and wrapping up the series 3-0 . Ashwin sustained the sharp turn and extra bounce in the first half of the final session too , finishing with a 4-fer. Despite the off-spinner removing Watto for 16 , the hosts continued to counter-attack. Steve Smith looked like he was batting on a different surface , scoring runs for fun. During the process , he went past Sir Don Bradman to become the leading run-getter in an India vs Australia Test series . Stumps , Day 4 : India may have nursed slim hopes of a comeback after Ashwin removed Warner early on before tea but fifties from Rogers , Smith and Burns , wiped them all out , powering the hosts to a massive lead of 348. All signs are pointing to an overnight Aussie declaration . Ashwin gets booed by the edge of the boundary. There is a bit of rain around and the light is fading quickly as well. The players troop off the field. Ump Dharmasena calls for the covers. We are one over short but looks like that will be that for the day . 39.6 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , Ashwin pulls his length back and gets it to spin away , Haddin flashes and misses 39.5 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , pushed through with a bit of spin , Haddin misses the sweep and is struck on the hip Ryan Harris , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.4 Ashwin to Burns , out Caught by U Yadav ! ! End of a destructive innings from Burns. He has fortified Australia with his 39-ball 66. Carrom ball again , this one is down leg. Burns looks for a slog sweep , but has to settle with a top-edge that flies to deep backward square leg. Umesh hovers under it and takes it. Burns c U Yadav b Ashwin 66 ( 39 ) [ 4s-8 6s-3 ] Ashwin to Burns , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 39.3 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , carrom ball , which is nudged to short third man 39.2 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , Burns makes room , Ashwin pushes this outside off , dabbed behind point 39.1 Ashwin to Burns , SIX , tossed up on middle from round the stumps , Burns comes down the track and whacks it over deep mid-wicket. Almost a crowd catch ! Ravichandran Ashwin [ 18.0-2-97-3 ] is back into the attack 38.6 U Yadav to Burns , 1 run , Burns rides the bounce of this shorter one outside off and guides it down to third man with an angled bat 38.5 U Yadav to Burns , FOUR , tripe bowling from Umesh ! Dug in short on off , Burns rocks back and pulls it behind square on the leg-side for another four. Make it four fours in a row 38.4 U Yadav to Burns , FOUR , fullish and on off , Burns gets under it and lofts it cleanly over the bowler 's head. Rahul from long-off chases but ca n't stop the ball 38.3 U Yadav to Burns , FOUR , fuller and on off , Burns shuffles across and flicks it fine for his second fifty of the match. He elicits a healthy round of applause from the crowd 38.2 U Yadav to Burns , FOUR , back of a length and outside off , now it 's Burns ' turn to steer it past slip. Rahane , who was squarer at third man gets across but slides in vain. The ball wins the race 38.1 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Haddin waits on it and then steers it down to deep third man 37.6 Raina to Haddin , 1 run , pushed through fuller and outside off , drilled to cover 37.5 Raina to Haddin , SIX , dropped short on off , Haddin rocks on the back foot and pulls it forcefully in the air. Rohit gets across , stretches his hands to his right in the deep , but the ball evades him and goes over the ropes TV ump called in for a boundary check. The ball evaded Rohit and went over the rope 37.4 Raina to Haddin , no run , outside off , Haddin bends down , sweeps and misses 37.3 Raina to Haddin , no run , pushed through outside off , Haddin makes room and slaps it to cover , straight to the fielder 37.2 Raina to Burns , 1 run , tucked to backward square leg from a middle stump line 37.1 Raina to Burns , leg byes , 2 runs , pushed down leg , Raina gets some spin , helped fine. Oh wait , Burns did not get bat onto that. The ball runs away after kissing the pad Suresh Raina [ 3.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 U Yadav to Burns , 1 run , full and straight , Burns tucks it away through backward square leg. The partnership between these two is worth 50 36.5 U Yadav to Burns , no run , half tracker outside off , Yadav gets away with it as Burns finds Ash at mid-wicket with the pull shot 36.4 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , pitched up and tails in on middle and leg , flicked to mid-wicket. Ash flings a wild throw at the bowler 's end and gives an overthrow. Kohli is a frustrated man 36.3 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , extra lift on this back of a length delivery outside off , Haddin is beaten on the cut 36.2 U Yadav to Haddin , FOUR , shortish and outside off again , Haddin punches it and finds the sweeper cover fence. He absolutely middled that one 36.1 U Yadav to Haddin , FOUR , short and wide outside off - sat up to be punished - Haddin obliges and slaps it away to the sweeper cover boundary Umesh Yadav [ 1.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , flat and quick , Burns works it to the leg-side 35.5 Ashwin to Burns , SIX , tonked ! Australia go past 200 and the lead shoots past 300. Burns bends down , takes it from outside off and slog-sweeps it several rows over mid-wicket with utter disdain 35.4 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , extra bounce on this carrom ball outside off , Haddin rides the bounce and places it through point with an angled bat 35.3 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , Ashwin darts it flat on the stumps , jammed back to the bowler 35.2 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , spins in from outside off , Haddin sweeps and misses. The impact was outside off and lbw appeal is turned down 35.1 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , full and flat on off , whipped to mid-wicket , where the fielder makes a diving stop 34.6 Shami to Haddin , no run , drop in pace outside off , Haddin waits for it to arrive and then chops it to gully 34.5 Shami to Haddin , 2 runs , short of length on off , Haddin rocks back and pulls it firmly to deep mid-wicket. Rahul tidies up in the deep 34.4 Shami to Haddin , no run , full and outside off , Haddin flashes at it with no feet movement and gets beaten Virat still has mid-on and mid-off in the circle . 34.3 Shami to Haddin , 2 runs , Haddin swings hard at this length delivery outside off and slices it over cover. The ball drops into no-man 's land , beating the back-tracking fielder 34.2 Shami to Haddin , SIX , fuller length ball outside off , Haddin takes the aerial route and lofts it up and over mid-off for a maximum 34.1 Shami to Haddin , no run , full and straightens outside off , Haddin fiddles with it and is beaten 33.6 Ashwin to Burns , SIX , 'catch was the cry ' but the ball sails over the long-on fence. Burns races down the track , picks it from outside off and smashes it , clearing the ropes 33.5 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , Ashwin gives this one air too , Burns comes down the track and lifts it over mid-off for back-to-back boundaries 33.4 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , flighted ball outside off , Burns takes it from outside off and nails the slog-sweep over mid-wicket for an one bounce boundary 33.3 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , glanced backward of square leg 33.2 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , skids off the deck and stays low , Haddin keeps it out 33.1 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , kicks up from a length and turns in sharply from outside off , hits Haddin on the thigh 32.6 Shami to Haddin , 1 run , fullish and comes in a tad on the fourth stump , bunted to mid-on and Haddin 's off the mark 32.5 Shami to Haddin , no run , good length ball outside off , poked off an outside edge. Jinks dives to his left at gully and stops the ball 32.4 Shami to Haddin , no run , fullish and in the channel of uncertainty , Haddin pushes away from the body and gets beaten again 32.3 Shami to Haddin , no run , full and outside off , keeps very low , beating Haddin 's push. Signs of variable bounce again 32.2 Shami to Haddin , no run , darted wide outside off , Haddin flashes and misses 32.1 Shami to Haddin , no run , back of a length and skids on off , Haddin pushes it to cover 31.6 Ashwin to Burns , 2 runs , flatter and just outside off , Burns aims for a half-hearted cut , the ball takes the inside-edge sneaks past the stumps and trickles away fine 31.5 Ashwin to Burns , no run , pushed through by Ashwin , Burns defends it 31.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , slider on off , Burns gets an inside-edge onto the pad 31.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , Saha misses a stumping ! It was a difficult chance though. Spins over the leg stump , nice extra bounce , but it takes the ball to the left of Saha. He ca n't take the ball cleanly and whip the bails off to catch Burns short. The batsman had stepped out and missed a big hit 31.2 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , Burns uses his feet and forces it to the long-on fence 31.1 Ashwin to Burns , no run , spins in , Ash gets extra bounce as well , Burns misses the nudge. The ball loops off the thigh to slip. Ump Dharma negates the appeal for catch Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 30.6 Shami to S Smith , out Lbw ! ! Smith has been pinned lbw - easy call for ump Richard Kettleborough. This was an inswinging yorker on off , Smith shuffles across but falls over the flick and misses his shot. Oh wait , he had actually eked out an inside-edge onto the pad. The Aussie skipper though has to go. He has amassed 769 runs in this series. Take a bow , Smithy ! S Smith lbw b Shami 71 ( 70 ) [ 4s-8 6s-1 ] Shami to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 30.5 Shami to Burns , 1 run , dug in short and skids onto the batsman , who mistimes the pull past mid-wicket 30.4 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , Shami ventures wide of the crease and angles it in close to off , pushed towards sweeper cover 30.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , seeing Smith make room outside leg , Shami pushes this wide outside off. The Aussie skipper ca n't reach out and connect with the ball 30.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , Smith hangs back and punches this back of a length ball on the fourth stump to mid-off 30.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , fuller delivery on off , Smith clears his front leg and forces it to mid-on Mohammed Shami [ 3.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Ashwin to S Smith , byes , 1 run , turns square from outside off and slips down leg. Smith does not bother with it , Saha is beaten and the result is a bye. That Ash offering spat off the rough 29.5 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , straying on the pads , nudged behind square on the leg-side 29.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , pushed through and spins in to rap Burns on the pad. The ball was perhaps sliding down leg and the ump negates the lbw appeal 29.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , kicks up from a short of length on the stumps , Smith steps away and cuts it towards third man , this time only a single 29.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up with some extra bounce , Smith comes down the track and blocks it with his bat-pad 29.1 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , flatter and quicker outside off , Smith makes room , goes deep in his crease and cuts it through vacant backward point 28.6 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , good length ball on middle , Burns half-heartedly turns it to Ashwin at mid-on 28.5 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Burns misses the pull , the ball takes the thigh and rolls to the off-side 28.4 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , 2 runs , on a good length on middle and leg , Burns lifts it over mid-wicket for a couple of runs . 28.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , good length ball outside off , Smith makes room and punches it to third man with an open face 28.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 2 runs , floaty straight ball , Smith gets across and tucks it through backward square leg 28.1 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , 3 runs , shortish and outside off , Burns cuts it hard into the ground , the ball goes over backward point 27.6 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , carrom ball from Ash , Burns stays back and punches it to mid-off for a risky single. Burns dives and makes his crease. A direct hit and Burns was a goner. The fielder though missed it . 27.5 Ashwin to Burns , no run , tossed up nicely and spins in , Burns uses his feet and takes it on his thigh after missing the defensive push 27.4 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , glanced towards square leg , this was too straight in line from Ash Kohli is in some discomfort. He grimaces in pain after doing a bit of stretching . 27.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on off , Smith comes down the track and works it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder. Kohli needlessly slides forward. He seems to have hurt himself 27.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , reverse-swept from outside off to backward point 27.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith takes a couple of paces forward and push-drives it towards mid-off 26.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , eased down to mid-off for a single 26.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , full and just outside off , stays low as well , Smith crouches low and keeps it out 26.4 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , 1 run , fuller on middle and leg , milked to mid on for a quick single. The batsmen were helped by a misfield from Kohli 26.3 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , good length on the stumps , blocked to cover 26.2 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , extra bounce on this back of a length ball outside off , Burns pushes at and gets an outside edge. The ball just dies down in front of a forward-diving Rahane at gully 26.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , good length ball on off , Smith gets across and clips it to long-on 25.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , flighted delivery and spins in from outside off , Burns uses his feet and pushes at it. But does not lay bat onto the ball and gets hit on the thigh 25.5 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , fraction short and outside off , Burns waits for it and then cuts it past the lone slip fielder to the third man boundary 25.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , full and outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover Joe Burns , right handed bat , comes to the crease A slip , forward short leg and backward short leg greet the new batsman . 25.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , out Caught by Vijay ! ! Ashwin has his man now. Beautifully tossed up by Ash , grips in the pitch , disturbs the surface and spins away. Marsh has an iffy prod at it with no feet movement. The ball takes the outside edge and Vijay helps himself to his second catch at slip. S Marsh c Vijay b Ashwin 1 ( 4 ) Ashwin to S Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 25.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , darted quick on the leg stump , Marsh is caught on the back foot and is rapped on the thigh. The ball was snaking down leg and the lbw appeal is rightly shooted down 25.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , fuller outside off , Smith comes down the track and drags it over mid-on off the inside half of the bat 24.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , fuller length on middle , Marsh drills a drive back to the bowler , who makes a half-save in his follow-through 24.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , a bit too straight in line , tucked behind square on the leg-side 24.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , on a length and on the stumps , defensively pushed to cover 24.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , punched off the back foot to cover 24.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , FOUR , on a length and on off , Smith miscues the lofted hit over mid-wicket. Kohli back-tracks from mid-on , tumbles backwards , but the ball eludes him. It did not stick. Kohli then tries to prevent the boundary by booting the ball in. However , it was not to be. The ball trickles away to the fence. A couple of Aussies in the crowd sledge the Indian skipper 24.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , straighter in line on a back of a length , Smith hangs back and clips it towards mid-on 23.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith uses his feet and drives it down the track to long-on 23.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , darted shortish and widish outside off , Smith is beaten on the cut 23.4 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , Smith takes it from outside off and sweeps it to the third man fence. He is scoring runs for fun , gets to 750 runs in the series. 6th fifty-plus score in the series for the Australian skipper 23.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery , spins in on middle , blocked off the back foot by Smith 23.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , whipped to square leg , where Shami makes a diving stop 23.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Smith comes down the track and plays a whippy drive to long-on Shaun Marsh , left handed bat , comes to the crease 22.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , out Caught by Raina ! ! Bucky throws caution to the wind and holes out to deep mid-wicket. Short delivery on the stumps , Chris Rogers attempts a pull and hits it straight down the throat of Raina at deep mid-wicket. Have Australia set their declaration watch on ? Chris Rogers c Raina b Bhuvneshwar 56 ( 77 ) [ 4s-7 ] Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , width on offer outside off , a bit short in length as well , back cut to third man 22.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length and on middle , not all that short to warrant a pull. Bucky goes on the back foot , but misses the shot , takes it on his thigh 22.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , length delivery on middle , Chris Rogers sits back and defends it to short cover 22.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , dragged through backward square leg off the inside half of the bat 22.1 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , FOUR , fifty for Chris Rogers on what could be his final home Test. Good length ball outside off , Chris Rogers drives it on the rise and gets it in the gap between extra cover and mid-off. 6th fifty in a row for Rogers Drinks are on the field now. India got rid of Watson early , but since then Smith and Rogers have counter-attacked. The pacers have been hopeless , they have leaked runs far too easily and have not supported Ashwin who is bowling a superb spell at one end. The lead is now 215 , with 8 wickets in hand , the match seems to have gone out of India 's reach . 21.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , straight roller outside off , Smith tries to steer it wide of the slip fielder , but is beaten by the pace on that delivery 21.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Smith works it straight to the mid-wicket fielder 21.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , goes for the reverse sweep , is hit on the glove and the ball drops near his feet , fortunate that it did n't roll back onto the stumps 21.3 Ashwin to S Smith , SIX , top shot ! Great of use of the feet , shimmies down the pitch with some room , lofts it inside out against the turn over extra cover. A difficult shot to play when the ball is turning square 21.2 Ashwin to S Smith , 2 runs , flighted just outside off , Smith goes on his knee and top-edges the sweep to long leg , a short fine fielder would have gobbled it up 21.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , sharp turn from outside off , Smith uses the depth of the crease and blocks 20.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , on a length just outside off , Rogers drives it on the up to mid-off , he wanted the single but Smith says " no " 20.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , touch short in length , Rogers camps back and wrists it to mid-wicket 20.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Smith cuts it hard and straight to the square third man fielder 20.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 2 runs , 120kph back of a length close to off , Smith opens the bat face and glides it between slip and gully for another double 20.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , good length ball on off , Smith pushes it to cover , shouts " no run , not now " to Rogers Saha is standing up to the stumps 20.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 2 runs , Smith takes on the pacer straightaway , length delivery close to off , Smith lifts it over mid-off , did n't time it hence only a couple Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 3.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack The lights are on at the SCG as it has gone dark . 19.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , takes a step out of the crease and turns it softly to mid-wicket 19.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Ashwin keeps beating Rogers ' outside edge , slower , dips and turns away , Rogers prods forward and looks to defend , he is beaten neck and crop 19.4 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith was shaping up to play the sweep , he decides against it and works it to deep square leg 19.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , nice use of the feet , gets close to the ball and flicks it through mid-wicket , Shami gives chase and pulls the ball in just before the rope 19.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , slightly holds the length back , Rogers camps back and knocks it in front of silly point 19.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up on off , Rogers presses forward and blocks it to the on-side 18.6 Raina to Chris Rogers , 1 run , flighted on off and middle , Rogers chips down the track and clips it behind square for a single 18.5 Raina to S Smith , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn and then nurdles it to backward square leg. The 100 comes up for Australia 18.4 Raina to Chris Rogers , 1 run , flatter delivery just outside off , Rogers toe-ends the punch to mid-off 18.3 Raina to Chris Rogers , no run , fired in on the stumps , Rogers stays in the crease and jams it to the off-side 18.2 Raina to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , kneels down , takes it on the full and plays the lapse sweep to long leg for a brace 18.1 Raina to S Smith , 1 run , meets the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 17.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , huge shout for lbw , umpire Dharmasena thinks for a long time before giving it not-out. It was the carrom ball from Ash , Rogers had no clue about that , he is struck on the pad first. Eagle-Eye shows that it was just clipping leg-stump 17.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , nicely tossed up outside off , Smith comes down the track and looks to go over mid-off , he gets an inside edge wide of short mid-wicket. That is a morale victory for the bowler 17.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , tad quicker and around off , Rogers punches it with an open face to backward point , Umesh was slow to react and allows the single to be taken comfortably 17.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , gives this bit more air , Rogers stays in the crease and taps it to the off-side 17.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , drags the length back as Rogers gives the charge , he does n't get to the pitch and ends up kicking it away 17.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted on off , Rogers blocks with the bat and pad close together 16.6 Raina to Chris Rogers , 1 run , pushed through close to off , Rogers stays leg-side of the ball and punches it to the right of cover-point , Rohit has a shy at the non-striker 's end but misses 16.5 Raina to S Smith , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Smith paddles it to long leg for a single 16.4 Raina to S Smith , no run , quicker and outside off , Smith comes down the track and pads it away 16.3 Raina to Chris Rogers , 1 run , makes use of the wrists and works it to the left of mid-wicket. Rogers collides with Raina as he was trying to get into the crease at the bowler 's end , no harm done though 16.2 Raina to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up on off , Rogers presses forward and knocks it to short cover 16.1 Raina to Chris Rogers , no run , flat and on the stumps , Rogers tucks it towards mid-wicket It has gone a bit gloomy at the SCG . 15.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 2 runs , tad short and spins back in , Smith gets on top of the bounce and steers it to square third man for a couple. That was well played by the Australian skipper 15.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted just outside off , Smith charges down and pushes it back to the bowler 15.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , fraction short and quicker , Rogers back cuts it to the right of backward point 15.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , beauty ! It has become like a sub-continental wicket. Floated up around off , Rogers lunges forward to defend , the ball turns away sharply to beat the outside edge 15.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , drops it short outside off , Rogers cuts and picks out cover-point 15.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up on off , Rogers is half-forward and defending to the on-side 14.6 Raina to S Smith , no run , 91kph quicker delivery on off , Smith stays inside the line and turns it gently to mid-wicket 14.5 Raina to Chris Rogers , 1 run , flatter and close to off , Rogers punches it square of the wicket and gets off strike 14.4 Raina to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted on off , Rogers plunges forward and knocks it to mid-on 14.3 Raina to Chris Rogers , no run , Raina goes up for an lbw appeal , umpire Kettleborough says not-out. It was flatter and angled in from round the wicket , Rogers stays rooted to the crease and gets an inside edge onto the pad , that little piece of wood saved him there 14.2 Raina to Chris Rogers , no run , slows it up considerably , Rogers presses forward and pushes it to mid-wicket 14.1 Raina to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed through just outside off , Rogers misses the cut and is beaten Suresh Raina , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 13.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Smith comes down the track and pads it away to the on-side , he did n't get to the pitch of the ball 13.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , byes , 1 run , big turn for Ash , lands on the rough and takes off , Rogers ' forward prod is nowhere close to the ball , Saha is also beaten by the bounce and the duo sneak in a bye 13.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Rogers was deceived by the flight , skips out of the crease and somehow manages to push it back to the bowler 13.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , flatter and just outside off , Rogers punches it to cover-point 13.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , turn and bounce , Rogers comes half-forward and blocks it to the off-side , the ball hit the sticker of the bat and popped to the vacant silly point region 13.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted on off , Rogers comes down the track and works it to mid-wicket 12.6 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , the less said about the bowling the better. Banged in short without much venom , Smith swivels on the back foot and pulls it behind square leg. Raina had no chance of stopping that. 17 runs came off that over 12.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball around off , Smith prefers to hang back and bunt it to the off-side 12.4 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , rubbish being dished out by Umesh. All the pressure being generated by Ashwin is being let go by the pacers. Rank long hop outside off , Smith fetches it from there and hammers the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence 12.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , again , the length is short just outside off , Smith pats it off the back foot to point 12.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length around off , Smith goes back and across , defends it to cover 12.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no ball , FOUR , Indian pacers ' struggle in Australia continue , short and outside off , Smith cuts it behind point for back-to-back boundaries. To make it even worse , Umesh has overstepped 12.1 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , there comes the boundary again off the first ball , slips it down leg , Smith shuffles across and tickles it fine , no chance for the fielder in the deep Umesh Yadav , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , slower and draws the batsman out of the crease , Rogers once again closes the bat face early and gets a soft leading edge to short cover 11.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted on off , Rogers presses forward and smothers it solidly to the left of Ash 11.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , quicker and on the stumps , Rogers turns it gently to mid-wicket 11.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , fired down the leg-side , Rogers ca n't meet with the glance 11.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , a peach ! Almost the same delivery that got Warner out , drifts in and turns away , Rogers pokes at it and is beaten comprehensively 11.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , slightly short and turning away , Rogers mistimes the cut to cover-point 10.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , inswinging yorker , Smith brings his bat down in time and jams it to mid-on 10.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , shortens the length , Smith opens the face of the bat and taps it to point 10.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length on off , Smith is right behind the line and defending to the right of Shami 10.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , on a length just outside off , Smith stays in the crease and defends it to short cover 10.2 Shami to S Smith , 2 runs , straight on off and middle , Smith walks across and clips it to deep backward square leg for a brace 10.1 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , once again a bad delivery to start off the over and a boundary conceded. Dug in mid-way down the wicket without much pace , Smith shuffles across and pulls it in front of square , the ball travelled quickly to the fence 9.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , excellent stuff , drifts in and turns away , Rogers closes the bat face early as he tries to work it to the on-side , gets a leading edge to backward point 9.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , slower and turns away , Rogers was in a dilemma whether to go forward or back , in the end stays in the crease and knocks it to cover 9.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , flatter and on the stumps , Rogers tucks it to the vacant mid-wicket region and picks up two 9.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , floated up around off , Smith meets the pitch of the ball and wrists it to long-on 9.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up just outside off , Smith comes down the track and ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball drops safely on the wicket 9.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , neatly done , floated up and full enough for Rogers to paddle it fine , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down by Vijay 8.6 Shami to S Smith , 2 runs , Shami attacks the off-stump , Smith walks across his stumps and works it through mid-wicket for a couple 8.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Smith shuffles across and bunts it to short cover 8.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , slanted into the pads , nudged away to deep mid-wicket 8.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , tight line around off , Rogers stays in the crease and knocks it back to the bowler 8.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Rogers camps on the back foot and defends down the wicket 8.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , half volley outside off , Rogers gets a good stride forward , opens the bat face and square drives it to the left of point , the rich timing takes it to the fence. The pacers have to support Ashwin , who is bowling brilliantly at the other end 8.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no ball , umpire Kettleborough catches Shami overstepping , angles it in on off , Rogers gets inside the line and works it to mid-on Shami switches to round the sticks for Rogers 7.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Smith lunges forward and dead-bats it to the off-side. Another brilliant over from Ash 7.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , bit of extra bounce , Smith comes half forward and plays it with soft hands to the left of short leg , he did well there 7.4 Ashwin to S Smith , 2 runs , Smith not afraid to use his feet , gets to the pitch and nurdles it to deep square leg for a brace 7.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , floated up on off , Smith presents the straightest of bats and blocks it down the pitch Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.2 Ashwin to Watson , out Bowled ! ! Chopped on ! India are delighted and Kohli is seen egging his boys on. It was not all that short , it breaks back in as well , Watson hangs on the back foot and looks to cut , the ball keeps a tad low , takes the under-edge and hits the base of middle-stump. Watson b Ashwin 16 ( 17 ) [ 4s-3 ] Ashwin to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 7.1 Ashwin to Watson , 2 runs , flighted and the line is too straight , Watson leans forward and glances it to long leg for a couple 6.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , seams away from back of a length , Rogers pokes and is beaten , the ball barely carried to Saha 6.5 Shami to Watson , 1 run , pitched up just outside off , Watson drills the drive to the right of mid-off , Kohli dives and saves three for the team 6.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , direct-hit and Rogers was a goner ! Shortish and just outside off , Rogers punches it to backward point , he straightaway called for the single , but was in a dilemma after he saw the ball travel quickly , Watson though was almost at the striker 's end , Rohit had plenty of time to take aim and hit the stumps at the bowler 's end , he missed and Rogers manages to survive 6.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length close to off , Rogers shuffles across and defends it to the off-side 6.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , bangs it in halfway down the wicket at 133kph , Rogers had all time to swivel onto the back foot and pull it in front of square , the ball beat the chasing fielder 6.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Rogers jumps up and drops it with soft hands in front of cover Players are out on the field. Kohli and Watson have a chat , ca n't say that it was a friendly one. Shami to start off after tea. Only one slip and a gully in place.. . India came out attacking and that made things interesting. Watson is lucky to still be out there , Saha missed the easiest of run-out chances. If they can manage to pick up two or three quick wickets , it will make for an exciting final session of play . With Warner gone , they will want Watson to score quickly , while Rogers will look to hold one end up. Will they bat on to extend the lead and push India into their usual defensive mode ? Or will the visitors persist with their new found attack-first approach ? Do join us after tea to see how the final session pans out . Tea , Day 4 : After scoring a fighting fifty and helping India to 475 , Ashwin struck with the new ball to have Warner caught at slip in his very first over. He got the hard new ball to spin , rip and jump to pose questions to the hosts. Kohli set up attacking fields to assist the offie , despite India conceding a substantial first innings lead of 97. Watson and Rogers had their moments as well. Australia are now ahead by 135 runs . 5.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , Ashwin drags his length back outside off , blocked to the leg-side 5.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , quick spin on off at 91kph , defended to leg slip 5.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , slid through on middle and leg , clipped to square leg off the back foot and sets off. Bhuvi gathers the ball but fails to throw the stumps down , Rahane backs it up 5.3 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , dropped short on off , Watson rocks back and hammers a pull , there is protection at deep mid-wicket though 5.2 Ashwin to Watson , FOUR , Watson uses his feet , does not get close to the pitch of the ball and drags it through square leg off the inside part of the bat 5.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , pushed through just outside off , defended to the leg-side 4.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish and on the stumps , defended 4.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , FOUR , drifting onto the leg stump , Chris Rogers helps it fine and moves on to 20 with his fourth boundary 4.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , shortish and outside off , mistimed cut to backward point 4.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , FOUR , width on offer outside off , fraction short as well , Rogers cuts it to the third man fence 4.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length ball , defended 4.1 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and straighter , worked to square leg 3.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , Saha fluffs a run-out chance and lets-off Watto. Ashwin gets extra bounce , this offering spins down leg. Watson lets it be , the ball beats Saha and slip as well. Vijay runs back from leg slip and throws it back to the keeper. Saha does not collect the ball and takes the bails off without it. Meanwhile , Raina at slip was pretending to fling a throw to put the batsmen off. Rogers was nearly done in as well , he was half-way down the pitch , ball-watching. How much will this reprieve cost the Indians ? 3.5 Ashwin to Watson , FOUR , Watson takes it from outside off and slog-sweeps it powerfully to the deep mid-wicket fence 3.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , flatter and straighter , clipped past mid-wicket for a single Round the wicket . 3.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , FOUR , slides on with the arm around off , fraction short as well. Bucky rocks back and cuts it behind point , the ball runs to the third man fence 3.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , FOUR , flighted and too full outside off , Chris Rogers drives it to the sweeper boundary. He did not get a big stride forward but hit it in the gap at point 3.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up , Ashwin gets some nice extra bounce outside off , Rogers dabs it to the left of second slip Two slips and a short leg in position . 2.6 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , back of a length and outside off , Watson stays back and punches it to point , where Shami fumbles. Watson looks for a quick single , but decides against it and retreats 2.5 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , FOUR , full and wide outside off , Watson throws his bat at a drive away from the body , the ball takes the outside edge and flies over a leaping gully 2.4 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Watson hangs on the back foot and punches it to the right of the bowler , towards mid-on A wide slip and a short extra cover in place now . 2.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , back of a length and on middle and leg , Watson flicks it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 2.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , straighter in line , Chris Rogers flicks it towards to fine leg for a single Warner was given a send-off of sorts. The umpire has a chat with Kohli 2.1 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , outside off , left alone 1.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , tossed up on off , Watson prods at it , gets an inside-edge on the pad. End of a testing first over from Ash 1.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , pushed through , defended by Watson 1.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , Watson is forward and across to defend it to mid-wicket Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease Warner wore a wry smile on his face before trudging back to the hut . 1.3 Ashwin to Warner , out Caught by Vijay ! ! Ashwin vindicates Kohli 's move of going for spin with the hard new ball. This was tossed up on off , spins away a bit. Warner looks to block it from the crease , the ball takes the outside edge and carries through to Vijay at first slip , simple catch. There was a puff of dust from the surface after Ashwin delivered that one. Warner c Vijay b Ashwin 4 ( 5 ) Ashwin to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , tossed up and spins in , Rogers goes for a half-hearted sweep , just about lobs it over the right of the keeper 1.1 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , slider on off , too close to cut. Yet Warner goes through with the shot and chops it wide of cover Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Ashwin will share the new ball with Kumar . 0.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish , another one moves in , Rogers does not move his feet much as he prods at it. Gets an inside-edge on his pad , the ball rolls on the pitch 0.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , Bhuvneshwar drags his length back and gets it to come back in , Warner was on the back foot , seeking a half-hearted punch , the ball sneaks behind square on the leg-side after taking the inside half of the bat 0.4 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 2 runs , fuller and straighter , Warner leans across and flicks it to deep backward 0.3 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , 'wait on ' is the cry from Warner as he push-drives this fullish one outside off to mid-off Warner does some gardening. He is standing outside the crease to counter the movement. Bhuvi though is not getting much shape and is only clocking around 125-130 kph . 0.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , back of a length on middle at leg , Chris Rogers hangs back and tucks it behind square on the leg-side 0.1 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish ball on middle and leg , Chris Rogers blocks it to the leg-side Chris Rogers and Warner are at the crease. Chris Rogers is on strike. Bhuvneshwar will open the attack Hello again. The Indians are in a huddle with captain Kohli doing all the talking. Meanwhile , Ashwin , Rohit , Rahane and Rahul nod their heads intently. Warner and Bucky stride out to the middle. Kumar will start off proceedings India began the session well as Ashwin and Bhuvi got runs at a brisk clip and with it kept the Aussie bowlers at bay. However , Bhuvneshwar got a rough call and had to depart for 30. Ashwin went on to complete his 4th Test fifty but India got bowled out for 475. In the interim , Shami slogged his way to 16 to bring Australia 's lead below the three figure mark . 161.6 R Harris to U Yadav , out Caught by Haddin ! ! The new ball does the trick and India have been bowled out for 475. Yadav goes for another big slog , only manages a top-edge that balloons in the air. Haddin calls for the catch , moves across to his right. He follows the ball , dives forward and snags the catch after a brief juggle. Australia now have a handy lead of 97.U Yadav c Haddin b R Harris 4 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 ] R Harris to U Yadav , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 161.5 R Harris to U Yadav , no run , back of a length and on middle , Yadav defends it towards mid-on The ball has been bent out of shape. And Australia take the third new ball . 161.4 R Harris to U Yadav , FOUR , length ball outside off , Yadav attacks it and swings it in the air and gets it well wide of mid-on 161.3 R Harris to Shami , 1 run , good length ball on middle , Shami winds up for another agricultural slog , the ball skews over cover off an outside edge and drops into no-man 's land. Smith is frustrated and so is Harris 161.2 R Harris to Shami , no run , fuller length on middle , Shami is more circumspect now , blocking it to cover after getting behind the line of it 161.1 R Harris to Shami , no run , full ball outside off , Shami slogs hard and misses. The ball hits the crack and scuttles through to Haddin Ryan Harris [ 30.0-7-91-1 ] is back into the attack 160.6 Starc to U Yadav , no run , slightly back of a length and outside off , Yadav does not bother with it 160.5 Starc to U Yadav , no run , hurled in very full on middle at 144kph , jammed out to mid-off. Starc is in his zone 160.4 Starc to U Yadav , no run , angling in on off and then shaping away , Yadav fishes and is beaten on the outside edge 160.3 Starc to U Yadav , no run , drifts on the leg stump , mistimed flick to mid-on 160.2 Starc to U Yadav , no run , fullish tempter outside off , Yadav plays inside the line and ignores it 160.1 Starc to U Yadav , no run , angled outside off from round the stumps , Yadav pokes and is beaten 159.6 Lyon to Shami , no run , Lyon retorts with a superb ball and Shami has no clue about it. This one turns sharply from outside off , spat from a length with extra bounce. Shami fiddles with it , the ball bounces past the glove to Haddin. Hot spot did not pick up anything. Well spotted , ump 159.5 Lyon to Shami , FOUR , another good old tail-ender slog ! He comes down the track again and powers it over mid-wicket. Beats a chasing Warner in the deep as well 159.4 Lyon to Shami , no run , pushed through on off , Lyon drags his length back as well , Shami makes room and dabs it behind point 159.3 Lyon to Shami , SIX , kaboom ! Flighted length ball on off , Shami races down the track and sends it clattering over the long-on fence 159.2 Lyon to Shami , no run , Lyon gives this more air , dead-batted onto the pitch 159.1 Lyon to Shami , FOUR , flighted delivery outside off , Shami comes down the track and lofts it high and over mid-on Umesh Yadav , right handed bat , comes to the crease 158.6 Starc to Ashwin , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Top over from Starc. Ashwin is gone. This one shapes away from outside off from round the stumps , the batsman feathers an outside edge to the keeper , who moves to his right to snaffle the ball. This Starc offering enjoyed some extra bounce as well. The umpires check for a possible no-ball but Starc is fine on that count as well. Ashwin c Haddin b Starc 50 ( 111 ) [ 4s-6 ] Starc to Ashwin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 158.5 Starc to Shami , 1 run , Starc hunts for an inswinging yorker , but has to settle with a full toss. Shami closes his bat face early and gets a leading edge towards sweeper cover 158.4 Starc to Shami , no run , angled in from outside off , Shami pokes at it and gets beaten again 158.3 Starc to Shami , no run , jags in with the angle outside off and straightens past the outside edge of the bat. That was too good for Shami. It would have foxed even a top-order batsman 158.2 Starc to Ashwin , 1 run , 4th Test fifty for Ashwin. He raises his bat and salutes the cheers. Good length delivery around off , dabbed softly , the man at gully dives and makes a good half-stop 158.1 Starc to Ashwin , no run , pitched up and outside off , driven crisply but straight to the fielder at short cover Time for a drinks break. India were motoring along nicely before Bhuvi got a harsh decision. He and Ashwin had added 65 runs for the 8th wicket and seemed to be in no trouble , but a poor decision from the third umpire cut short Bhuvi 's stay in the middle. Ashwin though has continued solidly and has managed to farm most of the strike with only Shami and Umesh for company . 157.6 Lyon to Shami , no run , solid ! Shami gets a good stride forward and defends with the bat-pad close together 157.5 Lyon to Shami , no run , opens the bat face at the last instant and guides it towards point 157.4 Lyon to Shami , no run , floated up around off , Shami presses forward and dead-bats it to silly point Goes back over the wicket 157.3 Lyon to Ashwin , 1 run , pulls the length back on leg-stump , Ashwin nurdles it to deep backward square leg 157.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted just outside off , Ashwin lunges forward and pushes it to mid-off 157.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , comes round the wicket , tosses it up on leg-stump , Ashwin leans forward and tucks it to backward square 156.6 Starc to Shami , no run , two in two ! This is superb bowling from Starc , gets another one to shape away from Shami , who stays in the crease and has a tentative poke at it. Not much Shami could have done on both the occasions 156.5 Starc to Shami , no run , beauty ! That was too good for a No.10 batsman , lands it around off and gets it to jag away , Shami is drawn into the defence , the movement beats the outside edge 156.4 Starc to Ashwin , 1 run , good length ball on off , Ashwin eases it through cover and gives Shami two balls to survive 156.3 Starc to Ashwin , no run , fullish and outside off , Ashwin drives away from the body and is beaten. That was a poor shot from Ash 156.2 Starc to Ashwin , 2 runs , sprays it onto the pads , Ashwin glances it fine , by the time Hazlewood dives and stops the batsmen come back for the second 156.1 Starc to Ashwin , no run , on a length just outside off , Ashwin mistimes the drive towards mid-off Mitchell Starc [ 29.0-6-101-2 ] is back into the attack 155.6 Lyon to Shami , no run , slower and drifts back in , Shami smothers it a solid forward defence 155.5 Lyon to Ashwin , 1 run , gets right forward and to the pitch of the ball , nudges it wide of short mid-wicket 155.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , tossed up on off , Ashwin leans forward and wrists it to short mid-wicket 155.3 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , floated up well wide of off , Ashwin plays an extended forward push through cover , does not take the single 155.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , drags the length back , Ashwin uses the depth of the crease and blocks 155.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Ashwin plunges forward and dead-bats it to the off-side 154.6 Hazlewood to Shami , no run , full and curls back in , Shami drives it with laden feet to short cover 154.5 Hazlewood to Shami , no run , fuller and outside off , Shami does not go chasing after it this time 154.4 Hazlewood to Shami , no run , shortens the length well wide of off , Shami feels for it away from the body , is beaten all ends up 154.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 1 run , Ashwin brings up 1000 Test runs , he leans forward , opens the bat face and guides it to deep backward point 154.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , back of a length around off , Ashwin is solidly behind that and defending to the off-side 154.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , short of length on off , Ashwin rides the bounce and drops it in front of short cover 153.6 Lyon to Shami , no run , comes on the front foot and defends off the inside half to short leg 153.5 Lyon to Shami , no run , flatter and around off , Shami knocks it to point 153.4 Lyon to Shami , no run , touch quicker and on off , Shami hangs back in the crease and dabs it to slip 153.3 Lyon to Shami , no run , leans forward and defends it 153.2 Lyon to Shami , no run , flighted on off , Shami lunges forward and blocks it Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease 153.1 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , out Caught by Watson ! ! Bhuvneshwar is unlucky there ! Even the Australians were surprised by the decision. They had all gone back to their fielding positions. It was fired in full and outside off , Bhuvneshwar squeezes it off the toe-end , clearly the ball goes on the bounce to Watson at slip. Not sure how the third umpire gave that out. Even when the Aussies appealed , they were tentative and it seemed like it was just a polite enquiry. In fact , Watson himself was n't confident. I am not sure how a ball that hits the toe-end of the bat can go up in the air without hitting the ground when the batsman is trying to squeeze it. Well , there is something very strange about umpiring decisions and India at Sydney. Bhuvneshwar c Watson b Lyon 30 ( 75 ) [ 4s-5 ] Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Umpire Kettleborough is sending a catch appeal to the TV umpire. He wants to check whether it carried to Watson on the full or on the bounce. Lyon is fine with the front foot. Replays suggest that it is a bump ball. The third umpire is having a hard look with plenty of different angles. Oh no ! He has given it in favour of Australia. That 's a brave call. Surely a bump ball for me ! 152.6 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , 1 run , too straight in line , Bhuvneshwar presses forward and plays it around his pads through backward square 152.5 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , nice shape on that , on a length and moves away outside off , Bhuvneshwar watches it carefully and shoulders arms to it. He did well not to go fishing at it 152.4 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , 2 runs , shortens the length and drifts it onto the pads , Bhuvneshwar whips it behind square leg and sprints back for the second 152.3 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , 135kph bouncer on the stumps , Bhuvneshwar sits down and allows the ball to sail over him 152.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 1 run , back of a length close to off , Ashwin dabs it to point , where the fielder has been placed in the deep , easy single on offer 152.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , loose from Ash , tad short and outside off , Ashwin throws his bat at it , feet nowhere close to the ball and is lucky not to have got an edge to it 151.6 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , gets to the pitch and works it with the spin towards mid-on 151.5 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , bit too full and on the stumps , Bhuvneshwar plays a whippy drive to mid-on 151.4 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , presses forward and blocks it to the off-side 151.3 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , almost dragged on ! Floated up around off , Bhuvneshwar looks to work it to the on-side , the ball takes the inside part of the bat , goes onto the left boot and rolls past leg-stump. The close-in fielders thought they had their man 151.2 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , throws this up gently outside off , Bhuvneshwar leans forward and drives it to short cover 151.1 Lyon to Ashwin , 1 run , tossed up on off , Ashwin goes deep in the crease and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 150.6 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , on a length just outside off , Bhuvneshwar drives it on the up , does n't get the timing right as the ball hit him high on the bat 150.5 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , back of a length close to off , Bhuvneshwar gets right behind the line and defends 150.4 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , teaser from Hazlewood , full and outside off , Bhuvneshwar does not take the bait as he lets it go 150.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 1 run , short of length just outside off , Ashwin steers it behind point for a single , they could have pushed for two there 150.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , pitched up outside off , Ashwin middles the drive straight to short cover 150.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , back of a length on off , Ashwin knocks it off the back foot to cover Josh Hazlewood [ 26.0-8-58-1 ] is back into the attack 149.6 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , floated up on off and middle , Bhuvneshwar hangs back and defends it to the on-side 149.5 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , FOUR , fraction short and turning into the batsman , Bhuvneshwar rocks back and pulls it behind square , he had plenty of power behind that shot as the ball whistles away to the boundary 149.4 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , rides the bounce and tucks it past square leg , there is protection at backward square 149.3 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , takes a step out and drops it dead on the wicket 149.2 Lyon to Ashwin , byes , 3 runs , even Lyon is surprised by that delivery , pitches in the rough and turns square , goes down leg , Haddin had no chance of gloving that. Starc runs across from backward square and saves a run with a diving stop. It is harsh that it goes down under Haddin 's name as byes 149.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted just outside off , Ashwin leans forward and blocks Nathan Lyon [ 40.0-10-102-1 ] is back into the attack 148.6 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Bhuvneshwar is batting beautifully here , full and outside off , he drives it with an open face to the right of point , no stopping that as it races away to the fence. The fifty of the stand also comes up 148.5 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , no run , too full and on off , Bhuvneshwar squeezes it to mid-off Goes round the wicket now ! 148.4 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , FOUR , crunched ! Short and plenty of width on offer , Bhuvneshwar latches onto it in a flash , he cuts it powerfully past the diving point fielder. Harris had overstepped , but the umpire did n't spot it 148.3 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , no run , short of length on off , Bhuvneshwar defends it solidly off the back foot in front of point 148.2 R Harris to Ashwin , 1 run , good length ball on the fourth stump , Ashwin presses it to sweeper cover after coming forward 148.1 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , fullish and just outside off , Ashwin eases it to short cover , that came off the middle 147.6 Watson to Bhuvneshwar , no run , shortens the length around off , Bhuvneshwar hangs back and mistimes the cut to point 147.5 Watson to Bhuvneshwar , no run , another good looking shot , pitched up on the stumps , Bhuvneshwar middles the on-drive straight to mid-on 147.4 Watson to Bhuvneshwar , no run , pitched up and homing in on off , Bhuvneshwar comes half-forward and pushes it to mid-on 147.3 Watson to Bhuvneshwar , no run , pulls the length back , Bhuvneshwar guides it with an open face to gully 147.2 Watson to Bhuvneshwar , no run , full on off and middle , Bhuvneshwar works it to short mid-wicket 147.1 Watson to Bhuvneshwar , FOUR , on a length outside off , Bhuvneshwar is quick to pounce on it , he shifts his weight back and square drives it behind point for a boundary. Runs are coming easily for India after lunch 146.6 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , that ball barely bounced , it was back of a length and outside off , Ashwin tries to steer it , the ball keeps low and goes past his bat 146.5 R Harris to Ashwin , FOUR , streaky ! Ashwin picks up his third boundary to third man. Fuller and moves away this time , Ashwin is sucked into the drive , the ball takes the outside edge and goes between slip and gully. Harris wants the slip fielder a bit wider now 146.4 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , shortens the length around off , Ashwin goes on his toes and taps it to cover 146.3 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , full on middle and leg , Ashwin flicks and picks out Rogers at short mid-wicket 146.2 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , 1 run , shapes back in from a fuller length , Bhuvneshwar presses forward and wrists it wide of mid-on , nice early call for the single 146.1 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , no run , fullish and just outside off , Bhuvneshwar push-drives it to mid-off , calls a loud " no " for the single 145.6 Watson to Bhuvneshwar , 1 run , Watson is certainly getting the ball to reverse , tails back in on off , Bhuvneshwar plays it around his pads and works it to fine leg. Watson had his hands on his head 145.5 Watson to Ashwin , leg byes , 1 run , full and on the legs , Ashwin leans forward and fails to nail the clip , the ball dribbles behind square after hitting the pad 145.4 Watson to Ashwin , 2 runs , same length as the previous ball but there was width on offer this time , Ashwin stands tall and punches it to deep extra cover for a brace 145.3 Watson to Ashwin , no run , back of a length and close to off , Ashwin punches it to mid-off 145.2 Watson to Ashwin , no run , shortish and outside off , Ashwin cuts and finds backward point 145.1 Watson to Ashwin , no run , Australians seem excited , they think Ashwin got an inside edge as Rogers takes it at short mid-wicket. Jags back in sharply from a length , Ashwin misses the clip and is struck on the pads , the ball lobs up towards short mid-wicket , Rogers dives forward and claims the catch , but umpire Kettleborough does not agree Shane Watson [ 18.0-4-51-2 ] is back into the attack 144.6 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , no run , good length ball on off , Bhuvneshwar plays a compact forward defence to short cover 144.5 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , no run , back of a length close to off , Bhuvneshwar gets behind the line and knocks it to the off-side 144.4 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , no run , much better from Harris , keeps it in the corridor around off , Bhuvneshwar is drawn into the forward defensive , the ball straightens enough to beat the outside edge 144.3 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , FOUR , lovely shot ! Overpitched outside off , Bhuvneshwar leans into the drive , times it beautifully as the ball races away to the sweeper cover fence 144.2 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , no run , " catch it " shouted Harris , Haddin gloves it as well but there is no appeal for caught behind. Back of a length and nips away slightly , Bhuvneshwar fishes and is beaten. There was some noise , but not sure if it was from the bat . A silly mid-on in place. . 144.1 R Harris to Bhuvneshwar , 2 runs , starts with a full one outside off , Bhuvneshwar gets a good stride forward and drives it through cover for a couple The umpires make their way out , Dharmasena throws the ball to the Aussies. Ashwin and Bhuvi slowly make their way to the turf. Rogers is seen stretching his back. Harris to resume the attack after lunch. . Like yesterday , India have managed to battle out the first session. Though Kohli went early , Saha and Ashwin kept going and with Bhuvi coming back the lower-order has been strengthened and he too has looked solid. Can they keep the Aussies on the field for another session ? Welcome back for the second session of day 4.. . Saha showed great resistance but Hazlewood got the better of him with a bouncer. Saha was late in deciding not to play the pull shot and gloved it to Smith at fly slip. Bhuvneshwar joined Ashwin and the duo saw off a few tough phases and carried their bats to lunch. The former was dropped off Lyon at forward short leg , while the latter got lucky with a few outside edges as they did n't go to hand. India are still 165 runs behind and Australia are ahead by a long way. Take a break and join us back in a short while for a crucial post-lunch session . Lunch , Day 4 : Harris and Lyon have a few words with Ashwin as the players walk off the field. 65 runs and 2 wickets in the morning session , Australia are still strong in this Test match. Kohli and Saha began the day on a cautious note. The Australian bowlers kept it very simple as the pitch was n't doing anything. Kohli flicked Harris uppishly and was caught at short mid-wicket. He was gutted with the way he got out . 143.6 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , 'over and lunch time ' says the umpire. Flighted delivery on the off stump , Ashwin defends off the back foot , there was a bit of extra bounce but he handled it well 143.5 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Ashwin defends off the back foot 143.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , tossed up just around the off stump , Ashwin defends 143.3 Lyon to Ashwin , 2 runs , just a front foot punch along the ground and it goes through extra-cover for a couple of runs 143.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , floated up from Lyon , Ashwin defends well 143.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , tossed up just outside off stump , Ashwin defends 142.6 Starc to Bhuvneshwar , no run , short of length to end the over , defended off the back foot 142.5 Starc to Bhuvneshwar , no run , short and wide outside off stump , Bhuvneshwar cuts and misses 142.4 Starc to Bhuvneshwar , 2 runs , full delivery on the leg stump , Bhuvneshwar flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket Oopsy ! Starc has a heated exchange with Ashwin. Umpire Dharmasena intervenes. Starc was suggesting that Ashwin was wasting time , but Ashwin says that something went into his eyes. Ashwin angrily asks the umpire 'how fair is it ? ' 142.3 Starc to Ashwin , 1 run , just a hint of shape away from the right-hander on this short of length delivery , Ashwin looks to defend and it goes off the outside edge to deep backward point 142.2 Starc to Ashwin , no run , that 's a dreadful short ball down the leg-side , Ashwin was just ball-watching on that occasion No , Ashwin wants some attention. This time he takes his helmet and goes to the square leg umpire. Something is disturbing him in his right eye . 142.1 Starc to Ashwin , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Ashwin defends Looks like Ashwin has something disturbing in his eyes. Bhuvneshwar takes his gloves off and checks his right eye. He 's fine now ! 141.6 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , another maiden , flighted delivery on the off stump , pushed back to Lyon 141.5 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , flatter through the air , easily blocked 141.4 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , punched off the back foot to the bowler 141.3 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , advances and watchfully flicks the flighted delivery to short mid-wicket 141.2 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , goes on the back foot this time to push it back to the bowler 141.1 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , plants his front foot forward and defends the flighted delivery to silly-point 140.6 Starc to Ashwin , no run , on a length and just outside off stump , defended nicely off the back foot. Back-to-back maiden overs for Australia ! 140.5 Starc to Ashwin , no run , gets behind the line of this short of length delivery and defends 140.4 Starc to Ashwin , no run , short of length delivery drops his wrists and lets it go 140.3 Starc to Ashwin , no run , very full from Starc , Ashwin squeezes it out to gully , where Lyon makes a tumbling save 140.2 Starc to Ashwin , no run , on the back foot and defended easily into the off-side 140.1 Starc to Ashwin , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Ashwin defends 139.6 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , easily done ! Transfers his weight onto the front foot and defends the flighted delivery into the on-side 139.5 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , driven along the ground but straight to mid-on 139.4 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , 'no , no ' says Bhuvneshwar after tucking this flighted delivery towards square leg 139.3 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , easily goes on the back foot and blocks this flighted delivery 139.2 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , Bhuvneshwar opts to defend this flighted delivery off the back foot 139.1 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , nicely floated up on the off stump , Bhuvneshwar defends well off the front foot 138.6 Starc to Ashwin , FOUR , again the outside edge and again in the gap. 400 comes up for the visitors ! Ashwin drives away from the body at this good length delivery , a very dangerous ploy against the away-going ball , the ball takes a thick edge and goes to the left of gully 138.5 Starc to Ashwin , no run , very full from Starc , Ashwin defends 138.4 Starc to Ashwin , no run , drops his wrists and lets the short of length delivery go through 138.3 Starc to Ashwin , no run , ugly poke away from the body ! Short of a length and just moving away , Ashwin flashes at it and misses 138.2 Starc to Ashwin , no run , good length delivery from Starc , Ashwin defends 138.1 Starc to Ashwin , FOUR , straightaway finds the outside edge but luckily for Ashwin it does n't go to hand. Good length delivery shaping away very late , Ashwin is squared completely as he tries to defend , soft bottom hand grip meant that it died down very quickly and it went past gully Mitchell Starc [ 26.0-5-90-2 ] is back into the attack Mitchell Starc with the reverse swinging ball , this is going to be interesting . 137.6 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , back to over the wicket for Bhuvneshwar. Flighted ball , there was a bit of extra bounce but Bhuvneshwar handled it nicely off the back foot 137.5 Lyon to Ashwin , 1 run , round the wicket , spinning back into the right-hander , tucked away to backward square leg 137.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin gets behind the line and defends well 137.3 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted delivery from Lyon , defended 137.2 Lyon to Ashwin , 2 runs , 'caaatchhh ' is the cry from Lyon , but Ashwin hit it in the gap. He used his feet , got close to the pitch of the ball and lofted it over wide mid-on , Warner races across from deep mid-wicket and saved two. Excellent fielding from Davey Warner ! 137.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Ashwin defends 136.6 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , good length delivery hurries onto Bhuvneshwar , defended 136.5 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , short enough to hang back and defend 136.4 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , this short of length delivery did n't rise much , Bhuvneshwar punched it off the back foot to cover 136.3 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , on the leg stump , Bhuvneshwar flicks it to mid-wicket 136.2 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , short and way outside off stump , Bhuvneshwar was simply ball-watching on that occasion 136.1 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , good length delivery on the leg stump , Bhuvneshwar defends nicely from the crease 135.6 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , floated up outside off stump , Ashwin defends 135.5 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , again plants his front foot forward and defends it towards mid-wicket 135.4 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin nicely comes on the front foot and defends this into the off-side 135.3 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flatter and around off the stump , defended straight back to the bowler 135.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , goes on the back foot and gently tucks it to short leg 135.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , tossed up on the off stump , blocked 134.6 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , goes on the back foot and punches the short of length delivery towards point. Maiden over from Hazlewood 134.5 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , interestingly , this short of length delivery does n't bounce much , Bhuvneshwar defends off the back foot 134.4 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , on a length and outside off stump , Bhuvneshwar lifts his bat and lets it go 134.3 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Bhuvneshwar shoulders arms 134.2 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , outside edge but it does n't carry to Smith at second slip. Fullish and outside off stump , Bhuvneshwar looks to drive but gets away with the edge 134.1 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , beaten ! Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Bhuvneshwar looks to cut but misses. The ball bounced extra and foxed the batsman 133.6 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted delivery from Lyon , Ashwin pushes it into the off-side 133.5 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , 1 run , on the leg stump , tucked away to backward square leg 133.4 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , bit of extra bounce on this flighted delivery , Bhuvneshwar pokes at it and missed. He was looking to chase that ball 133.3 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Kumar defends it towards the bowler 133.2 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , advances and drives the flighted delivery along the ground to mid-on 133.1 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , dropped ? Looked like an inside edge , yes there was ! Joe Burns was the man at forward short leg. Flighted delivery spinning back in sharply , Bhuvneshwar tries to defend but the ball takes the inside edge and pops in the air off the pad , Burns was moving forward but realised that he had to go back , tried to grab with both hands above his head but spilled it 132.6 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ashwin punches it into the off-side Ashwin backs away as Hazlewood was running in. Maybe he had an issue with the sightscreen . 132.5 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , on the back foot to cut this short of length delivery to point 132.4 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , surely this ball is reversing now ! Inswinger on the off stump , blocked into the on-side 132.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , left alone 132.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , full and on the leg stump , tucked into the on-side 132.1 Hazlewood to Ashwin , FOUR , again uppish but it goes well over gully ! Short and wide outside off stump , Ashwin opts to cut and sends it to the third man boundary 131.6 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , in the airrrr but safe ! Flighted delivery on the off stump , Bhuvneshwar flicks uppishly and gets away with it as the ball just drops short of the man at short mid-wicket , who was diving to his left 131.5 Lyon to Bhuvneshwar , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , blocked Leg gully has moved to silly-point for Bhuvneshwar Kumar . 131.4 Lyon to Ashwin , 3 runs , tossed up outside off stump , Ashwin leans forward and drives it along the ground to sweeper cover 131.3 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , gets right behind the line and defends well 131.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , turn and bounce. Batting on Day 5 is going to be really tough on this surface. This flighted delivery hits the rough patch , turns sharply and takes Ashwin 's inside edge. The ball goes onto the ground after hitting the pad Now there is a man at leg gully as well . 131.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , defended off the front foot 130.6 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , Bhuvneshwar covers the off stump and stylishly shoulders arms 130.5 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , Bhuvneshwar gets right behind the line of this short of length delivery and defends 130.4 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , short delivery on the off stump , Bhuvneshwar ducks under it 130.3 Hazlewood to Bhuvneshwar , no run , short of length delivery from Hazlewood , Bhuvneshwar defends Bhuvneshwar Kumar , right handed bat , comes to the crease 130.2 Hazlewood to W Saha , out Caught by S Smith ! ! Appeal for catch , the umpire takes a while but raises his finger. Saha 's tough resistance. So Australia get a wicket early after the drinks break. Bumper from Hazlewood , Saha tries to duck , it was around the off stump , but he could n't drop his hands. The ball takes the left glove and goes straight to Smith at fly slip. The fact that he went across the stumps made it very awkward and difficult for him. Maybe he was looking to pull and suddenly decided not to , but it was too late. For a moment the Australians were shocked that the finger did n't go up , but it did eventually. W Saha c S Smith b Hazlewood 35 ( 96 ) [ 4s-3 ] Hazlewood to W Saha , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 130.1 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , fullish and swinging back in around the off stump , Saha punches it off the front foot to mid-off 129.6 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , floated up outside off stump , Ashwin defends off the front foot 129.5 Lyon to W Saha , 1 run , goes back and turns this to backward square leg 129.4 Lyon to W Saha , no run , flighted delivery ball just outside off stump , Saha defends off the back foot 129.3 Lyon to Ashwin , 1 run , Ashwin hangs on the back foot and nudges the flighted delivery to backward square leg 129.2 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , sharp turn and bounce for Lyon , the ball pitched on the rough patch but Ashwin did well to play with soft hands 129.1 Lyon to Ashwin , no run , shortish and spinning back into the right-hander , Ashwin defends off the back foot Nathan Lyon [ 32.0-7-91-1 ] is back into the attack Time for drinks now. Australia will be happy with the wicket of Kohli early in the day , but Saha has looked solid with the bat. He has n't missed out on scoring opportunities. India have scored 39 runs in the first hour and they would hope that these two carry their bats to lunch. The pitch is n't aiding the pacers , but looks like the ball has just started to reverse a bit. The Australian bowlers have kept it tight and it is going to be a very interesting battle between bat and ball from here on . 128.6 Hazlewood to W Saha , FOUR , this is great batting from Saha. Full and outside off stump , Saha leans forward and punches it nicely off the front foot , sends it to the left of mid-off and it raced away 128.5 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Saha shoulders arms 128.4 Hazlewood to W Saha , 2 runs , fuller length delivery on the stumps , Saha flicks it along the ground to deep square leg for a couple of runs 128.3 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , shortish and just bouncing a bit extra , Saha gets on top of the ball and dabs it to gully 128.2 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , inswinging fuller length delivery outside off stump , Saha defends with his bat very close to the pad 128.1 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Saha defends off the back foot 127.6 Watson to W Saha , 3 runs , as expected , India have avoided the follow-on ! Poor ball from Watson and he is livid with himself for offering a freebie down the leg-side , Saha tucks it through square leg and races back for the third to keep strike 127.5 Watson to W Saha , no run , Watson wants him to drive uppishly but Saha does well to control the shot and send the fuller length delivery to mid-on 127.4 Watson to W Saha , no run , solidly defended off the front foot this time 127.3 Watson to W Saha , no run , bit of shape back into the right-hander , Saha defends from the crease 127.2 Watson to W Saha , no run , 'wait there ' is the call from Saha after blocking this short of length delivery off the back foot 127.1 Watson to W Saha , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , Saha defends off the front foot 126.6 Hazlewood to W Saha , 3 runs , top shot sir ! Nice and full outside off stump , Saha leans forward and drives it sweetly past mid-off , Warner gives chase and saves one 126.5 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , short of length delivery wide outside off stump , Saha takes his bat out of the way and lets it go 126.4 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , has the ball started to reverse ? Fullish and just shaping back into the right-hander , the movement was very late but Saha did well to cover the swing and punch to mid-on 126.3 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , short of length this time , Saha blocks off the back foot 126.2 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , on a length and outside off stump , Saha defends off the back foot 126.1 Hazlewood to W Saha , no run , fullish and just shaping back into the right-hander , punched off the front foot to mid-off Josh Hazlewood [ 20.0-5-45-0 ] is back into the attack One slip in place for Hazlewood . 125.6 Watson to Ashwin , no run , goes on the back foot and easily defends the short of length delivery into the off-side 125.5 Watson to Ashwin , no run , gentle short of length delivery on the off stump , Ashwin defends 125.4 Watson to Ashwin , no run , on a length and on the stumps , punched to silly mid-on 125.3 Watson to Ashwin , no run , fullish delivery on the off stump , Ashwin drives it back to the bowler , who has a needless shy at the stumps 125.2 Watson to Ashwin , no run , poke ! Good length delivery just outside off stump , Ashwin tentatively plays at it and misses 125.1 Watson to Ashwin , FOUR , uppish but gully had no chance. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Ashwin rocks back and cuts , it goes off a thickish outside edge , Lyon was late to react and it flew past him to the third man boundary After the end of the over , umpire Dharmasena had a chat with Starc asking him not to have verbal exchanges with the batsman . 124.6 Starc to W Saha , no run , short and on the off stump , Saha hops and defends off the back foot 124.5 Starc to W Saha , no run , and again ! Similar ball from Starc , Saha watches the ball closely and ensures that it goes through safely to Haddin. This one did n't bounce much but Saha swayed out of the line very quickly 124.4 Starc to W Saha , no run , that is a great ball from Starc and Saha handles it very well as well. Bumper right on the stumps , the angle from round the wicket is very difficult for the right-hander , Saha drops his wrists , takes his head out of the way very quickly and lets it go 124.3 Starc to W Saha , no run , back of a length and well outside off stump , left alone 124.2 Starc to W Saha , FOUR , nice shot from Saha. Fullish and outside off stump , Saha leans forwards and punches it nicely from the middle of bat , mid-off is very square and he had no chance 124.1 Starc to W Saha , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Saha defends off the back foot Starc goes round the wicket now ! 123.6 Watson to Ashwin , 2 runs , full and on the leg stump , Ashwin flicks it to the right of Rogers at mid-wicket for a couple of runs 123.5 Watson to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin goes a little early into the punch but manages to keep it along the ground , short cover comes into play again 123.4 Watson to Ashwin , no run , very straight from Watson , Ashwin defends it towards silly mid-on 123.3 Watson to Ashwin , no run , nice front foot drive but the ball goes very straight to cover 123.2 Watson to Ashwin , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Ashwin defends off the back foot 123.1 Watson to Ashwin , no run , a gentle 125kph good length delivery outside off stump , Ashwin takes his bat out of the way and lets it go Shane Watson [ 15.0-4-42-2 ] is back into the attack 122.6 Starc to Ashwin , 1 run , easy ball down the leg-side , glanced away to fine leg 122.5 Starc to Ashwin , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ashwin defends off the back foot 122.4 Starc to Ashwin , no run , shortish and angling away from the right-hander , Ashwin drops his wrists and lets it go 122.3 Starc to Ashwin , no run , Ashwin was a little late in bringing his bat down and he gets away with the inside edge. Good length ball just coming back into the right-hander , Ashwin looks to defend but gets an edge onto pad 122.2 Starc to Ashwin , no run , goes on the back foot and punches the short of length delivery to point 122.1 Starc to W Saha , 1 run , on a length and around the off stump , tucked away to mid-wicket 121.6 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , just a bit of movement back into the right-hander , but Ashwin does well to control the flick and send it along the ground to mid-wicket 121.5 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , a solid back foot defence from Ashwin. He gets right behind the line of this short of length delivery and defends well 121.4 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , Harris keeps this good length delivery outside off stump and Ashwin lets it go 121.3 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , this good length delivery stops on Ashwin and his back foot punch goes uppishly towards short cover 121.2 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , fullish and just outside off stump , pushed to mid-off There is a fielder at silly mid-on now . 121.2 R Harris to Ashwin , no ball , Harris oversteps as he delivers this length ball , Ashwin defends it to point 121.1 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , full delivery outside off stump , Ashwin drives and picks out short cover 120.6 Starc to W Saha , no run , short and angled-across , left alone 120.5 Starc to W Saha , no run , again on the shorter side from Starc , but down the leg-side , Saha lets it go 120.4 Starc to W Saha , no run , wow ! A nice steepler from Starc and he has a chat with the batsman. 146kph bumper on the off stump , there was steep bounce as well , Saha jumps to defend , takes his bottom hand off the handle to ensure that it does n't go up , the ball hits the splice of the bat and goes down 120.3 Starc to W Saha , no run , good short ball from Starc , Saha sways out of the way and lets it go through to Haddin 120.2 Starc to W Saha , no run , Saha easily defends from the crease this time 120.1 Starc to W Saha , no run , good length delivery angling away from the right-hander , Saha shoulders arms The ball was n't doing anything. There was no assistance from the pitch as well. Harris kept it very simple. He was bowling close to the off stump , mostly on the fuller side , had catching fielders close to the bat and got his man. Maybe , India could learn from Australia in this aspect . 119.6 R Harris to Ashwin , FOUR , down the leg-side and Ashwin carefully flicks , mindful of the man catching at short mid-wicket. He keeps it along the ground and sends it to the right of Rogers , who had no chance 119.5 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , on a length and outside off stump , Ashwin takes his bat out of the way and lets it go 119.4 R Harris to Ashwin , no run , fuller length delivery from Harris , Ashwin tentatively defends off the front foot Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 119.3 R Harris to Kohli , out Caught by Chris Rogers ! ! This is a massive wicket and the Australians are elated. There is a man at short mid-wicket and it goes straight to him. The plan works well for Smith ! Kohli is absolutely gutted for throwing it away. Nothing but a full delivery on the off stump , Kohli leans forward and flicks uppishly , Rogers stays low at short mid-wicket and grabs it low to his right with both hands. The bottom hand grip was too strong on the bat , hence he could n't control the shot. Anyway , Kohli gets a great round of applause from the crowd as he walks back. The pressure is on India very early in the day. Kohli c Chris Rogers b R Harris 147 ( 230 ) [ 4s-20 ] R Harris to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 119.2 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , nice little flick off the back foot past Rogers at mid-wicket and it 's good enough for a couple of runs 119.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Harris offers a full ball on the off stump , Kohli punches it off the front foot to mid-on 118.6 Starc to W Saha , no run , 'wait there ' is the call from Saha after blocking this shortish ball towards point 118.5 Starc to W Saha , no run , good full ball from Starc after those short deliveries , but Saha does well too to leave the away-going ball alone 118.4 Starc to W Saha , no run , banged in very short and well outside off stump , Saha is not keen to play at those 118.3 Starc to W Saha , no run , steeply rising short of length delivery just outside off stump , Saha hops and defends nicely 118.2 Starc to W Saha , no run , surprise short ball from Starc , Saha does well to sway out though 118.1 Starc to Kohli , 1 run , nice and full outside off stump , Kohli drives it along the ground past the two fielders at short cover for a run. That brings up India 's 350 as well Now there are two men catching at short cover. So it is quite evident that Starc is going to bowl full and across the right-hander . 117.6 R Harris to W Saha , no run , this short of length delivery just nips back in off the deck but it was too wide to make Saha play 117.5 R Harris to W Saha , no run , Harris wants him to play away from the body , but Saha holds his composure and simply shoulders arms 117.4 R Harris to W Saha , no run , just the forward movement to covers the stumps and let the length delivery go to the keeper 117.3 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , gentle and full outside off stump , Kohli drives it towards mid-off 117.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery from Harris , Kohli defends 117.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Harris offers a low full toss , maybe he was looking for the yorker , Kohli digs it out easily 116.6 Starc to Kohli , 3 runs , nice shot from Kohli. He leans forward , transfers the body weight nicely onto the front foot , drives from the middle of the bat and sends the good length delivery through cover 116.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , nice and full outside off stump , Kohli defends it into the off-side 116.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , fullish and on the off stump , Kohli defends off the front foot 116.3 Starc to W Saha , 3 runs , in the gap and those are the first runs of the day. Starc keeps it full and around the off stump , Saha leans forward and drives it along the ground through cover , the fielder gives chase and saves one with a slide 116.2 Starc to W Saha , no run , this time Saha covers the off stump and leaves the fuller length delivery alone 116.1 Starc to W Saha , no run , slightly uppish but safe ! A tentative forward push from Saha and he gets away with the outside edge. Starc angles this fuller length delivery across the right-hander , Saha plays away from the body , the ball takes a thick edge but does n't carry to gully Mitchell Starc [ 21.0-4-77-2 ] is back into the attack No movement in the air or off the pitch in that over for Harris. It will be interesting to see how Starc operates . 115.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fine start for Harris. Ends the over with a length ball and Kohli defends off the back foot 115.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , nice and full again from Harris , Kohli defends off the front foot There is a man for the uppish drive at short cover as well . 115.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Kohli covers the off stump and lets the fuller length delivery go through to Haddin 115.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Harris keeps it slightly fuller and around the off stump , Kohli offers a compact forward defence 115.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , teasing fuller length delivery outside off stump , Kohli simply shoulders arms 115.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , Harris starts off with a fullish delivery around the off stump , Kohli drives very straight but the bowler stops the ball in his followthrough moving to his right One slip and a gully in place . We are all set for the action to begin. Kohli and Saha stride out. The Australians make their way out as well. The morning session is going to be very crucial for both sides. Kohli punches his gloves with Saha and takes guard . Pitch Report : " The wicket is still playing good. Mind you , there are a lot of footmarks now and that will make the odd ball do something. This pitch is like when you have an upset stomach. There is a little bit of rumble under the surface. But , this is a still a decent surface to bat on. It is still a pitch where a result is eminently possible , " says Sunil Gavaskar . Rogers seems to have recovered from the back problem and was seen warming up in the nets . " The match officials felt that Starc 's behaviour was not appropriate , and he was reminded of his responsibilities to extend respect to his opponent and to play within the spirit of the game at all times , " Match Referee Roshan Mahanama said . In other news , left-arm pacer , Mitch Starc has been reprimanded for sending off M Vijay . Hayden says : 'Technically , Kohli is as good as Michael Clarke. He is that good. There 's something endearing about him. He wears his heart on his sleeve on the field of play. He is a very emotional person. I think he will mature with more experience.' Meanwhile , Hayden thinks highly of Kohli 's batting prowess. The former Australian batsman opens up to S Dinakar of the Hindu . 'The reasons for the Indian pacers ' plight are plenty. They do n't play enough first-class cricket. They go from Test series to Test series. Yes , you can work out plans and strategies in the nets. But building Test match temperament or mental stamina is a whole different matter altogether. Being relentless and being bull-headed about pitching the ball consistently on a spot requires concentration , loads of it. The likes of Shami & Co have come a cropper in that department. Probably it 's because they dont have to do so too often in the little domestic cricket that they have played. It 's an ironically vicious circle. They get noticed in the first place for having been good enough to roll over batting line-ups in domestic cricket. But at that level , they never had to prise out wickets. They never learned that art. Then they come to Test level , where persistence is everything. And they realize it was n't in their syllabus at learning school. Probably it 's a fitness issue , too. But whatever it is , it might in the coming months lead Kohli to rethink his aggression first policy at least on the field in away climes.' Here is Bharat Sundaresan of the Indian Express on why Kohli must rethink his 'aggression first ' policy at least on the field in away climes . 'The milestone delivery was blocked by India 's wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha , but if Australia wins the fourth Test , Watson will go down as the match-turner. Watson made something happen with the ball late on day three , removing danger man Ajinkya Rahane and then Suresh Raina with consecutive deliveries. They were breakthroughs Australia desperately needed on a lifeless wicket , and also a circuit-breaker for the most under-fire figure in Australian cricket.' Ben Horne , writing for the Courier Mail , focuses on Shane Watson. He writes , 'If reaction to Shane Watson on social media could be measured in decibels , the sound of the jeering would at times be deafening. But that white noise was drowned out completely by an SCG crowd that stood and cheered as one for Watson , 33 , as he charged in for his hat-trick ball.' 'The drop allowed Indian batsman Lokesh Rahul to post his maiden Test century and could prove costly to Australia 's hopes of winning at the SCG.' 'Annoyance , scapegoat , or transmitter of amazing sporting pictures ? Spidercam has been described as all of those things after Australian captain Steve Smith was distracted by a wire supporting Channel Nine 's aerial camera before dropping a straightforward catch during the Sydney Test. Coach Darren Lehmann said Spidercam was in the wrong spot when Smith dropped the catch but believes it provides great entertainment for cricket viewers. He wants it moved out of players ' field of vision when the ball is bowled and declared this would happen through discussions with Nine and Cricket Australia.' Chloe Saltau , Chief Cricket Writer for the Age , throws the spotlight on Smith 's spider cam drop . Good morning and welcome to the penultimate day of the final Test. Firstly , let us flick through the print section . Soon after tea , Rahul was hurried onto the pull and dismissed for 110. Nevertheless , it was a fine knock wherein he put a high price on his wicket. The horror debut Test was behind him. Kohli was in imperious touch , stroking his way to 140 * . In the interim , Watson removed Rahane and Raina off consecutive balls to undermine India 's progress. Can Saha and the lower order hang in there to support Kohli ? Or will the hosts wrap up the innings quickly ? We shall find out . Centuries from Rahul and Kohli kept the Aussie bowlers at bay as India reached 342/5 in reply to 572. If Rohit had thrown away a good start again , Rahul and Kohli , who were both reprieved by Steve Smith , cashed in , making contrasting 100s to lead the way for the touring party . Saha has also looked in good touch , showing sound temperament to counter Lyon 's extra bounce and spin. The Aussie pacers were disciplined in the first session , before Kohli took over. As it stands , India still trail by 230 runs. Do join us back tomorrow to see how day 4 pans out. Until tomorrow morning , goodbye and cheerio . Even as Watson produced a double strike , removing Rahane and Raina off successive balls , Virat Kohli extended his top form , finishing unbeaten on 140. During the process , Kohli passed Rahul Dravid ( 619 ) to snatch the record for the most runs by an Indian in a Test series in Australia. His knock contained punchy drives , strong pulls and wristy flicks among other strokes. The visitors will look up to Kohli to make a daddy hundred and reduce the deficit . Rahul was fortunate to be reprieved by Smith on 46 , but cashed in to compile his maiden Test century. After falling twice to silly shots at MCG and dropping a sitter in this Test , the young opener has scripted a remarkable turnaround. A lapse in concentration though , after tea , saw him top-edging a pull straight up , which was snaffled by Starc . Day 3 , Stumps : A couple of Aussies congratulate the Indian skipper. Centuries from KL Rahul and Virat Kohli lead India 's spirited reply as the visitors close out the day at 342/5. The overnight pair of Rohit Sharma and Rahul began cautiously , surviving a testing opening hour. However , after doing all the hard work , Rohit ( 53 ) gave his wicket away , under-edging a Lyon offering onto the stumps . 114.6 S Smith to W Saha , no run , Smith gives this more air , Saha employs soft hands and dabs it in front of point 114.5 S Smith to W Saha , no run , fuller on off , Saha drives it straight to the fielder at cover 114.4 S Smith to W Saha , no run , looped up on middle and off , Saha is forward to press it to cover 114.3 S Smith to W Saha , 2 runs , tossed up on off , Saha opens the face of the bat and steers it towards third man for a couple. This couple raises the 50 of the partnership between these two 114.2 S Smith to W Saha , 2 runs , dropped short and wide outside off , Saha rocks back and cuts it towards deep backward point , Lyon chases the ball and keeps it to two 114.1 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , pushed through outside off , Kohli wrists it to mid-on Steven Smith [ 3.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack Last over of the day coming up . 113.6 Lyon to W Saha , no run , pushed through flat on middle and leg , Saha gets forward to keep it out 113.5 Lyon to W Saha , no run , leg stump line again , Saha misses the defensive push and takes it on his thigh pad 113.4 Lyon to W Saha , no run , pushed through on the leg stump , Saha hangs back and nurdles it to short fine leg 113.3 Lyon to W Saha , no run , tossed up on middle , Saha dead-bats it 113.2 Lyon to W Saha , no run , angled on middle and leg , defended to short leg 113.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , straight roller on middle from round the stumps , milked behind square leg for a single 112.6 R Harris to W Saha , no run , pitched up and outside off , Saha drives and finds mid-off 112.5 R Harris to W Saha , no run , banged in short and climbs on off , Saha rises with it and fends it onto the pitch , pulling his bottom hand off the bat 112.4 R Harris to W Saha , no run , good length ball , draws Saha into a forward defensive to the leg-side 112.3 R Harris to Kohli , 3 runs , full and outside off , Kohli executes a punchy drive past a diving mid-off. The fielder from mid-on chases the ball , slides near the ad skirting and hauls the ball in to save a run for the hosts 112.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , pitched up and tails in on off , Kohli jams it out towards mid-on 112.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length and outside off , dabbed backward of point 111.6 Lyon to W Saha , no run , slides on with the arm on middle , Saha goes on the back foot and works it behind square on the leg-side 111.5 Lyon to W Saha , no run , flat and on off , Saha lunges forward to smother it 111.4 Lyon to W Saha , no run , very full and on off , Saha defends it with his bat-pad close together 111.3 Lyon to W Saha , no run , fired quicker by Lyon , defended 111.2 Lyon to W Saha , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , tapped to the leg-side 111.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , Lyon gets some good extra bounce , nudged to fine leg 110.6 R Harris to W Saha , no run , fullish and on the stumps , blocked to mid-on 110.5 R Harris to W Saha , no run , worked in front of square leg off the inside half of the bat 110.4 R Harris to W Saha , no run , pitched up , pushed to cover 110.3 R Harris to W Saha , no run , fullish and around off , defended to the off-side 110.2 R Harris to W Saha , no run , outside off again , ignored 110.1 R Harris to W Saha , no run , full and outside off , left alone 109.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , goes deep in the crease and turns it to FSL 109.5 Lyon to W Saha , 1 run , inches forward and steers it past the slip fielder 109.4 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , gets to the pitch and wrists it to mid-on 109.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter ball on off , defends it off the back foot 109.2 Lyon to W Saha , 3 runs , short and outside off , Saha cuts it square of the wicket for a three 109.2 Lyon to W Saha , no ball , moves forward and blocks it to the off-side. No-ball called by the umpire as Australia had three fielders behind square 109.1 Lyon to W Saha , no run , spins in on off , defended to short leg off the back foot Nathan Lyon [ 29.0-7-83-1 ] is back into the attack Kohli and Saha punch gloves. Time for some spin as Lyon 's back . 108.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Kohli rides the bounce of this shortish ball outside off and dabs it behind point 108.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , FOUR , pitched up and width on offer as well , Kohli comes forward and drives it handsomely after whipping his wrists , sending the ball to the sweeper cover fence 108.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , shortish and just outside off , Kohli fends it to the left of Hazlewood 108.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fuller and the line is on off , defended back to Hazlewood 108.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Kohli comes forward and blocks it towards cover with an angled bat 108.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , slid down leg , Kohli does not bother with it 28,167 is the offical attendance at the SCG today . 107.6 Watson to W Saha , no run , back of a length and on middle , Saha works it behind square on the on-side 107.5 Watson to W Saha , no run , fullish and keeps a bit low as well , Saha gets an inside-edge , which dribbles down the pitch 107.4 Watson to W Saha , no run , good length ball skids onto Saha , who yanks his bottom hand off the bat and defends it 107.3 Watson to W Saha , FOUR , shortish and outside off , Saha now punches it in front of square. Burns gives chase , slides as well , but the ball wins the race as he can only parry it past the ad skirting 107.2 Watson to Kohli , 3 runs , gentle 120kph back of a length ball outside off , Kohli stands tall and upright as he punches past cover for three 107.1 Watson to W Saha , leg byes , 1 run , drifting onto the pads of Saha is Watson , the batsman does not get hold of the flick. The ball kisses the pad and trickles to the leg-side 106.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pitched up and just outside off , Kohli plays a wristy drive and finds mid-off 106.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pitched up and around off , defended to short cover 106.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Kohli gets forward to block it solidly 106.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , 2 runs , back of a length and on middle and off , Kohli presses across and flicks it behind square on the leg-side. The fielder runs across , slides and hauls the ball in , keeping it to just a couple 106.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , pitched up and just outside off , driven to mid-off. Tumbling stop from the fielder 106.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , good length ball outside off , left alone Josh Hazlewood [ 18.0-5-39-0 ] is back into the attack Kohli surpasses Dravid ( 619 ) to hold the record for the most runs by an Indian in a Test series in Australia . 105.6 Watson to W Saha , no run , pitched up and just outside off , Saha is forward to press it to short cover 105.5 Watson to W Saha , no run , full and just outside off , Saha leaves it belatedly , the ball was close to shaving the off pole. Haddin does not glove the ball cleanly 105.4 Watson to W Saha , no run , some extra bounce on this back of a length ball on off , Saha gets on top of the bounce , punches and finds point 105.3 Watson to W Saha , no run , good length ball on off , Saha is halfway forward , defending it to cover 105.2 Watson to Kohli , 3 runs , on a good length and outside off , sort of stops on the batsman. But he manages to drive it in the air between cover and mid-off 105.1 Watson to Kohli , 2 runs , fuller and on middle and leg , chipped wide of mid-on for a couple 104.6 Starc to Kohli , 1 run , knocked down to mid-off for a quick single. Saha responded in kind as well 104.5 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , short of length , Kohli judges it early , swivels on the back foot and pulls through backward square leg , Hazlewood gets across , slides but the ball spins a bit and beats him to the fence. Sloppy stuff from the pacer as he lets the ball through him 104.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , pushed to mid-off 104.3 Starc to Kohli , 2 runs , fraction short on middle and leg , clipped away to deep mid-wicket 104.2 Starc to Kohli , no run , shortish and just outside off , Kohli mistimes the punch to the off-side , off the inside half of the bat 104.1 Starc to Kohli , no run , fraction back of a length on off , blocked to mid-off off the back foot 103.6 Watson to W Saha , no run , good length on off , Saha comes forward and dabs it in front of short cover 103.5 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Kohli stands tall and punches it past short cover to mid-off 103.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , full and outside off , jags in late. Kohli shoulders arms 103.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , bumper sails through outside off to Haddin as Kohli bails out of the hook and lets it go 103.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and just outside off , bunted to cover 103.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and around off , forward and driven to cover 102.6 Starc to W Saha , no run , back of a length on middle , turned to mid-wicket. Starc goes down on his follow-through 102.5 Starc to W Saha , no run , short of length and down leg , Saha ca n't tickle it away 102.4 Starc to W Saha , no run , back of a length and on off , Saha hops up a bit and fends it to the off-side 102.3 Starc to W Saha , no run , mighty full on off , jammed out to cover-point 102.2 Starc to W Saha , no run , good length ball on middle and off , Saha defends it down the track with a loose bottom hand 102.1 Starc to W Saha , no run , very full and wide outside off , Saha shoulders arms 101.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , pitched up and just outside off , push-driven back to Watson 101.5 Watson to W Saha , leg byes , 1 run , on the leg stump , Saha misses the glance , the ball brushes the pad and dribbles behind square 101.4 Watson to W Saha , no run , fuller length close to off , Saha lifts his bat and lets it go 101.3 Watson to W Saha , no run , on a length and on off , Saha gets behind the line and blocks it well 101.2 Watson to W Saha , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off , punched off the back foot and past cover for a couple. Saha gets off the mark 101.1 Watson to W Saha , no run , full and pushed outside off , left alone. Haddin is up to the stumps 100.6 Starc to Kohli , no run , fullish and around off , defensively pushed to mid-off Coming back to the lbw call , Rahane may have got another rough one. The tracker shows that the impact was outside off. The ball was going over . 100.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , fraction back of a length and just outside off , Kohli gets behind the line and blocks it to the left of Starc 100.4 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , banged in short and wide outside off , Kohli latches onto it and cuts it up and over vacant cover-point , the ball runs away to the fence 100.3 Starc to Kohli , no run , straighter in line , tucked to mid-wicket 100.2 Starc to Kohli , no run , good length ball , blocked back to the bowler 100.1 Starc to Kohli , no run , worked to square leg off the pad Mitchell Starc [ 18.0-3-66-2 ] is back into the attack 99.6 Watson to W Saha , no run , pitched up and straightens on off , Saha offers a straight bat and defends it neatly to avert the hat-trick Wriddhiman Saha , right handed bat , comes to the crease Watson on a hat-trick. He has a short leg , short cover and short mid-on in place . 99.5 Watson to Raina , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Double strike from Watson. He is pumped. This was fullish ball shaping away outside off , Raina is sucked into feeling for it , gets an outside edge , which is snaffled by Haddin , diving to his left and gloving the ball in front of first slip. Raina gone for a duck on his recall to Test cricket. Raina c Haddin b Watson 0 ( 1 ) Watson to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 99.4 Watson to Rahane , out Lbw ! ! Watson strikes and lets out a roar ! Ump Richard Kettleborough raises his finger and gives Rahane the marching orders. This was on a back of a length and on off , Rahane is on the back foot but misses the swivel-pull as he is rapped on the thigh. Just in line with off I guess and Rahane has to depart for only 13. The ball was not all that short to warrant a pull shot. Rahane lbw b Watson 13 ( 31 ) Watson to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 99.3 Watson to Rahane , no run , pitched up on off , Rahane gets a good stride forward and defends it back to Watson 99.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , good length ball on off , forward and dropped in front of cover 99.1 Watson to Kohli , 3 runs , 122kph loose back of a length ball outside off , Kohli stands tall and punches it past cover for three as the ball is hunted down before the rope Shane Watson [ 10.0-4-24-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Rahul got out early after tea , but since then , Kohli and Rahane have batted really well to keep the score ticking. Kohli , meanwhile , also notched up yet another ton , his fourth of the series and 3rd in 3 innings as a captain. India would ideally want these two to continue till stumps. Let 's see if the Australians can stop them . 98.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , length delivery just outside off , Rahane moves across and bunts it past the non-striker , the batsmen think about a single , but decide against it 98.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane defends it off the front foot , the ball had a little extra bounce , but Rahane 's soft hands helped him to keep the ball down 98.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , length delivery closer to the off stump this time , Kohli bunts it in front of mid-on and sets off for a quick run 98.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , short and outside off , Kohli swivels , but mistimes the pull to mid-on , it came off the toe-end of the bat 98.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a length and outside off , Kohli gets behind the line of the ball and blocks it back to the bowler 98.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and angling in just outside off , Kohli defends it into the leg-side 97.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , pushed through on the pads , Kohli goes deep in the crease and works it behind square , he will keep the strike 97.5 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , short again and Rahane pulls it to deep backward square leg , where there is protection this time around and the batsmen can only take a single 97.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery on middle and turns past leg , Rahane leaves it alone 97.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Kohli moves across and wrists it to long-on for a single 97.2 Lyon to Rahane , 3 runs , drags this one short , Rahane rocks back and pulls it behind square , Warner from deep mid-wicket runs across , dives and saves a run for his team there , great fielding from the pocket dynamite 97.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flatter on the stumps , Rahane goes back and defends Virat Kohli becomes the first man in the history of cricket to score 3 tons in his first 3 innings as Test captain 96.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , in the channel outside off , Kohli is happy to leave it for the keeper 96.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a good length and outside off , Kohli blocks off the front foot 96.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Kohli pulls it to mid-wicket 96.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , 2 runs , Kohli is ecstatic as he completes his 4th ton of the series , it was just short of a good length and outside off , Kohli punches it past the non-striker , the fielder at mid-on puts in the dive , but ca n't stop the ball , the batsmen take two , Kohli is jubilant and takes off his helmet , he lifts his bat to the dressing room and to the cheers from the crowd , he also hugs Rahane while Anushka Sharma in the stands applauds his performance 96.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , slighlty back of a length delivery outside off , Kohli stays back and dabs it towards gully , where the fielder dives and prevents the single 96.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , wide , bouncer from Hazlewood that was way over the batsman 's head , wided by the umpire 96.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , length delivery outside off , goes forward and across , he pushes it into the on-side Kohli is on 99 95.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , drags this one a little short and it was spinning in towards middle and leg , Rahane hangs back and turns it behind square 95.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off and middle , Rahane presses forward and dead-bats it 95.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up on off , Rahane blocks off the front foot 95.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , works this tossed up delivery to mid-on after moving across , the batsmen take a quick run 95.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , loud shout for lbw , but the umpire says 'Not Out ' , that was very close , it was floated up just outside off and turning back in sharply , Kohli misses to connect with the sweep and is hit on the pads , Hawk-Eye shows that the ball was turning way too much and missing the leg stump , great decision from the umpire 95.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Kohli hangs back and turns it into the on-side 94.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , slightly back of a length just outside off , Rahane shifts his weight on the back foot and blocks it into the off-side 94.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , slightly fuller outside off , Rahane shoulders arms 94.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , angles this one on off and middle , Kohli tucks it away wide of mid-on , the batsmen steal a run 94.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , length delivery outside off , Kohli pushes it back to the bowler off the front foot 94.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , length delivery outside off , Kohli opens the face of the bat and taps it to point 94.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and angling in slightly from outside off , Kohli punches it back to the bowler 93.6 Lyon to Rahane , no run , a little quicker and on off and middle , Rahane lunges forward and dead-bats it 93.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flighted delivery on off and middle , Rahane comes forward and turns it towards FSL 93.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , floated up on off , Rahane comes on the front foot and knocks it into the off-side 93.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , overpitching on off and middle , Kohli works it towards long-on and gets to the other end 93.2 Lyon to Rahane , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Rahane pushes it into the off-side with soft hands , Kohli calls for a quick single and gets there comfortably 93.1 Lyon to Rahane , no run , flatter delivery that turns back in sharply , Rahane was pushing at it , the ball takes the inside edge onto the pad and falls just short of a diving FSL , Rahane survives 92.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , FOUR , overpitching on off , Kohli moves across and wrists it wide of mid-on , the fielder had no chance of cutting that off and the ball runs away to the fence , Kohli is now just a boundary away from reaching another hundred 92.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fuller this time and in the channel outside off , Kohli lifts his bat and lets it go 92.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Kohli goes deep in the crease and blocks after getting right behind the line of the ball 92.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and angling in around off , Kohli wrists it towards mid-on and says 'No ' for the single 92.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , length delivery just outside off , Kohli bunts it in the direction of the bowler , who fails to stop it in his followthrough , the batsmen do n't take a single as the fielder at mid-off got around pretty quickly 92.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Kohli mistimes the punch off the inside half of the bat back to the bowler Josh Hazlewood [ 14.0-5-30-0 ] is back into the attack 91.6 Lyon to Rahane , 2 runs , slighlty shortish and spinning in towards leg , Rahane goes for the pull , gets a top-edge that just about evades a back-tracking Starc at backward square , Starc was a little late to get off the blocks as well. I guess he could n't sight the ball properly because of the sun , the batsmen take two 91.5 Lyon to Rahane , no run , gives this one more air outside off , Rahane leans across and blocks with his bat close to the pad 91.4 Lyon to Rahane , no run , tossed up around off , Rahane comes on the front foot and defends A slip , a leg slip and a FSL in place 91.3 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , drifting on the pads this time , Kohli tucks it away behind square on the on-side and gets to the other end 91.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , floated up on middle , Kohli was looking to work it through the on-side , Kohli gets an inside edge that lobs up right next to him , luckily it did n't go to the fielder at FSL 91.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery outside off and spinning back in on off , Kohli goes back in the crease and bunts it into the on-side Nathan Lyon [ 25.0-7-71-1 ] is back into the attack 90.6 Starc to Rahane , 2 runs , another one that 's been banged in short and at the batsman , Rahane pulls , but does n't get it off the middle of the bat , it was also in the air for a little while , the batsmen take two as it dribbles away to deep backward square leg 90.5 Starc to Kohli , 1 run , tucks this length delivery to mid-wicket and gets to the other end 90.4 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , angles this one away outside off , Kohli stays back and guides it past backward point , it was in the air for a little while and the fielders thought that they had a chance , however , the ball runs away to the fence and was well away from the fielder 90.3 Starc to Rahane , 3 runs , full toss outside off , Rahane opens the face of the bat and guides it in the gap between gully and backward point , the batsmen take three before Lyon pulls the ball back in 90.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , banged in short and just outside off , Rahane rocks back and goes for the pull , he mistimes it completely and the ball rolls away to mid-on 90.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Rahane mistimes the punch back to the bowler 89.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Kohli pushes at it with an open face away from his body , the ball goes on the bounce to gully , who was diving forward to stop it 89.5 R Harris to Kohli , FOUR , you ca n't bowl on the pads to this man , it was a half-volley on the pads , Kohli clips it to the deep mid-wicket fence , the timing on that one was superb 89.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a good length and angling in from outside off , Kohli gets behind the line and solidly blocks with a straight bat 89.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , slightly fuller in length and outside off , Kohli drives it back towards the bowler , who bends in his followthrough , but can only manage to parry the ball into the off-side 89.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , length delivery just outside off , Kohli defends off the front foot 89.1 R Harris to Kohli , 2 runs , did the ball do something out of the rough there ? It was fullish and outside off , Kohli was looking to drive it through the cover region , the extra bounce on the delivery catches the outside edge that flies over the head of the fielder at backward point , the batsmen take two before the ball is hunted down 88.6 Starc to Rahane , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Rahane comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 88.5 Starc to Rahane , no run , another one that 's short , but this time it was outside off , Rahane leaves it for the keeper 88.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , banged in short and down leg , Rahane allows it to go through to the keeper 88.3 Starc to Kohli , 1 run , angles this one away outside off , Kohli moves across and was looking to push at it , the bat turned in his hands and the ball rolled away towards mid-on , allowing the batsmen to pinch a quick run 88.2 Starc to Rahane , 1 run , on a length and outside off , Rahane pushes it towards cover , where a misfield from Burns allows the batsmen to go through with the single 88.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , length delivery outside off , Rahane toe-ends the drive to point Coming back to Rahul , Rahane patted him on the back and shook hands with the opener as he was walking back to the hut 87.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a length and outside off , Kohli blocks it into the off-side off the front foot 87.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , length delivery angling in on off , Kohli moves across and wrists it to mid-on 87.4 R Harris to Kohli , FOUR , another short of length delivery outside off , Kohli pushes at it away from his body , the ball runs away in the gap between second slip and gully after Kohli opened the face of the bat , third boundary for Kohli in this over 87.3 R Harris to Kohli , FOUR , short ball from Harris , Kohli shifts his weight on the back foot and pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence , he rolled his wrists over it to send it along the ground 87.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery down leg , the ball had extra bounce on that one , Kohli did well to stay out of the way , the keeper collects 87.1 R Harris to Kohli , FOUR , length delivery just outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and punch-drives it wide of mid-off , the ball runs away to the long-off fence Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 86.6 Starc to Rahul , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Rahul is gone. Poor shot selection from the opener. This is the third time in as many innings that he has top-edged one. It was banged in short and outside off , Rahul goes for the pull , but got hurried into it , the ball goes high in the air off the top-edge , Starc runs across to the right of Rahul , sets himself under it and takes a fairly easy chance. Neverthless , it was a great innings from the young opener. Rahul c and b Starc 110 ( 262 ) [ 4s-13 6s-1 ] Starc to Rahul , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 86.5 Starc to Rahul , FOUR , great shot from Rahul , it was a back of a length delivery outside off , Rahul goes back in the crease , opens the face of the bat and punches it past backward point , the ball races away to the fence 86.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , on a good length and around off , Rahul comes on the front foot and blocks it into the off-side with soft hands 86.3 Starc to Rahul , no run , Starc bowls this one a little wide outside off , Rahul lifts his bat and lets it go 86.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , slightly fuller in length and going away outside off , Rahul shoulders arms 86.1 Starc to Rahul , no run , length delivery angled across off , Rahul comes forward and pushes it to short cover Starc will share the attack with Harris 85.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Kohli goes back and blocks it into the off-side with an angular bat 85.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , Kohli moves across and wrists it to mid-on 85.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , slightly back of a length delivery outside off , Kohli stays back and bunts it towards point after opening the face of the bat 85.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , length delivery angling in on off , Kohli leans forward and blocks 85.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Kohli pushes it into the off-side from the crease 85.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a good length and on off , Kohli defends it into the off-side Harris will open the bowling after tea. Two slips and a gully in place . Welcome back to the final session on day 3. The players are out in the middle . The final session should be fascinating as Kohli is closing in on his 4th ton of the series. Can Australia break this partnership soon after tea ? Or will the Indians continue the good work from the last session ? Join us in a short while to find out . KL Rahul must be extremely happy and satisfied. The lad from Karnataka completed his maiden Test ton and it has been a special knock in overseas conditions. He was well supported by skipper Kohli , who continued his good form and is currently looking all set for another ton. The only real chance for the Australians came when Kohli edged one to Steven Smith , but Smith fluffed it , his second drop of the innings . Tea , Day 3 : So , the Indians must be extremely happy with how things went in this session. They scored 112 runs in 30 overs , but the key was that they did n't lose a wicket. They scored at a decent click as well , considering that their scoring rate was very poor in the morning session . 84.6 Starc to Rahul , FOUR , full toss to end the session , Rahul helps it to the deep mid-wicket fence , found the gap to perfection 84.5 Starc to Rahul , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Rahul moves away from the line and the keeper collects 84.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , on the pads this time , Rahul works it into the on-side 84.3 Starc to Rahul , FOUR , Rahul brings up his maiden Test ton with this boundary , he is ecstatic and hugs his captain , he removes his helmet and waves his bat towards the dressing room , it was slightly back of a length and wide outside off , Rahul goes on the back foot and punches it past backward point , the ball runs away to the fence 84.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , length delivery that swings back in from around off , Rahul was pushing at it with his bat close to the pad , the ball squirts off the inside edge and rolls away into the leg-side 84.1 Starc to Rahul , no run , angles this one across off and on a length , Rahul lifts his bat and lets it go Last over before tea. Can Rahul get to his ton ? 83.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a good length and swinging away outside off , Kohli leaves it alone this time around 83.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , length delivery that shapes away outside off , Kohli was pushing at it off the front foot , the swing takes the ball away past the outside edge 83.4 R Harris to Rahul , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Rahul bunts it to cover after employing soft hands , he sets off for a quick run , Warner at cover picks the ball up and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , Rahul was well in though 83.3 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , angles this one on off and middle , Kohli clips it towards mid-on and the batsmen pinch a quick single 83.2 R Harris to Kohli , FOUR , exquisite ! It was on a length and outside off , Kohli leans into the drive and gets it past the covers , the ball runs away to the fence , the key to that shot was playing it on the up 83.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Kohli dabs it to point off the back foot 82.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , angles this one away in the channel outside off , Rahul does n't offer a shot 82.5 Starc to Rahul , no run , length delivery around off , Rahul comes on the front foot , gets behind the line and defends it solidly Starc has been given an official warning for running on the pitch. Two more warnings and he wo n't be allowed to bowl in this innings 82.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , angles this one away slightly wide outside off , Rahul wo n't play at those and he leaves it for the keeper yet again 82.3 Starc to Rahul , no run , length delivery outside off , Rahul shoulders arms 82.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , banged in short and at the batsman , Rahul sways away from the line and leaves it alone 82.1 Starc to Kohli , 3 runs , dropped ! Skipper Smith drops another one , it was fuller in length and angling away outside off , Kohli goes for the drive even though he was not to the pitch of the ball , the ball takes the outside edge and flies to Smith at second slip , it bursts through his hand and runs away towards the third man region , the batsmen take three and a lucky escape for Kohli 81.6 R Harris to Rahul , no run , just short of a good length and coming back in on off , Rahul drops his wrists on it and sets off for a single , Kohli sends him back with a loud shout of 'No ' as the fielder from cover was charging in towards the ball 81.5 R Harris to Rahul , 2 runs , angling into off and middle this time , Rahul wrists it through the mid-wicket region for a brace , it could have been three had Kohli and Rahul run really fast , but they wo n't take a chance at this time 81.4 R Harris to Rahul , no run , length delivery outside off and swinging back in , Rahul shoulders arms 81.3 R Harris to Rahul , no run , length delivery that jags back in from outside off , Rahul was pushing at it , he gets an inside edge onto the pad , there was a stifled appeal from Aussies , but they knew that he got an inside edge there Harris pulls out as he was coming into bowl. He will have to go back and bowl that again Two slips and a gully in place for Harris as well 81.2 R Harris to Kohli , 1 run , not getting his line right is Harris , he bowls this one down leg , Kohli nurdles it to fine leg for a single 81.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , full outside off and swings away as well , Kohli leaves it alone as it was way too far away from his body Ryan Harris [ 16.0-4-33-0 ] is back into the attack Kohli has a chat with Rahul after the over. Probably , trying to calm him down there 80.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , slightly wide outside off , Rahul chases it and gently pushes it into the off-side , he should have left that alone though as he was not in total control of that Starc is getting some shape here and he is aiming for the batsman 's pads 80.5 Starc to Rahul , no run , indipper from Starc on middle stump line , Rahul works it to square leg 80.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Rahul was looking to drive , the ball swings back and goes under the bat of Rahul 80.3 Starc to Rahul , leg byes , FOUR , full delivery on leg stump line and it swings back in past the batsman , who was looking to glance it fine , he ca n't connect , the ball rolls away to the fine leg fence after clipping the pad 80.2 Starc to Kohli , 3 runs , strays on the pads , Kohli works it to deep mid-wicket and the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down 80.1 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , fuller in length and shapes in from just outside off , Kohli was driving there , the ball takes the inside edge and runs very fine past the off stump , reaches the fence in no time , the Australians were appealing there thinking it hit the pad , but ump Dharmasena was unmoved , it was not very far away from the off stump there Mitchell Starc [ 12.0-3-32-1 ] is back into the attack Starc will start the proceedings with the new cherry with 20 minutes to go for tea. There are two slips and a gully in place Yes , the second new ball has been immediately taken by the Aussies The second new ball is due now. Will Australia take it right away ? 79.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated up on the pads , Kohli clips it towards deep mid-wicket and gets to the other end , he will keep the strike 79.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Kohli turns it into the leg-side 79.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , gives this one more air around off , Kohli presses forward and blocks it into the off-side 79.3 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , Rahul goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep square leg 79.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up around off , Rahul leans forward and defends 79.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , Kohli wrists it to mid-wicket and sets off for a single , that 's fifty for Kohli , the 5th 50-plus score in this Test series for Kohli 78.6 Watson to Rahul , no run , just short of a good length and on the pads , Rahul tucks it away towards squarish mid-wicket , where the fielder dives and prevents the batsmen from taking the single 78.5 Watson to Rahul , no run , fuller in length and angling in on off and middle , Rahul drives it to short cover off the front foot 78.4 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Rahul goes on the back foot and defends it back to the bowler 78.3 Watson to Rahul , no run , length delivery around off , Rahul leans forward and bunts it into the off-side 78.2 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , angles this one on the pads , Kohli helps it to fine leg and gets to the other end , 200 up for India with that single 78.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and on middle , Kohli punches it to mid-on from the crease 77.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , slighlty flatter and turning back in towards the batsman from around middle stump line , Rahul goes back and flicks it towards FSL 77.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , pushed through on leg , Rahul bunts it down to mid-on 77.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Rahul blocks it into the on-side 77.3 Lyon to Rahul , SIX , what a shot to get into the 90s , it was short from Lyon , Rahul was quick to rock back and he muscles the pull over the deep mid-wicket fence , that shot also brings up the 100-run stand between these two 77.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up on middle and leg , Rahul goes back and turns it to FSL 77.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , tossed up on off and middle , Rahul defends off the front foot Lyon comes round the wicket. A leg slip is also in place now 76.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , slighlty back of a length and outside off , Kohli steers it to gully off the back foot 76.5 Watson to Rahul , byes , 1 run , poor delivery from Watson , it was way down leg , Rahul fails to nurdle it fine , even Haddin could n't collect it cleanly and the batsmen run for a bye 76.4 Watson to Rahul , no run , length delivery outside off , Rahul comes on the front foot and pushes it into the off-side 76.3 Watson to Rahul , 2 runs , straying on the pads and fuller in length , Rahul works it through mid-wicket for a brace 76.2 Watson to Rahul , FOUR , drags this on shortish and wide outside off , Rahul waits for it in the crease and dabs it past a diving short third man , the ball hurries away to the fence 76.1 Watson to Kohli , 3 runs , length delivery just outside off , Kohli leans forward and drives it through the covers yet again , Warner gives chase but the batsmen have ample time to take three , the throw from Warner was a wild one though 75.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up outside off and turning back in towards the batsman , Rahul lunges forward and dead-bats it 75.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Rahul takes a step forward and defends it into the leg-side 75.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up just outside off , Rahul goes across and works it past FSL , the ball rolls away towards square leg 75.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , tossed up just outside off , Rahul leans forward and turns it to FSL 75.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flatter outside off , Rahul stays back , but mistimes the punch to short cover 75.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up just outside off , Rahul moves forward and across , he turns it to the right of the fielder at short leg 74.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Kohli tucks it away to short mid-wicket 74.5 Watson to Kohli , FOUR , another beautiful cover drive from Kohli , it was on a good length and just outside off , Kohli leans forward and caresses the drive through the covers for another boundary 74.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , length delivery on off , Kohli defends off the front foot Haddin comes upto the stumps now 74.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , full and outside off , Kohli comes forward and drives it to mid-off A floating slip and a gully in place for Watson 74.2 Watson to Kohli , no run , fuller in length and around off , Kohli leans forward and wrists it to mid-on 74.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , length delivery on off , Kohli moves across and bunts it into the on-side Shane Watson [ 7.0-4-10-0 ] is back into the attack 73.6 Lyon to Rahul , FOUR , drags this one short and wide outside off , Rahul eyes lit up seeing the length , he rocks back inside the crease and cuts it to the sweeper cover fence 73.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up around off , Rahul gives the charge and dead-bats it at the end 73.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , pushed through on off and middle , Rahul tucks it away into the on-side off the back foot 73.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , tossed up on off , Rahul steps out and blocks 73.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , touch flatter and spinning back in sharply , Rahul flicks it , but hits the short leg fielder on the thigh , luckily for Rahul the ball lobbed up in front of short mid-wicket and Rahul must have had his heart in his mouth for a little while there 73.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up just outside off and turning back in towards the batsman , Rahul pushes it into the on-side Nathan Lyon [ 21.0-6-58-1 ] is back into the attack A slip and a short leg in place Lyon comes back into the attack , replacing Smith , who was struggling with his line and length 72.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , FOUR , great shot from Kohli , it was fuller but Hazlewood dragged it wide outside off , Kohli reaches out and drives it through the covers , the ball races away to the fence in no time 72.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , just short of a good length and angled in from just outside off , Kohli blocks it into the off-side from the crease 72.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , touch straighter in line and fuller in length , Kohli clips it to short mid-wicket 72.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fuller in length and outside off , Kohli was looking to drive it through the off-side , the ball squirts off the inside half of the bat and rolls away towards mid-on 72.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , length delivery on off , Kohli blocks off the front foot 72.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fuller in length outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and drives it straight to short cover 71.6 S Smith to Rahul , no run , another poor delivery from Smith , it was a full toss , Rahul misses out again as he pushes it back to the bowler 71.5 S Smith to Rahul , no run , floated up on off , Rahul presses forward and blocks 71.4 S Smith to Rahul , FOUR , rank long hop from Smith , Rahul rocks back and pulls it towards the deep mid-wicket region , Cummins from deep mid-wicket runs to his right and dives while trying to make the stop , he can only manage to parry it towards the boundary 71.3 S Smith to Rahul , no run , full toss from Smith , Rahul hits it straight to short cover , Rahul would feel that he missed out on a poor delivery there 71.2 S Smith to Rahul , no run , flatter outside off , Rahul goes back in the crease and punches it to short cover 71.1 S Smith to Rahul , no run , tossed up outside off , Rahul pushes at it off the front foot , the ball rolls away behind square on the off-side off the outside half of the bat 70.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , slower in pace this time around and well outside off , Kohli shoulders arms 70.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , slightly shorter in length and wide outside off , Kohli flashes hard , but hits it straight to the fielder at cover-point 70.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , length delivery angling in on off , Kohli leans forward and blocks it back to the bowler 70.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , bowls this one in the channel outside off , Kohli is happy to leave it for the keeper 70.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , slightly fuller this time , Kohli moves across and bunts it past the non-striker , he was looking for the single , but the mid-on fielder dives and makes the stop to prevent the single 70.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and defends it to the left of the bowler Drinks are on the field now. India are going along smoothly. Rahul has had a few nervy moments , but he has survived. Kohli is once again looking the best batsman for India. These two need to carry on for a while , if India have to get anywhere close to the Australian total . 69.6 S Smith to Rahul , no run , stays on the back foot and blocks it down the wicket 69.5 S Smith to Rahul , no run , tossed up on off , Rahul makes room and drives it inside out to short cover 69.4 S Smith to Rahul , no run , floated up on off , Rahul jams it off the inside edge onto the boot , the ball bounces on the turf before it lobs off the shoe to Smith , who went up for the catch. Umpire Kettleborough wanted to make sure it was a bump call , he sent it upstairs and it was an easy decision for the TV umpire TV umpire pressed into service. Umpire Kettleborough wants to check for a caught and bowled chance. He wanted to check if the ball bounced before Smith took it. Yes , it did and he stays 69.3 S Smith to Rahul , 2 runs , fraction short , Rahul cuts it off the stumps to deep backward point for a brace 69.2 S Smith to Rahul , no run , edged and dropped ! It was a tough catch though for Haddin. The rub of the green still going Rahul 's way. Nicely flighted around off , Rahul prods forward and seems to have got an edge , the ball bounces more and hits Haddin on the shoulder. The Snicko shows a spike , but nothing on the Hot-Spot 69.1 S Smith to Rahul , no run , tossed up on off , Rahul goes back and punches it to Smith. He should have been forward to that 68.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , too straight in line , Kohli gets inside the line and clips it to short mid-wicket 68.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , back of a length close to off , Kohli hangs back and bunts it in front of cover 68.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , fullish and on the fourth stump , Kohli mistimes the drive to mid-off , the bat turned in his hands hence no timing on that 68.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a length just outside off , Kohli covers the line and shoulders arms 68.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , shortens the length around off , Kohli gets right behind the line and taps it to the off-side 68.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Good length ball just outside off , Kohli presses forward and drives it on the up , the ball was in the air for a while but he had hit the gap , the rich timing takes it to the fence Josh Hazlewood [ 11.0-4-22-0 ] is back into the attack 67.6 S Smith to Rahul , no run , floated up just outside off , Rahul makes room and drives it inside out , straight to short cover 67.5 S Smith to Rahul , no run , bit of turn , Rahul stays back and bunts it to the on-side 67.4 S Smith to Kohli , 1 run , again , short and asking for trouble , Kohli pulls it to deep mid-wicket 67.3 S Smith to Kohli , no run , flighted on off , Kohli hangs on the back foot and defends it down the wicket 67.2 S Smith to Rahul , 1 run , another half tracker , Rahul pulls it in front of square this time for a single A slip and short leg in place. . 67.1 S Smith to Rahul , FOUR , rank long hop to start off the spell , Rahul rocks back and pulls it powerfully to deep mid-wicket , there were two men in the deep but he split them to perfection Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 66.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , fullish and just outside off , Kohli push-drives it to mid-off 66.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , straighter in line , pushed down the track 66.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a length and bit more bounce , Kohli allows the ball to hit the bat 66.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , bouncer which is touch too high , Kohli sinks his head underneath the ball , it goes on the bounce to Haddin 66.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , good length ball around off , Kohli presses it to cover after coming forward Goes back over the wicket to Kohli 66.1 R Harris to Rahul , 3 runs , on a length angled across off , Rahul leans forward and square drives it on the up , Burns was a bit early in the dive , allows the ball to go through Harris switches to round the sticks 65.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Kohli works it to backward square , straight to the fielder 65.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , throws this up outside off , Kohli leans forward and drops it to the off-side 65.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , goes back and turns it gently to short mid-wicket 65.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , another well timed drive , but this time straight to the fielder at short cover 65.2 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , brilliant shot ! How many times as he played this shot to Lyon ? Flighted outside off , Kohli gets a good stride forward and drills the drive through cover , the timing takes it to the fence 65.1 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , drops it short and was turning down leg , Kohli rocks back , goes deep in the crease and pulls it behind square leg , the ball hurried to the fence 64.6 R Harris to Rahul , no run , fuller and just outside off , Rahul pushes it wide of mid-off , he wanted the single but Kohli is not interested and sends him back 64.5 R Harris to Rahul , no run , another copybook forward defence from Rahul , bat and pad close together. Everything correct about that 64.4 R Harris to Rahul , no run , short of length on off , Rahul defends solidly off the back foot to short cover 64.3 R Harris to Rahul , no run , fuller and close to off , Rahul drives it off the outer half towards cover-point 64.2 R Harris to Rahul , no run , back of a length outside off , Rahul lets it go and the ball does not carry to Hadds 64.1 R Harris to Rahul , no run , good length in the channel around off , Rahul pushes it to the left of the bowler 63.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , quicker and on off , Kohli plays a whippy-drive to mid-on 63.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , 95kph delivery in the blockhole , Kohli brings his bat down and jams it to short mid-wicket , Lyon thought he had gone through his defences 63.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tosses it up outside off , Kohli lunges forward and blocks it back to Lyon 63.3 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Rahul whips it off the back foot to deep mid-wicket 63.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , slightly quicker and on off , Rahul goes back and works it to short mid-wicket 63.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flighted from round the wicket , Rahul prods forward and taps it to the on-side 62.6 R Harris to Kohli , no run , straight and attacking the stumps , Kohli stays in the crease and turns it to short mid-wicket 62.5 R Harris to Kohli , no run , good length ball just outside off , Kohli knocks it with loose hands to short cover 62.4 R Harris to Kohli , no run , back of a length around off , Kohli stays back and bunts it in front of cover 62.3 R Harris to Kohli , no run , tails back in from a fuller length , Kohli leans forward and flicks it to short mid-wicket 62.2 R Harris to Kohli , no run , on a length close to off , Kohli presses it to cover off the front foot 62.1 R Harris to Kohli , no run , full and on leg-stump , Kohli clips it straight to squarish mid-wicket 61.6 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , gets a good stride forward and pushes the flighted delivery wide of cover for a single 61.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , hangs on the back foot for the ball to turn , nurdles it to backward square 61.4 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , time and again Kohli brings out the sweep shot against Lyon , he kneels down and nails the sweep to the deep square leg fence. He did well to roll his wrist and keep it along the ground 61.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up around off , Kohli stays low and works it to one of the two short mid-wickets 61.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted up outside off , Kohli shuffles back and across , defends it down the wicket 61.1 Lyon to Rahul , 3 runs , much better running this time around , Rahul makes room to this shortish delivery and cuts it through the vacant point region 60.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , bumper on the fourth stump line , Kohli half-ducks under it and allows it to go through 60.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a length just outside off , Kohli lifts his bat and lets it go 60.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , 2 runs , lazy running ! Kohli thought it was a boundary and jogged the first run with ease. Touch short and outside off , Kohli cuts it behind point , Burns was the fielder giving the chase. Second time that India have failed to take the third run. Poor ! 60.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , short of length on off , Kohli camps on the back foot and taps it to point 60.2 Hazlewood to Rahul , 1 run , back of a length on off , Rahul wrists it in front of mid-on and calls Kohli for a quick single 60.1 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , too wide outside off , Rahul does not bother with it 59.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , rolls his wrists on top of the ball and works it to short mid-wicket 59.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , fullish and around off , Kohli squeezes it out to mid-off 59.4 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , darts it in full and on off , Rahul clears his front leg out of the way and whips it to deepish mid-wicket Lyon goes round the wicket 59.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , slower and plenty of air given outside off , Rahul pushes it off the front foot to cover A leg slip joins the slip and forward short leg ( FSL ) fielder 59.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , tossed up just outside off , Rahul defends with the bat in front of his pad 59.1 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , floated up outside off , Kohli plunges forward , opens the bat face and steers it wide of Watto at slip 58.6 Hazlewood to Rahul , 2 runs , excellent shot , but poor running. Fullish and just outside off , Rahul comes forward and creams the drive between cover and mid-off , Warner gives chase and hauls the ball back to Haddin. The batsmen had enough time to take three , but Rahul was slow on the first run 58.5 Hazlewood to Rahul , 2 runs , drops it short on middle , Rahul stays inside the line and whips it through mid-wicket for a couple 58.4 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , shapes back in from a length , Rahul presses forward and pushes it off the inside part back to Hazlewood 58.3 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , pitches it further up just outside off , Rahul covers the line and shoulders arms 58.2 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , short of length on off , Rahul shuffles across , gets inside the line and punches it to mid-on 58.1 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Rahul drops it in front of cover off the back foot 57.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , bit more air and fractionally overpitched , Kohli drills the drive and finds Shaun Marsh in the way at short cover , that was a fine stop 57.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , slower and turning in , Kohli stays in the crease and pats it to short mid-wicket 57.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pushed through outside off , Kohli presses forward and deflects it with an angled bat to slip , Watto dives to his right and stops it 57.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , closes the bat face tad early , gets a soft leading edge to the off-side 57.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Kohli lunges forward and blocks it to cover 57.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , hangs on the back foot and nudges it to backward square , straight to the fielder 56.6 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , on a length well wide of off , Rahul lets it be 56.5 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , another good looking drive , fuller and angling in on off , Rahul plays a crisp on-drive towards mid-on , Harris dives to his left and does not allow the ball to go any further 56.4 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , drags the length back after being driven , Rahul gets behind the line and bunts it to cover 56.3 Hazlewood to Rahul , FOUR , fine shot ! Nice way to get going after a break. It was touch overpitched outside off , Rahul leant into the drive and caresses it through cover. The Hot-Spot shows that it came right off the middle 56.2 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , shortens the length around off , Rahul mistimes the punch to mid-off 56.1 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , back of a length just outside off , Rahul shuffles across and knocks it to cover . Josh Hazlewood [ 8.0-4-11-0 ] is back into the attack 55.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , goes very deep in the crease and defends it to FSL 55.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , glances the flatter delivery and picks out backward square leg fielder 55.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , waits on the back foot for the ball to turn and then helps it on the way to backward square 55.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , bit of extra bounce , Kohli stands tall , rides it and knocks it to the right of FSL 55.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted on off , Kohli comes half-forward and taps it with soft hands to short leg 55.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , tossed up on off , Kohli crouches low and turns it to short mid-wicket Rahul and Kohli are out in the centre with the former doing some gardening on the pitch. Lyon will start off after lunch with a slip and short leg in place.. . It has been slow progress from India. Rahul has fought hard for his maiden Test fifty , he had a few nervy moments , a run-out chance missed , a bat-pad not given and a dropped catch. However , the good thing is , he is still battling it out. Can he accelerate in the company of Kohli ? Welcome back for the post-lunch session.. . Rahul then registered his maiden Test fifty but is still lucky to be out there. He would have been a goner had the wire of the spider cam not distracted Smith 's focus while back-tracking for a catch from slip. Kohli too escaped a stumping chance at the stroke of lunch. India still have a lot of rebuilding work to do. Do rejoin us after lunch to catch the action . Lunch , Day 3 : An attritional first hour was followed by an eventful one. Australia are still in the box seat - ahead of the visitors by 450 runs. Rohit Sharma and KL Rahul began cautiously to survive the opening hour without any hiccups. Soon after reaching his fifty , the former gave it away , dragging a sweep back onto the stumps off an under-edge. Lyon got the ball to grip , turn and bounce , thus posing plenty of questions to the Indian batsmen . 54.6 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Kohli rides the bounce and angles it to point , where there is a misfield , which allows Kohli a single 54.5 Watson to Kohli , no run , this was slid down leg , Kohli misses the glance , Haddin whips the bails off in a flash and appeals for a stumping. The square leg umpire presses the TV umpire into service. Kohli 's back foot was momentarily lifted in the air , but his front leg was in , saving him. The loss of Kohli at the stroke of lunch was the last thing India would have wanted Stumping check sent upstairs. Kohli is the man in question. Did Kohli ground his back foot in time ? His front foot is in though and NOT OUT flashes on the big screen 54.4 Watson to Kohli , no run , straighter in line on middle , worked off the back foot to mid-wicket 54.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and outside off , dabbed wide of point 54.2 Watson to Kohli , 2 runs , full and outside off , driven behind point for a brace 54.1 Watson to Kohli , no run , back of a length and on off , Kohli gets across and defends it 54.1 Watson to Kohli , no ball , shortish and just outside off , defended to the off-side. Watson knocked the bails off in his follow-through and it is a no-ball Coming back to the spilled catch , the ball hit the wire of the spider cam and distracted Smith , causing the ball to burst out of his hands 53.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , blocked back to the bowler off the back foot 53.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , pushed through , blocked to cover 53.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , Lyon drags his length back , defended to the on-side 53.3 Lyon to Rahul , FOUR , Kohli walks up to Rahul and pats him on the helmet. Fuller and outside off , Rahul leans into the drive and the ball trickles away to the deep extra-cover boundary. Subdued celebrations from Rahul after reaching his maiden Test fifty 53.2 Lyon to Kohli , 1 run , extra bounce and turn for Lyon , worked past short leg 53.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , blocked back to the bowler 52.6 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length and outside off , punched to the off-side 52.5 Watson to Rahul , no run , the shadow of the spider cam puts off Smith. He points to it after he drops KL Rahul. The Aussie captain shakes his head. This was banged in short and hurries onto the batsman , who top-edges a pull over slip. Smith back-tracks , follows the ball but the spider cam disturbed his concentration 52.4 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length on middle , worked to short mid-wicket 52.3 Watson to Rahul , no run , fullish and on off , Rahul is forward to tap it to mid-on 52.2 Watson to Rahul , no run , pitched up and just outside off , Rahul seeks to drive on the up , gets it wide of cover towards mid-off 52.1 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length and just outside off , blocked to the left of Watson 51.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , quick turn on off for Lyon , Kohli prods forward and inside-edges it onto the pitch 51.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , blocked to short leg off the back foot 51.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , pitched up and outside off , driven down to mid-on 51.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery on off , Kohli lunges forward in defence 51.2 Lyon to Kohli , no run , spins in , nudged backward of square leg off the back foot 51.1 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Lyon drags his length back on off , blocked off the back foot 50.6 Watson to Rahul , no run , on a fuller length and outside off , dabbed in front of square on the off-side via an open face 50.5 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length again , pushed defensively to short cover 50.4 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length and on off , blocked to the leg-side By the way , Haddin is up to the stumps. There is a catching cover to go with short mid-wicket . 50.3 Watson to Rahul , no run , much fuller on off , Rahul looks to force a drive , the ball dribbles to the leg-side off an inside-edge 50.2 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length again , this one is blocked back to the bowler 50.1 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length on off , punched to short cover Shane Watson [ 4.0-2-6-0 ] is back into the attack 49.6 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , whipped off the back foot to deep square leg with the turn 49.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , fuller on middle and leg , tucked to the man at mid-wicket 49.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , blocked to the off-side from the crease. The line was on middle 49.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , angled on middle from round the stumps , nudged behind square leg 49.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flighted delivery on off , forward and defended 49.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , worked to short leg off the back foot 48.6 Starc to Kohli , no run , back of a length and on the fourth stump at 141kph , Kohli gets behind the line and carefully blocks it back to Starc 48.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , good length ball around off , dabbed to cover off the front foot 48.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , full again , but much wider this time , ignored 48.3 Starc to Kohli , no run , full and slanted across off , left alone Meanwhile , Rogers is off the field because of a bad back . 48.2 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , buffet ball down leg , Kohli feasts on it and helps it away to the fine leg fence 48.1 Starc to Kohli , no run , a tad overpitched and outside off , Kohli comes on the front foot and drives it towards mid-off 47.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flighted and dips in on off , forward and dead-batted onto the pitch 47.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , skids off the deck and keeps low on off , Rahul adjusts and jams it out 47.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , pressed to the off-side 47.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , straighter in line , Rahul plays a whippy drive to mid-on 47.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , lovely bowling ! Floated and turns outside off , Rahul pokes at it , gets an outside edge that does not carry to the slip fielder. He dives to his right and makes a fine stop 47.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , pitched up and just outside off , driven back to Lyon off the inside part of the bat 46.6 Starc to Kohli , no run , full and in the channel outside off , left alone calmly 46.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , fuller and on the leg stump , worked to mid-wicket 46.4 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Kohli rocks back and nails the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence 46.3 Starc to Rahul , 1 run , picked away off the hips to mid-wicket 46.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , slanted across off , left alone. The ball barely carries to the keeper 46.1 Starc to Rahul , no run , on a length on middle , forward and pushed defensively to mid-on 45.6 Lyon to Kohli , no run , straight delivery on off , driven back at the bowler , who makes a half-stop 45.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , Lyon probes away on off , dead-batted by the Indian skipper 45.4 Lyon to Kohli , no run , 'nice nice Lyony ' is the cry from Haddin. Turns in close to off , Kohli comes forward in defence 45.3 Lyon to Kohli , no run , floated up nicely , Kohli lunges forward to smother it 45.2 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , Rahul goes deep in his crease and dabs it in front of point with an angled bat 45.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , fuller on off , blocked back to the bowler 44.6 Starc to Kohli , no run , very full and outside off , Kohli jams it out towards short third man Coming back to the run-out chance , if Pat Cummins had fired the ball back to the bowler , a bat-less Rahul would have been well short. Steve Smith was not at all pleased . 44.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , good length ball on off , Kohli is forward to defend it 44.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , pitched up and on off , Kohli presses it to mid-off 44.3 Starc to Rahul , 1 run , shortish and rises on the stumps , Rahul hops up and works it past mid-wicket 44.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , extra bounce on this back of a length ball outside off , Rahul spars at it and gets beaten 44.1 Starc to Rahul , no run , good length ball on off , blocked back to the bowler Mitchell Starc [ 9.0-3-22-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Lyon to Kohli , FOUR , fuller and flatter on the stumps , Kohli shovel-drives it to the long-on fence and crosses 500 runs in the series 43.5 Lyon to Kohli , no run , a comedy of errors here ! Tossed up around off , Kohli prods at it , the ball rips past the outside edge. Haddin is beaten as well , does not glove the ball cleanly. Cummins back-tracks from slip and collects the ball. Meanwhile , there is a miscommunication between the wickets - Rahul sets off for a risky single but has to retreat. He makes a sprawling dive and lands on his shoulder. Rahul is safe but looks in some discomfort. In fact , Rahul slipped while turning back and lost his bat. Steve Smith is unhappy with the fielder for not flinging the throw at the bowler 's end . Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.4 Lyon to Rohit , out Bowled ! ! Rohit throws it away. Again ! He sinks down on his knees in utter disappointment. This was flighted and fuller outside off , Rohit goes through with his pre-meditated sweep and under-edges it onto the stumps. Lyon is pleased as punch. Rohit b Lyon 53 ( 133 ) [ 4s-5 6s-2 ] Lyon to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 43.3 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , spins in from outside off , Rahul goes back and chips it wide of short mid-wicket 43.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , forward and pressed to cover 43.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Rahul gets across and defends it well 42.6 R Harris to Rohit , FOUR , nice way to get to a fifty - only Rohit 's second fifty-plus score overseas. Rohit drives in the air and gets it in the gap between extra-cover and mid-off 42.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fullish and outside off , tapped to cover 42.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , blocked to the leg-side Oh wait , closer replays show that the there was a mark on the bottom finger of the glove. Tough decision for the umpire . 42.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fullish and on off , driven to mid-on 42.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , back of a length ball on off , Rohit gets right behind the line and defends it back to Harris 42.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , good length delivery on off , forward and blocked back to Harris 41.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , pushed through on off , dead-batted 41.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , turn and extra bounce for Lyon ! Rahul hangs on the back foot and looks to defend , the ball brushes his thigh and lobs to FSL. Hot Spot does not pick up any wood or glove and vindicates the on-field umpire 's desicion of turning down the appeal for a catch. The Aussie close-in catchers looked a bit confident A forward short leg , slip and short mid-wicket in place for Lyon . 41.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , looped up on off , blocked to the leg-side 41.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , Rahul shuffles across off and dead-bats it in front of short leg 41.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flighted delivery on off , Rahul lunges forward , drops it in front of cover and looks for a quick single , but has to retreat 41.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , turns in from around off , clipped backward of square leg off the back foot Nathan Lyon [ 8.0-1-27-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , on a good length and comes in on off , Rohit is forward and across to block it to the right of Harris 40.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fullish and outside off , Rohit comes forward , drives on the rise and finds backward point 40.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , good length ball curls in late from outside off , but does not threaten off , allowing Rohit to leave it alone 40.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fuller and pushed across off , ignored 40.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , back of a length ball , dabbed to cover 40.1 R Harris to Rohit , 2 runs , pitched up and straightens on off , sort of stops on Rohit , who check drives it in the air , but gets it wide of cover for a couple The players take drinks on a hot day at the SCG. It has been some good old-fashioned Test cricket. Australia have bowled probing line and lengths and the Indian batsmen are gutsing it out. In the 15 overs that were bowled , only 19 runs have been scored. Gives an idea as to how disciplined Australia are with the ball . 39.6 Watson to Rahul , no run , a little extra bounce this time , Rahul jerks his bottom hand off the bat and drops it to the off-side 39.5 Watson to Rahul , no run , short of length outside off , this one holds up on the pitch. It was the slower ball as well , Rahul checks his punch and knocks it to cover 39.4 Watson to Rahul , no run , fuller and on the stumps , Rahul closes the bat face tad early , the ball goes off the outside half to mid-on 39.3 Watson to Rahul , no run , good length ball around off , Rahul defends solidly off the front foot to cover 39.2 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length on off , bunts it off the back foot to the left of the bowler 39.1 Watson to Rahul , no run , wicket-to-wicket stuff from Watto , Rahul plays it off his pads to short mid-wicket 38.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , on a length around off , Rohit jams it back to the bowler. He gave the impression that the ball kept low , but it did n't as it went at a nice height , Rohit was late in bringing his bat down 38.5 Hazlewood to Rahul , 1 run , short delivery without much venom , Rahul gets on top of it and pulls it along the carpet to deep backward square leg 38.4 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket at 133kph , does not bounce at all , Rahul sways away from the line and the ball goes on the bounce to Haddin 38.3 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , fullish and on off , Rahul push-drives it back to Hazlewood 38.2 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , back of a length and holds its line , Rahul defends off the outer half to point 38.1 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , shapes back in from a length , Rahul gets his front leg out of the way and taps it to mid-on 37.6 Watson to Rahul , 1 run , 121kph back of a length ball on leg-stump , Rahul tucks it behind square leg and keeps strike. He has slowly moved onto 40 37.5 Watson to Rahul , no run , short of length close to off , Rahul goes back to defending off the back foot 37.4 Watson to Rahul , FOUR , a rare loose delivery from Australia , short and plenty of width on offer , Rahul rocks back and cuts it fiercely behind point , the ball hurries to the boundary 37.3 Watson to Rahul , no run , pitched slightly further up , Rahul leans forward and bunts it to short cover 37.2 Watson to Rahul , no run , again , the length is on the shorter side , Rahul has ample time to go on the back foot and knock it to cover 37.1 Watson to Rahul , no run , back of a length around off , Rahul goes back and across , knocks it to cover 36.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , full and on the stumps , Rohit wrists it with soft hands to short mid-wicket. Another testing over from the Aussies . 36.5 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , nip-backer from short of length , Rohit stays in the crease and tries to play around it , is pinged on the inner thigh 36.4 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , muted appeal for lbw , full and slanting into the batsman , Rohit falls over while playing the flick , he gets an inside edge onto the pad. The ball was also sliding down leg 36.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , tight line this , no room to free those arms , Rohit jams it off the inside edge onto the boot 36.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , short of length on off , knocked down the wicket off the back foot 36.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , pitched up just outside off , Rohit drives it back to the bowler , who gets a hand to it and makes a half-stop 35.6 Watson to Rahul , no run , off-speed delivery , that bounces a bit extra , Rahul was surprised by the bounce , takes his bottom hand off and drops it in front of gully 35.5 Watson to Rahul , no run , slightly shortens the length , Rahul shuffles across and blocks it in front of cover 35.4 Watson to Rahul , no run , too full and on middle , almost a yorker , Rahul jams it back to the right of Watto 35.3 Watson to Rahul , no run , fuller and targeting middle , Rahul push-drives it past Watson to mid-on 35.2 Watson to Rahul , no run , slanting in on off , Rahul shuffles across and turns it gently to short mid-wicket 35.1 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Rohit leans into the drive towards short cover , the fielder takes the pace off the ball 34.6 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , another one that hits the good length spot on off , Rahul moves forward and bunts it to cover 34.5 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , bit too full and on off , Rahul squeezes the drive to mid-on 34.4 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , again in the channel around off , Rahul covers the line and shoulders arms 34.3 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , full and attacking the stumps , Rahul brings his bat in front of the pad and pushes it to mid-on 34.2 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , on a length just outside off , Rahul knocks it to cover after coming forward 34.1 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , good length ball on off , Rahul comes slightly forward and bunts it in front of cover 33.6 Watson to Rohit , no run , back of a length outside off , Rohit toe-ends the punch to mid-off 33.5 Watson to Rohit , no run , short of length close to off , Rohit is happy to let it go through to Haddin 33.4 Watson to Rohit , no run , tad too straight , Rohit stays back and tucks it to square leg 33.3 Watson to Rohit , no run , hint of inward movement , might have been some reverse swing , Rohit presses forward and blocks off the inside part to short mid-wicket 33.2 Watson to Rohit , no run , pulls the length back on off , Rohit defends off the back foot to cover 33.1 Watson to Rohit , no run , starts with a length delivery around off , Rohit covers the line and lets it pass Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 32.6 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , back of a length on middle , Rahul goes back and across , knocks it to mid-on with the straightest of bats 32.5 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump , Rahul leans forward and push-drives it to mid-off , came right off the meat of the bat 32.4 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , shortish on off and middle , Rahul gets behind the line and tucks it softly to short mid-wicket 32.3 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , slightly fuller and around off , Rahul is half-forward and defending to cover 32.2 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , shortens the length outside off , Rahul lifts his bat and lets it go 32.1 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , back of a length on off , Rahul shuffles across and defends it back to the bowler Josh Hazlewood [ 4.0-1-10-0 ] is back into the attack 31.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pings Rohit on the pad , nips back in sharpy , Rohit stays rooted to the crease and misses the nudge , is struck high on the leg. A probing over from Harris comes to an end 31.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , curled back in from a fuller length , Rohit leans forward and flicks it on the bounce to square leg. It has started to reverse and Harris thought he had his man , had his hands on the head 31.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , solidly defended off the front foot , copybook stuff from Rohit 31.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , again , in the channel around off , Rohit pushes hard at it , the ball hits the splice and goes airily towards cover 31.3 R Harris to Rohit , no ball , this is rare , Harris has overstepped for the second time in two overs. On a length just outside off , left alone 31.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , good length ball that holds its line , Rohit gets a thickish outside edge to gully 31.1 R Harris to Rohit , FOUR , streaky ! Full and inviting the batsman to drive the ball , Rohit takes it up , drives away from the body , the ball squirts off the outside edge past a diving gully. It went all along the ground though 30.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , the sucker delivery , full and wide outside off , Rahul lifts his bat and lets it go 30.5 Starc to Rahul , no run , back of a length on middle , Rahul closes the bat face early , gets a soft leading edge to cover. Looks at his bat after playing that 30.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , fuller and attacking the stumps , Rahul plays it around his pads and works it to mid-on. A dangerous thing to do , cause if he misses , he is right in front 30.3 Starc to Rahul , no run , short of length on middle , Rahul gets inside the line and tucks it gently to mid-on 30.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , drags the length slightly back , Rahul stays in the crease and bunts it to cover 30.1 Starc to Rahul , no run , good length ball on off , Rahul comes half-forward and pushes it towards mid-off 29.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , on a length well wide of off , Rohit does not bother with it 29.6 R Harris to Rohit , no ball , short of length around off , Rohit rides the bounce and taps it in front of point , Harris is caught overstepping and it is a big no-ball 29.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , " catch it " was the call , but the ball does not carry to point , fuller and outside off , Rohit throws his bat at it , square drives it uppishly towards point 29.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , better ! Back of a length closer to off , Rohit goes right back and defends it to cover 29.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , needless ! It was a harmless back of a length delivery just outside off , Rohit goes feeling for it away from the body and the ball zips past the outside edge 29.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , Rohit comes well forward and blocks the fuller length delivery back down the wicket 29.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fuller and teasing the batsman outside off , Rohit does n't take the bait as he lets it go 28.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , shortish and on off , Rahul is solidly behind it and defending to cover 28.5 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , pitches it up on off , Rohit drives it without much timing towards cover , it is good enough for a single though 28.4 Starc to Rohit , no run , fuller and close to off , Rohit presses forward and drops it in front of cover 28.3 Starc to Rohit , no run , back of a length around off , Rohit gets right behind the line and defends it to cover , a loud " no " follows the defensive stroke 28.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , tails back in sharply onto the pads , Rohit leans forward and flicks it to square leg , straight to the fielder 28.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , good length ball just outside off , Rohit opens the bat face and taps it to point 27.6 R Harris to Rahul , no run , short of length just outside off , Rahul stays in the crease , covers the stumps and shoulders arms 27.5 R Harris to Rohit , 1 run , Rohit gets his first run of the day , drives it to the left of mid-off and sets off for a quick single , good response from KL 27.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fuller and close to off , Rohit presents the straight bat and pushes it to cover 27.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , goes wide of the crease , slants it in and gets it to straighten , Rohit closes the bat face as he tries to work it to the on-side , gets a soft leading edge to point 27.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , too far outside off and Rohit has no problems in letting that go through 27.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pitched up on the fourth stump line , Rohit plays an extended forward defensive to mid-off 26.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , pitches in the same area as the previous delivery but does not bounce at all , Rahul ca n't meet with the glance and Haddin takes it on the bounce. Pitch already showing signs of uneven bounce 26.5 Starc to Rahul , no run , sharp lifter on leg-stump , Rahul gets his body inside the line and allows it to sail through to Haddin 26.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , back of a length angled outside off , left alone 26.3 Starc to Rahul , FOUR , Rahul starts the day with a boundary , full and slanted across the right-hander , Rahul squeezes it through point and gully , the pace of Starc carries the ball to the fence 26.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , fuller and on the pads , Rahul tucks it straight into the man at short leg Two slips , a gully , leg gully and short leg in place. Can expect some short stuff. . 26.1 Starc to Rahul , no run , right on the mark is Starc , on a length and holds its line , Rahul is rooted to the crease as he prods at it , the ball takes the inside edge and thuds into the pad. If no bat , then Rahul was plumb in front 25.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , shortens the length and gets some extra lift , Rohit hoists his bat up and lets it pass easily Two slips and a gully in place. . 25.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , good length ball outside off , Rohit covers the line and shoulders arms 25.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , angles it in from wide of the crease , Rohit leans forward and wrists it down the wicket , hits the timber at the bowler 's end. However , Harris did n't get a hand and Rahul was in the crease 25.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fuller and on off , Rohit middles the drive straight back to the bowler , Harris bends down and fields the ball 25.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , on a length just outside off , Rohit lets it go , the ball goes on the bounce to Hadds 25.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , starts with a yorker aimed right at the base of off-stump , Rohit brings his bat down and jams it down the wicket Harris set to resume the attack . The SCG is covered in pink as it is Jane McGrath day. The Channel Nine commentators will wear pink blazers as a tribute. The Australian team is greeted by the McGrath family. The players are seen handing over the Baggy Pinks to Glenn McGrath . Pitch Report : " It is still a very good batting wicket. It is getting drier as the days go by. Overall , it is still a good wicket and there will not be much movement for the pacers , but there will carry and bounce. However , as the game progresses Nathan Lyon will come into play " , reckons Sourav Ganguly That 's a wrap of this segment. Over to the action now . 'A toothless Indian attack struggled , the prolific Smith batted his way into the record books , the Indians had to cope with Mitchell Starc 's speed on the second day of the fourth Test.' He writes , 'For Steve Smith , the picture was perfect on a sun-lit Wednesday at the Sydney Cricket Ground. He will freeze the frame. His dream run continues. Smith joined Jack Fingleton , Everton Weekes and Ken Barrington as the only batsmen to make four successive centuries in the first innings of a Test here on Wednesday.' S Dinakar 's report for the Hindu wears the headline 'Smith bats his way into the record books' 'Well I guess Kohli was trying out different bowlers. There were three bowlers used successively and given one over each. I really have to discuss with the captain and find out what the strategy was then ' said India 's bowling coach , B Arun to Bharat Sundaresan of the Indian Express 'It was one of countless highlights in Australia 's mammoth first innings total of 7/572 declared , which was set up in the morning by Steve Smith 's fourth century of the series. ' adds Bednall 'If there was one shot that illustrated Australia 's dominance on day two of the fourth Test it was Brad Haddin 's first ball six off Mohammed Shami. The confident Aussie wicketkeeper launched Shami straight down the ground to join Greg Chappell ( 1975 ) and Tim Wall ( 1930 ) as the only Aussies to score six runs off the first delivery they faced in a Test match. ' writes Jai Bednall for the Courier Mail 'Smith also joins Bradman and Jacques Kallis as the only players to score four consecutive hundreds in the same series. The former South Africa all-rounder managed the feat in the 2003-04 home series against the West Indies.' She says , 'The top six batsmen all passed 50 , including a maiden half-century to Joe Burns , but none hurt India as much as Smith. The captain continued his march into the history books when he dispatched a full toss on middle stump from Umesh Yadav to the mid-wicket boundary to notch his fourth century in four Tests. The 25-year-old skipper is in exclusive company. He is the fifth Australian batsman to make centuries in four or more consecutive Tests , after Don Bradman , Neil Harvey , Jack Fingleton and Matthew Hayden.' Chloe Saltau 's piece for the Age has the headline 'Top six fire as Australia enjoy run-fest in SCG Test' Good morning and welcome to day 3 of the final Test at SCG. As is the norm , let us have a peek at the newspapers . Fifty-plus scores from each of Australia 's top six saw them surge to a massive 572. Bar Suresh Raina , all of India 's bowlers passed 100. The visitors were off to a disastrous start , losing Vijay for a duck , but stability came from unexpected quarters. Rahul , who twice fell to silly shots at the 'G showed good technique and temperament stitching an unbroken 71-run stand with Rohit to steady the Indian reply . Lyon got some good turn and bounce and he will be the key for the hosts tomorrow. Starc also cranked up fiery pace and often hurried the Indians. Meanwhile , India will want Rohit and Rahul to carry on and offer a solid base for the likes of Rahane and Kohli. Many thanks for your company today. Can India sustain the fight ? Or will Australia run away with the advantage on day 3 ? Until tomorrow , goodbye and cheerio ! India were forced onto the back foot from the get go with Starc striking in his first over to have Vijay nicking off. After 6 horrid days of Test cricket , KL Rahul finally felt alive on the big stage. He looked ugly when he overran the ball and let slip the ball , which frustrated Kohli. Later on , he pulled off a good catch to dismiss Burns. After back-tracking and pouching the ball , Rahul placed his right hand on his heart. Yes , he finally felt alive in Test cricket. Rohit Sharma survived a close lbw shout but has hung in there to help India rebuild . Stumps , day 2 : Australia 's day again. The visitors still trail by as many as 501 runs. Steve Smith set the tone for the day , parading to his fourth ton of the series , while Watto holed out to deep mid-wicket for 81. Burns and Marsh also helped themselves to fifties before the Indian pacers , led by Shami ( 5/112 ) , stepped up. Smith called his batsmen in after Harris ' blazing cameo . 24.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed solidly to cover 24.5 Starc to Rahul , 2 runs , Starc steams in and delivers a full one at 151kph , push-driven past the bowler to long-off. Rahul gets back for the couple. He was looking for the third , but Rohit was slow 24.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , short of length and down leg , pulled and missed. Starc has a few words for the rookie batsman Smith calls in for the helmet. A short leg comes in now . 24.3 Starc to Rahul , no run , 143kph snorter from Starc. Bouncer outside off , Rahul hops up and then yanks his head out of the way. Dropped his gloves as well. Rahul did well to keep his eyes on the lifter till the last instant 24.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , steeply rising short delivery on off , Rahul hops up and fends it safely to the off-side 24.1 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length on middle at 144kph , worked towards square leg. Harris ' throw is wide , India ponder over an extra run off the overthrow but decide against it Last over of the day coming up . 23.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , drifting down leg , tickled past leg slip , but there 's a man behind square to mop it up 23.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , straighter one on middle , Rahul shuffles across a touch and blocks it back to Lyon 23.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , angled on off from round the stumps , pushed back to Lyon 23.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , looped up on off , Rahul is forward to block it to silly point 23.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flatter on off , clipped to the man at mid-on 4 men around the bat . 23.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , fuller on middle and leg , blocked to the leg-side Ishant is on the field supplying some drinks to the batsmen. Rahul also changes his gloves . 22.6 Starc to Rohit , no run , on a length and on off , safely negotiated with the straightest of bats 22.5 Starc to Rohit , no run , on a good length and slanted across off , Rohit is lured into a poking at it , beaten emphatically 22.4 Starc to Rohit , FOUR , 144 kph , short of length and down leg , does not climb much as the batsman expected it to , Rohit gets an inside edge on the tickle and helps it away fine , beating Haddin 's dive 22.3 Starc to Rohit , no run , on a good length delivery with a hint of away movement just outside off , Rohit taps it behind point 22.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , very full and wide outside off , Rohit shelves the drive and shoulders arms 22.1 Starc to Rahul , 1 run , 144kph good length ball hurled across off , dabbed wide of cover for a single Mitchell Starc [ 4.0-2-9-1 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Lyon to Rahul , 3 runs , fuller and outside off , Rahul swishes a drive and sends it to sweeper cover with hard hands. He collects three and will keep strike. End of a testing over from Lyon 21.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , slower through the air , Rahul is forward to defend it 21.4 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , tucked out to deep mid-wicket 21.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Lyon belts a big appeal for lbw , but the ump is unmoved. This was very full and quick on middle , Rohit misses a pre-determined sweep and is trapped in front of middle. In fact , Rohit falls over the shot and is on the floor. Further replays show that the batsman had got an inside-edge. If not for that piece of wood , Rohit was a goner. Well spotted by umpire Richard Kettleborough 21.2 Lyon to Rohit , no run , tossed up on middle , Rohit blocks it past short leg 21.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , angled on the pad , defended behind square leg Round the wicket . 20.6 R Harris to Rahul , FOUR , overpitched and outside off , Rahul lunges forward and drives it sweetly in the gap between cover and mid-off. There was only one result after he met this ball 20.5 R Harris to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length on off , nudged to mid-on for a quick single. No alarms here for the visitors 20.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pitched up on off , Rohit presses forward and pushes it back to Harris 20.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , back of a length and curls in late from outside off , Rohit lifts his bat and lets it go 20.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , similar line and length , Rohit now angles his bat and steers it behind point 20.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , full and outside off , Rohit hangs his bat out outside off and gets beaten as the ball passes the outside edge 19.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flatter and spins in on middle and leg , Rahul was a bit surprised by the extra bounce , but manages to fend it wide of the man under the helmet at short leg 19.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , on off again , Rahul lunges forward to smother it 19.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , much fuller and looped up on off , forward and blocked to silly point with soft hands 19.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , slid through on off , Lyon pulls his length back too , defended to short leg off the back foot 19.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up outside off , Rahul is forward and across to keep it out 19.1 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , flighted and just outside off , driven down to long-on 18.6 R Harris to Rahul , no run , full again , this one tails in on off , Rahul nearly falls over the flick and gets the ball to mid-on , before half-waving his bat to Rohit 18.5 R Harris to Rohit , 1 run , full on off , Rohit seeks to drive , but has to settle with an inside-edge towards mid-on 18.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , good length ball outside off , straightens past the outside edge of Rohit 18.3 R Harris to Rahul , 1 run , dab-and-run to cover for a quick single. There was a brief hesitation between the wickets , but no harm done for India. Warner has a shy at the stumps but misses. Rohit makes a sprawling dive and makes his crease By the way , this three has raised the fifty of the partnership . 18.2 R Harris to Rohit , 3 runs , pitched up and outside off , Rohit lunges forward and drives it in the gap at extra-cover. He only gets three , Harris is annoyed for straying in length there 18.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , good length ball around off , blocked to the left of Harris after coming halfway forward 17.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , slides on with the arm on off , Rahul keeps it out off the back foot 17.5 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , fullish and on off , eased past a diving Lyon to long-on. 'Down mate ' was the cry from Haddin. The spinner got down , but the ball beat him 17.4 Lyon to Rohit , no run , spins in on the fourth stump from well outside off , Rohit blocks it calmly 17.3 Lyon to Rahul , 3 runs , turns in sharply and quickly , Rahul rocks back and cuts it in the gap at point , comes back for the third 17.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , fuller and on off , Rahul dead-bats it in front of Lyon 17.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , skids off the deck , Rahul tentatively defends it in front of mid-on Rohit has a chat with Rahul and they punch gloves . 16.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , full and outside off , shapes in but only after passing Rohit , who had shouldered arms to it 16.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , good length ball around off and middle , Rohit drops it dead in front of cover 16.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , pitched up in the channel of uncertainty , Rohit fiddles with it away from the body as the ball passes the outside edge The third slip moves to gully now . 16.3 R Harris to Rahul , 1 run , full and tails in a bit , Rahul flicks it to mid on , where the fielder dives and makes a half-stop. He ca n't prevent the single though Harris has deployed a 3-man strong slip cordon . 16.2 R Harris to Rahul , no run , good length ball on off , Rahul gets a good stride forward as he defends it back to Harris 16.1 R Harris to Rahul , no run , too full and outside off , Rahul leans forward , bends his knee , drives well but finds cover Ryan Harris [ 4.0-1-6-0 ] is back into the attack In between the over , Haddin pointed out to Rahul that there was no fielder at deep mid-wicket. A bit of chirping going on . 15.6 Lyon to Rohit , no run , Lyon pulls his length back , punched off the back foot to the leg-side 15.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , straighter in line , worked to the leg-side 15.4 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , quick turn for Lyon , Rahul hangs back and clips it backward of square leg 15.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , full and outside off , silly-point intercepts Rahul 's drive. The ball hit Marsh on his ankle there 15.2 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , spins in from outside off , Rohit uses his feet , does not meet the pitch of the ball and manages to chip it tentatively over square leg 15.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , turned behind square on the leg-side off the back foot Drinks. India were dented early with Vijay ( 0 ) chasing a wide one outside off and nicking it through to Haddin off a not-so-soft-Starc. The left-arm pacer , in fact , steamed in and even peppered Rohit and Rahul with a few verbal volleys. The duo though have stayed out to rebuild for India. The visitors are still miles away from Australia 's massive 572 . 14.6 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , similar line and length on off , Rahul defends it back to the bowler 14.5 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , back of a length and close to off at 140kph , Rahul gets behind the line and blocks it to the right of Hazlewood , towards mid-on 14.4 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rahul pushes it towards cover 14.3 Hazlewood to Rahul , 2 runs , fullish and shapes in a bit , Rahul drives it to cow corner for a couple. Not all that well-timed again , but good enough for a brace 14.2 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , fuller and outside off , mistimed drive towards mid-off. Perhaps , Rahul went too hard at it 14.1 Hazlewood to Rahul , FOUR , banged in short on off at 138kph , Rahul swivels on the back foot and pulls it through backward square. Rahul did well to roll his wrists and hit it all along the floor for his first four in international cricket 13.6 Lyon to Rohit , SIX , agricultural but effective. Rohit is not going to allow Lyon settle down. He races down the track , takes it from outside off and smashes it over the long-on boundary. Looks like a statement from Rohit 13.5 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , slides on , too close to cut , yet Rahul goes with the shot and chops it in front of point 13.4 Lyon to Rahul , no run , flat on off , worked to the leg-side 13.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , pushed through at 91kph , blocked more carefully to short leg 13.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , tossed up on off , Rahul comes forward in defence 13.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , slower through the air and spins in on off , Rahul prods forward , gets an inside-edge that bounces in front of short leg 4 men around the bat . 12.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , tight line close to off , Rohit gets behind it and solidly blocks it back to Hazlewood 12.5 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , very full and outside off , Rohit shoulders arms 12.4 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , similar length and close to off now , Rohit hangs back and bunts it to cover 12.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rohit carefully defends it back to the bowler 12.2 Hazlewood to Rahul , 1 run , good length ball outside off , firmly pushed wide of the cover fielder 12.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , 1 run , short of length on off , Rohit hops up and works it towards square leg and trots off to the other end 11.6 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , pulls the length back , Rohit dabs it to the vacant point region and keeps strike 11.5 Lyon to Rohit , no run , tossed up just outside off , Rohit presses forward and blocks it off the inside part to short leg 11.4 Lyon to Rahul , 1 run , floated up on off , Rahul leans forward and works it wide of short leg and gets to the other end 11.3 Lyon to Rahul , no run , slower and drifts in , Rahul lunges forward and blocks it to the right of Lyon A silly point now joins the slip , leg slip and short leg 11.2 Lyon to Rahul , no run , another solid forward defence to cover from Rahul 11.1 Lyon to Rahul , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , defended down the wicket 10.6 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , shapes in from back of a length , Rohit is cramped for room , he jams it onto his thigh pad and the ball rolls to the right of the bowler 10.5 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , on a length just outside off , left alone 10.4 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , back of a length on off , Rohit hangs back and whips it to mid-wicket 10.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , shortish and around off , Rohit stands up and knocks it to point , shouts a loud " no " for the single 10.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , nips back in from a length , Rohit stays rooted to the crease and ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball gets stuck in his pad 10.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , tight line around the off-stump , Rohit comes forward and lets it go 9.6 Lyon to Rahul , no run , floated up close to off , Rahul comes well forward and blocks it down the pitch 9.5 Lyon to Rahul , no run , tossed up on off , Rahul wrists it to the right of the bowler 9.4 Lyon to Rohit , 1 run , sees the batsman charge down , pulls the length back , Rohit eases it comfortably down to long-on 9.3 Lyon to Rohit , no run , spins back in from off , Rohit hangs back and nudges it to backward square , he wanted the single but Rahul sends him back 9.2 Lyon to Rohit , SIX , second ball of Lyon 's first over and Rohit is shimming down the wicket and lofting it straight down the ground , it was great use of the feet and a superb shot . 9.1 Lyon to Rohit , no run , flighted just outside off , Rohit leans forward and blocks Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 8.6 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , shortish and just outside off , Rahul moves across and taps it to mid-off 8.5 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , good length ball on the fourth stump line , Rahul presses it to mid-off by coming forward 8.4 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , short of length on off , Rahul goes right back and defends solidly down the wicket 8.3 Hazlewood to Rahul , 2 runs , on a length close to off , Rahul stretches forward and plays the extended push to the right of mid-off , Warner chases and keeps it down to two 8.2 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , drags the length back outside off , Rahul shuffles across and shoulders arms 8.1 Hazlewood to Rahul , no run , good length ball on off , Rahul comes half-forward and blocks it to mid-off Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 7.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , it was the set-up from Harris , he got three balls shape into the batsman and the last one held its line outside off , Rohit sensibly does not go fishing at that as he leaves it alone 7.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , shortens the length slightly , Rohit hangs back and defends it to mid-on 7.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , angling in from outside off , Rohit gets slightly forward and knocks it to the right of Harris 7.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fuller and curling into the batsman , Rohit jams the drive onto the boot off the inside edge , the ball lobs back towards the left of Harris Third slip has been moved to a second gully position. . 7.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , back of a length close to off , Rohit stays back and bunts it in front of cover-point 7.1 R Harris to Rohit , no run , Harris at the other end probes away in the channel around off , Rohit covers the line and shoulders arms 6.6 Starc to Rahul , no run , short and down leg , Rahul gets inside the line and allows the ball to sail through to Haddin. A good testing over by Starc , who has a go at Rahul before taking his cap from the umpire 6.5 Starc to Rahul , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Rahul gets off his toes , rides the bounce and drops it with soft hands to the off-side. That was really well played ! 6.4 Starc to Rahul , no run , 148kph bouncer around off , Rahul arches back and sways away from the line of the delivery 6.3 Starc to Rahul , no run , well directed short delivery , aimed right at the chest , Rahul hops up and fends it awkwardly wide of the short leg fielder. One thing what he did well was , he took his bottom hand off the bat 6.2 Starc to Rahul , no run , short delivery on off , not much of pace on that , Rahul sways back and gets away from the line of the delivery. Starc had a few words for Rahul as well A short leg and leg gully in place for Rahul 6.1 Starc to Rahul , no run , good length ball attacking the stumps , Rahul is half-forward and defending to Starc 5.6 R Harris to Rohit , no run , short of length outside off , left alone. Harris is not happy with himself as he did n't make the batsman play the last two deliveries 5.5 R Harris to Rohit , no run , length delivery too far across off , Rohit is not interested in playing that 5.4 R Harris to Rohit , no run , good length ball just outside off , Rohit presses forward , defends with an open face to point. His bat and pad were close together this time 5.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , shortens the length on off , Rohit bunts it off the toe-end to mid-off 5.2 R Harris to Rohit , no run , fuller and teasing the batsman , Rohit drives without much footwork , the ball goes off a thickish outside edge to gully , Lyon dives to his left and stops the ball 5.1 R Harris to Rahul , 1 run , back of a length around off , Rahul drops it towards cover and sets off for a quick single. That would have been close had Burns gathered the ball and hit the bulls-eye at the bowlers end 4.6 Starc to Rohit , no run , fullish and close to off , Rohit eases it from the crease to mid-off 4.5 Starc to Rohit , no run , good length ball angled outside off , Rohit has nothing to do with it 4.4 Starc to Rohit , FOUR , excellent timing ! Short and on leg-stump , Rohit gets on top of the bounce and pulls it along the ground , his left leg was in the air as he played that. Harris had no chance of stopping that as it scooted away to the fence 4.3 Starc to Rohit , no run , pulls the length back and slants it across off , Rohit hoists his bat up and lets it pass 4.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , strays onto the pads , Rohit tucks it straight to the man at squarish mid-wicket 4.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , Starc pegs away in and around the off-stump , Rohit watches it closely and leaves it alone 3.6 R Harris to Rahul , no run , good length ball outside off , Rahul presses across and blocks it towards widish mid-off 3.5 R Harris to Rahul , no run , back of a length outside off , Rahul shuffles across and defends it back to the bowler 3.4 R Harris to Rahul , 2 runs , touch too full and on the fourth stump , Rahul squeezes the drive through the vacant cover region and picks up an easy two 3.3 R Harris to Rahul , no run , good length ball around off , Rahul pushes it firmly off the front foot to mid-off 3.2 R Harris to Rahul , no run , on a length just outside off , Rahul covers his stumps and shoulders arms 3.1 R Harris to Rohit , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Rohit plays an extended forward defence wide of mid-off , Warner once again gets across quickly and keeps it to one 2.6 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , follows the short one with a full delivery on off , Rohit squeezes it past the bowler , Warner sees that the batsmen get only one with a good diving stop 2.5 Starc to Rohit , FOUR , that should give him some confidence , 145kph short delivery aimed right at the batsman , Rohit transfers his weight back after coming forward initially , he pulls it in front of square to register the first boundary of the innings 2.4 Starc to Rohit , no run , back of a length just outside off , Rohit stands up and punches it towards point , where Rogers is onto it quickly 2.3 Starc to Rohit , no run , shortens the length around off , Rohit is opened up as the ball squirts off a thickish outside edge to gully 2.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , miscommunication ! Good length ball around off , Rohit drops it in front of cover and takes off , Rahul says no just in time for Rohit to get back , Warner was the fielder and it was a good call by Rahul. Rohit just about makes his ground 2.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , on a length slanted across Rohit , who lifts his bat and lets it go 1.6 R Harris to Rahul , no run , much better , probing line around the off-stump , Rahul covers the line and shoulders arms 1.5 R Harris to Rahul , no run , fuller and shaping away outside off , Rahul goes for a tentative push with his feet going nowhere. The ball whizzes past the outside edge. Another loose shot from KL ! 1.4 R Harris to Rohit , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Rohit drives with laden feet , gets a thickish outside edge towards gully , Lyon dives and stops the ball , he even hits the stumps at the striker 's end and concedes the single 1.3 R Harris to Rohit , no run , back of a length on off , Rohit gets behind the line and defends it to mid-on 1.2 R Harris to Rahul , 1 run , too straight from Harris , on middle and leg , Rahul wrists it between mid-wicket and mid-on for a single 1.1 R Harris to Rahul , no run , Harris right on the mark , on a length and straightening just outside off , Rahul has a feel for it away from the body and is beaten Ryan Harris , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Starc to Rohit , no run , 149kph short of length delivery on the stumps , Rohit jumps and fails to get bat on that , is hit flush on the stomach. That would sting 0.5 Starc to Rohit , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Rohit stands tall and punches it to point 0.4 Starc to Rohit , no run , fuller and around off , Rohit stays in the crease and knocks it down the wicket Rohit Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.3 Starc to Vijay , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Big wicket ! Starc gives Vijay a send off. The umpires check for a no-ball , but Starc is fine. It was a loose shot from the Indian opener , who has left the ball so beautifully throughout the series. Full and angled well wide of off , Vijay goes for the drive away from the body , gets a thin edge through to Haddin. Not the start India would have hoped for. Vijay c Haddin b Starc 0 ( 3 ) Starc to Vijay , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 0.2 Starc to Vijay , no run , pitched up outside off , Vijay gets a good stride forward and square drives it to point 0.1 Starc to Vijay , no run , back of a length and hint of shape in , but that was after Vijay shouldered arms to that Vijay and Rahul are at the crease. Vijay is on strike. Starc will open the attack The players are out in the middle. Vijay will take strike against Starc , who will make first use of the new nut. He has three slips and a gully in place.. . India have around 25 overs to bat out the day. A new opening pair of Vijay and Rahul have their tasks cut out. Can the openers provide them a solid start ? Or will Australia continue to dictate terms ? We 'll find out shortly.. . Australia have for the fourth time put up a massive first innings total on the board. The message for the batsmen was clear when they came out after tea , i.e. to go after the bowling and get as many runs as possible. Burns started with by hitting Shami over mid-on , but perished off the very next ball. Harris came in and took on Bhuvi , carving him for 19 runs in one over. The innings took the hosts past the 570-mark and Steven Smith waved his hand and called his men in . 152.3 Shami to R Harris , out Caught by Ashwin ! ! Australia have declared ! An entertaining innings from Harris comes to an end. Shami gets his first 5-wicket haul away from home. Banged in mid-way down the pitch , Harris takes it on and hooks it in the air straight down the throat of the deep square leg fielder. R Harris c Ashwin b Shami 25 ( 9 ) [ 4s-5 ] Shami to R Harris , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 152.3 Shami to R Harris , wide , short and over the batsman , Harris tries to reach it , ca n't and the ump calls it a wide for height 152.2 Shami to R Harris , 2 runs , slower delivery outside off , Harris charges down and lifts it wide of long-off for a couple. He is having fun here 152.1 Shami to R Harris , FOUR , hammered ! Haddin and the umpire were flying out of the way. Pitched up delivery on the stumps , Harris gets his front leg out of the way and drills it in the air past the non-striker 's end , the ball reached the fence at the rate of knots 151.6 Bhuvneshwar to R Harris , 1 run , leg-cutter outside off , Harris backs away and cuts it powerfully to sweeper cover. 19 runs off that over and Australia getting closer to declaration 151.5 Bhuvneshwar to R Harris , FOUR , this is the carnage from Harris , harmless length delivery on middle and leg , Harris stays leg-side of the ball and heaves it to deep square leg , for the fourth boundary of the over 151.4 Bhuvneshwar to R Harris , FOUR , Bhuvneshwar is strugging here , drops it short and outside off , Harris moves away to the leg-side and slaps it over extra cover , no chance for the sweeper to stop that 151.3 Bhuvneshwar to R Harris , 2 runs , shortish and on the stumps , Harris pulls it behind square for a brace , Shami does the tiding up in the deep 151.2 Bhuvneshwar to R Harris , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries , Harris taking full toll of Bhuvi 's lack of pace , makes room and lofts it inside out wide of mid-off. A much better shot than the previous one 151.1 Bhuvneshwar to R Harris , FOUR , length ball just outside off , Harris backs away slightly to free his arms , he chips it over mid-off and the ball races away to the boundary 150.6 Shami to Haddin , no run , full and fired down leg , Haddin ca n't lay bat on that as it goes through to Saha 150.5 Shami to Haddin , no run , another off-speed delivery around off , Haddin stands tall and punches it towards cover 150.4 Shami to Haddin , no run , change of pace from Shami , Haddin moves forward and knocks it to cover , calls " no , no " for the single 150.3 Shami to Haddin , no run , bumper on leg-stump , Haddin gets his head out of the way and allows it to pass Ryan Harris , right handed bat , comes to the crease 150.2 Shami to Burns , out Caught by Rahul ! ! Terrific catch from KL ! Kohli applauds the young man 's effort. Burns tries to repeat the previous shot , but this time the fielder was deep and was waiting for it , Rahul tracks back from deepish mid-on and takes it tumbling backwards. Burns departs for the team 's cause. Burns c Rahul b Shami 58 ( 114 ) [ 4s-10 ] Shami to Burns , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 150.1 Shami to Burns , FOUR , Burns has been given the license to play his shots , length delivery in the slot , Burns clears his front leg and heaves it up and over mid-on for a boundary 149.6 Bhuvneshwar to Haddin , no run , good length ball close to off , Haddin presses it to cover after coming forward 149.5 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , 1 run , all to easy for the Australians , Burns wrists it wide of mid-on , the fielder is slightly deep and the single is taken comfortably 149.4 Bhuvneshwar to Haddin , 1 run , on a length around off , Haddin knocks it to mid-off for another well judged single Saha up to the stumps now. . 149.3 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , 1 run , Burns walks out of the crease , pushes it to mid-on and takes off for a sharp run 149.2 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , 113kph back of a length ball on off , Burns punches and picks out mid-on 149.1 Bhuvneshwar to Haddin , 1 run , gentle delivery around off , Haddin drops it in front of cover and gets going with a single India just waiting for the declaration as they have been doing in the previous three Tests. What will be the score Smith will be happy with ? Can India extend the declaration time with some tight bowling ? Answers to the questions coming up as the players walk out to the middle for the final session. Bhuvi will start proceedings. He has a lone slip in place. . Marsh missed out on a ton , guiding a Shami ball to the diving Saha. Raina , who started off the session , allowed Australia to motor along nicely , before the pacers showed some discipline. Australia have all but batted India out of the Test. Another tiring session awaits the visitors. Do join us after the tea break to see if India reverse the pattern . Tea , Day 2 : Australia have scored 118 runs for the loss of Marsh in that middle session , piling the agony on India. The hosts are on a strong footing at 538/5. Marsh and Burns combined well , adding 114 for the 5th wicket. During the process , both got to fifties and with it each of Australia 's top 6 reached 50-plus scores . 148.6 Shami to Burns , no run , back of a length and outside off , Burns punches with an open face and finds point 148.5 Shami to Burns , no run , Burns jams out another full ball on off and picks out mid-on 148.4 Shami to Burns , no run , pitched up further on off , Burns comes on the front foot and drives it straight to the fielder at mid-on 148.3 Shami to Burns , no run , pitched up and tails in a touch , Burns plays a drive to mid-on 148.2 Shami to Haddin , 1 run , similar length and outside off , sort of stops on the batsman , who checks his shot and lifts it in the air over the cover area 148.1 Shami to Burns , 1 run , short of length on off , pulled off the back foot to deep mid-wicket for a single 147.6 Ashwin to Haddin , no run , Ashwin gives this ample air on off , Haddin gets forward and blocks it back to Ashwin 147.5 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , pushed through flatter , nudged behind square on the leg-side 147.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , leg stumpish again , another missed sweep from Burns 147.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , tossed up and Ashwin pulls his length back , gets some spin as well. Burns had stepped out and nearly lobbed it to short leg. The ball just died down in front of the man under the helmet 147.2 Ashwin to Burns , no run , quicker one on the leg stump , Burns misses the sweep and is hit on the thigh , the ball rolls to the off-side 147.1 Ashwin to Burns , no run , flighted delivery on off , Burns is forward to smother it Hmm , so no love lost between Kohli and Haddin . 146.6 Shami to Haddin , no run , pitched up and on off , blocked to the left of the bowler towards mid-off Kohli had a few words , welcoming Haddin to the crease. The veteran keeper-batsman responded and how ! 146.5 Shami to Haddin , SIX , oh hello ! This was a length delivery on off , Haddin gets under it and launches it straight over the bowler 's head Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease This could possibily be the last home Test for both Haddin and Rogers . 146.4 Shami to S Marsh , out Caught by W Saha ! ! Shami strikes before tea. He has his third wicket. This one jumps to have some extra bounce from a length outside off , Marsh guides it to the left of Saha. The keeper dives , balances the ball against his stomach and manages to grab it. Marsh misses a hundred but has strengthened his case for an Ashes berth. S Marsh c W Saha b Shami 73 ( 116 ) [ 4s-9 6s-1 ] Shami to S Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 146.3 Shami to S Marsh , no run , fullish on middle , draws Marsh forward into a defensive push back to Shami 146.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , good length ball on the stumps , Marsh is forward to defend it down the track 146.1 Shami to S Marsh , FOUR , too full on off , Marsh whips his wrists and forces it to the long-on fence. The wristwork did the trick for the left-hander Mohammed Shami [ 25.0-3-89-2 ] is back into the attack 145.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , Burns uses his feet , Ashwin drags his length back a bit. The batsman adjusts and drops it dead on the pitch 145.5 Ashwin to Burns , no run , steered off the back foot towards point 145.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , blocked to the leg-side 145.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , fuller and outside off , push-driven to cover , straight to the fielder 145.2 Ashwin to Burns , no run , worked to short leg 145.1 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , maiden fifty for Burns. He raises his bat and salutes the applause. He bends down takes it from outside off and sweeps it in front of square on the leg-side. This is also the fourth time that each of the top 6 have scored fifties against India 144.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , FOUR , width on offer outside off , Marsh flashes a drive in front of square on the off-side , enough power on that to take the ball to the boundary 144.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , dug in short on the stumps , hurries Marsh on the pull. Mistimed to the leg-side 144.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , full on middle , Marsh comes forward and presses it to cover 144.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , 2 runs , too straight in line , tucked to mid-wicket. Rohit makes a half-diving save. Yet the duo collect a couple 144.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , on a fuller length on middle and leg , pushed back to Yadav 144.1 U Yadav to Burns , 1 run , the partnership between Burns and Marsh is now worth 100. Short of length and outside off , Burns rolls his wrists on the pull and sends it to deep backward square leg 143.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , looks like the carrom ball from Ash , nudged to the man at mid-wicket 143.5 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , Burns loads up for a sweep , only manages a top-edge that flies in the air. It lands in front of deep backward square leg 143.4 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , take that Ashwin , says Burns. He steps out , meets the pitch of this ball and lifts it over the bowler 's head for a thumping four 143.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , played to the leg-side off the inside half of the bat 143.2 Ashwin to Burns , no run , fullish and outside off , driven to cover , diving save from the fielder Burns has a short leg to go with a slip in place . 143.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , friendly ball on the pads , Marsh nurdles a single in front of square leg Ravichandran Ashwin [ 44.0-8-131-1 ] is back into the attack 142.6 U Yadav to Burns , no run , fullish and on off , Burns drives and finds mid-on 142.5 U Yadav to Burns , FOUR , dug in short and outside off as well , Burns rocks back and nails the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence. Good connection from Burns 142.4 U Yadav to Burns , FOUR , fraction short and outside off , Burns rides the bounce , opens the face of the bat and runs it through gully to the third man fence 142.3 U Yadav to Burns , no run , Yadav drags his length back outside off , Burns cuts and point makes a decent half-stop 142.2 U Yadav to Burns , no run , on a good length and on off , Burns gets forward to block it 142.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , Australia pass 500 for the fourth time in the series. This is also the fifth time in Test history that a team has crossed 500 four times in a series. Marsh tucks it off his hips through backward square leg 141.6 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , fraction short and outside off , Burns stays back and cuts it straight to the fielder at point 141.5 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , full and outside off , Burns leans forward and drives it to cover 141.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , 3 runs , fuller length ball on the stumps , Marsh drills a drive , Bhuvneshwar deflects it past mid-on off his boot. The fielder chases and hauls the ball in before the rope 141.3 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , 1 run , back of a length and comes in on middle , Burns clips it behind square on the leg-side 141.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , 1 run , on a good length and on off , turned to mid-wicket with a closed bat face 141.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , FOUR , short and wide outside off at 118kph , that 's a real gift. Marsh says thank you very much as he cuts it past a diving backward point 140.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , overpitched and outside off , Marsh drills a drive. KL Rahul dives across to his right and makes a fine stop at mid-off , saving three runs for the visitors 140.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , back of a length on off , punched to cover , straight to the fielder 140.4 U Yadav to Burns , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Burns takes it from there , rocks back and pulls it to Ash at deep square leg 140.3 U Yadav to Burns , no run , back of a length again , this one jags in close to off , mistimed punch to mid-on off the inside half of the bat 140.2 U Yadav to Burns , no run , back of a length and top-of-fourth-stump-line , Burns hangs back and blocks it to cover 140.1 U Yadav to Burns , no run , good length ball outside off , Burns plays with soft hands and dabs it in front of point 139.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , whipped off the pads , but Marsh ca n't beat Shami at mid-wicket 139.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , pitched up and in the channel of uncertainty , Marsh swishes his bat out of the way 139.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , on a good length on middle and leg , Marsh knocks it to the left of Bhuvneshwar , but mid-on has the ball covered 139.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , full and attacking the stumps , driven back at Bhuvneshwar , who half-stops the ball Ashwin walks up to Bhuvneshwar Kumar and has a chat with him. Kohli is not on the field. Ashwin is the stand-in-skipper . 139.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , good length ball on middle and off , Marsh comes on the front foot and defends it to mid-off 139.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , 115kph back of a length and outside off , keeps low , Marsh adjusts and check punches it back to Bhuvneshwar , who stops it in his follow-through 138.6 U Yadav to Burns , no run , on a length and outside off , Burns dabs it in front of square on the off-side 138.5 U Yadav to Burns , no run , shapes in with the angle on off , pushed back to Umesh again 138.4 U Yadav to Burns , no run , pitched up on off , Burns gets forward and drives it back at the bowler 138.3 U Yadav to Burns , no run , slightly back of a length and on off , Burns gets right behind the line of this Yadav offering and blocks it back to the latter 138.2 U Yadav to Burns , no run , good length ball outside off , no real deviation , Burns lets it pass 138.1 U Yadav to Burns , no run , fuller length on off , Burns inches forward and taps it to cover Umesh Yadav [ 23.0-4-119-1 ] is back into the attack Raina 's off. Umesh returns. He bowled pretty well in the first session . 137.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , overpitched outside off , Marsh drill it straight down the ground and rattles the stumps at the non-striker 's end. There was no deflection from Bhuvneshwar to cause any alarms for Burns 137.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , fullish and on off , Marsh comes forward and bunts it towards mid-off 137.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , length ball just outside off , Marsh mistimes the drive past the bowler , but mid-on hunts it down , keeping it to a dot 137.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , 2 runs , much fuller and just outside off , Marsh goes for a big hit but does not get hold of it. Skies in the air over cover. The ball drops into no-man 's land 137.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , similar ball pushed outside off at 121kph , Marsh cuts and finds point yet again 137.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , gentle shortish ball outside off at only 120kph , Marsh goes deep in the crease and cuts it to point Bhuvi to resume after the break . Time for a drinks break. India once again let the momentum slip away by starting with Raina after lunch. That just allowed the two batsmen to get their eye in. Now they look well settled and will look to attack the bowlers. The visitors will now have to wait for the declaration . 136.6 Raina to S Marsh , 1 run , back-to-back fifties for Marsh , he follows up his 99 in the previous Test with a fifty in this innings. Leans forward to the tossed up delivery and eases it to long-off 136.5 Raina to S Marsh , no run , pushed through on the stumps , Marsh knocks it to the left of Raina Silly point comes in. Dhawan brings the helmet for Rohit . 136.4 Raina to S Marsh , no run , Marsh pushes at this flighted delivery and the ball rolls off a thickish outside edge to point 136.3 Raina to S Marsh , no run , slower and a bit of turn , Marsh defends off the outside half to point 136.2 Raina to S Marsh , no run , too full and on off , Marsh squeezes it to point , looks for the single that will get him his fifty 136.1 Raina to S Marsh , no run , comes round the wicket , tosses it up outside off , Marsh inches forward and shoulders arms 135.6 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , good length ball just outside off , Burns moves forward and dabs it with an angled bat to point 135.5 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , fullish and just outside off , Burns push-drives it to the left of the bowler , Bhuvi gets a hand and takes the pace of the ball 135.4 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , back of a length and shapes in , Burns covers the swing and blocks it to the right of the bowler 135.3 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , on a length close to off , Burns is half-forward and defending to cover 135.2 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , wicket-to-wicket stuff , Burns presses forward and defends it to short cover 135.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Marsh cuts it to the left of point and scampers across to the other end 134.6 Raina to Burns , no run , pushed through close to off , Burns goes back and drops it in front of cover 134.5 Raina to Burns , no run , again , Burns camps on the back foot and taps it to the on-side 134.4 Raina to Burns , no run , flatter and on off , Burns turns it gently to mid-wicket 134.3 Raina to Burns , no run , fullish and just outside off , Burns leans forward and blocks it down the wicket 134.2 Raina to Burns , no run , hangs back and knocks it to cover 134.1 Raina to Burns , no run , tossed up around off , defended off the front foot back to the bowler Suresh Raina [ 14.0-2-52-0 ] is back into the attack 133.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Marsh stays back and whips it to mid-wicket 133.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , not all that short , but Marsh goes for the cut and ends up chopping it to gully 133.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , FOUR , on a length just outside off , Marsh looks to drive it through cover , ends up dragging it between the bowler and mid-on , the fast outfield takes the ball to the fence 133.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , back of a length around off , Marsh cuts and finds the point fielder 133.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , good length ball in the channel around off , Marsh shoulders arms 133.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , touch short and outside off , Marsh chops the cut to gully 132.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , floated up just outside off , Burns comes down the track and blocks it to the left of the bowler 132.5 Ashwin to Burns , no run , carrom ball around off , Burns hangs back and dabs it in front of point 132.4 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , cracking shot ! Flighted delivery outside off , Burns kneels down , fetches it from there and sweeps it to deep square leg , the ball whistled away to the fence 132.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , fired into the blockhole , Burns jams it to the off-side 132.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , 3 runs , short and turning away , Marsh cuts it in the air through gully , Shami gives chase and pulls the ball in just before the rope. The gully was taken out as Ashwin decided to comes over the wicket 132.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , throws this up well outside off , left alone Ash starting over the wicket for Marsh 131.6 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , on a length just outside off , Burns comes on the front foot and knocks it to cover 131.5 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , fuller and just outside off , Burns presses it to cover after coming forward 131.4 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , FOUR , that ball was asking for trouble , half tracker at 121kph , Burns rocks back and pulls it in front of square , the ball reached the fence in a hurry 131.3 Bhuvneshwar to Burns , no run , on a length close to off , Burns stays in the crease and defends it to mid-wicket 131.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , Marsh tucks it to square leg 131.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Marsh , no run , stifled appeal for lbw , umpire Dharmasena shakes his head. Good length ball on the stumps , Marsh misses the whip and is rapped on the pads. The ball pitched outside leg and height was also a factor Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 26.0-4-78-0 ] is back into the attack 130.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Burns lunges forward and blocks it down the track Goes back over the wicket. . 130.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , another one which is on the shorter side , Marsh has ample time to go back and cut it to deep backward point 130.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , floated up on off , Marsh smothers it with a forward defensive 130.3 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , slightly short and on leg-stump , Burns helps it on the way to backward square leg with a pull 130.2 Ashwin to Burns , no run , flatter and close to off , Burns bunts it in front of cover 130.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , short and turning away , Marsh cuts it square of the wicket 129.6 Shami to Burns , no run , short of length outside off , Burns lifts his bat and lets it go 129.5 Shami to S Marsh , 1 run , tails back in sharply , Marsh squirts it off the inside edge to fine leg Changes to round the wicket 129.4 Shami to Burns , 3 runs , pitched up and looking for the away movement , does n't get any , Burns leans forward and caresses the drive through cover. Another three taken 129.3 Shami to Burns , no run , pulls the length back just outside off , Burns has nothing to do with it 129.2 Shami to Burns , no run , yorker around off , Burns squeezes it out to short cover 129.1 Shami to Burns , no run , back of a length on off , Burns stays in the crease and knocks it to mid-on 128.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , bit more air on this , Marsh takes a step out and taps it to the off-side 128.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slower and on off , Marsh comes half-forward and dead-bats it down the wicket 128.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , waits for the ball to come , late cuts it towards gully , where Raina is razor sharp to stop the ball 128.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , comes down the track and blocks it towards cover 128.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , FOUR , drops it short and outside off , Marsh is quick to pounce on it , he goes deep in the crease and cuts it powerfully to the sweeper cover fence Silly point moves to silly mid-off 128.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , touch quicker and on off , blocked down the wicket 127.6 Shami to Burns , no run , fuller and hint of inward movement , Burns defends it off the inside half to mid-on 127.5 Shami to Burns , no run , on a length just outside off , Burns dabs it with an open face to gully 127.4 Shami to Burns , no run , back of a length around off , Burns drops it towards point , looks for the single but Marsh is not interested 127.3 Shami to S Marsh , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Marsh rocks back and pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 127.2 Shami to S Marsh , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Marsh shuffles across and knocks it to cover 127.1 Shami to S Marsh , FOUR , what a welcome he gets ! Half volley on off , Marsh comes well forward and drills the drive straight back past the bowler , Shami had no time to react to stop the ball. Poor first up delivery Mohammed Shami [ 23.0-3-80-2 ] is back into the attack Strange to see Raina bowling. That too when India had built pressure just before the lunch break. Finally , he has been taken off and Shami comes back 126.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , slower and on leg-stump , Burns stays back and nurdles it to the left of leg slip , who gets a hand to it 126.5 Ashwin to Burns , 2 runs , nicely tossed up on leg-stump , Burns jumps out of the crease and mistimes the heave to deep mid-wicket , he got it off the inside part of the bat 126.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , floated up on off , Burns leans forward , defends with bat and pad close together 126.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , tad too straight , Marsh gets inside the line and whips it like the first ball of the over , but this time there is protection in the deep 126.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted on off , Marsh presses forward and defends it to short cover 126.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , FOUR , lovely shot ! Ashwin pulls the length back just outside off , Marsh goes back and whips it between mid-wicket and mid-on , plenty of bottom hand behind that shot 125.6 Raina to Burns , no run , tossed up on middle and leg , Burns camps on the back foot and blocks with the straightest of bats 125.5 Raina to Burns , no run , hangs on the back foot and turns it with the spin to short leg 125.4 Raina to Burns , no run , stays in the crease and keeps the flighted delivery out 125.3 Raina to Burns , no run , flighted on off , Burns comes half-forward and defends it to the off-side 125.2 Raina to Burns , FOUR , rank long hop , it just sat up there to be put away and Burns dispatches it. He goes on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket for a boundary Raina will stay round the wicket for Burns 125.1 Raina to S Marsh , 1 run , angled in from round the wicket , Marsh uses his feet , gets to the pitch and wrists it to deepish mid-on 124.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , again , the line is on leg-stump , Burns presses well forward and taps it to short leg 124.5 Ashwin to Burns , 2 runs , flighted outside leg and turning away , Burns skips out of the crease and nurdles it to deep backward square for a brace 124.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , nice floaty delivery on middle and leg , Burns stays low , rolls his wrists and turns it towards leg-slip 124.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , throws this up gently around off , Burns lunges forward and blocks it to cover 124.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , Marsh comes down the track and eases the drive to long-off 124.1 Ashwin to Burns , 1 run , Ashwin comes round the wicket now , flatter and close to off , Burns drops it to point , Marsh calls him for a quick single. There was a slight hesitation but no harm done 123.6 Raina to S Marsh , no run , slower than the previous deliveries , Marsh leans forward and defends it to the left of Raina 123.5 Raina to S Marsh , no run , drifted onto the pads , Marsh misses the clip and the ball dribbles off the pad to the on-side 123.4 Raina to Burns , 1 run , waits for the ball to come and then nurdles it behind square leg for a single 123.3 Raina to Burns , no run , quicker and around off , Burns dabs it with an angled , the ball bounces over the stumps , but Burns was aware of that 123.2 Raina to Burns , no run , sliding onto the legs , Burns goes deep in the crease and turns it to the right of short leg 123.1 Raina to Burns , no run , flatter and on off , Burns hangs back and blocks it to short leg Burns not happy with the sightscreen. He is getting it to the right position to where he wants it. Hence the delay 122.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , drags the length back on off , Marsh stays in the crease and pats it to gully 122.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , too full and on the stumps , Marsh knocks it to mid-on 122.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slower and close to off , Marsh blocks it off the front foot to silly point 122.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , flighted on off , Marsh chips down the track and defends it to short cover 122.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , pushed through outside off , Marsh pads it away A slip , gully and silly point in place 122.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , fires it down the leg-side , Marsh ca n't meet with the glance 121.6 Raina to S Marsh , 1 run , again , uses his feet to get to the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 121.5 Raina to S Marsh , no run , skips out and drives it to mid-off 121.4 Raina to S Marsh , no run , push-drives the tossed up delivery to mid-off 121.3 Raina to S Marsh , SIX , Marsh now getting after the part-timer , shimmies down the track , meets the pitch of the ball and lofts it handsomely over mid-on , the ball carries all the way 121.2 Raina to S Marsh , no run , takes a couple of steps out of the crease and pushes it back to the bowler 121.1 Raina to S Marsh , no run , Raina starts from round the wicket , flighted on off , defended down the wicket 120.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , slower and around off , Burns comes half-forward and dead-bats it on the wicket , the ball rolls back to Saha 120.5 Ashwin to Burns , no run , hangs on the back foot and blocks it to short leg 120.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , floated up on the stumps , Burns works it to short mid-wicket 120.3 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , Burns willing to take on Ashwin , who should n't mind it. Again comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch and heaves it towards mid-wicket , just about evades the deepish mid-wicket fielder 120.2 Ashwin to Burns , FOUR , sloppy from Shami , allows Burns to get off the mark after 18 deliveries. Advances down the wicket and drives the flighted delivery to cover , Shami dives to his right and lets the ball go through 120.1 Ashwin to Burns , no run , tosses it up on off , the length is touch short , Burns hangs back and taps it to the left of short leg Virat has gathered the team in a huddle and giving the pep talk before taking the field. Marsh and Burns make their way out. Ashwin to start off with a slip , leg slip and short leg in place.. . India managed to pull things back in the second hour of play. Ashwin once again stood out among the bowlers. He needs to continue bowling well , if the visitors have to restrict Australia to a decent first innings total. Can the Indian bowlers manage to do that ? Or will the runs continue to flow ? Welcome back for the post-lunch session.. . Watson threw away a glorious chance to make a hundred and then Smith got out after his ton. India suddenly found an extra zip and stuck to the basics. Why could n't they do this before , one will never know. Marsh was dropped too and the pressure is on these two batsmen , although they have plenty of runs on the board. Do join us soon for the next session We 'll take a break and be back shortly. Do stay tuned . Much better second hour from India after a listless first one. They have made a good fist of it after getting Smith. Umesh and Ashwin combined to bowl four maiden overs in a row. Earlier on India showed no intent or any hunger as they went through the motions. They allowed Smith to make another easy hundred. The first hour was characterised by general sloppiness from the Indians when there were fumbles , misfields and poor bowling combined . 119.6 Raina to S Marsh , no run , what happened there ? Marsh looked to have played inside the line of that , very close to the outside edge as Marsh got beaten. Saha did n't glove though. Raina grits his teeth and that will be lunch on day 2 119.5 Raina to S Marsh , no run , another firm drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-on after skipping out 119.4 Raina to S Marsh , no run , gets too close to the pitch of the ball , Marsh digs it out to mid-off 119.3 Raina to S Marsh , no run , angled in on the stumps , Marsh nudges to the left of Raina 119.2 Raina to S Marsh , FOUR , dragged down a bit outside off , Marsh waits for it and cuts late , in the gap at point for a boundary Last over before lunch. Raina is bowling from round the wicket 119.1 Raina to S Marsh , no run , uses his feet and drives it back to Raina Suresh Raina [ 10.0-2-35-0 ] is back into the attack Four maiden overs in a row. That 's a feat by the Indian bowlers ! 118.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , takes a step out and defends to cover 118.5 Ashwin to Burns , no run , turned in sharply , but Burns has it covered off the back foot 118.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , uses his feet and drives it back to Ashwin 118.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , tossed up outside off and turning in , Burns punches it back to Ashwin 118.2 Ashwin to Burns , no run , Burns takes a step out and smothers it 118.1 Ashwin to Burns , no run , straight off the thigh pad to backward short leg 117.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , the poor ball comes after a while , but Marsh ca n't put it away. Cut straight to the fielder at point 117.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , closer of off , still not enough to make Marsh play 117.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , Umesh is sticking to a patient outside off line , Marsh leaves 117.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , angled in and Marsh defends off the back foot to cover 117.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , full and outside off , Marsh lets it go 117.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , wide of off , left alone 116.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , probing over from Ashwin , tossed up outside off , Burns pushes it to point 116.5 Ashwin to Burns , no run , pushed through from the front of the hand , Burns defends off the back foot 116.4 Ashwin to Burns , no run , punched to the left of Ashwin 116.3 Ashwin to Burns , no run , nudged to short leg 116.2 Ashwin to Burns , no run , turns in sharply , Burns is on the back foot and is hit high on the thigh pad 116.1 Ashwin to Burns , no run , gets forward and defends solidly Vijay dived too far and dropped it. He got hit on the wrist. Should 've been taken , that one 115.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , a tight maiden over from Umesh as he forces Marsh to defend to cover 115.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , pitched up outside off , Marsh resists the drive and lets it go 115.4 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , shuffles across a tad and blocks it back to Umesh 115.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , good line and length from round the wicket , Marsh gets forward and then shoulders arms 115.2 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , rising outside off , Marsh sees it and shoulders arms 115.1 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , nips back in a tad from round the wicket , Marsh lifts his bat and lets it go 114.6 Ashwin to Burns , no run , bit of bounce , but Burns handles it off the back foot 114.5 Ashwin to Burns , no run , goes on the back foot and taps it to backward short leg 114.4 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , works it to backward square leg 114.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , well outside off , lots of air too , left alone 114.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , dropped by Vijay at 2nd slip ! Marsh pushed out and got an outside edge , it was dying on 2nd slip , where Vijay went with one hand and grassed it 114.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , goes on the back foot and tucks it to square leg Chat as soon as Burns came in. India got stuck in 113.6 U Yadav to Burns , no run , 137kph length delivery outside off , left alone and Saha collects it above his shoulder 113.5 U Yadav to Burns , no run , nips back in a tad , Burns covers his of stump and then shoulders arms. That was n't far from the off stump 113.4 U Yadav to Burns , no run , down leg and that was a pacy delivery , Saha collects as Burns misses the flick Joe Burns , right handed bat , comes to the crease 113.3 U Yadav to S Smith , out Caught by W Saha ! ! Umesh strikes to get Smith out. Pitched up outside off , luring Smith into the drive , that 's the area to bowl to Smith and he nicks off behind. He walks off to a standing ovation. S Smith c W Saha b U Yadav 117 ( 208 ) [ 4s-15 ] U Yadav to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 113.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , defended to short cover 113.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length outside off , left alone 112.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , defended off the front foot to cover 112.5 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , slower and on the stumps , Marsh defends 112.4 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to long-off 112.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flatter on off , Smith goes on the back foot to block 112.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , spinning down leg , no bat or glove as India go up for a stifled appeal , which dies down quickly 112.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith gets forward and pushes it to mid-wicket , very softly 111.6 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , lifting delivery outside off , Marsh leaves and Saha collects 111.5 U Yadav to S Marsh , no run , hits the bat hard with a 135kph delivery , Marsh defends 111.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , shuffles across and nudges it in front of mid-on , for a comfortable single 111.3 U Yadav to S Marsh , 1 run , sliding down leg , whipped to fine leg , poor line and length from Umesh 111.2 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , angling in , Smith works it to deep mid-wicket , for a single 111.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , gentle length delivery outside off , Smith defends to cover Umesh Yadav [ 19.0-1-116-0 ] is back into the attack 110.6 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , lunges forward and pushes it past silly point 110.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , very slow and that allows Smith to go back and push it in the vacant cover 110.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , it was in the air as Smith came down the track to whip , but falls short of mid-wicket 110.3 Ashwin to S Marsh , 1 run , sliding on , Marsh rocks back and nudges it to backward square leg , for an easy single 110.2 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , comes down the track and drives it back to Ashwin Two slips and a silly point in 110.1 Ashwin to S Marsh , no run , floated on the stumps , calmly defended 109.6 Shami to S Marsh , 1 run , pushes it to the vacant cover and takes a quick single 109.5 Shami to S Marsh , FOUR , airy fairy stroke from Marsh. He saw the full one outside off and went for a drive. It was in the air but in the gap at gully. That was a streaky shot and Marsh is lucky to get away 109.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , pitched up outside off , Marsh defends to point A very short mid-off for Marsh as Shami comes round the wicket 109.3 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , sliding down leg , Smith flicks to fine leg for a single 109.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , defended to short cover from the crease Smith emulates Kallis in scoring four hundreds in a series - in a four match series. Many have done it in a three match series too. Ponting , Ross Taylor , Azharuddin to name a few . 109.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , punched to cover 108.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , pushed to cover and a quick single taken 108.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , whipped to short square leg 108.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , nudged off the back foot to backward short leg 108.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flatter and on the stumps , blocked back to the bowler 108.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , defended to mid-wicket 108.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , uses his feet and works it to mid-wicket where a diving stop is made 107.6 Shami to S Marsh , no run , angled in on a fuller length , Marsh defends it to mid-off Round the wicket for the last ball 107.5 Shami to S Marsh , no run , defended towards short mid-wicket Two slips for the new man 107.4 Shami to S Marsh , no run , length delivery on the stumps , Marsh shuffles across and defends 107.3 Shami to S Marsh , 2 runs , length delivery down leg , clipped to deep backward square leg , Marsh runs back hard for the second Shaun Marsh , left handed bat , comes to the crease 107.2 Shami to Watson , out Caught by Ashwin ! ! Watson has thrown away his best chance of making a Test ton. Rocked back to pull , middled it too , but picked out deep mid-wicket. Ashwin moves back a little and holds on , fingers pointing up. Watson puts his head down and walks off. That was a gifted wicket for India , who would welcome any type of wicket now. Watson c Ashwin b Shami 81 ( 183 ) [ 4s-7 ] Shami to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 107.1 Shami to Watson , no run , dug in short outside off , Watson thought about a pull , then pulled out and lets it go 106.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , little more air from Ashwin , Smith drives to cover 106.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , defended off the back foot 106.4 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , 400 is up now as Watson uses his feet and drives to long-on 106.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , tossed up on the stumps , Watson gets forward to block it back to Ashwin 106.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , slides on a little , Watson defends watchfully off the back foot Ashwin is bowling this over from round the wicket 106.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , whipped to short leg 105.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , Smith punches firmly but finds point 105.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , length delivery outside off , Smith defends it back to Shami 105.4 Shami to Watson , 1 run , looks to drive through cover , but a thick inside edge runs down to deep mid-wicket 105.3 Shami to Watson , no run , gets forward and drives to cover 105.2 Shami to Watson , no run , length outside off , left alone. Barely carries to Saha Replays are in and definite bat from Smith. So that will go down as a dropped chance from Saha. It was a difficult take as Smith was glancing it down leg 105.1 Shami to Watson , no run , length delivery outside off , Watson gets forward and defends solidly 104.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , was there a little tickle down leg ? Saha did n't glove it though. Ashwin and slip were up , replay needed ! 104.5 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , gets forward and flicks it in the gap through mid-wicket 104.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , whipped to mid-wicket 104.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , tucked to mid-wicket 104.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , defended off the back foot Ashwin and Kohli had a lengthy chat during the drinks break 104.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , spinning down leg , Smith nudges it softly to deep backward square leg Drinks have been taken now. The story of the Australian domination continues. Smith has got to his fourth hundred in the series. Watson is nearing one too. India have looked very flat. Misfields , fumbles , full tosses - you name it , one has seen it from them today. They are waiting for a declaration - which is n't coming anytime soon . 103.6 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , angling in to off , Smith works to deep square leg , wants two , but Ashwin is in quickly 103.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , defended to mid-off 103.4 Shami to S Smith , 2 runs , takes on the short delivery outside off and controls the pull to deep mid-wicket , kept it down and got a couple 103.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , Smith is moving around in his crease , this was bowled fuller and wider outside off , so he lets it go 103.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , Smith shoulders arms 103.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith shuffles across and defends solidly to cover Mohammed Shami [ 19.0-3-68-1 ] is back into the attack 102.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , turned to the first of the two catching mid-wickets 102.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , defended to short leg 102.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flatter and Watson defends off the back foot Ashwin and Kohli have a chat. For Watson he is bowling over the wicket with a slip and a short leg. Two catching short mid-wickets too 102.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , down leg , swept to deep backward square leg Short leg and leg gully in place for Ashwin 102.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith uses his feet and pushes to mid-on Now round the wicket to Smith 102.1 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Watson lunges forward to defend , a thick inside edge wide of short leg Ravichandran Ashwin [ 28.0-5-88-1 ] is back into the attack 101.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , shuffles across and works it to mid-wicket 101.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , dug in short , Smith is on his toes and keeps the defensive shot down , near the vacant short leg area. Umesh runs across to prevent the quick single 101.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , punched , but straight to the fielder at point this time 101.3 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , superb punch off the back foot , short of length outside off , Smith stood tall and got it in the gap at cover , rode the bounce and got on top of it. Timing was excellent too 101.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , Umesh falls down after bowling a short delivery outside off , Smith forehanded the pull , controlling it to mid-on 101.1 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , length on the stumps , tucked to deep mid-wicket 100.6 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 1 run , gets forward and drives wide of mid-off , single taken 100.5 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , back of a length outside off , punched to mid-off 100.4 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 2 runs , now Shami fumbles a regulation stop at mid-wicket. Flicked straight to him and he lets it go through his hands 100.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , a soft leading edge as Watson is early on the flick , but the ball falls well short of mid-off Smith waved his bat at the sky , remembering Phil Hughes after he got to a ton. Poignant moment ! 100.2 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , gets forward and defends to mid-off 100.1 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , punched back to the bowler 99.6 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , Four in a row for Smithy boy ! Friendly full toss on the stumps , all he needed to do was to put it in the gap , which he did , flicking past mid-wicket. He looks at the heavens and then soaks in all the applause from the SCG crowd. No big celebration from Smith , but what an effort to make four hundreds in the series 99.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length and Smith is solid in his back foot defensive 99.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , 143kph back of a length delivery outside off , Smith moves across and then lifts his bat and lets it go 99.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , shuffles across and tucks the length delivery to deep mid-wicket , two it is and just two away now from a fourth hundred in the series 99.2 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , gets forward and defends into the vacant square leg area for an easy single 99.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , that was a bit uppish , but wide of Kohli at short cover , as Watson went for the drive on the rise 98.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , stays beside the line and tries to punch , but mistimes it to point 98.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , punched firmly to cover 98.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , Smith wanted to make room and took a step outside leg , then saw it was outside off , so got across to off and defended to cover 98.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 1 run , short of length outside off , punched with an open face to backward point 98.2 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , FOUR , no fine leg and Bhuvneshwar bowls it down leg , Watson glances it there and it 's an easy boundary. Kohli 's expression says it all. He puts his head down Bhuvneshwar has a chat with Kohli now 98.1 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , back of a length outside off , Watson shuffles across a tad and defends to point 97.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , shuffles across and defends to point. Shouts 'no run ' to Watson 97.5 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , 137kph short of length delivery down leg , Watson hops a little and fends it down near short mid-wicket 97.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , shuffles across and works the length ball wide of square leg 97.3 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , harmless short delivery from Umesh and sat up for Smith to be hit. The batsman rocks back and gets it over mid-wicket. Moves to 95 now 97.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , punched to short cover 97.1 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , now Umesh produces a leading edge as Watson looked to flick , the ball goes wide of cover and Rahul stops it with a dive Umesh Yadav [ 16.0-1-97-0 ] is back into the attack 96.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , Smith shuffles across to punch that length ball outside off , but mistimes it back to the bowler 96.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , punched firmly to point , straight to the fielder 96.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , now an under edge from Smith , but it bounces to Saha after the Aussie skipper punched and got an edge 96.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 1 run , nothing is going right for Rahul in the field. He runs to his left at cover and seemed to slip , overran the ball and it slips away under his body. A single taken. Kohli is n't happy at all with that effort. Just turns his head away in disappointment 96.2 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , good fielding by Rohit at point. Cut to his right at point , he runs and then dives to save at least two 96.1 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , gets forward and defends to cover That 's the problem with bowlers like Shami. They ca n't string two good overs in a row. Nothing a captain can do , if the bowlers are n't sticking to one line and length 95.6 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , another half-volley , this time outside off , Smith had to hit the gap and he did , getting it wide of cover. That 's two poor deliveries in the over and both have gone for fours 95.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , tucked to mid-wicket 95.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , looked like a slower delivery on the stumps , Smith defends cautiously 95.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , drives wide of the diving mid-wicket , mid-on is there though 95.2 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , friendly half-volley on the pads , Smith wo n't miss out , as he flicks wide of square leg , beats the chasing fielder easily. Poor line and length from Shami Shami bowled a fine last over , can he back it up with another one , this over ? 95.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , full on the stumps , driven straight to the fielder at mid-on 94.6 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 2 runs , the stand is now 150 as Watson shuffles across and tucks an off and middle delivery through mid-wicket. Two runs taken and there was a chance for a third as the throw was n't backed up properly , but they settle for two 94.5 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , gets forward and defends to cover 94.4 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , fraction short outside off , Watson cuts and finds point 94.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , length outside off , Watson gets forward and defends to cover 94.2 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , slightly mistimed punch to cover 94.1 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , punched to cover Saha is standing up to Bhuvneshwar now 93.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , nips back in a tad and catches Smith 's inside edge as he looks to drive , the ball squirts to mid-on 93.5 Shami to Watson , leg byes , 3 runs , Shami has hit Watson on the head ! Good short ball , targetting Watson 's head , the batsman ducked and turned his head , the ball pinged the helmet and ran away over the slips. They take three and it 's called leg byes as the batsman was taking evasive action 93.4 Shami to Watson , no run , full outside off , Watson plays a firm drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-on 93.3 Shami to Watson , no run , pitched up outside off , Watson plays a copybook forward defensive to silly mid-off 93.2 Shami to Watson , no run , 138kph back of a length delivery outside off , Watson stands tall and defends to silly mid-off 93.1 Shami to Watson , no run , pitched up outside off , nice carry to Saha as Watson shoulders arms 92.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , this time it does carry to Saha as Smith lets it go for the third time in a row 92.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , barely carries to Saha as Smith leaves outside off 92.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , 127kph length ball outside off , left alone 92.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , Smith is moving across a long way outside off , but solidly defends to cover 92.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , 126kph length delivery and it 's been punched to mid-off 92.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , Smith shuffles across and defends it back to Bhuvneshwar 91.6 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , angling in on off and middle , flicked down to deep backward square leg 91.5 Shami to Watson , 1 run , length ball on middle , Watson tucks it to deep mid-wicket , for an easy single 91.4 Shami to Watson , no run , Watson looks to off-drive , but it takes a thick inside edge and rolls to mid-on Two slips and a gully. A catching silly mid-off in place too 91.3 Shami to Watson , no run , 135kph full delivery outside off , Watson leans forward and defends to point 91.2 Shami to Watson , no run , short of length outside off , Watson defends solidly to cover 91.1 Shami to Watson , no run , pitched up and Watson digs it out over a leaping Shami , mid-off comes around to field Mohammed Shami [ 16.0-2-58-1 ] is back into the attack That 's as friendly a maiden over , as you can hope to get 90.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , 120kph length ball outside off , Smith punches wide of mid-off . 90.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , Smith defends to mid-off with a full face 90.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , 122kph back of a length delivery , Smith defends off the back foot 90.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , Smith defends cautiously to cover now Bhuvneshwar is just ambling in and delivering gentle length balls first up on day 2. Not good signs for India 90.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , and again , this time more forcefully to mid-off 90.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , gentle length delivery outside off , Smith shuffles across and defends towards mid-off The players are out there. The Aussie batsmen are walking out too. Smith takes guard and he will be on strike. Bhuvneshwar will start proceedings. A bright and sunny day. Very hot too. Here we go. . Pitch report by Sunny Gavaskar : Absolutely beautiful to bat on. Nothing has changed. Not a crack in the pitch. The ball will come on quite nicely like yesterday. Not going to be easy for the bowlers . Perhaps , the selectors could have had another look at Yuvraj ? Or was it the right move ? But that is a debate for another day . Squad : MS Dhoni ( c ) , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Axar Patel , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Stuart Binny , Umesh Yadav , Ajinkya Rahane . In other news , there are not many surprises in India 's 15-member squad for their World Cup defence . 'I do n't know what 's the state of spin bowling in India , but they must have some better spinners back home , " said Mallett , who has coached spinners in Sri Lanka a few years ago and worked with mystery spinner Ajanta Mendis' ' " Traditionally , Australia have been worried by off-spin and Ashwin is a handy batsman too. Australia would have got only around 300 had Ashwin been in the side ( they scored 517-7 decl in the first innings ) . Mind you , ( Erapalli ) Prasanna would have bowled them out for 80 , " said Mallett . " Kohli is a good combatant , a terrific player and I feel the side will be better off with MS Dhoni not Test captain anymore , " Mallett ( 69 ) told Clayton Murzello of Mid-day from Adelaide.' Former Aussie off-spinner Ashley Mallett reckons that Kohli will be more proactive as captain than MS Dhoni . 'The most disturbing thing about it has been his penchant to get out in the same fashion , poking at deliveries outside off-stump , which is an evident sign of a batsman dealing with extreme insecurity.' 'At the MCG , when it mattered the most , Pujara had let his team down again. India ended up saving the Melbourne Test but without the certified bulwark of their batting line-up playing much of a role in it. It was n't the first time this year that a stage had been set for a customary Pujara rearguard. It happened repeatedly in England , match after match in fact after the Lord 's victory. And just like in Melbourne , Pujara came a cropper on each of those occasions. It was n't just his failure to produce back-from-the-dead forays that stood him up in the last 12 months.' Here is Bharat Sundaresan of the Indian Express on the cracks running through Pujara 's Wall . 'Yesss ! , " he exulted as four more brought him to 100. It came as a surprise three overs later when off-spinner Ravi Ashwin deceived him and had him caught at slip. Helplessly cast most days as Robin to Warner 's Batsman , this day he paced Warner almost boundary-for-boundary in an opening stand of 200.' 'Warner 's going rate was run-a-ball , yet nothing about his strokeplay this day implied risk. The key to Warner is that he has such acute powers of mind , eye and forearm that more balls appear hittable to him than to lesser batsmen. The middle of the aforementioned trio can speak for all 16 he struck. With a movement of his arms as abbreviated as the travel of a piston rod , he shot the ball through a small gap at cover point , and beyond the range of any fieldsman.' 'Warner had admitted to feeling fragile before the game , and began as if misty-eyed and not able fully to concentrate.' Greg Baum 's piece for the Sydney Morning Herald has the headline 'Openers put Australia in pink' 'It was a gesture which prompted a warm ovation from a strong day one crowd at the SCG , may of whom have paid their respects on the opening morning of a Test match with a somewhat sombre mood.' He says , 'For everyone watching at the ground , or at home on television , and even for those who are n't avid cricket followers , the number 63 has become synonymous with Phillip Joel Hughes , since the batsman 's final innings was tragically cut short six weeks ago. Warner went across to the patch of turf where Hughes lay unconscious after a Sean Abbott bouncer. Warner then bent down and kissed the spot where one of his best friends fell playing the game he loved.' Tom Decent writing for the Age focuses on Warner 's touching tribute to Hughes . If poor bowling was not enough , India dropped two catches , that ought to have been taken. There was a touch of Dhoni in Kohli 's fielding placements - leg slip , two short covers next to each other and India were pushed to the back foot right from ball one. Bar Ashwin , the bowling was very erratic. Hello and welcome to day 2 of the Pink Test at the SCG , Before the action resumes , let us flick through the newspapers . The same old story petered out again with Australia asserting their dominance on India. The hosts ' top four all made merry , punishing the hapless Indian bowlers. Unless the Indians pick themselves up and trigger a collapse , the Aussies will bat them out of the match. With Smith and Watson in firm control of proceedings and a back-to-form pair of Haddin and Marsh to follow , Kohli and Co. have their tasks cut out . Barring Ashwin , the Indian bowling was tripe. Shami and Yadav bowled on both sides of the wicket and leaked easy runs. Bhuvneshwar was stiff and struggled with his fitness. He did not get any swing either and his floaty full balls were easily dealt with. India 's slip catching too left a lot to be desired. Do come back on day 2 and see if it turns out to be one-way traffic again or if India hit back. Until tomorrow morning , take care and tata ! After lunch , India removed the openers in quick succession with Ashwin creating pressure from one end. However , Steve Smith extended his purple patch and pushed the visitors into submission. Watson , who was under some pressure coming into this Test , responded with a fighting fifty of his own. The upshot is that Australia are sitting pretty at 348 with as many as 8 wickets in the shed . Stumps , day 1 : Another dominant session for Australia to cap off the day. Warner 's quickfire century was the highlight of the day. The Aussie opener was ultra emotional after reaching 63 * but composed himself after the lunch break and powered the hosts forward. Perhaps , Warner 's knock was cricket 's equivalent of fireworks over the Sydney Harbour Bridge on New Year 's Day. Chris Rogers proved to be an able foil in a big 200-run opening stand. Bucky though was unfortunate not to convert his fifth 50-plus score in a row to three figures . 89.6 U Yadav to Watson , no run , another one outside off , that 's an easy leave for Watson to close out the day 89.5 U Yadav to Watson , FOUR , edged and dropped by Ashwin ! Fuller and pushed across , some extra bounce on that as well. Watson pushes out and gets a healthy nick. Ashwin , who was a bit wide , dives across to his left , gets a hand on it , but the ball bursts through him and runs away to the fence. A traditional slip would have gobbled that up. Sort of sums up India 's tough opening day 89.4 U Yadav to Watson , no run , outside off , Watson is happy to lift his bat and let it pass to Saha 89.4 U Yadav to Watson , wide , bumper on the leg stump , it sails over a half-ducking Watson. Ump Dharma does not like the height on this Yadav offering and deems it a wide 89.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length on middle , the Aussie skipper is back and across as he milks it wide of square leg 89.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , pitched up around off , blocked to cover with an angled bat 89.1 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , on a good length and angled on the leg stump , tickled down to fine leg for a comfortable single Last over of the day coming up. Kohli pats Yadav on his back. Two wide slips in place . 88.6 Shami to S Smith , 2 runs , fuller on off and middle , Smith gets across and clips it past mid-wicket. He comes back for the second as well 88.5 Shami to Watson , 1 run , short of length at outside off , only at 129kph , Shami did not have enough pace on this to threaten Watto , who rocks back and pulls it through mid-wicket. There is protection in the deep though 88.4 Shami to Watson , no run , good length ball on off , forward and solidly blocked back to the bowler 88.3 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , Smith shuffles across off again , he takes it from the stumps and wristily flicks it to fine leg 88.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , fullish and just outside off , Smith shuffles across before defending it back to Shami 88.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , Smith hangs back , punches and picks out cover Mohammed Shami [ 15.0-2-54-1 ] is back into the attack 87.6 U Yadav to Watson , no run , short of length on the leg stump , Watto rocks back but does not get hold of the pull. Only manages a bottom-edge on it and ca n't even beat Saha 87.5 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , Smith fetches this short ball from outside off , rolls his wrists on the pull and sends it in front of square on the on-side 87.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , back of a length ball on middle , Smith shuffles across , gets enough bat on the flick and gets it towards fine leg for a brace. Came off an inside-edge 87.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball hurries on off , blocked to the leg-side 87.2 U Yadav to Watson , 3 runs , back of length outside off , steered past the slip cordon for three. Raina runs back and hauls the ball in before the third man rope 87.1 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , short of length on the leg stump , Smith pivots on the back foot and controls a pull down to fine leg 86.6 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , pitched up on the fourth stump , driven back at the bowler. Bhuvi half-stops the ball in his follow-through 86.5 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , fullish and just outside off , forward and pushed to the off-side , wide of silly mid-off 86.4 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , straight back of a length ball outside off at 123kph , left alone A man comes in at silly mid-off . 86.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , back of a length and outside off , Watson stands tall and punches it to cover 86.2 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , friendly ball outside off at 122kph , blocked towards cover-point 86.1 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , good length ball on off , Watson gets halfway forward and defends it back to the bowler 85.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length and hurries on off , that did not bounce as much as the Australian skipper expected it to. He crouches low and jams it out to the right of Yadav 85.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , pitched up and outside off , Smith , who is standing on the leg stump , gets forward and across to drive it to mid-off 85.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , full and outside off , Smith pushes at it , the ball does not carry to gully 85.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length , top-of-off line , solidly blocked to cover 85.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fuller and on off , Smith shuffles across and knocks it towards mid-on 85.1 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , short of length and outside off - sat up to be hit - Smith obliges as he gets on top of the bounce and flashes a cut behind point , the ball travels to the third man boundary Umesh Yadav [ 13.0-1-79-0 ] is back into the attack Kohli is constantly chatting with his bowlers. Yadav replaces Shami . 84.6 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , good length ball on off , Watson presses forward to block it There is a third slip and a gully. But Bhuvi is not getting much swing to bring them into play. In fact , he is not getting any . 84.5 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Watson drops it in front of cover 84.4 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , gentle good length ball on off , defended back to Bhuvneshwar off the front foot Saha is up to the stumps now . 84.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length on the leg stump , Smith shuffles across and clips it neatly towards fine leg 84.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , good length ball just outside off , Smith blocks it back to the bowler off the back foot 84.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , full and outside off , Smith covers his off pole and shoulders arms 83.6 Shami to Watson , no run , back of a length again and outside off , Watson pushes and gets an outside edge that bounces in front of gully. Watson was in partial control of it 83.5 Shami to Watson , no run , back of a length and sort of skids on off , Watson goes for a punch , but has to settle with an inside-edge , which dribbles towards mid-on 83.4 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , drifting outside leg , Smith flicks it well wide of leg gully to fine leg Kohli has a word or two with his bowler. A leg gully comes in . 83.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , pitched up and outside off , Smith lays into a cover-drive and finds the fielder 83.2 Shami to Watson , 1 run , comes in on off , Watson leans across and clips it behind square leg , it came more off the inside half of the bat 83.1 Shami to Watson , no run , on a length and just outside off , Watson just allows it through to the keeper. Some inward shape for Shami , but not close enough to off to make Watson play 82.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , fullish and on off , Smith keeps it out , blocking it to cover 82.5 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 1 run , pitched up on off , Watson comes on the front foot and drives it straight past the bowler. Umesh gets to his left from mid-on and makes a diving save 82.4 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , similar ball outside off , no real movement for Bhuvneshwar , ignored 82.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , full and straightens in the channel outside off , left alone 82.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Smith is across to work it to mid-on and ticks over the strike 82.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , pitched up on off , Smith is forward to defensively push it to mid-off 81.6 Shami to Watson , no run , full and outside off , Watson is drawn forward into a drive behind point. It was in the air for a brief moment , but dies in front of the forward-diving fielder 81.5 Shami to Watson , no run , widish outside off , easy leave for Watson , who has settled down now 81.4 Shami to Watson , no run , fullish on the fourth stump , Watson comes forward and dabs it behind point with soft hands 81.3 Shami to Watson , no run , extra bounce on this shortish ball outside off , Watson watches it well and leaves it. Excellent carry to the keeper 81.2 Shami to Watson , no run , fuller and on off , Watson is well forward as he bunts it down the track towards mid-on 81.1 Shami to Watson , no run , a tad overpitched , Watson plays a nice drive after coming forward but hits it straight to the fielder at mid-off 80.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , FOUR , pitched up around off , Smith push-drives crisply , beats mid-off and the ball races away to the fence 80.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , floated up outside off , Smith lifts his bat and lets it go. The ball hardly carried through to Saha 80.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , pitched up with a hint of away movement outside off , Smith shoulders arms 80.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , shapes in with the angle just outside off on a fullish length , Smith jams his bat down and gets an inside-edge to the leg-side 80.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , comes in around the off stump , Smith blocks it to the off-side with an angled bat 80.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , good length ball around off , tight line and is defended to cover India take the second new ball straightaway. Kohli has a chat with Bhuvneshwar . 79.6 Shami to Watson , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Watson solidly defends it back to Shami 79.5 Shami to Watson , no run , drivable length again from Shami , Watson obliges and finds cover 79.4 Shami to Watson , no run , on a length and outside off , Watson drives well , Rahul at point dives and stops the ball 79.3 Shami to Watson , 2 runs , dug in on a short of length , Watson swivels on the back foot and pulls it to fine leg after rolling his wrists on it. A fifty under pressure for Watson. A stiff-looking Bhuvi mopped it up in the deep 79.2 Shami to Watson , no run , pitched up and outside off , Watson leans into a good-looking cover-drive. Ashwin dives and makes a half-stop , before parrying it towards mid-off 79.1 Shami to Watson , no run , back of a length and outside off , Watson hangs back and punches it to backward point Mohammed Shami [ 12.0-1-50-1 ] is back into the attack 78.6 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 1 run , drifts onto the leg stump at 120kph , glanced down to fine leg 78.5 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , good length ball on off , Watson taps it to mid-wicket 78.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , 119kph again , fraction short and width on offer , Smith cuts it towards cover point for a single. Diving save from the fielder there 78.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , 119kph , comes in very full on off , whipped to mid-on 78.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , shapes in from outside off , but not close to off , left alone calmly 78.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , Bhuvneshwar ambles in and floats it up outside off at 115kph , defensively pushed to the off-side. 'That 's Sourav Ganguly pace ' says Dravid on air Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 15.0-1-58-0 ] is back into the attack Bhuvneshwar is back on the field after some brief stretching by the edge of the boundary. Two slips in place . The Watson-Smith is partnership is worth 109 runs. Australia have all but won this session too. Will the second new ball make any difference ? Time for a drinks break. The only thing that India have managed to do well in this session , is bowl their overs quickly. Apart from that , Smith and Watson are batting without any trouble. The visitors are waiting for that second new ball. Can they get a breakthrough with that ? We 'll find out.. . 77.6 Raina to Watson , FOUR , half tracker on leg-stump , Watson rocks back and pulls it powerfully over square leg , no chance for the deep backward square fielder to stop that as it was hit very hard . 77.5 Raina to Watson , no run , flatter and on off , Watson makes room and cuts it to cover-point 77.4 Raina to Watson , no run , this time turns it off the back foot to the same man as the last delivery 77.3 Raina to Watson , no run , slower on middle , Watson leans forward and works it to square leg 77.2 Raina to Watson , no run , push-drives it back to the bowler 77.1 Raina to Watson , no run , Raina goes up for an lbw appeal , but umpire Dharmasena is not interested. Full and on leg-stump , Watson misses the sweep , the ball pitched outside leg Bhuvi is off the field and is seen stretching near the boundary rope. He was one who gave chase to that Watson sweep in the previous over . 76.6 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , fired at 92kph outside off , Watson squeezes the drive to mid-off 76.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flat and on the stumps , Watson hangs back and taps it wide of leg slip 76.4 Ashwin to Watson , FOUR , rubbish delivery , flighted outside leg-stump , Watson had plenty of time to pick his spot , he kneels down and sweeps it to the long leg fence 76.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , bit too full and on middle , Smith eases it down to long-on. The 100-run stand also comes up between these two 76.2 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , floated up on leg-stump , Watson comes down the track and works it through mid-wicket 76.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , tossed up on off , defended off the front foot back to Ashwin 75.6 Raina to S Smith , no run , pushed through on the stumps , Smith gets inside the line and bunts it to the on-side 75.5 Raina to S Smith , 2 runs , goes on with the arm , Smith drives away from the body , the outside edge runs down to third man 75.4 Raina to S Smith , no run , backs away slightly and drops it in front cover , thinks about the single but Saha is onto it quickly 75.3 Raina to S Smith , no run , glances it fine , but the leg slip fielder does well to stop the ball 75.2 Raina to S Smith , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Smith knocks it to the on-side off the back foot 75.1 Raina to S Smith , no run , flighted on off , Smith pushes it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 74.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , gets a good stride forward and blocks solidly. Watto is looking at ease with each passing delivery 74.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , lunges forward and defends it back to the bowler 74.4 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , works it behind square for another easy single 74.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Ashwin almost had his man , Smith comes down the track , Ash throws it wide outside off , he had to reach for it and he can only manage an inside edge onto the pad , another morale victory for the spinner 74.2 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , turning down the leg-side , Watson helps it on the way to backward square leg , Smith scampers through for a quick single 74.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , gives this bit more air , Watson comes forward and ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball drops near his feet 73.6 Raina to S Smith , no run , hangs back in the crease and taps it to the on-side. A much better over from Raina 73.5 Raina to S Smith , no run , Raina sees the batsman skip down , drags the length back , Smith does well to adjust and knock it to cover 73.4 Raina to S Smith , no run , flighted close to off , Smith pushes it to the left of the bowler 73.3 Raina to S Smith , no run , slower and on the stumps , Smith defends it back to the bowler 73.2 Raina to S Smith , no run , pushed through just outside off , Smith stands tall and punches it straight to cover-point , either side and it would have been a four 73.1 Raina to S Smith , no run , flatter and on off , blocked off the back foot down the track 72.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , opens the bat face at the last moment and guides it to the vacant point region 72.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 2 runs , the Indians thought they had their man , nice loopy delivery outside leg-stump , Smith tickles it in the air wide of Raina at leg slip , he dived but could not get anywhere close to the ball 72.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , looked like the carrom ball , Smith presses forward and blocks it down the wicket 72.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , floated up outside leg , Smith comes down the track , takes it on the full and drives it to mid-off 72.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , floated up on middle , Smith dead-bats it back to the bowler 72.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tosses it up on leg-stump , Smith walks forward and taps it to backward square 71.6 Raina to Watson , FOUR , fraction short and just outside off , Watson waits on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket , no fielder there and Ashwin chases in vain from cover. Another over where Australia have managed to score a boundary 71.5 Raina to S Smith , 1 run , on leg-stump , Smith goes back and works it with soft hands towards short fine leg 71.4 Raina to S Smith , no run , goes on with the angle , Smith was opened up a touch as he blocks it to the on-side 71.3 Raina to S Smith , no run , flatter and on leg-stump , Smith nudges and picks out the fielder at square leg 71.2 Raina to S Smith , no run , slightly short and just outside off , Smith mistimes the pull to mid-wicket 71.1 Raina to S Smith , no run , Raina too comes round the sticks now , gets a bit more bounce , Smith plays it with loose hands and tucks it to backward square 70.6 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , once again uses his feet , does n't get to the pitch as he flicks it in the air wide of square leg 70.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith leans forward and clips it to short mid-wicket , Rohit makes a fine stop 70.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower and spinning in , Smith works it airily to square leg 70.3 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , chips down the track , takes it on the full and pushes it to long-on 70.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flighted on middle , Watson defends with the bat in front of his pad 70.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , Ashwin comes round the wicket now , darts it into the pads , Watson works it to backward square , he was taking off for the single , but is sent back as Rahul gets there quickly 69.6 Raina to S Smith , no run , pushed through on off , Smith punches it to short mid-wicket , where Rohit gets around and fields the ball 69.5 Raina to Watson , 1 run , not all that short , but Watson makes it into one as he goes deep in the crease and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 69.4 Raina to Watson , no run , tosses it up around off , Watson lunges forward and knocks it to the right of Raina 69.3 Raina to S Smith , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Smith punches it to deepish mid-on 69.2 Raina to S Smith , no run , fired in on off , Smith closes the bat face and gets a soft leading edge to cover 69.1 Raina to S Smith , 2 runs , " catch " shouted Saha , but the ball lands safely. Flighted outside off , Smith comes down the track , miscues the loft over mid-off , he had enough to get it over the fielder , Shami runs back from mid-on and pulls the ball in before it could reach the rope , saved two there 68.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , tossed up on off , defended calmly down the wicket 68.5 Ashwin to Watson , FOUR , Watson slowly starting to open up now , shimmies down the track and heaves it over mid-wicket , no chance for the long-on fielder to stop that 68.4 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Smith brings up yet another fifty , he has got a fifty plus score in every Test. He gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 68.3 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , plenty of air , but the length is too full , Watson squeezes the drive to mid-off 68.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , floaty delivery on off , Watson presses forward and defends it back to Ash 68.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , sees the batsman advance down the wicket and darts it on leg-stump , Smith adjusts well to clip it to deepish mid-wicket 67.6 Raina to Watson , no run , fires it in outside off , Watson digs the drive out to cover 67.5 Raina to Watson , no run , pushed through around off , Watson hangs back and blocks 67.4 Raina to Watson , 2 runs , tad short and outside off , Watson back cuts it behind point , Jinks keeps it down to a brace 67.3 Raina to Watson , no run , flatter and on off , Watson brings his bat down and jams it down the wicket , that hurried onto him 67.2 Raina to Watson , FOUR , touch short and Watson was onto it in a flash , he rocks back and pulls it in the air over mid-wicket , it is his first boundary in the innings 67.1 Raina to Watson , no run , too full and outside off , Watson squeezes it out to cover Suresh Raina [ 4.0-1-14-0 ] is back into the attack Another bowling change , only Ashwin has been constant. The other end has seen four bowling changes in as many overs 66.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower and outside off , Smith comes down the track and goes for the drive , the ball spins enough to take the inside part and go to short mid-wicket , it was in the air but dropped well in front of Virat 66.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , floated up just outside off , Smith dead-bats it back to the bowler 66.4 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , flighted on off , Watson gets to the pitch and wrists it past Ashwin , who got a hand but could not stop it completely 66.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , goes deep in the crease , converts it into a short of a length delivery , cuts it to point 66.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , smothers any turn on offer with a forward defensive 66.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , waits for the ball to turn and nudges it to backward square 65.6 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , pitched up on off , Smith walks across and clips it to mid-wicket , Vijay dives to his right and takes the pace off the ball 65.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball outside off , Smith is happy to let that go to Saha Kohli has a word with Umesh after that shot. . 65.4 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , half volley on off , Smith could have hit that anywhere , he shuffles across and whips it through mid-wicket for another boundary. He is closing in on another fifty 65.3 U Yadav to Watson , 3 runs , sloppy from Vijay , fullish and angling in , Watson plays around his pad , works it to mid-wicket , Vijay dives over the ball and allows the batsmen to take three 65.2 U Yadav to Watson , no run , on a length close to the off-stump , Watson comes on the front foot and defends to mid-wicket 65.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , fuller and comes back in a touch , Watson push-drives it to mid-on Umesh Yadav [ 12.0-1-70-0 ] is back into the attack Another bowling change , Virat shuffling it around 64.6 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , excellent use of the feet , dances down the wicket , meets the pitch of the ball and drives it past a diving cover fielder , once it beat the man it was heading in only one direction 64.5 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , nurdles it to the right of backward square , Smith calls him through for a quick single 64.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , works it straight to the fielder at short leg 64.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , slows it up on off , Watson leans forward and blocks it to the right of Ashwin 64.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , takes a step out of the crease and works it past short leg , but there is backward square for protection 64.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , nice loopy delivery , Watson comes half-forward and drops it dead on the pitch 63.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , pulls the length back outside off , Smith is not interested in playing at that 63.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Good length on off , Smith shuffles across , presents the full face of the bat and drives it to mid-on , where the fielder dives in vain 63.4 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 3 runs , full and inviting the batsman to drive , Watson comes well forward and drives it uppishly through cover , no timing on that and hence only three 63.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , back of a length at 126kph , Watson camps on the back foot and pats it to short cover 63.2 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , pitched up outside off , Watson drills the drive to short cover , Virat parries it to mid-off 63.1 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , fuller and just outside off , Watson gets a good stride forward and drives it to mid-off Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 14.0-1-51-0 ] is back into the attack Just the one over for Shami , back comes Bhuvi 62.6 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , goes straight on , Watson brings his bat down at an angle , gets it off the outside half wide of slip for a single 62.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , nice loopy delivery , Watson lunges forward and knocks it to cover 62.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , floated up on off , Watson presses to cover by coming forward 62.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , " catch it " were the shouts , but it was in the gap. Slower and drags the length back , Smith comes down the track and chips it wide of short mid-wicket 62.2 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , fraction short and outside off , Smith goes right back and punches it through cover , the lightning fast outfield does the rest as the ball races away to the boundary 62.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , tosses it up on off , Smith skips out of the crease and drives it back to Ashwin 61.6 Shami to Watson , no run , shortens the length around off , Watson has ample time to go back and knock it to point 61.5 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , too straight , attacking the stumps , Smith walks across his stumps and nurdles it to deep backward square leg 61.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , on a length close to off , Smith prefers to hang back and bunt it to cover 61.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , almost dragged on ! Hint of inward movement , might be reverse as the shiny side was towards the batsman , Smith looks to force it off the front foot , ekes out an inside edge and the ball rolls off the pad wide of leg-stump 61.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , tad short and outside off , Smith moves across and taps it to short cover 61.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , Smith shuffles across and lets it go Mohammed Shami [ 11.0-1-49-1 ] is back into the attack 60.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flighted on off , Watson presses forward and blocks off the inside part to the right of short leg 60.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Watson turns it off the back foot to short mid-wicket 60.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , goes right back and defends it to the on-side 60.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , throws this up around off , Watson takes a step down the wicket , gets an inside edge onto the pad , luckily for him the ball drops dead on the wicket 60.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , slower and just outside off , Watson dabs it wide of slip 60.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , floated up outside off , Watson lunges forward and knocks it to cover , Smith wanted the single but Watto sends him back India gathered around in a huddle with Virat doing the talking. He has to inspire them to keep going. Ashwin to start off after the break. He has a slip and short leg in place.. . With the wickets of Warner and Rogers , India made a slight comeback into the game , but Steve Smith has looked his free-flowing self with Watson giving him company at the other end. If they can get Smith out early in the session , then it will boost their morale. Otherwise they will be chasing leather for another two hours. Welcome back for the final session of play.. . After the departure of the openers , Steve Smith has looked his usual busy self , while Watson is hanging in there. Will Captain Smith amplify Australia 's advantage in the final session ? Or will the Indian bowlers pull their socks up and make more inroads ? Rejoin us after the tea break to see how the final session of the opening day pans out . Tea , Day 1 : India managed to prise out two wickets in two overs , but has turned out to be Australia 's session again. David Warner continued in his merry way , notching up his third century of the series. Rogers looked set for a ton of his own before he chopped a Shami delivery back onto the stumps. Warner though was the first to depart , looping a catch to gully off a leading edge with Ashwin getting some reward for probing bowling. By then , Australia had already added 200 runs on the board . 59.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , Smith gets behind this length ball outside off and blocks it to cover 59.5 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , good length ball pushed outside off , Smith is forward to press it to cover 59.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , full again , outside off , left alone 59.3 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , fullish and outside off , Smith prods across and pushes it defensively to mid-on 59.2 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , similar length , but pushed wider this time. Tapped to cover 59.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , good length ball just a shade outside off , no real lateral movement for Bhuvi , blocked back to the bowler 58.6 Raina to S Smith , 1 run , Raina keeps firing quick ones , Smith gets across and whips it down to long-on to keep strike 58.5 Raina to S Smith , no run , flat again , dead-batted back to Raina 58.4 Raina to S Smith , no run , quicker on middle and leg , defended to the leg-side 58.3 Raina to S Smith , FOUR , Smith reaps reward for intent. He takes it from outside off and heaves it up and over mid-wicket 58.2 Raina to S Smith , no run , straight roller on middle , blocked to the bowler from the crease 58.1 Raina to Watson , 1 run , fuller on off and middle , turned to mid-wicket for a quick single 57.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , no run , floaty and full outside off , Smith just ushers it through to Saha 57.5 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 1 run , good length ball on off , Watson gets a good stride forward and milks it to mid-wicket for a single 57.4 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , cuts in from outside off , but not close enough to off and make Watson play 57.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , fuller and comes in on middle , Watson flicks it straight to the fielder at mid-wicket. Sweetly timed but not well placed 57.2 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , on a length and outside off , stops on the batsman. He checks his push and lobs it in front of cover. Kohli had wry smile on his face 57.1 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , good length ball on off , Watson is forward and across to defend it to the leg-side Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 12.0-0-50-0 ] is back into the attack Kohli is rotating his pacers . 56.6 Raina to S Smith , no run , Raina pulls his length back , punched down the track , past Raina to mid-on 56.5 Raina to S Smith , 2 runs , pushed through flatter on middle and leg , tucked away to deep mid-wicket for a brace 56.4 Raina to S Smith , no run , straighter in line , Smith gets across and works it past short leg to short mid-wicket 56.3 Raina to S Smith , no run , Smith hangs back and flicks this one to short mid-wicket 56.2 Raina to S Smith , no run , flat on the leg stump , whipped towards mid-on 56.1 Raina to Watson , 1 run , Watson lunges forward , takes it on the full and drives it to mid-off 55.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , slightly back of a length and on off , Smith takes his bottom hand off the bat as he blocks it to the left of Umesh 55.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball just outside off , defended to cover 55.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length and on off , Smith is across to block it to short mid-wicket 55.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , pitched up and outside off , Smith comes forward and pushes it towards backward point 55.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , Smith does not bother with it 55.1 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , fuller on middle and leg , Smith gets across and glances it very fine , no leg slip and Smith earns a four 54.6 Raina to Watson , no run , Raina pulls his length back on off , Watson hangs back and works it to mid-wicket 54.5 Raina to Watson , no run , slower through the air on off , forward and blocked back to Raina 54.4 Raina to Watson , no run , tossed up now , blocked back to Raina 54.3 Raina to Watson , no run , quicker and outside off , dabbed behind point towards short third 54.2 Raina to Watson , no run , skids on with the arm , defended to short mid-wicket off the back foot 54.1 Raina to Watson , no run , pushed through flat and quick on off , softly punched back to the bowler 53.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , short of length and outside off , Smith stands tall and upright , punching it to cover. A diving half-save from the fielder there 53.5 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fullish but wide outside off , no shot offered by Smith 53.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , hurled very full and outside off , jammed out to mid-off 53.3 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length and just a shade outside off , Smith blocks it to cover again 53.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , similar length and tight line on off , defended to cover 53.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball pushed outside off , blocked to the left of Yadav , towards mid-off 52.6 Raina to Watson , no run , full delivery on off , Watson comes on the front foot and drives it back at Raina , who dives to his left and stops the ball 52.5 Raina to Watson , no run , darted quicker on off , pushed back to Raina off the back foot 52.4 Raina to Watson , no run , slider on off , Watson is right behind the line of it in defence 52.3 Raina to S Smith , 1 run , Smith eases forward and drives it to long-on 52.2 Raina to S Smith , no run , tossed up around off , defended to the off-side 52.1 Raina to S Smith , FOUR , fraction short and outside off , Smith nails a cut to the deep backward point fence after rocking on the back foot Suresh Raina , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 51.6 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , shortish and on middle and leg , Smith stays back and nurdles a single behind square on the leg-side. Ashwin bowls a tight maiden and then Umesh releases the pressure - 7 from that over 51.5 U Yadav to Watson , 3 runs , fuller and comes in on off , Watson twirls his wrists and flicks it past mid-wicket , Vijay puts in a chase from there and keeps it to three 51.4 U Yadav to Watson , no run , back of a length and wobbles away slightly , Watson dangles his bat out and gets beaten 51.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , leg stumpish line , helped to deep backward square leg for an easy single 51.2 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , short of length and outside off , Smith stands tall and confidently punches it towards sweeper cover. Rohit chases the ball and cuts it down to two 51.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball on middle and leg , Smith stays back and flicks , but mid-wicket gets across and makes a diving save , consigning it as a dot 50.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , pushed through fuller on off , Watson gets it to short leg again , this time off the inside half of the bat. End of another tight over from the spinner 50.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , Ashwin pushes this one through , defended to short leg 50.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , slower and fuller on off , Watson gets forward and works it to short mid-wicket 50.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , slides on with the arm on off and middle , tapped to mid-wicket 50.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , Ashwin gets some quick turn , worked to short leg off the back foot 50.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flighted delivery on middle , defended to short leg , on the bounce 49.6 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , short of length on middle , now it 's Watson 's turn to tuck one through backward square leg 49.5 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and on middle , Smith camps on the back foot and milks it through backward square leg 49.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , on a length and around off , dabbed towards backward point with soft hands 49.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , Yadav errs too full and straight , Smith hangs back and goes across as he tucks it behind square leg 49.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , fullish and on middle and leg , blocked to the right of Yadav , towards mid-on There is a leg gully in place in addition to a wide slip . 49.1 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , good length ball on off , blocked back to the bowler Umesh Yadav [ 8.0-0-55-0 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Watson hangs back and flicks , but the ball is stopped by one of the two men at mid-wicket 48.5 Ashwin to Watson , no run , nudged to short leg 48.4 Ashwin to Watson , no run , Ashwin drags his length back on off , worked to short mid-wicket off the back foot 48.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , Ashwin drifts on the pads , nudged behind square on the leg-side for a single 48.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , fuller and on the stumps , tapped back to Ashwin 48.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flighted delivery on off , Smith inches forward and drops it in front of short leg 47.6 Shami to Watson , no run , much fuller and invites Watson to drive , the batsman obliges and drives it past cover , towards mid-off 47.5 Shami to Watson , no run , pitched up and on off , Watson drives with the full face of the bat , the man at short cover dives and deflects it back to the bowler A catching cover in place to go with a catching mid-wicket . 47.4 Shami to Watson , no run , fuller length ball on off , Watson gets forward to drive , gets it to short mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 47.3 Shami to Watson , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Watson hangs back and blocks it to short mid-wicket 47.2 Shami to Watson , no run , fuller and tails in on off , defended to short mid-wicket 47.1 Shami to Watson , no run , pitched up and on off , driven past the bowler , towards mid-on 46.6 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , bangg goes Smith ! He skips down the track , gets close to the pitch of the ball and launches it high and over mid-on. The Australian skipper wants to disrupt Ashwin 's rhythm 46.5 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , flattish and on middle and leg , defended to the leg-side 46.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Ashwin gives this more air , Smith comes down the track and works it to mid-wicket 46.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , Smith uses his feet , takes it on the full and drives it down the pitch 46.2 Ashwin to Watson , 3 runs , low full toss on off , Watson flicks it , the man at mid-wicket , misfields and allows Watson to get off the mark with three 46.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , flighted delivery on off , Watson is forward and across to work it to mid-wicket 45.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , fraction short and outside leg , Smith gets inside the line and leaves it Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , out Bowled ! ! No ton for Rogers. He is gone. The umpires are checking for a possible no-ball , but Shami is fine on that count and he gets Rogers. He does not need any help from his fielders too. This was on a back of a length and comes in , Rogers aims for another punch , but chops it back onto the top of middle off an inside-edge. Five more runs and it could have been back-to-back Test centuries at the SCG for Rogers. Chris Rogers b Shami 95 ( 160 ) [ 4s-13 ] Shami to Chris Rogers , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 45.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , nice punchy drive by Rogers. This was on a back of a length and outside off , Chris Rogers gets on top of the bounce and middles it to the sweeper cover fence 45.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length and around off , Chris Rogers forces it straight to the fielder at backward point 45.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , on a length and on off , Chris Rogers comes forward and punches it down to mid-off 45.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length and climbs over the fourth stump line , Rogers ignores it Shami will continue with just a slip in place . 44.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , pushed through quicker and straighter , the man at short leg intercepts Watson 's clip and deflects it to leg slip Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease A slip , leg slip and a short leg welcome Watson to the crease . Players take drinks with that wicket. India needed that wicket as the partnership was taking the game away from them. They will have to take a few more if they have to make a comeback in the game. Hopefully , they will manage to do that in the next hour of play . 44.5 Ashwin to Warner , out Caught by Vijay ! ! Finally , the partnership has been broken. Warner goes after a terrific innings , the whole of SCG is standing up and applauding. Slower and around off , Warner inches forward , closes the bat face as he was looking to work it to the on-side , gets a leading edge to gully. Warner c Vijay b Ashwin 101 ( 114 ) [ 4s-16 ] Ashwin to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.4 Ashwin to Warner , no run , floated up on off , Warner pushes it to short cover after coming forward 44.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , top-edge and safe ! Slower and on off , Rogers kneels down and looks to sweep , the extra bounce takes the top-edge , deflects off the helmet over the keeper , Raina tracks back , dives and ca n't hold onto the catch 44.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted on off , Rogers presses forward and blocks 44.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , FOUR , quicker delivery around off , Rogers waits in the crease , late cuts it past gully , Rohit gives chase , dives but ca n't stop the ball , now Rogers is into the 90s 43.6 Shami to Warner , no run , bouncer to end the over , Warner gets his head out of the way and lets it go , it hardly carried to Saha 43.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , shortish and outside off , Rogers back cuts it between slip and gully , Jinks runs behind the ball , slides and throws it back to Ash who fires a throw back to Saha 43.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , on a length just outside off , Rogers drives it on the up past mid-off , Kohli gives chase and keeps the duo down to two 43.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length outside off , Rogers fetches it from there and toe-ends the pull to mid-wicket 43.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and outside off , Rogers drives without much timing to mid-off 43.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , short delivery on the stumps , Rogers is early into the pull , he misses and is struck on the back thigh 42.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , comes down the track and almost yorks himself , he manages to tuck it off the pads to backward square leg 42.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Ashwin gets away with a half tracker , Rogers cuts it straight to cover-point 42.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted on off , Rogers presses forward and defends it to short cover A gully comes in now 42.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , slower and turns away , Rogers prods forward , the ball takes the thickish outside edge and dribbles to point 42.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , bit of bounce on this occasion , Rogers rides it and taps it in front of point 42.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tad quicker and on off , Rogers stays in the crease and defends off the inside part to mid-wicket 41.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Rogers swivels and pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg 41.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish and on off , Rogers push-drives it to mid-off 41.4 Shami to Warner , 1 run , short and hurries onto the batsman , Warner is late on the pull , the ball hits the thigh pad and rolls down to fine leg 41.3 Shami to Warner , no run , on a length close to off , Warner inches forward and pushes it to mid-on 41.2 Shami to Warner , no run , good length ball on off , Warner comes forward and knocks it to mid-on 41.1 Shami to Warner , FOUR , Warner gets to his 3rd hundred of the series , his 12th overall in Tests. A typical Warner celebration follows as he reached the landmark , a jump in the air and pumping his fist. He points his bat skywards and kisses the Australian emblem on the helmet , walks to Rogers and hugs him. Coming to the ball , it was dug in halfway down the wicket , Warner rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket for a boundary Mohammed Shami [ 7.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , hint of turn and bit of extra bounce , Rogers prods forward to defend , the ball takes the thickish outside edge and rolls wide of the slip fielder 40.5 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , flighted on off , Warner eases the drive to long-off 40.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Rogers leans into the drive to sweeper cover 40.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , fires it in outside off , Rogers misses out on the cut shot 40.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed through on off , Rogers stays in the crease and bunts it to the off-side 40.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , quicker and on off , Rogers stays low and defends to short cover-point 39.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , fullish and just outside off , Warner middles the drive towards short cover , Raina dives and makes a fine stop 39.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , FOUR , overcompensates with the length , drags the length back outside off , Warner fetches it from there and muscles the pull past mid-wicket , he moves onto 95 now 39.4 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , FOUR , there comes the one boundary for the over , it was not a bad ball from Bhuvi , but a brilliant shot by Warner. Fuller on off and middle , Warner comes forward and on-drives it past mid-on , Ashwin dives in vain 39.3 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , shortens the length close to off , Warner goes back and punches it to mid-off , that came right off the middle 39.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , fuller and outside off , Warner presses it to mid-off after coming forward , calls " wait on " to Rogers 39.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , back of a length on off , Warner shuffles across and defends to the left of Bhuvi 38.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , pulls the length back on off , Rogers stays back and pats it to short cover-point 38.5 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , tosses it up gently and draws the batsman forward , Warner gets to the pitch and drives it to deepish mid-off 38.4 Ashwin to Warner , no run , flighted on off , Warner presses forward and defends it to short cover 38.3 Ashwin to Warner , no run , touch short , Warner makes himself some room by staying leg-side , cuts and picks out backward point 38.2 Ashwin to Warner , no run , little more bounce this time , Warner rides it and taps it towards point 38.1 Ashwin to Warner , no run , 91kph quicker delivery on middle , Warner stays in the crease and bunts it towards mid-wicket 37.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , tight line from Bhuvi , close to the off-stump , Rogers watches it closely and defends it back to the bowler 37.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , on a length just outside off , Rogers drives it on the up to mid-off 37.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , hangs back and punches the short of length delivery to backward point 37.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , fuller and around off , Rogers inches forward and pushes it to mid-off 37.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , what happened there ? That one bounced a bit more than Rogers expected , it was back of a length on off , Rogers fends it awkwardly to mid-on 37.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , short and on leg-stump , Warner pulls it to fine leg , his right leg was in the air when he played that 36.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , quicker and on off , Rogers stays in the crease and blocks 36.5 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , pushed through close to off , Warner drives it past a diving Ashwin and down to deepish mid-off 36.4 Ashwin to Warner , FOUR , even Ashwin is starting to leak runs. Flighted around off , Warner kneels down and heaves it in front of square for the second boundary of the over 36.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , flatter and outside off , Rogers waits in the crease and late cuts it wide of the slip fielder. Another three 36.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , FOUR , Rogers is batting beautifully after lunch , throws this up outside off , Rogers has the width to free his arms , he opens the bat face and drives it to sweeper cover 36.1 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , straighter one on the stumps , Warner goes on his knee and sweeps it behind square leg 35.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , touch fuller and on off , Rogers pushes it to mid-on 35.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , tight line around off , but the length is short , Rogers knocks it comfortably in front of cover 35.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , good length ball on off , Rogers knocks it from the crease to mid-on 35.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , on a length just outside off , Rogers walks into the drive to mid-off , calls " wait , wait " for the single 35.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , shortish and on middle , Rogers gets inside the line and whips it to deep backward square leg for a brace 35.1 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length and on off , Rogers plays around it and is struck high on the pad 34.6 Ashwin to Warner , no run , quicker and just outside off , Warner does not commit completely onto the front foot as he bunts it to silly point 34.5 Ashwin to Warner , no run , floated up on off and middle , Warner defends solidly off the front foot 34.4 Ashwin to Warner , no run , slower and on off , Warner presses forward and blocks it down the wicket 34.3 Ashwin to Warner , FOUR , Warner is showing his wide array of shots , pushed through on off , kneels down and slaps the reverse sweep behind point , he got it well wide of the backward point fielder 34.2 Ashwin to Warner , no run , tossed up on off , Warner smothers it with a forward defence 34.1 Ashwin to Warner , no run , flighted on off , Warner comes down the track and blocks it to the left of Ashwin 33.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , FOUR , superb shot ! India leaking runs here. Rogers and Warner are batting as though it is a net session going on. Overpitched at 125kph and outside off , Rogers leant into the drive and caressed it between extra cover and mid-off 33.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , the length is short and just outside off , Rogers shuffles across and whips it to mid-wicket 33.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , shortens the length around off , Rogers taps it off the back foot to silly mid-off 33.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers knocks it back to the bowler 33.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , FOUR , shot ! Pitched up on off , Rogers moves forward , presents the straightest of bats and drives it past Warner , Kohli at mid-off does not even bother to chase it down 33.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , starts with one on the pads , Warner turns it to square leg and picks up an easy single Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 8.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , goes on with the angle from round the wicket , Rogers stays in the crease and blocks it to the left of Ashwin 32.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , hangs back and bunts it to the off-side 32.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed through outside off , Rogers guides it towards backward point , Rohit dives to his right and stops the single Short leg moves to silly point for Rogers 32.3 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , quicker delivery at 90kph , Warner leans forward and wrists it to deepish mid-on 32.2 Ashwin to Warner , no run , tosses it up on off , Warner presses forward and keeps it out 32.1 Ashwin to Warner , no run , slower and close to off , Warner gets behind the line and blocks 31.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on off , Rogers drops it in front of cover , looks for a single which is not there 31.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length on off , Rogers shuffles across and taps it in front of point 31.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , bouncer down leg , Rogers gets inside the line and lets it go 31.3 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , again , Umesh not learning , keeps it short and outside off , Warner cuts it to extra cover and takes a quick single , he got away there 31.2 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , poor bowling , short and plenty of width on offer , Warner had all the time in the world to pick his spot , he rocks back and cuts it in the air behind point , none of the fielders moved 31.1 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , crunched ! Touch short and outside off , Warner comes half-forward and cracks it in front of square , pierces the packed off-side field 30.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , floated up on off , Rogers lunges forward and allows the ball to hit the bat 30.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , fires it full and outside off , Rogers squeezes it past a diving Rohit at backward point , he should have done better 30.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tad fuller and outside off , Rogers push-drives it to cover 30.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tosses it up close to off , Rogers blocks with the bat and pad close together 30.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , flighted on off , Rogers stays low and defends it to the left of Ashwin 30.1 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , starts from round the wicket , angles it in on middle , Warner tucks it to square leg and gets to the other end Ravichandran Ashwin [ 8.0-3-17-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , FOUR , five dot balls and a half volley to finish the over. All the pressure that was built up it let go. Rogers leans forward and creams the drive through the cover region , the timing was superb on that 29.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , back of a length angled across the left-hander , left alone 29.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , another one in the channel around off , Rogers covers the line , tucks his bat inside the line and lets it pass 29.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , pulls the length slightly back , Rogers watches it closely and lets it go 29.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , loose from Rogers , Umesh keeps it full and well wide of off , Rogers goes chasing after it , he misses and the ball goes past the outside edge 29.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , fullish and outside off , Rogers does not bother with it Umesh Yadav [ 6.0-0-42-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Shami to Warner , no run , shortens the length around off , Warner goes back and across , knocks it to cover 28.5 Shami to Warner , no run , on a length close to off , Warner is half-forward and pushing to mid-off , he takes a couple of steps down the wicket for the single , but Rogers sends him back 28.4 Shami to Warner , no run , back of a length on off , Warner gets behind the line and defends it to mid-on 28.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , again , on the pads , Rogers glances it down to fine leg 28.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , bumper on the stumps , Rogers ducks under it and lets it pass 28.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , too straight from Shami , on middle and leg , Rogers tucks it to deep square leg for a brace Welcome back.. It has been Australia all the way. The hosts are making full use of a good batting wicket. If India are not consistent with the ball , then they will be playing catch-up to the Aussies. Can they have a better second session ? Or will they continue to leak runs ? Answers coming up as players make their way out to the middle. David Warner acknowledges the Phillip Hughes plaque that is there at the SCG while he was coming out to bat . It was left to Ashwin to come in and stifle the run flow a bit. Warner got to 63 and got emotional. He paid a fitting tribute to his late mate Phil Hughes and the crowd gave him a fine ovation. Will the run flow continue after the break or will India wrest some control ? We 'll be back shortly to tell you all that. Do stay tuned as we take a small break . Off go Chris Rogers and Warner , the latter clearly emotional right now. Australia all the way in that session. They won a good toss and the openers have rattled along at more than 4rpo. It 's a batting wicket , but India did themselves no favors by bowling without a plan. Familiar shortcomings came to the fore as they bowled on both sides of the wicket. Shami produced the chance but Rahul dropped a sitter at slip to let-off Rogers on 19 . 27.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , Chris Rogers drives away from the body , but gets a thick outside edge along the ground wide of 2nd slip. Takes a single and that will be lunch on day 1 27.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , shuffles across and pushes to short cover 27.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , rocks back to punch to point 27.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , five fifties in a row and Chris Rogers takes in all the applause. Goes up to Warner and shakes his hand. Gets there with a sweep to deep square leg Two slips in place now. Short leg too Kohli has a chat with Ashwin. Chris Rogers and Warner have a chat too 27.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , cut wide of Rahul at point , who goes and then dives to his right to save some runs Could be the last over before lunch 27.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tossed up from round the wicket , Chris Rogers defends it back to Ashwin 26.6 Shami to Warner , no run , dug in short and on the stumps , Warner yanks his head out of the way and sways away from the line 26.5 Shami to Warner , no run , short and down leg , Warner gets inside the line to pull and then bails out 26.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , pushed wide of cover , and a quick single is taken 26.3 Shami to Warner , 1 run , shuffles across and clips to fine leg , takes the single and the crowd give Warner a standing ovation. Warner goes down and kisses the turf. Has a look at the heavens and claps. Touching moment that 26.2 Shami to Warner , no run , pitched up on leg , flicked to backward square leg 26.1 Shami to Warner , no run , highly ambitious from Shami as he goes up for a lbw appeal. Pitched outside leg and beat Warner on the pull 25.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , defended to silly point 25.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , where did that come from ? The length was shorter and it turned and bounced , squared up Chris Rogers on the back foot defensive and just went over off stump. Fooled Saha too , who failed to glove cleanly 25.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , drifted in , Chris Rogers defends 25.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , more air on the stumps , Chris Rogers eases a push to mid-on 25.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , flat and outside off , defended to cover 25.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , punched to cover 24.6 Shami to Warner , no run , 'wait on ' is the call as Warner gets forward to tap to point 24.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , full down leg , flicked to fine leg 24.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers shuffles across and defends to short mid-wicket 24.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers was looking to work it to leg , extra bounce catches the splice and rolls to mid-on 24.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , square driven by Chris Rogers. Width was there and he opened the face to get it to the right of point 24.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , short of length on the stumps , carefully defended Mohammed Shami [ 4.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack Replays are in and it has fallen short of Rahul 23.6 Ashwin to Warner , no run , did that fall short of Rahul at point ? Or did it carry ? Kohli lets out his frustration. That seemed to have stopped on Warner who went back to punch , it was in the air and the forward dive from Rahul was good only to catch it on the bounce 23.5 Ashwin to Warner , no run , gets forward and works it to the left of Ashwin 23.4 Ashwin to Warner , no run , gets forward and pushes to cover-point once more 23.3 Ashwin to Warner , no run , Warner punches to cover-point and shouts a loud 'no' 23.2 Ashwin to Warner , no run , Warner softly defends to the left of Ashwin 23.1 Ashwin to Warner , no run , hint of turn away for Ashwin as Warner lets it go Now Ash over the wicket to Warner. Only a lone slip in place 22.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , Warner shuffles across and misses the tuck to leg. The ball hits the thigh pad and it 's another leg bye 22.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , head high bouncer and Chris Rogers rides the bounce to hook to deep backward square leg 22.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , softly tapped towards mid-off 22.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , gets forward and drives to mid-on 22.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , down leg and they take a leg bye. The crowd thought that Warner got to 63 , started clapping 22.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , dabbed softly to gully 21.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , turned to mid-wicket A silly mid-off in place for Chris Rogers 21.5 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , Warner shuffles across and tucks this to square leg 21.4 Ashwin to Warner , no run , turned to mid-wicket 21.3 Ashwin to Warner , no run , floated up on the stumps , smothered back to Ashwin 21.2 Ashwin to Warner , FOUR , Ashwin drops it short , Warner is waiting on the back foot and short-arm jabs a pull through mid-wicket. The timing takes it all the way 21.1 Ashwin to Warner , no run , Warner once again wants to go inside out over cover , Ashwin shortens his length and Warner punches to cover-point 20.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , another firm drive by Chris Rogers , but picks out mid-off 20.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers leans forward and plays a drive on the rise , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 20.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed to the right of Bhuvneshwar 20.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , shuffles across a tad and blocks it back to Bhuvneshwar 20.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , overpitched on the pads , flicked to deep mid-wicket , for a couple of runs 20.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , Warner closes the face of the bat and turns this to deep backward square leg 19.6 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , immediately Ashwin shortens his length , Warner tucks it wide of mid-wicket for a single 19.5 Ashwin to Warner , FOUR , that 's a fine shot. Warner comes down the track and makes room to go inside out over those two fielders. Cleared them easily 19.4 Ashwin to Warner , no run , pushed through flatter outside off , Warner punches and finds point 19.3 Ashwin to Warner , no run , Warner pushes it watchfully to point 19.2 Ashwin to Warner , no run , Warner looks to steer from the crease and gets a thick inside edge onto the pads. That skidded on a tad 19.1 Ashwin to Warner , no run , Warner stays back and steers this to point Two catching short covers in place for Ashwin 18.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , calmly defended off the back foot 18.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , on the middle and leg line , tucked to mid-wicket once more 18.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , tucked to mid-wicket 18.3 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , closes the face of the bat and turns this to deep backward square leg 18.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , defended to mid-off 18.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 2 runs , 50 for Warner and he raises his bat to all corners of the SCG. Tucks this to deep backward square leg , Shami charges in and fumbles , but there is another man backing him up. 14th fifty in 36 matches - that 's a fine record Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 5.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , comes on the front foot and pushes to cover. That 's a nice set there from Ashwin 17.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , another forward defensive 17.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , tight delivery on the stumps , Chris Rogers is solid in his block 17.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , gets forward and pushes to mid-off. Looks for a quick single , but it is n't there 17.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , driven to silly point 17.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Ashwin beats Chris Rogers in the flight and the leading edge is found , but it does n't carry to point. Rogers down the wicket and was looking to turn it to leg , that turned to take the edge 16.6 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , three fours in a row and the best shot of the lot. Warner stands tall and opens the face of the bat to punch through cover. Terrific timing and it beats the chasing fielder 16.5 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , now Warner pulls with disdain. Again short from Umesh and the batsman pulls behind square , beating the fielder with ease. This is rubbish bowling from Umesh 16.4 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , put away with utter contempt. Dragged down and Warner just tonked that past cover. Hit very hard 16.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , drives wide of mid-on and takes a quick single even as Bhuvi misses the throw at the non-striker 's end 16.2 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , short of length on the pads , tucked down to deep backward square leg 16.1 U Yadav to Warner , no run , Warner drives on the rise and finds mid-off 15.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers crouches low to defend and gets an inside edge onto the pads. The ball goes wide of silly point 15.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers wants to come forward and then plays it back to Ashwin 15.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , sliding on to middle , Chris Rogers knocks it to short mid-wicket 15.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , gets forward to defend to silly point 15.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , punched to cover 15.1 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , comes down the track and makes room too , to drive wide of mid-off 14.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , that kept a bit low and Chris Rogers did well to crouch low to block. Has a look at the area where the ball pitched 14.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , gets forward and drives past the left-hand of Umesh , mid-on gets across to stop the ball Anxiety is the reason given by Rahul Dravid for Rahul 's drop. He reckons that Rahul is a good slip fielder . 14.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up outside off , Chris Rogers gets forward and squirts a drive to cover 14.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers misses out on the pull for the 2nd time in the innings. Angled across him and kept low to beat him on the shot 14.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , well down leg and that 's another wasted delivery Back over the wicket now. Still a leg slip in place. No short leg though 14.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , FOUR , overpitched on middle , Chris Rogers feasts on that and flicks past mid-wicket. Easy boundary 13.6 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 1 run , rocks back to punch and it 's a diving stop at point , that keeps it to a single Now short leg moves to silly point 13.5 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , patted softly towards silly mid-on 13.4 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , defended to the right of Ashwin 13.3 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers is down the track , the ball turns , but Rogers taps softly back to the bowler 13.2 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed back to the bowler Ashwin is coming from round the wicket with a slip and a short leg 13.1 Ashwin to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , fraction short outside off , Chris Rogers rocks back and cuts past point , two it is Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Thirteen overs bowled in the first hour and it 's time for drinks. Australia off to a terrific start and India have n't helped their cause by dropping Chris Rogers with Rahul the culprit. It 's a flat wicket and India 's bowlers are already resorting to strange tactics by bowling short to Rogers. One may see the introduction of Ashwin pretty soon.. . 12.6 U Yadav to Warner , no run , very full from Umesh and Warner drives straight to the fielder at mid-off 12.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , now Chris Rogers reaches out and punches to sweeper cover , well-timed to take three 12.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , waste , utter tripe from Umesh as he hurls this short delivery well down leg Ca n't understand this ploy of bowling short to Chris Rogers. India are just wasting the hardness of the new ball 12.3 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , gets forward and wrists it wide of mid-on for a single 12.2 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , 1 run , tucked past short leg for a comfortable single 12.1 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , that kept a bit low from Umesh and beat Chris Rogers ' pull. Wanted to go over mid-wicket , but missed 11.6 Shami to Warner , no run , turned to mid-on and a loud shout of 'no' Back over the wicket for Warner. Traditional field for Warner 11.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , 1 run , short and down leg , Chris Rogers pulls to fine leg 11.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , pushed off the back foot to mid-off Now round the wicket with a leg slip and a deepish short leg in place. Two slips and a gully in place too 11.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , 138kph nothing short delivery from Shami , Chris Rogers took it from outside off and smashed the pull over mid-wicket. That was begging to be hit 11.2 Shami to Warner , 1 run , now Raina fumbles at short cover , lets it go through his hands and allows a single 11.1 Shami to Warner , FOUR , that is a cracking shot. Not so short too , but Warner hammers that off the back foot through cover. Created his own room and put it away 10.6 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , another delivery down leg Now round the wicket with a leg gully in place 10.5 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , down leg and that 's a wasted delivery 10.4 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , driven to the left of Kohli at mid-off and a quick single taken 10.3 U Yadav to Warner , no run , short of length on the stumps , Warner hops a little and tucks to short mid-wicket 10.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , driven off the front foot to mid-off 10.1 U Yadav to Warner , no run , Warner drives softly back to Umesh , who fields Umesh Yadav [ 2.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , shuffles across and punches to mid-off 9.5 Shami to Warner , 3 runs , punched past point , Rahane gives chase and slides to pull it back to Raina , who despite slipping does n't give away any extra runs. They take three 9.4 Shami to Warner , no run , 135kph length delivery on the stumps , Warner defends solidly 9.3 Shami to Warner , no run , Warner defends a length delivery to Raina at gully 9.2 Shami to Warner , no run , Warner is beaten on the walking drive. The weight is n't on the front foot as he looks to drive and the ball beats him 9.1 Shami to Warner , 2 runs , Warner stands tall and punches through cover for a couple 8.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , defended from the crease back to Bhuvneshwar 8.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , length delivery on off , Chris Rogers shuffles across and defends it back to Bhuvneshwar 8.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , shuffles across to cover off and defends to mid-on 8.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , dug in short , Chris Rogers allows to go over his left shoulder The more you see the drop , the more you feel what a clanger that is. At a very catchable height too. Ca n't drop chances on flat wickets like this . 8.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , dug in short , Warner hops and short-arm jabs a pull to fine leg 8.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , defended to point 7.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , FOUR , Chris Rogers rubs salt into the wounds now. Very short and wide outside off , Chris Rogers reaches out and cuts fiercely to the point fence 7.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , dropped by Rahul at 2nd slip ! Chris Rogers went to punch off the back foot and it 's a sitter to Rahul. Dropped after getting two hands. He throws the ball in frustration and shouts 'Virat , Virat'. Raina goes up to Rahul and pats him on the back. That should 've been taken 7.4 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , pitched up outside off , Chris Rogers gets forward and eases it to cover 7.3 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , well outside off , easily left alone 7.2 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers has been pinged on the back. Misjudged the length and wanted to duck , was late in doing so. Took one and turned around to see where the ball had gone. Did n't know for a moment where the ball was 7.1 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , firm drive from Chris Rogers , hits Shami 's boot and deflects to mid-off. Saved some runs there , did Shami 6.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , too straight from Bhuvneshwar , Chris Rogers works it wide of mid-on for a single 6.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , good length outside off , left alone 6.4 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , closes the face of the bat and nudges it wide of square leg , easy single 6.3 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , pushed off the front foot to mid-off Still no swing for Bhuvneshwar. It wo n't swing here in Australia. Which makes him an easy bowler to tackle with 6.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , Warner watchfully leaves the outside off delivery 6.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , Warner shuffles across and then defends solidly to mid-off 5.6 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , dug in short , outside off , but it 's well played by Chris Rogers , who drops his gloves and lets it go. Excellent opening over from Shami Lots of chatter from the Indians. Plenty of egging on going out there. Kohli is leading from the front in that department 5.5 Shami to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers drives one back at Shami who tries to throw it back , without collecting the ball 5.4 Shami to Warner , 1 run , defends wide of mid-off and sets off 5.3 Shami to Warner , FOUR , there are two gullies but that went right in between them. Warner slashing a drive and getting lucky. Split them to perfection. Kohli has his hands on his head , while Shami sports a smile 5.2 Shami to Warner , no run , gets forward and defends to square leg 5.1 Shami to Warner , no run , Shami starts with peach. That went like a leg break and completely befuddled Warner , who was looking to defend , is beaten comprehensively as the ball hits the seam and jags away appreciably Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 4.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , that was an iffy leave from Chris Rogers. Wanted to play it till the last instant , then hung his bat out and was lucky that it did n't take a thin nick. The ball swung after passing the bat 4.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , now lifts his bat and lets it go to one that is angled across 4.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , FOUR , Bhuvneshwar overpitches and Chris Rogers drives him beautifully straight down the ground. High elbow. Full face of the bat. All that jazz ! 4.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , gets forward and then closes the face of the bat to defend back to the bowler 4.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 2 runs , drifting onto the pads , tucked wide of mid-on for a couple 4.1 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , comes on the front foot and defends to mid-off Four overs and the score is 33. Shades of Adelaide here. Looks a brilliant batting surface already. Hard work for the bowlers here . 3.6 U Yadav to Warner , no run , gets forward and defends to point solidly 3.5 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , now an inside edge misses leg stump and Warner gets away. The attempted yorker turns out to be a low full toss , Warner hard-edged the drive and got lucky 3.5 U Yadav to Warner , 5 wides , that is a huge wide from Umesh. Digs the short delivery in and Saha had to be standing on Joel Garner 's shoulders to have any chance of stopping that. Even then , it might have been difficult 3.4 U Yadav to Warner , no run , is a touch squared up on the back foot defensive , but manages to block to cover 3.3 U Yadav to Warner , 2 runs , full and targetting the stumps , Warner winded up for a big drive through cover , but got an inside edge to deep backward square , for a couple 3.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , Warner looks to defend and gets a thick outside edge , but the ball lands well in front of gully 3.1 U Yadav to Warner , no run , short of length on the stumps , Warner shuffles across and defends it back to Umesh 2.6 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , 134kph and angled across Chris Rogers , who leaves and Saha collects it at a nice height 2.5 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , FOUR , 'yes yes ' is the shout from Chris Rogers as he leans into a cover drive. Beats the fielder and the ball slowly trickles across the ad hoardings 2.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , 'wait on ' is the call from Chris Rogers as he drives and finds mid-on Rogers stops Bhuvneshwar and is seen waving his arm around. Kettleborough gets involved too. Sightscreen problems as the people move around . 2.3 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , solidly defended to mid-off Already the third slip is taken out. Now two gullies. Ashwin is at first slip. Rahul at 2nd . Chris Rogers is n't happy that someone is moving behind the bowler. Wants that to be sorted 2.2 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , no run , Chris Rogers ' bat face turns as he tries to push off the front foot , the ball squirts to cover 2.1 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , FOUR , nice shot. Bhuvneshwar is a disappointed man. Full outside off , Chris Rogers leans forward and opens the face of the bat on the drive , the ball goes to the left of gully and right into the gap. First boundary for Rogers 1.6 U Yadav to Warner , FOUR , pitched up outside off , Warner went after that with a firm drive , got a thick outside edge that went in the gap at point , the first boundary of the day 1.5 U Yadav to Warner , no run , 144kph short of length delivery on the stumps , Warner looks to pull and it is n't short enough for the shot , pulls and gets an inside edge onto the pads 1.4 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , leg byes , 1 run , that pitched outside leg and beat Chris Rogers on the flick. A loud shout for leg before has been negated and they take a leg bye 1.3 U Yadav to Chris Rogers , no run , 138kph back of a length delivery , Chris Rogers hops a little and defends it back to Umesh 1.2 U Yadav to Warner , 3 runs , just a firm push past mid-off , Kohli gives chase , but ca n't prevent the three 1.1 U Yadav to Warner , no run , short of length and outside off , Warner defends comfortably off the back foot to cover Umesh Yadav , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , Warner defends off the back foot and gets this behind square , quick single taken to get to the other end No real swing on offer for Bhuvneshwar 0.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , tucked off the pads to mid-wicket 0.4 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 1 run , pushed wide of mid-off , for an easy single 0.3 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , half-stopped by Shami at mid-on as Warner flicks to the left of him , saved some runs there did Shami as he went down a bit late and awkwardly too , just about got his left-hand on the ball 0.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , fullish on off , Warner pushes it firmly to mid-off. That was bowled at 131kph Three slips and a gully in place. Will mention who is standing where pretty soon , once I see them 0.1 Bhuvneshwar to Chris Rogers , 3 runs , gentle loosener on the pads , an easy offering for Chris Rogers , who tucks it to deep mid-wicket , the call is for three and it 's an easy three eventually Chris Rogers and Warner are at the crease. Chris Rogers is on strike. Bhuvneshwar will open the attack The players are out there and it will be Bhuvi who will start off proceedings. Rogers to take strike. Here we go then . Kohli : 'Absolutely , it 's a historic ground , some want to pack it and take it home. Every cricketer wants to play at the SCG. Me starting as full-time captain here could n't be better. I enjoy captaincy , it does n't bother me. It helps me focus on my batting as well. It 's not a dead Test match , this game is an opportunity. We have four changes. Bhuvneshwar is handy with the bat , swings it as well. Pity he was n't fit earlier.' Smith : 'We will have a bat please. Hopefully we can start well this morning and post a good total. Not as much grass as the last year. It will play pretty good throughout the five days. It 's a great honor and looking forward to playing on the best ground in my opinion. Mitch Starc gets another opportunity. It is nice to have the series wrapped up. We are gon na walk past the little man everytime we walk out. Hopefully he gives us some inspiration and hopefully we will do him and his family proud.' Pitch report by Sunny Gavaskar : It is a very hot day. Good looking pitch. Hint of grass but nothing that will bother the batsman. As the sun bakes down on this wicket , it will develop cracks. Plenty of runs on this . What do we have here ? A statement of intent of sorts from Virat Kohli. Out go Dhawan , Pujara and Ishant. In come Rohit , Raina and Bhuvneshwar. Not sure whether Ishant has been dropped or rested. Rahul will open with Vijay. Rohit slated to bat at 3 and Raina at 6. Big calls. Remains to be seen whether they work or not . Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Murali Vijay , Lokesh Rahul , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli ( c ) , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , Wriddhiman Saha ( w ) , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav Australia have won the toss and have opted to bat Needless to say , but worth mentioning though - this Test will be the Pink Test as has been the case with all Sydney Tests ever since Jane McGrath passed away due to cancer. One will see a lot of Pink. Glenn McGrath will be lurking around too. The toss will happen in a bit. So do stay tuned . The hosts had initially included Ashton Agar in the squad , contemplating a twin spin attack , but that plan has been done away with. Watson , who suffered a bout of stomach illness , is also fit. India have been quite coy about their combination. However , Kohli has vowed that they will play positively under his leadership . Team News : Australia XI for the fourth Test : David Warner , Chris Rogers , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , Shaun Marsh , Joe Burns , Brad Haddin , Ryan Harris , Mitchell Starc , Nathan Lyon , Josh Hazlewood . Australia have won 11 out of their last 12 Tests in Sydney . Numbers game : Kohli ( 499 ) needs 121 runs to go past Rahul Dravid 's record of scoring most runs in a Test series vs Australia. The Indian skipper already holds the record for most runs in a Test series by a visiting Number 4 batsman in Australia . Weather watch : Cloud cover and showers have been forecast for several days , including day 1 . That 's a wrap of this segment . 'They also call him Rhyno in these parts. And he has charged in like one. The reason behind his success is the length he bowls. In the two Tests he has played in this series , almost 70 per cent of the deliveries to both right and left handers have pitched on a length that will bother them. They have pitched in the no man 's land that leaves batsmen feeling like castaways.' 'In Australia , they rave about Harris being the captain 's delight. The tireless workhorse who will run in all day , and never say never. The guy any captain would give an arm for. The one he will turn to whenever the team desperately needs a dismissal. And more often than not , he has delivered. Not just in this series. But throughout his career.' Here is Bharat Sundaresan of the Indian Express dissecting Ryan Harris 'Lightness of foot is Rahane 's strength. He is a prime example of being someone who can be compact at the crease yet hurt the opposition with shots of precision.' 'The 30-year-old Vijay 's 144 on the first day at the 'Gabba has to be the finest innings played by an Indian in this series so far if making runs against speed , bounce and seam movement are the yardsticks. Vijay 's straight backswing is his strength ; his back and across movement is smooth too.' 'Both in England and down under , Murali Vijay and Ajinkya Rahane have made runs , and done so with the right methods. They are low-key individuals , do n't talk much , and there are times when their performances can get buried in a mountain of needlessly provocative words of the headline-grabbing kind spoken in a series.' S Dinakar , writing for the Hindu , praises Vijay and Rahane 'Rogers is realistic about his Test-playing future and says he 's thinking about a possible off-field career in cricket. 'You never say never but I kind of looked at the future and thought the England series and what England has meant for me would be a nice way to finish, ' the Victorian batsman said.' 'Wicketkeeper Brad Haddin , 37 , could also be unlikely to be going around again in the baggy green cap next summer.' 'Rogers is aiming for the Ashes tour in July as his Test swan song. His form this summer has removed doubts over the Victoria left-hander 's place in the side for the upcoming West Indies and Ashes tours. Late bloomer Rogers is making his 20th Test appearance and 19th since the start of July 2013.' Greg Buckle 's piece for the Herald Sun has the headline , 'Chris Rogers prepares to play final home Test , expected to retire after 2015 Ashes' 'Starc , who played in the Sydney Test against Sri Lanka two years ago but has been in and out of the side repeatedly since , claims he does not have a point to prove to Warne.' Warne then reappeared on Twitter as Starc soared for the Sixers to cheekily take credit for " firing u up " . He says 'Starc , left out of the following match in Melbourne when Ryan Harris returned , responded with two standout performances with the white ball for Sydney Sixers in the Big Bash League , making a point with a stunning inswinger that beat South African legend Jacques Kallis and then a match later sending the bails of Perth Scorchers ' Sam Whiteman flying with a 151kph thunderbolt.' Chris Barrett , writing for the Age , places the microscope on Starc . Before the action unfurls help yourself to our dose of the print section . Can a new captain and a new year bring renewed hope for India ? Or will Australia roll along in a similar dominant way , despite the absence of Johnson ? Good morning and welcome to the fourth and final Test . A permanent captaincy post is a lot different from an interim one. Bigger challenges lie ahead of Kohli. He may be not as calm as Dhoni , but his aggression has worked for him as mentioned by India Team Director , Ravi Shastri. With Dhoni retiring from Tests , Saha has been promoted to front-line keeper after playing years of understudy to the former Indian skipper. He is fit and must be raring to make the keeper-batsman slot his own . Moreover , there is still a cloud of doubt hanging over Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's fitness. In his absence , the Indian attack lacks penetration though they were good in patches at the 'G. Aaron has also rejoined the team after flying back home to attend his grandfather 's funeral . The Indians have plenty to ponder. MS was accused of being too defensive , especially overseas but they miss his patented calmness. The musical chairs surrounding the Number 6 position is the first of the many tough calls Captain Kohli faces. Rohit Sharma is prone to brain fades. Rahul was twice out to silly shots for cheap scores in his debut Test and Suresh Raina is still vulnerable to the short ball. The Uttar Pradesh left-hander last featured in a Test in 2012. Dhawan is also under pressure after a string of below-average scores. Much will depend upon the trinity of Vijay , Rahane and Kohli again . Coming back to the contest , Australia will also miss the services of their bowling spearhead - Mitchell Johnson - who has been ruled out the final Test with a hamstring soreness. His namesake - Mitchell Starc - is set to replace him only after a fortnight he was sent out of the XI. All their batsmen are in fine form and will look to prolong it. Joe Burns , who had an ordinary debut in the Boxing Day Test , will be eager to impress though . Meanwhile , a memorial plaque for Phillip Hughes has been installed at the SCG . Australia have wrapped up the series 2-0 , but will seek to maintain the intensity and make it 3-0. The visitors will start their life after Mahendra Singh Dhoni in Tests. It will be another emotionally-charged affair as the cricket caravan moves to the Sydney Cricket Grief ( Ground ) , where Phillip Joel Hughes was felled by a bouncer on November 25 2014. Hughes ' family will watch the Test from the stands. The likes of Warner and Watson themselves have openly admitted apprehensions ahead of stepping onto the SCG . Overview : The After-Dhoni ( AD ) era in Indian Test cricket begins at the hallowed Sydney Cricket Ground with the final Test of the Border-Gavaskar series. The Test marks an emotional return to Sydney for the Australian team after the tragic events of November 25 , 2014. While the series may have already been decided , the New Year 's Test offers a platform to two young captains , a chance to set a precedent. With the pressure of winning the series lifted , the Steve Smith-led Australian side would be expected to play unbridled cricket and finish with a 3-0 scoreline. While India have given a much better account of themselves than they had done in 2011-12 , the young team has still finished second best in the crucial moments. In a rough 14 months of overseas tours , the team won at Lord 's and got painfully close in Johannesburg and Wellington. A win in Sydney could end up being a watershed moment for India . Australia : Young skipper , Steven Smith faced criticism from some quarters for delaying the declaration in Melbourne. With the series wrapped up , Smith 's Australia could afford to be more adventurous. They would , however , be without Mitchell Johnson for this one , after the speedster complained of soreness in his right hamstring. He will be replaced by Mitchell Starc. David Warner , meanwhile,has overcome the niggle he sustained in Melbourne. Chris Rogers ' return to form , and the fifties for Brad Haddin and Shaun Marsh would have warmed their skipper 's heart. The Australian think-tank would also be hopeful of telling contributions from Shane Watson and Joe Burns. Nathan Lyon , who did n't find the Melbourne surface to his liking , would be expected to get far better purchase from the Sydney surface . India : Suresh Raina had an extended hit in the nets on the eve of the Test match. Kohli would consider drafting him into the middle-order. Raina 's off-spinners and KL Rahul 's horror-show in Melbourne could be factors prompting his inclusion. Meanwhile , the new Indian skipper is also known to be in favour of attacking leg-spinners and Karn Sharma could still join R Ashwin in a two-prong spin attack. While Kohli , Murali Vijay and Ajinkya Rahane have shared the bulk of the batting responsibilities so far , they 'll dearly hope for Cheteshwar Pujara and Shikhar Dhawan to find some form in Sydney. Dhoni 's retirement means , Wriddhiman Saha would walk in at No. 7 and would do well to put behind , his second innings dismissal in Adelaide. India next play a Test only in June next year. The Sydney Test could serve as a precedent of things to come in the future . Pitch and Conditions : While the pitch at SCG is traditionally known for assisting spinners , it was Ben Stokes and Ryan Harris , fast bowlers , who were the pick of the bowlers in last year 's Ashes Test. However , Steve Smith reckoned that the pitch last year had more 'green ' than the one to be used tomorrow. This would bring Ashwin and Lyon into the game much earlier. The forecast for Tuesday indicates a 40 % chance of a shower in the morning and early afternoon. That could influence the captains to bowl first under a cloud cover . Stats and Trivia : Virat Kohli ( 499 in 3 Test matches ) needs 121 runs to go past Rahul Dravid 's record of scoring the most runs in a series against Australia ( 619 in 4 Tests in 2003-04 ) . Australia have won 11 of their last 12 Tests in Sydney. The lone defeat came during the Ashes series in 2010-11 . Quotes : " The way we 've seen Mitch ( Starc ) go back in the Big Bash , it looks like he 's bowled exceptionally quick " - Steve Smith on Mitchell Starc' " I love my hair and I do n't want to lose them. So I will try not to take too much stress " - Virat Kohli on the stress involved with Indian captaincy . Teams : India ( From ) : Murali Vijay , Shikhar Dhawan , Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli ( c ) , Ajinkya Rahane , Lokesh Rahul , Wriddhiman Saha ( k ) , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Ishant Sharma , Rohit Sharma , Suresh Raina , Akshar Patel , Karn Sharma , Varun Aaron , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Dhawal Kulkarni Australia ( From ) : Chris Rogers , David Warner , Shane Watson , Steven Smith ( c ) , Shaun Marsh , Joe Burns , Brad Haddin ( k ) , Ryan Harris , Nathan Lyon , Josh Hazlewood , Peter Siddle , Mitchell Starc , Ashton Agar Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
