Graphs It was an entertaining game of cricket today. If you want some more entertainment , then hop over to the South Africa versus West Indies game. AB de Villiers has just scored the fastest ODI hundred and it is complete carnage at the Wanderers. That 's it from this game. India next take on England at the Gabba on Tuesday. Do join us for that game. Until then , take care and Cya ! Bailey : " We could have been slightly better , but it was a good performance. We dragged it back with the ball. We had a couple of good partnerships , especially between Smith and Finch. I think Finchy deserved a hundred. I was thinking with the way they were going , they could end up with 280-300. Finchy has been in very good touch , he found it hard tonight but he battled it out. " Dhoni : " I think it was a good game overall. We lost a few early wickets , but Rohit batted well to give us more than 250. We bowled too short and started bowling well only after the 35th over. I told them not to worry about the result of the match , but to focus on executing the plans. A lot depends on conditions , specially with drop-in wickets , it will act in a different way. A higher end of 270 would have been a good score on this wicket. Australia and England bat deep , so I hope our top-order contributes more. " Starc : " The ball is coming out well and Australia are winning , ca n't ask for more. I got some swing early on , then the ball started to reverse , happy to get a few key wickets. All the bowlers did a great job. Rohit was excellent with the bat , but Faulkner did it again. He has done it twice in three nights for us. " Mitchell Starc is the MoM for his career best figures of 6/43 . Bhuvneshwar looked his old self after a poor Test at the SCG. He bowled tight line and lengths and was well backed up by Shami. Akshar was the better spinner , he outperformed his senior - Ashwin. Though Umesh was erratic , he came back well towards the death overs. In the end , India were 15-20 runs short with the bat. Hang around for the presentation.. . Australia were given a rollicking start through Warner , who started off in the same fashion as he had done against England. However , Umesh sent him back at a crucial time. Watson came out and was looking good before he threw his wicket away. Smith and Finch then laid the foundation for the hosts with a solid 101-run stand , but both fell at the wrong time. Especially , Finch who missed out on his 6th ODI ton by 4 runs . What a cracking game of cricket ! Who would have thought that it would get this close when Finch and Smith were cruising along ? But , the Indian bowlers did n't give up till the end. They got rid of the both set batsmen and got the required run-rate to run-a-ball. In the end , it required the calmness of Haddin and Faulkner to finish the game off for Australia . 48.6 Bhuvneshwar to Faulkner , FOUR , it is that man again ! James Faulkner hits the winning runs. Australia win by 4 wickets. The yorker from Bhuvi goes wrong , down leg , Faulkner gets some wood on that and glances it past the short fine leg fielder 48.5 Bhuvneshwar to Haddin , 1 run , pitched up on the stumps , Haddin moves away to the leg-side and hammers the drive straight down the ground , Bhuvneshwar got a hand and deflected it to long-on 48.4 Bhuvneshwar to Haddin , FOUR , that might have just sealed the game for Australia , full and just outside off , Haddin makes room to free his arms , he drills the drive between extra cover and mid-off. No stopping that as it was muscled 48.4 Bhuvneshwar to Haddin , wide , slips the slower one down leg , Haddin ca n't lay bat on that , wided by the umpire 48.3 Bhuvneshwar to Faulkner , 1 run , run-out chance missed ! Haddin was nowhere in the picture. Faulkner charges down and takes it on the full , drives it to cover-point , goes for a risky single , Dhawan had all the time in the world to take aim and hit the stumps , he misses and Haddin survives 10 needed off 10 balls 48.2 Bhuvneshwar to Faulkner , FOUR , tremendous hit under pressure , it was slightly back of a length on middle and leg , Faulkner bends his front knee and swings hard , he gets it behind square and beats the fielder in the deep 48.1 Bhuvneshwar to Haddin , 1 run , fuller and following the batsman , Haddin backs away and knocks it back down the wicket , Bhuvneshwar jumps up and parries the ball to the on-side Coming to the lbw appeal against Faulkner , the ball was just clipping the leg-stump and was umpires call . 47.6 A Patel to Faulkner , no run , quicker and just outside off , Faulkner mistimes the cut to short cover. He is not able to get it off the middle so far 47.5 A Patel to Faulkner , no run , another loud cry for lbw , again umpire Dharmasena is not interested. He had a harder look at that than the previous one , pushed through around off , Faulkner kneels down and misses the sweep. The impact might have been outside off , that is the only thing that would have saved him 47.4 A Patel to Haddin , 1 run , flighted on off , Haddin eases it off the front foot to extra cover 47.3 A Patel to Faulkner , leg byes , 1 run , huge shout for lbw , but umpire Dharmasena says not-out. It was the arm-ball , Faulkner stays rooted to the crease and misses the nudge to the on-side , the ball was sneaking down leg 47.2 A Patel to Haddin , 3 runs , quicker , fuller and just outside off , Haddin backs away and carves it through the off-side , Rohit gives chase , dives full length and hauls the ball in just before the rope. Saves a run for the team Dhoni has a chat with his bowler. He wants to get his field absolutely right. Sends a man back at backward square. No one deep on the square boundary on the off-side 47.1 A Patel to Haddin , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Haddin knocks it off the back foot to the right of Akshar Australia require 20 off 18 balls. Akshar to continue. . 46.6 Bhuvneshwar to Faulkner , no run , huge cheer as Bhuvneshwar bowls another dot ball. It is a maiden ! Well done by Shami and Bhuvi , good length ball just outside off , Faulkner bunts it off the outside half to point 46.5 Bhuvneshwar to Faulkner , no run , with the each dot ball the crowd are getting behind the Indians. Off-speed delivery on off , Faulkner presses it to cover after coming forward 46.4 Bhuvneshwar to Faulkner , no run , wicket-to-wicket from Bhuvi , Faulkner ca n't do much other than tap it in front of point James Faulkner , right handed bat , comes to the crease Australia 's finisher needs to take them home once again . 46.3 Bhuvneshwar to Maxwell , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Tame , tame dismissal ! This match is not over folks. Cleverly bowled by Bhuvi. Sees the batsman giving the charge , follows him with a slower delivery , infact it was the leg-cutter , Maxwell is deceived in pace , chips it back to the bowler , who jumps up and takes a good catch. Maxwell c and b Bhuvneshwar 20 ( 23 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Bhuvneshwar to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 46.2 Bhuvneshwar to Maxwell , no run , back of a length around off , Maxwell looks to force it off the back foot , he is beaten ! Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 8.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack Shami has pulled up after bowling the last delivery. The physio is out having a look at him. He was catching his left hamstring. He is going off the field. Hopefully , it is nothing serious as the World Cup is not far away and he is the India 's go-to bowler in the death overs. Bhuvi to complete the over.. . 46.1 Shami to Maxwell , no run , makes room and charges down the wicket , Shami sees that and sprays it well wide of off , Maxwell ca n't reach it and the ball beats the outside edge Mohammed Shami [ 8.0-0-44-1 ] is back into the attack 20 needed off the last 4 overs 45.6 A Patel to Maxwell , 1 run , fires in a low full toss , Maxwell wrists it to the right of Akshar , who dives and makes a half stop , not good enough to stop the single 45.5 A Patel to Maxwell , 2 runs , tossed up on off , Maxwell backs away to the leg-side and lofts it inside out , gets it nowhere close to the middle , but enough to clear the back-tracking cover fielder 45.4 A Patel to Maxwell , 2 runs , low full toss on middle and leg , Maxwell whips it in front of square on the leg-side. He was searching for the yorker and gets it slightly wrong 45.3 A Patel to Maxwell , no run , flighted on off and middle , Maxwell stays leg-side and knocks it to cover 45.2 A Patel to Haddin , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Haddin has enough time to cut it away to deep extra cover 45.1 A Patel to Haddin , no run , too full and on off , almost a yorker , Haddin squeezes the drive back to Akshar Akshar Patel [ 8.0-0-35-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , excellent over from Umesh , just the one run off it. Another yorker that curls back in , Maxwell squeezes it to short mid-wicket. Not much you can do with such deliveries. After a poor to start to his spell , Umesh finishes with figures : 10-1-55-1 44.5 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , back of a length aimed at the ribs , Maxwell stays inside the line and taps it in front of mid-wicket. He played that rather awkwardly 44.4 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , toe-crushing yorker from Umesh , it tailed back in as well , Maxwell manages to get his front leg out of the way and jams it to the off-side , he almost fell over there , but managed to stay on his feet 44.3 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , pitched up outside off , Maxwell pushes it gently back to Umesh 44.2 U Yadav to Haddin , 1 run , full and slanting into the stumps , Haddin works it towards mid-on and sets off for a quick single 44.1 U Yadav to Haddin , no run , shortish and just outside off , Haddin chops the cut in front of point , looks for a run but Maxi says " no " 43.6 Ashwin to Maxwell , FOUR , Maxwell has had enough of prodding around , he once again shimmies down the pitch , meets the pitch of the ball and lofts it over the bowler 's head. No chance for the long-on fielder to cut that off 43.5 Ashwin to Maxwell , SIX , massive ! That releases the pressure that was being built up. It was slower and on the stumps , Maxwell dances down the wicket and sends it sailing over the long-on fence for a maximum 43.4 Ashwin to Maxwell , no run , touch quicker and on leg-stump , Maxwell misses the flick and is rapped on the pads , the ball was sliding down leg though 43.3 Ashwin to Haddin , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Haddin knocks it off the back foot to long-on Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.2 Ashwin to Bailey , out Stumped ! ! Brilliant work from the Indian skipper. This getting closer now. Australia have lost their fifth wicket and they still need 38 runs. It was fired in on leg-stump , Bailey tickles it to Dhoni , who does not appeal for the catch , but waits for the batsman to step out of the crease , he then whips the bails off in a flash. Bailey was out in two ways on a single ball. Bailey c Dhoni b Ashwin 5 ( 11 ) Ashwin to Bailey , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 43.1 Ashwin to Maxwell , 1 run , Ashwin follows Maxwell who is making room , the batsman eases it down to long-on 42.6 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , a very good over under these circumstances , keeps it back of a length around off , Bailey bunts it in front of cover. He might have got it off the bottom part as he immediately looks at his bat 42.5 U Yadav to Maxwell , 1 run , banged in short and outside off , Maxwell arches back and ramps it over the slip fielder , Ashwin in the deep is very fine and stops the ball from reaching the fence 42.4 U Yadav to Bailey , 1 run , fuller and on off , Bailey moves forward and looks to drive , the ball takes the inside part and goes wide of mid-on 42.3 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , short of length around off , Bailey defends it off the inner part down the wicket 42.3 U Yadav to Bailey , wide , there comes the one loose delivery for the over , drifts it down leg , Bailey ca n't meet with the flick 42.2 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump , Bailey punches it gently towards cover 42.1 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , on a length close to off , Bailey prefers to hang back and knock it towards the bowler 41.6 Ashwin to Maxwell , no run , floated up on middle , Maxwell middles the reverse sweep , picks out Akshar at cover-point 41.5 Ashwin to Maxwell , no run , skids on after pitching , Maxwell brings his bat down and bunts it to the on-side 41.4 Ashwin to Bailey , 1 run , comes down the track to this flighted delivery and wrists it to long-on , just wide of Ashwin 41.3 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , nicely tossed up around off , Bailey inches forward and blocks it to cover 41.2 Ashwin to Maxwell , 1 run , flatter and on leg-stump , nurdled away behind square for a single 41.1 Ashwin to Bailey , 1 run , floated up on off , Bailey whips the drive past a diving Ashwin to long-on Ravichandran Ashwin [ 7.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , fuller and on off , Maxwell comes half-forward and presses it to short cover 40.6 U Yadav to Maxwell , wide , bouncer down leg , Maxwell gets his head out of the way , wided for the line 40.5 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , back of a length close to off , Maxwell gets behind the line and taps it in front of point 40.4 U Yadav to Bailey , 1 run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Bailey swivels and pulls it along the carpet to fine leg 40.3 U Yadav to Maxwell , 1 run , well directed bumper , Maxwell had no clue about that , he takes his eyes off the ball and looks to sway away from the line , the ball hits the splice and balloons over the gully region , Raina at slip tries to get across , but ca n't do so in time 40.2 U Yadav to Bailey , 1 run , hurries onto Bailey , who manages to bring his bat down and jams it off inside part to backward square leg George Bailey , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.1 U Yadav to Finch , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Umesh stirkes ! He is pumped up and makes up for his poor start to the over. Finch does not get his hundred. It was shortish and just outside off , Finch looks to force it off the back foot , the extra bounce catches the outside edge and flies to Dhoni , who makes no mistake. It was similar to the Rahane dismissal. Finch c Dhoni b U Yadav 96 ( 127 ) [ 4s-5 6s-2 ] U Yadav to Finch , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 40.1 U Yadav to Finch , wide , not when you bowl such garbage , sprays it well down leg , Finch does not bother with it , wided by the umpire Umesh Yadav [ 7.0-1-46-1 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay produced 22 runs and the wicket of Smith. Dhoni was seen having a huddle with the boys after the wicket of Smith. He still feels that they can win this game . 39.6 Shami to Finch , 1 run , Finch happy to deal in single , tucks the short of length delivery to deep square leg and retains strike 39.5 Shami to Maxwell , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Maxwell opens the bat face and steers it to third man Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.4 Shami to S Smith , out Caught by Ashwin ! ! Shami rewarded for some tight bowling. It was clever bowling from him. Smith does not get a fifty which has been rare this summer. The slower short ball , Smith hangs back and forehands the pull , there was no pace on that , he had to generate all the pace , he ends up hitting it straight to Ash at mid-wicket. India needed that wicket , but is it too late though ? S Smith c Ashwin b Shami 47 ( 52 ) [ 4s-6 ] Shami to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 39.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , slower ball yorker on off , Smith spots it early , drills the drive straight down the wicket , hits the sticks at the bowler 's end 39.2 Shami to Finch , 1 run , in the blockhole just outside off , Finch digs it out in front of cover 39.1 Shami to Finch , no run , bouncer on off , it might have been the off-speed one , Finch was early into the pull and does not make contact 38.6 A Patel to S Smith , no run , floated up outside off , Smith jumps out of the crease and whips it straight to short mid-wicket 38.5 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , quicker and attacking the stumps , Finch works it to long-on and brings up the 100-run stand 38.4 A Patel to Finch , no run , arm-ball on off , Finch presses forward and defends it to cover 38.3 A Patel to S Smith , 1 run , flighted on off , Smith eases the drive to long-off 38.2 A Patel to S Smith , FOUR , super shot ! The Indians seem to have no clue as on how to get Smith out. Fullish and outside off , Smith opens the bat face and square drives it through the packed off-side field , the timing takes it to the fence 38.1 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , Finch wrists this along the ground to long-on 37.6 Shami to S Smith , no run , back of a length on off , Smith works it from front of his pads to mid-on , he was looking to get it a lot squarer 37.5 Shami to S Smith , no run , does not move his feet much as he drives it from the crease to mid-off 37.4 Shami to Finch , 1 run , too full and just outside off , Finch squeezes the drive to mid-off and takes off immediately. The fielder fires a throw at the bowler 's end , Finch had made it 37.3 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , cross seam delivery outside off , Smith steers it off the outer half to third man. That also brings up 1000 ODI runs for Steven Smith 37.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , off-speed delivery with a bit of extra bounce , Smith rides it and guides it to backward point 37.1 Shami to S Smith , no run , low full toss , Smith toe-ends the drive back to the bowler 36.6 A Patel to S Smith , 1 run , tosses it up close to off , Smith eases the drive to long-off 36.5 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , angling into middle and leg , Finch glances it wide of short fine leg for a single 36.5 A Patel to Finch , wide , fired down the leg-side , Finch ca n't meet with the glance , good take by Dhoni moving to his left 36.4 A Patel to S Smith , 1 run , easily done , flatter and on the stumps , punched down the ground to long-on 36.3 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , slower and bit of turn , Finch waits for it and nudges it wide of mid-wicket , he moves into the 90s 36.2 A Patel to Finch , no run , slider on leg-stump , Finch fails to nail the clip , wears it on the thigh pad 36.1 A Patel to S Smith , 1 run , slightly short and around off , Smith has enough time to go back and punch it to long-off Akshar Patel [ 6.0-0-22-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Australia are cruising along nicely. These two look well set to take their side home. India need wickets and lots of them , otherwise this will be over quickly . 35.6 Shami to Finch , no run , full and tailing in , Finch middles the flick and picks out the mid-wicket fielder. He is not happy with himself as he feels that he missed out there 35.5 Shami to Finch , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Finch pokes at it and the ball goes off the outside half to point 35.4 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , yorker outside off , Smith squeezes it to third man 35.3 Shami to Finch , 1 run , dug in halfway down the wicket , Finch hops across and tucks it to backward square leg 35.2 Shami to Finch , no run , on a length and straightens a touch , Finch pushes hard at it , the ball goes off a thickish outside edge to cover-point 35.1 Shami to Finch , 2 runs , in the air , just over the backward point fielder. Back of a length and outside off , Finch carves it uppishly over leaping Rahane , Ashwin tidies up at square third man Mohammed Shami [ 5.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay . 34.6 U Yadav to Finch , 1 run , sliding onto leg-stump , Finch gets an inside edge onto the pad and the ball dribbles down to fine leg 34.5 U Yadav to Finch , no run , much closer to the off-stump , Finch gets behind the line and defends it back to Umesh 34.4 U Yadav to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length close to off , Smith guides it to third man. This is becoming far too easy for these two 34.3 U Yadav to S Smith , 2 runs , shortens the length around off , Smith uses the pace of the bowler and glides it to third man 34.2 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length on off , blocked towards the bowler 34.1 U Yadav to Finch , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Finch opens the bat face and steers it to third man 33.6 Raina to S Smith , FOUR , superb batting by these two ! Fraction short and outside off , Smith uses the depth of the crease and carves the cut to the deep backward point fence 33.5 Raina to Finch , 1 run , again , quicker through the air , Finch goes back and punches it to long-off 33.4 Raina to S Smith , 1 run , slower and turning in , Smith nudges it to deep square leg 33.3 Raina to Finch , 1 run , punched off the back foot to long-on 33.2 Raina to Finch , SIX , hammered ! Finch is not letting Raina bowl to him. Bit more air on this delivery , Finch 's eyes lit up , he goes on his knee and sweeps it towards long-on. He had enough muscle behind that to clear the rope comfortably 33.2 Raina to Finch , wide , darted down leg , Finch ca n't lay bat on that , wide signalled 33.1 Raina to Finch , no run , flighted delivery on off , Finch pushes it off the front foot to cover 32.6 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , overcompensates and drags the length back , Smith goes on his toes and knocks it to cover 32.5 U Yadav to S Smith , FOUR , rubbish delivery and Sanjay Manjerkar says , " there is the Umesh Yadav special " . Half volley on leg-stump , Smith moves across and glances it fine , beats the fielder in the deep quite easily 32.4 U Yadav to S Smith , no run , back of a length and hint of inward movement , Smith jams it off the inside edge onto the pads , the ball drops dead on the wicket 32.3 U Yadav to Finch , 1 run , excellent running from both batsmen , short of length around off , Finch drops it with soft hands in front of cover and calls for a sharp run 32.2 U Yadav to Finch , 2 runs , on middle and leg , too straight from Umesh , Finch gets inside the line and works it behind square for a brace 32.1 U Yadav to Finch , no run , this back of a length delivery keeps tad low , Finch bunts it off the toe-end to cover Umesh Yadav [ 5.0-1-34-1 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Raina to S Smith , no run , punches the quicker delivery straight to the short mid-wicket fielder 31.5 Raina to Finch , 1 run , flatter and on the pads , nurdled away to backward square leg 31.4 Raina to Finch , 2 runs , sliding onto Finch 's pads , he nudges it to deep mid-wicket , calls for two straightaway and gets it comfortably 31.3 Raina to Finch , no run , pushed through on off , Finch backs away and taps it to the bowler 31.2 Raina to Finch , no run , shortish and just outside off , Finch chops the cut to cover-point 31.1 Raina to Finch , SIX , lovely shot ! There was a fielder in the deep , but he took him on and cleared him easily. Flighted on off and middle , Finch shimmies down the wicket and lofts it handsomely over long-on for the second maximum of the innings 31.1 Raina to Finch , wide , starts with a quicker one down leg , Finch ca n't paddle it fine , wided by the umpire Suresh Raina , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 30.6 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , good length ball just outside off , Finch runs it down to third man after opening the bat face 30.5 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , back of a length around off , Finch knocks it towards point , the fielder gets there quickly and does not allow the batsmen to take the single Dhoni back up to the stumps for Finch 30.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , shortish and outside off , glided off the face down to third man 30.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , on a length close to off , Finch brings his bat down at an angle , the ball squirts off the inside edge to mid-wicket 30.2 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , shortens the length on off , defended off the back foot towards the bowler 30.1 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 2 runs , dropped ! Dhoni standing up to the stumps , puts down a tough chance. Back of a length around off , Finch tries to steer it to third man , gets an outside edge. Dhoni gets a gloves but the ball does n't stick. Had he been standing back , that would have been easily pouched 29.6 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower and on off , Smith punches it back to the bowler 29.5 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , poor bowling from Ashwin , Dhoni lets Ashwin know that by saying " No , no Ash " . Half tracker outside off , Smith makes a bit of room and cuts it in front of square on the off-side , no one at sweeper to stop that 29.4 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , flatter and on off , Finch punches it to long-off 29.3 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , comes down the track and eases it to long-on 29.2 Ashwin to S Smith , FOUR , slider angled across off from round the wicket , Smith leans forward , opens the face of the bat at the last instant and glides it to third man , Rayudu on as substitute gives chase , but the ball wins the race 29.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pulls the length back as Smith gives the charge , the batsman punches it to mid-wicket 28.6 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , just a bit wide of off , enough for Smith to open the bat face and run down to third man 28.5 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Finch drives it on the up to long-off 28.4 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , angling in on off and middle , Smith moves across his stumps and flicks it to deep square leg 28.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , back of a length on off , Finch punches it towards mid-off , Raina gets across from cover and lets the ball go through his legs 28.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , wide , slower ball , but slips it down leg , Finch gets inside the line and allows the ball to go through to Dhoni , easy call for the ump 28.2 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , on a length just outside off , pushed off the front foot to cover , shouts " no " for the single 28.1 Bhuvneshwar to S Smith , 1 run , starts with a short of length around off , Smith shuffles across and tucks it in front of deep square leg Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 6.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Ashwin to Finch , no run , flat and on off , Finch makes room and punches it to cover , straight to Rohit 27.5 Ashwin to S Smith , leg byes , 1 run , straighter one around off , Smith shuffles across , misses the clip to the on-side , the ball dribbles towards short third after hitting the thigh pad 27.4 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , again , plays it with loose bottom hands to deep square leg , but the fielder gets there quickly this time 27.3 Ashwin to Finch , 2 runs , Ashwin continues with the leg-stump line , Finch nudges it with soft hands towards mid-wicket , that allowed him to come back for the second 27.2 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , flighted on the leg-stump line , nurdled away behind square for a comfortable single 27.1 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , worked away off the pads to mid-wicket 26.6 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Smith swivels and pulls it along the floor to widish fine leg , he picked out the fielder there 26.5 Shami to S Smith , 2 runs , on middle , too straight that from Shami , Smith walks across and whips it behind square for a couple 26.4 Shami to S Smith , no run , fuller and on the fourth stump line , Smith blocks it back to Shami 26.3 Shami to S Smith , no run , top ball ! Inswinging yorker aimed right at the base of off-stump , Smith brings his bat down and jams it to the on-side 26.2 Shami to S Smith , no run , on a length close to off , Smith moves across and defends it to the right of the bowler 26.1 Shami to S Smith , FOUR , beautiful shot ! Shot of the innings so far. Good length ball around off , Smith shuffles across , presents the full and drives it past Finch , no chance for the mid-on fielder to stop that. It was timed sweetly 25.6 Ashwin to Finch , no run , flighted on off , Finch gets to the pitch and wrists it back to the bowler 25.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , darted in outside leg , tucked away to deep square leg. That would have been a wide had he left it alone 25.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushed through on middle and leg , Smith knocks it to short mid-wicket , he was late in bringing his bat down 25.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower and just outside off , slightly short as well , Smith mistimes the cut to cover 25.2 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , flatter and on the pads , Finch works it with the turn to deep square leg 25.1 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , sees the batsman charge down , Smith manages to nudge it to deep mid-wicket 24.6 Shami to Finch , 2 runs , fuller and slants back in , Finch closes the bat face and works it through mid-on for a brace 24.5 Shami to Finch , no run , back of a length around off , Finch goes back and across before defending towards the bowler 24.4 Shami to Finch , 2 runs , on a length close to off , Finch shuffles across and clips it to deep mid-wicket for a couple. That double brings up Finch 's 6th ODI fifty. It is also his 3rd against India 24.3 Shami to Finch , no run , pitched up just outside off , Finch drives and finds the mid-off fielder Virat egging on the Indian contingent in the crowd near the boundary rope . 24.2 Shami to S Smith , 1 run , good length ball outside off , Smith walks into the drive , the ball takes the outside edge and runs down to third man 24.1 Shami to Finch , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Finch eases the drive to deep extra cover , thinks about the second but decides against it Mohammed Shami [ 3.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , flatter on middle and leg , nudged away off the back foot to deep mid-wicket 23.5 Ashwin to S Smith , 1 run , brilliant bit of work from MS , turning into the pads , Smith glances it to short fine leg and sets off , good response from Finch , who is quick to get off the blocks , the throws comes in at the striker 's end and Dhoni just deflects it onto the stumps. However , Finch had made it home Third umpire called in for a run-out chance. Finch the man in question. He has just made his ground. Not Out ! 23.4 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , throws this up just outside off , Smith drops it in front of cover after coming forward 23.3 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , pushes it through on leg-stump , tucked away to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 23.2 Ashwin to S Smith , no run , slower from Ash and around off , Smith presses forward and defends it to the right of the bowler 23.1 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , straighter one on middle , Finch works from round his pads to the right of mid-wicket 22.6 A Patel to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith chips down the track and wrists it to mid-on , he has been brought inside the circle for Smith 22.5 A Patel to S Smith , no run , floated up on off , Smith presents the straightest of bats and defends it down the wicket Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.4 A Patel to Watson , out Bowled ! ! Cleaned up ! Akshar pumps his fists and Dhoni says " Oh , yes " from behind the stumps ! Watson throws away a start for the umpteenth time in his career. It was quicker and on off-stump , Watson goes on his knee and misses the slog sweep , the ball hits the top of off-stump. Crucial wicket for India as this partnership was taking the game away. Watson b A Patel 41 ( 39 ) [ 4s-5 6s-1 ] A Patel to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 22.3 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , full and attacking the stumps , Finch wrists the drive down to long-on 22.2 A Patel to Watson , 1 run , pushed through close to off , Watson bunts it wide of point for a single 22.1 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , just a bit of width on this tossed up delivery , Finch drives it along the ground to long-off 21.6 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , charges down the wicket and works the flighted delivery through mid-wicket 21.5 Ashwin to Finch , FOUR , excellent improvisation from Finch , slightly short and on the stumps , Finch makes room and cuts it in front of square on the off-side , there was no one in the deep on the off-side 21.4 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , flatter and on off , Watson whips it to the right of mid-wicket and picks up the single 21.3 Ashwin to Watson , no run , straight in line , on middle , Watson leans forward and tucks it to mid-wicket , finds the fielder there 21.2 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , spinning into the pads , nurdled away behind square for a single 21.1 Ashwin to Finch , no run , cramps the batsman for room , Finch stays in the crease and knocks it in front of mid-wicket 20.6 A Patel to Watson , no run , darts this in just outside off , Watson goes deep in the crease and tries to cut , he is just beaten for pace as the ball goes past the outside edge 20.5 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , drops it short and outside off , Finch cuts it square of the wicket on the off-side 20.4 A Patel to Finch , no run , skids on after pitching , Finch turns it gently to short mid-wicket 20.3 A Patel to Finch , no run , flighted just outside off , Finch comes down the track and drives it to mid-off 20.2 A Patel to Finch , 2 runs , touch short and around off , Finch goes back and punches it past a diving cover for a couple 20.1 A Patel to Finch , no run , tossed up on off , Finch drives and picks out the mid-off fielder 19.6 Ashwin to Watson , no run , quicker and on off , Watson goes back and bunts it in front of cover 19.5 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , floated up outside leg , Finch shimmies down the track and nudges it to deep square leg , he wanted two but Watson is not interested 19.4 Ashwin to Finch , no run , goes round the wicket , flighted on leg-stump , Finch glances it fine , but straight to short fine 19.3 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , fires it onto the pads , Watson works it to backward square leg for an easy single 19.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , closes the bat face tad early and gets a soft leading edge to the right of the bowler 19.1 Ashwin to Watson , no run , nice drift on off , Watson leans forward and dead-bats it down the wicket 18.6 A Patel to Watson , 1 run , pushed through once again , Watson stays leg-side of the ball and eases it to sweeper cover. The 100 comes up for Australia 18.5 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , Finch chops the cut to deep extra cover 18.4 A Patel to Finch , no run , attacking the stumps , Finch backs away and punches it straight to cover 18.3 A Patel to Finch , no run , flighted on off , Finch push-drives it to the right of the bowler 18.2 A Patel to Finch , no run , quicker and around off , Finch makes room and misses the cut. It was too close to be playing the cut shot 18.1 A Patel to Finch , no run , flat and on off , Finch stays back and eases the punch to cover 17.6 Ashwin to Watson , SIX , fabulous shot ! Great use of the feet , floated up on off , Watson takes couple of steps down the wicket and lofts it straight over the bowler 's head for a maximum. He pinged the sightscreen there 17.5 Ashwin to Finch , 1 run , tossed up on off , Finch kneels down and slog sweeps it on the bounce to deep mid-wicket 17.4 Ashwin to Finch , no run , straight roller around off , Finch leans forward and knocks it to cover Changes to round the wicket 17.3 Ashwin to Watson , 1 run , turning into the batsman , Watson hangs back and nurdles it behind square leg 17.2 Ashwin to Watson , no run , slower and on off , Watson presses forward and blocks it back to the bowler 17.1 Ashwin to Watson , 2 runs , darted onto Watson 's pads , tickled away to long leg for a brace Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Time for a drinks break. Australia are motoring along nicely even though they have lost Warner. Apart from Bhuvi , the rest of the Indian bowlers have lacked discipline. A lot will depend on how Ashwin goes about . 16.6 A Patel to Finch , no run , appeal for lbw has been turned down by umpire John Ward. It was the flatter delivery on the stumps , Finch misses the flick to the on-side , is rapped on the pads. Height might have been a factor there as he was struck in front of middle 16.5 A Patel to Finch , no run , skips out of the crease , Akshar fires it in on the stumps , Finch ca n't meet with the clip and the ball rolls off the pads back to the bowler 16.4 A Patel to Watson , 1 run , flighted on off and middle , Watson comes down the track and works it to long-on 16.3 A Patel to Watson , no run , quicker one on off , Watson goes deep in the crease and manages to keep it out , he had to come forward to that 16.2 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , drags the length back , Finch stays in the crease and punches it square of the wicket 16.1 A Patel to Watson , 1 run , gives this bit more air , Watson drills the drive to long-off 15.6 U Yadav to Finch , no run , short of length just outside off , Finch stands tall and punches it to cover 15.5 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , fuller and on the stumps , Watson wrists it towards mid-on , calls Finch for a quick single 15.4 U Yadav to Watson , 2 runs , on middle and leg , too straight from Umesh , Watson nurdles it to backward square leg , comes back easily for the second 15.3 U Yadav to Watson , FOUR , this time Watto does not miss out , short and plenty of width on offer , Watson goes back and cuts it powerfully past backward point , beats Ashwin in the deep as well 15.2 U Yadav to Watson , no run , back of a length just outside off , Watson goes back and across , knocks it to in front of cover 15.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , Umesh gets away with a short one outside off , Watson flashes a cut and fails to make contact , he was outdone by the late away movement 14.6 A Patel to Watson , 1 run , Patel gives this one more air , eased down towards long-off for a single 14.5 A Patel to Watson , no run , tossed up and wider outside off , Watson gets a big stride forward and drives it towards cover , the fielder does well to get across quickly and saves a single 14.4 A Patel to Finch , 1 run , this one is drifted onto Finch 's pads , tucked in front of mid-wicket for a single 14.3 A Patel to Finch , FOUR , Patel drops one short and wide outside off , Finch backs away and cuts it square on the off-side , Shami was pretty square , he gets across from the deep , but the ball beats him to the fence 14.2 A Patel to Finch , no run , loud shout for LBW , but the impact might have well been outside off , Finch was down on his knees for the sweep , this was very full though , beats his attempted shot and raps him on the pads 14.1 A Patel to Finch , no run , Patel drifts one onto Finch 's pads , he gets well forward and defends it 13.6 U Yadav to Watson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Watson gets behind the line and blocks 13.5 U Yadav to Watson , FOUR , poor ball from Yadav , short and wide outside off , Watson gets on top of the bounce and goes over backward point , no chance for the man square at third man 13.4 U Yadav to Finch , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , tucked in front of mid-wicket for a single 13.3 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , that bounced a bit on Watson , he does well to play with loose bottom hand as he runs it down towards third man 13.2 U Yadav to Watson , FOUR , Yadav releases the pressure , full and way outside off , Watson leans into the drive and plays it on the up , clears extra cover comfortably and races away to the fence 13.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , Yadav is in the midst of a good spell here , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , Watson plays away from his body as he looked to steer it towards third man , misses it completely 12.6 A Patel to Finch , no run , slower and on off , Finch gets well forward and defends it back towards the bowler 12.5 A Patel to Finch , no run , tossed up and on off , driven back towards the bowler 12.4 A Patel to Watson , 1 run , Patel drops one short and wide outside off , Watson makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 12.3 A Patel to Watson , no run , flighted and on Watson 's pads , turned towards the on-side 12.2 A Patel to Watson , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , hurries Watson onto the pull , he is late on the shot and gets a bottom edge towards the on-side 12.1 A Patel to Watson , FOUR , his first ball is dropped short and just outside off , Watson waits on it and cuts it square behind point , beats the diving fielder and races away to the fence Akshar Patel , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack A slip is in place as Akshar comes for his first ball in Australia 11.6 U Yadav to Finch , no run , this is even better , why ca n't Yadav bowl this consistently enough ? Pitched up in that corridor outside off , draws Finch forward before straightening enough to beat the outside edge 11.5 U Yadav to Finch , no run , extra pace and extra bounce there for Yadav , this is good pressure bowling , shortens his length and gets this one to slant across Finch. He has a loose waft and is lucky not to have edged it 11.4 U Yadav to Finch , no run , on a good length and just outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover-point 11.3 U Yadav to Finch , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Finch gets behind the line and defends it back towards the bowler 11.2 U Yadav to Finch , no run , this one was bowled with a scrambled seam , Finch gets a good stride forward as he blocks it towards cover 11.1 U Yadav to Finch , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Finch prods across and defends it 10.6 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Watson closes the face of the bat as he drives it back towards the bowler , another good over from Bhuvneshwar , just one run came from it 10.5 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , short of a length and angling into Watson , defended with a straight bat towards mid-wicket A gully comes in now , a slip as well 10.4 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 10.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , Bhuvneshwar keeps it on a good length and just outside off , Finch gets a good stride forward and defends it towards the off-side 10.2 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Finch gets a good stride forward and defends it towards cover 10.1 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Finch gets behind the line and pushes it towards cover 9.6 U Yadav to Watson , no run , short of a length and on off , defended back towards the bowler Mid-wicket goes back 9.5 U Yadav to Watson , FOUR , too straight from Yadav , ends up drifting onto Watson 's pads , he shuffles across and whips it past mid-wicket , it was in the air for a while but well clear of any fielder 9.4 U Yadav to Watson , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Watson gets half forward and defends it towards the off-side 9.3 U Yadav to Watson , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Watson was in two minds , makes a late call to let it go , just about pulls his bat away from the line 9.2 U Yadav to Finch , 1 run , full and on Finch 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.1 U Yadav to Warner , out Caught by Raina ! ! Warner has thrown his wicket away ! A nothing shot from the Australian opener , on a good length and shaping away , Warner threw his bat on that , he was looking to pull it over mid-wicket , gets a thick top-edge that swirls towards cover. Raina calls for the catch , gets underneath the skier , keeps his eyes fixed on the ball and brings out a smart catch. India needed this wicket badly , ca n't say they have earned it , but it 's a wicket nonetheless. Warner c Raina b U Yadav 24 ( 22 ) [ 4s-3 ] U Yadav to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Umesh Yadav [ 1.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , back of a length and on Warner 's pads , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 8.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at extra cover 8.4 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , more runs saved , this time by Raina at short cover-point , width on offer from Bhuvneshwar , Finch latched onto the cover drive , Raina throws himself to the left and saves a certain boundary 8.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , Bhuvneshwar shortens his length outside off , Finch looks to cut and gets a bottom edge. Ashwin dives to his left and saves a few runs 8.2 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side In the last ball of Shami 's over , Warner collided with the bowler while turning for the second run , very accidental though 8.1 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Finch shuffles across and turns it towards mid-wicket 7.6 Shami to Warner , 2 runs , leg-stump half-volley from Shami , flicked away towards deep mid-wicket. Warner takes on Kohli 's arms , the return is n't good enough and the second run is completed with ease A leg gully is in place , a slip as well 7.5 Shami to Warner , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , drilled to the right of mid-on where Umesh makes a tumbling stop 7.4 Shami to Warner , FOUR , this is all too easy for Australia , short and just outside off , Warner presses across , rolls his wrists and helps it behind square on the on-side , even a sprawling dive from Kohli is n't good enough as the ball trickles away to the fence 7.3 Shami to Finch , 1 run , length ball on Finch 's pads , tucked in front of square on the on-side for a single 7.2 Shami to Finch , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Finch gets a big stride forward and drives it towards cover 7.1 Shami to Finch , FOUR , too wide from Shami , that 's a free hit for Finch , he leans into the lofted drive and sends it soaring over extra cover , a couple of bounces and over the ropes 6.6 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , short of a length and on Finch 's pads , tucked past mid-wicket for a single 6.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Warner pushes it in front of mid-off and sets off for a quick single. Rohit Sharma swooped on the ball and makes a direct hit at the bowler 's end , but Warner was well home There 's a call to the third umpire for a run-out chance , but Warner is well home 6.4 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , that was close ! Did the ball clip the stumps on its way to the keeper ? No , it just rolled past the stumps. Ths was pitched up and held its line outside off , might have stayed a tad low , Warner was hopping across , gets a bottom edge that brushes past the off-stump 6.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , punched off the back-foot and to the left of mid-off for a single 6.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Warner leans half forward and taps it past short cover , he 's off strike with a single 6.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Warner stays back and defends it towards cover 5.6 Shami to Finch , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Finch gets behind the line and blocks 5.5 Shami to Finch , no run , back of a length and just outside off , a hint of late shape away , Finch was slightly opened up as he looked to defend , the ball went off the shoulder of the bat , went to ground almost immediately 5.4 Shami to Warner , 1 run , Akshar was placed at deep square leg , and this pull almost carried to him. Warner went for the pull , fetches it from well outside off , the ball drops just in front of the fielder 5.3 Shami to Finch , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , Finch drives and gets a bottom edge towards third man 5.2 Shami to Finch , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Finch closes the face of the bat and drives it back towards the bowler 5.1 Shami to Finch , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Finch presses forward and defends it towards mid-on 4.6 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , this is good stuff from Bhuvneshwar , pitched up and holding its line outside off , Finch took a step down the track , pushes forward and gets an inside edge towards square leg 4.5 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , tad fuller and a hint of shape back into Finch , defended with a straight bat 4.4 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Finch goes hard on the cut , ends up chopping it towards point 4.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , Bhuvneshwar shortens his length on off , Finch gets behind the line and defends it towards mid-on 4.2 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Finch offers the full face of the bat and blocks 4.1 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 2 runs , on a good length and just outside off , punched towards mid-off for a quick single. Dhawan has a shy at the stumps , misses and there 's no one backing up , a bonus run for Finch. A direct hit , and Finch might have well been running back to the hut 3.6 Shami to Warner , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Warner stays back and punches it towards mid-off 3.5 Shami to Warner , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Warner presses across and defends it towards the off-side A man goes to deep square leg , a fine leg in as well. Clearly planning for the short ball 3.4 Shami to Warner , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Warner stays behind the line and defends it towards mid-off 3.3 Shami to Warner , FOUR , Shami has been way too short , that 's asking to be smacked , Warner hops across and plays a pick-up half arm jab , gets it over square leg and the ball races away to the fence for another boundary 3.2 Shami to Warner , no run , much better from Shami , back of a length and just outside off , Warner stays back and punches it towards cover 3.2 Shami to Warner , wide , another short ball from Shami , but the line is well outside leg , wide called 3.1 Shami to Warner , FOUR , and Shami 's first ball is a freebie outside leg , short and well down leg-side , Warner swivels across and helps it on its way , a couple of bounces and over the ropes Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Just one over for Umesh , Shami is into the attack 2.6 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 2.5 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , on a good length and on Finch 's pads , turned towards the on-side 2.4 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , excellent fielding from Kohli at cover , this was short and just outside off , Finch stands tall and punches it to the left of cover , Kohli 's dive saves a couple of runs 2.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 2 runs , too straight from Bhuvneshwar , ends up drifting onto Finch 's pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a brace 2.2 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , on a good length and a hint of nip back into Finch , he was caught in the crease and gets hit high on the pads , appeal for LBW , but the ball was going well over 2.1 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , short of a length and well outside off , punched off the back-foot towards cover 1.6 U Yadav to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , Yadav now drifts one onto Finch 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away backward of square on the on-side for a single 1.5 U Yadav to Finch , FOUR , hit me bowling from Yadav , this is a shocking start from the Indian pacer , width outside off , Finch leans into the drive and cracks it past extra cover for a boundary 1.5 U Yadav to Finch , wide , Yadav sprays this one wider outside off , another wide added to the score 1.4 U Yadav to Finch , FOUR , poor ball from Yadav , he bowls this one too short and too wide , Finch went chasing after that , gets a thick edge over the slip cordon , a couple of bounces and over the ropes 1.3 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , the lifter from Yadav , at 144 kmph , gets big on Warner as he looked to defend , the ball flies off the shoulder of the bat , but there 's no one at 3rd slip 1.2 U Yadav to Warner , no run , back of a length and on Warner 's pads , turned towards square leg. The fielder makes a direct hit at the bowler 's end but Finch was well in 1.1 U Yadav to Warner , 2 runs , short and on Warner 's hips , that 's playing straight into Warner 's strengths , clipped away backward of square on the on-side for a couple of runs Umesh Yadav , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 3 runs , nicely done by Warner , on a good length and well outside off , Warner leans into the drive and beats Rohit 's sprawling dive at mid-off. Kohli chases it down , but ca n't stop the batsmen from taking three runs 0.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Warner shuffles across and defends it 0.4 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , on a good length and a hint of shape away , Finch plays with an open face and guides it towards third man 0.4 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , wide , swing for Bhuvneshwar , but the line is way outside off , wide called 0.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Finch gets on top of the bounce and cuts it straight to backward point 0.2 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , short of a length and shaping away from off , mistimed chop towards point 0.1 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , no run , on a good length and a hint of nip back into Finch , he covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Finch and Warner are at the crease. Finch is on strike. Bhuvneshwar will open the attack Welcome back.. Two slips in place as Bhuvneshwar trundles in. . India will be disappointed with the final score. At the start of the batting powerplay , they were motoring along and looked good for even 300. Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina were coasting along having gone past fifties. Raina fell immediately after his fifty , Dhoni took his time to settle but the final flourish never came. Rohit fought hard , made his 6th ODI ton , but with partners deserting him at regular intervals , he just about helped India make a slightly below par score. India would have taken 267 after the early flutter , but they will be disappointed , especially after the Raina-Rohit stand. For Australia , Mitchell Starc was outstanding , both with the new ball as well as during the death overs , Faulkner , Cummins and Sandhu frustrated the Indians with their clever variations. Their batsmen would back themselves to chase down 268. Join us in a while. . 49.6 Faulkner to Ashwin , byes , 1 run , another excellent back of the hand slower ball , Ashwin had exposed all his stumps as he looked to help it over short fine. Predictably , he misses and the batsmen hare across for a bye. India finish with 267 49.5 Faulkner to Shami , 1 run , on a good length and on the stumps , Shami swings hard , does n't connect it properly , just a single as the ball pops towards mid-wicket 49.4 Faulkner to Ashwin , 1 run , Ashwin connects this time , pulls it away past square leg for a single 49.3 Faulkner to Ashwin , no run , another back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , Ashwin swings and misses 49.2 Faulkner to Shami , 1 run , another slower ball from Faulkner , Shami backs away and nudges it in front of mid-wicket for a single Shami backs away at the last moment 49.1 Faulkner to Ashwin , 1 run , Faulkner starts the final over with a slower back of the hand ball , delicately guided towards short third man for a single James Faulkner [ 9.0-0-59-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Starc to Shami , no run , nicely played by Shami , Starc ends a superb spell , he 's the difference between India getting 270 and not 290. Another inswing yorker from wide off the crease , Shami gets his bat down in time and digs it out Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease Hat-trick ball 48.5 Starc to Bhuvneshwar , out Bowled ! ! Starc has six ! This is his career best figures as well. Change of angle from Starc , comes from round the wicket and fires a full toss on the stumps , Bhuvneshwar was backing away on the drive , is beaten by pace and turns back to see his shattered stumps. India are falling away in a heap. Bhuvneshwar b Starc 0 ( 1 ) Starc to Bhuvneshwar , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Bhuvneshwar Kumar , right handed bat , comes to the crease 48.4 Starc to Rohit , out Caught by Maxwell ! ! Starc gets his fifth wicket ! Rohit falls after a superb innings , this was a full toss that angled across the batsman , Rohit was looking to go over mid-wicket , does n't get hold of the shot and finds Maxwell to perfection. A big ovation from the crowd as Rohit walks off , he has given India a fighting chance here. Rohit c Maxwell b Starc 138 ( 139 ) [ 4s-9 6s-4 ] Starc to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 48.3 Starc to Ashwin , leg byes , 1 run , Starc follows Ashwin as he shuffled across on the lap sweep , he misses and the ball rolls away towards point off the pads 48.2 Starc to Ashwin , 2 runs , Starc keeps it full and on the stumps , Ashwin was backing away on the flick , gets a thick leading edge over backward point for a brace 48.1 Starc to Ashwin , 2 runs , Cummins has dropped Ashwin , this was full and just outside off , Ashwin made room by backing away and slices it high and over point. Cummins gets across from deep cover , settles underneath the skier and shells the chance , could have been five for Starc Mitchell Starc [ 9.0-2-39-4 ] is back into the attack 47.6 P Cummins to Ashwin , 1 run , Ashwin backs away to a short ball and goes over cover , there 's protection in the deep , just a single to Ashwin 47.5 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , another slower short ball from Cummins , pulled away towards mid-wicket for a single 47.4 P Cummins to Ashwin , leg byes , 1 run , appeal for LBW , but the ball was slipping down leg , Ashwin was shuffling across on the clip and was hit in front of leg-stump 47.3 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , another slower short ball from Cummins , Rohit makes room and slaps it towards long-on for a single 47.2 P Cummins to Ashwin , 1 run , on a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 47.1 P Cummins to Ashwin , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Ashwin looks to pull and misses Pat Cummins [ 9.0-0-48-0 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Faulkner to Rohit , SIX , too many slower ones from Faulkner , Rohit spots this one early , makes room and slugs it high and over wide long-on fence for a maximum. India need more such blows if they are to post something daunting 46.5 Faulkner to Ashwin , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , pulled away without any timing towards short fine 46.4 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , another slower ball from Faulkner , Rohit makes room outside leg and dabs it towards backward point 46.3 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , first real slog from Rohit , comes down the track to a back of the hand slower ball , hacks at it and misses 46.2 Faulkner to Ashwin , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , dabbed away towards short third man for a single 46.1 Faulkner to Ashwin , no run , on a good length and just outside off , the slower ball from Faulkner , defended back towards the bowler James Faulkner [ 8.0-0-50-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Ashwin , 1 run , the inswinging full toss from Sandhu , Ashwin nearly fell over as he went for the flick , gets an inside edge towards fine leg 45.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Ashwin , no run , full and well outside off , Ashwin plays with an open face as he guides it towards backward point 45.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , Rohit makes room to a short of a length ball and steers it square on the off-side for a single 45.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Ashwin , 1 run , on a length and on Ashwin 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 45.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Ashwin , 2 runs , short and on the stumps , Ashwin swivels across and pulls it behind square on the on-side Replays on that Akshar dismissal shows that the ball was slipping down leg. It looked OUT on first view though , pitched outside leg as well 45.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , worked in front of mid-wicket for a single 44.6 Starc to Ashwin , no run , another superb yorker from Starc , Ashwin just about gets his bat down in time , a double wicket maiden from Starc , that 's gold dust at this stage of the innings 44.5 Starc to Ashwin , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Ashwin presses across and defends it Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.4 Starc to A Patel , out Lbw ! ! Starc strikes again ! This looked plumb to the naked eye ! This was the inswinging yorker from Starc , nips back in very late. Akshar got his front-foot a long way across his stumps , that meant he had to get the bat behind the line , he misses and the ball thuds into his back pad , the impact was in front of leg-stump. Was it going to slide down leg-side ? It looked pretty adjacent to the naked eye though. A Patel lbw b Starc 0 ( 2 ) Starc to A Patel , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 44.3 Starc to A Patel , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , swings back late into Akshar , he went for the big booming drive , the ball sneaks past the inside edge , almost cleaned him up Akshar Patel , left handed bat , comes to the crease 44.2 Starc to Dhoni , out Bowled ! ! Dhoni falls ! That 's a massive wicket at this stage of the innings. This was the slower ball from Starc , on a good length and angling away , Dhoni stayed back and looked to crack it through point , was done in by the slowness of the ball , ends up getting a thick inside edge that clatters into the leg-stump. No late innings heroics from Dhoni today , Starc 's figures gets even better. Dhoni b Starc 19 ( 31 ) [ 4s-2 ] Starc to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 44.1 Starc to Dhoni , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Dhoni stays back and pushes it towards backward point 43.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Dhoni , 1 run , another slower bouncer from Sandhu , Dhoni swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square for a single 43.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Rohit , he plays the pick-up whip past square leg , just a single as a fielder is placed there 43.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , FOUR , Rohit is looking in excellent touch , he spotted the slower ball early , gets a big stride forward , drags the lofted shot , gets it wide of long-on and nearly clears the ropes , bounces just in front 43.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Dhoni , 1 run , short of a length and on Dhoni 's hips , he gets an inside edge behind square on the on-side 43.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Rohit makes room and cuts it to the left of backward point , the fielder tumbles and gets a hand onto it , saved a certain boundary 43.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 2 runs , good running from the two batsmen , Rohit was cramped for room as this one nipped back in , tucks it in front of mid-wicket , calls for the second run and gets back with ease Rohit is on 119. This is the highest score on this ground in a AUS v IND match. The previous best was 115 by Ricky Ponting . 42.6 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , yorker length delivery and well outside off , Rohit plays with an open face and guides it down towards third man 42.5 Starc to Dhoni , 1 run , full and on off , squeezed away to the left of cover for a single 42.4 Starc to Dhoni , no run , low full toss from Starc , swings back into Dhoni , that messes up Dhoni 's attempted whip , gets a soft leading edge towards the off-side 42.3 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , yorker length delivery and on the off-stump line , jammed out to the left of cover for a single 42.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards cover 42.1 Starc to Rohit , FOUR , that 's beautifully played by Rohit , on a good length and angling away from off , Rohit waits on it , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and runs it past the keeper , beats Warner at third man 42.1 Starc to Rohit , wide , wayward start from Starc , full and miles outside off , wide called Mitchell Starc [ 7.0-1-31-2 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Dhoni , 2 runs , good running from Dhoni , pushes a length ball in front of mid-wicket , runs hard and gets back for the second run 41.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , another slower ball from Sandhu , pulled away behind square on the on-side for a single 41.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , no run , the slower bouncer from Sandhu as Rohit backed away , he has to wait on the pull and drags it towards short fine 41.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , no run , short of a length and angling into Rohit , he shuffles across and clips it towards short fine 41.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 3 wides , Sandhu attempts to follow Rohit as he backed away , he ends up spraying it well down leg. Haddin ca n't stop it cleanly either , three wides added to the total 41.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Dhoni , 1 run , another short ball from Sandhu , Dhoni swivels across and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a single 41.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , the slower short ball from Sandhu , tucked away towards square leg for a single Gurinder Sandhu [ 7.0-0-34-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , pushed past cover for a single 40.5 Faulkner to Dhoni , 1 run , slower ball on Dhoni 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 40.4 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , flicked away past square leg for a single 40.3 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , tad wider and shaping away from outside off , draws Rohit into the drive and beats the outside edge , that was n't a slower ball from Faulkner 40.2 Faulkner to Rohit , 2 runs , another slower ball from Faulkner , Rohit waits on it , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and guides it square past point for a brace 40.1 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , another back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , Rohit lunges forward and blocks 39.6 P Cummins to Dhoni , no run , extra bounce for Cummins as this one angled back into Dhoni , he was surprised , does well to drop his bottom hand as he jabs at it 39.5 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , Rohit runs it down towards third man for a single 39.4 P Cummins to Rohit , FOUR , Australia continue to bowl short at Rohit and he continues to pull them away for boundaries , rocks back and pulls this one in front of square on the on-side , Maxwell gets across from deep square leg , but ca n't get to the ball 39.3 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Rohit hops across and dabs it towards backward point 39.2 P Cummins to Dhoni , 1 run , on a good length and on off , worked past mid-wicket for a single 39.1 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Rohit , nudged away behind square on the on-side , brings up India 's 200 19/1 in the batting PP. India lost Raina and Dhoni was happy to bide his time . 38.6 Faulkner to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and just outside off , pushed towards cover 38.5 Faulkner to Dhoni , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 38.4 Faulkner to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhoni gets behind the line and defends it 38.3 Faulkner to Dhoni , no run , full and just outside off , Dhoni walks into his drive and pushes it towards mid-off 38.2 Faulkner to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with an open face towards cover 38.1 Faulkner to Dhoni , FOUR , wrong line from Faulkner , the back of the hand slower ball , ends up drifting onto Dhoni 's pads , he gets inside the line and helps it past the keeper for a boundary James Faulkner [ 6.0-0-41-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 P Cummins to Dhoni , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Dhoni pushes it to the left of cover-point and hares across for a quick single 37.5 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and on the stumps , Rohit turns it towards square leg for a single 37.4 P Cummins to Dhoni , 1 run , short and just outside off , Dhoni hops across and tucks it behind square on the on-side , just a single 37.3 P Cummins to Dhoni , no run , Cummins shortens his length outside off , Dhoni stays behind the line and defends it 37.2 P Cummins to Dhoni , no run , Cummins shortens his length as Dhoni came down the track , punched away towards backward point 37.1 P Cummins to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and angling into Dhoni , tucked towards the on-side 36.6 Starc to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni goes after a full ball , ends up slicing it towards third man for a single 36.5 Starc to Dhoni , no run , once again in that channel outside off and shaping away , left alone 36.4 Starc to Dhoni , no run , on a good length outside off and shaping away further , Dhoni is happy to let it go 36.3 Starc to Dhoni , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , looking to lure Dhoni into the drive , he resists and lets it go 36.2 Starc to Dhoni , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 36.1 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , 100 for Rohit , his 6th in ODIs , 3rd against Australia. This was full and just outside off , Sharma was pushing forward , gets a thick edge towards third man , lifts his arms in joy as he completed that single , removes his helmet , soaks in the applause and gets a big hug from his skipper 35.6 P Cummins to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhoni gets across and pushes it towards cover 35.5 P Cummins to Dhoni , FOUR , cracking shot , what a way to get going , poor ball from Cummins , short and wide outside off , Dhoni gets on top of the bounce and crashes it past cover-point for a boundary , that went at the rate of knots 35.4 P Cummins to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and angling into Dhoni , he presses across and defends it 35.3 P Cummins to Dhoni , no run , full and just outside off , Dhoni shuffles across and jams it back towards the bowler 35.2 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , full and on Rohit 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single Mahendra Singh Dhoni received a huge welcome as he walked into the middle of MCG , the Indian flag was fluttering high 35.1 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Rohit gets across in defence Pat Cummins [ 6.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.6 Starc to Raina , out Caught by Maxwell ! ! Raina falls after his fifty ! He was looking to clear mid-on , but did n't hit the middle of the bat , ends up dragging it towards Maxwell at mid-on , a simple catch and India have lost their fourth wicket. A nothing shot there by Raina , he walks off disappointed , but has played his role in leading this Indian recovery. Raina c Maxwell b Starc 51 ( 63 ) [ 4s-6 ] Starc to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 34.5 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , Rohit runs it down towards third man for a single 34.4 Starc to Raina , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , steered away with an open face for a single towards third man 34.3 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , steered down towards third man for a single 34.2 Starc to Raina , 1 run , 33rd ODI fifty for Raina , how things have changed since the SCG Test , he raises his bat to all parts of the ground as the Indian supporters cheer , length ball on off , worked behind square on the on-side for a single 34.1 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and on Rohit 's pads , turned in front of square on the on-side for a single Mitchell Starc [ 5.0-1-24-1 ] is back into the attack India have taken the batting PP now. Time for some fun ? 33.6 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , worked past cover-point for a single 33.5 Watson to Rohit , no run , Raina was day dreaming there , had Maxwell hit the stumps , he would have been walking back to the hut. He made no attempt in putting his bat down and was well outside the crease , Rohit had worked it straight to short mid-wicket , Raina was backing up a long way 33.4 Watson to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Sharma chops it towards backward point and set-off , sent back by Raina 33.3 Watson to Raina , 1 run , short of a length and on off , Raina shuffles across and nudges it past square leg for a single 33.2 Watson to Raina , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with an open face towards backward point 33.2 Watson to Raina , wide , the slower ball from Watson , but he slips this one down leg , wide called. Watson is n't too happy though , he felt it just went past the leg-stump 33.1 Watson to Raina , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler Shane Watson [ 7.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Faulkner to Rohit , FOUR , lovely shot , exquisite from Rohit , waited on this length ball , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and taps it past short third man , no one in the deep and the ball races away to the fence 32.5 Faulkner to Rohit , FOUR , Rohit gets lucky , inside edge and the ball races away past the leg-stump , another back of the hand slower ball , Rohit was looking to work it towards the on-side , gets the inner edge , goes over the stumps and races away to the fence 32.4 Faulkner to Raina , 1 run , another back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , dabbed down towards third man for a single 32.3 Faulkner to Raina , no run , the back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , slips it wider as well , goes past Raina 's slash , does n't carry through to the keeper 32.2 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and on Rohit 's hips , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 32.1 Faulkner to Raina , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , worked in front of cover-point for a quick single 31.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , FOUR , Rohit has been good on the pull today , once again a bit too short from Sandhu , Rohit swivels across , rolls his wrists over and pulls it behind square leg , the man in the deep was very square 31.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , no run , the slower ball from Sandhu , he rolled his fingers across it , defended towards the off-side 31.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , 1 run , length ball on Raina 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 31.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , full and on off , Sharma presents the full face of the bat and punches it back towards the bowler , he gets a hand onto it and slows it down , ca n't save the single though 31.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , 1 run , back of a length and on Raina 's hips , he gets inside the line and tucks it behind square on the on-side for a single 31.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Raina makes room and defends it back towards the bowler Drinks are on the field now. A productive phase of play for the Indians. These two have settled down well and have pressed on the accelerator. The batting PP beckons. India look good for a big score . 30.6 Faulkner to Rohit , 2 runs , short and on Rohit 's hips , he shuffles across and helps it behind square on the on-side , takes on Sandhu 's arms and is back for the second run , raises the 100-run stand as well 30.5 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , tad fuller and on off , Rohit prods across and defends it 30.4 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at backward point 30.4 Faulkner to Raina , no ball , 1 run , the slower ball goes wrong again , chest high full toss , Raina hops across and works it towards third man , called no-ball for height 30.4 Faulkner to Raina , wide , Faulkner goes full and well down leg-side , Raina went for the sweep and missed , wide called. It was another back handed slower bouncer 30.3 Faulkner to Raina , no run , on a good length and around off , defended back towards the bowler 30.2 Faulkner to Raina , no run , more hesitation in the running , Raina was almost half-way down the track before being sent back , he pushed a length ball towards mid-on and set-off , gets back with ease 30.1 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , Faulkner is back for another spell , and he starts off with a back of the hand slower ball , dabbed away towards third man for a single James Faulkner [ 4.0-0-24-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , no run , stays inside the crease and defends it back to the bowler 29.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , no run , length delivery around off , Raina bunts it towards point , Raina has to turn back as Maxwell picks up the ball and fires a throw at the striker 's end , hits the bulls-eye , Raina has to dive full-length and manages to get back in The third umpire has been called to look at a direct hit but Raina is well in 29.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , FOUR , Raina is racing towards his fifty as well ! Easy runs for him as Sandhu bowls yet another loose delivery , short one on leg , Raina short-arm pulls it to fine leg 29.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , no run , touch back of a length on middle and off , Raina defends it towards short cover 29.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , straighter one from Sandhu , Rohit comes on the front foot and drills it to long-on 29.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , no run , length delivery on off , Rohit defends , gets an inside edge onto the pads 28.6 Maxwell to Raina , no run , on the hips , Raina works it just in front of square on the leg-side 28.5 Maxwell to Raina , no run , gets forward and defends it into the off-side 28.4 Maxwell to Raina , FOUR , dances down the track yet again , the ball was wider as Raina looks to go inside out , ends up slicing it to deep backward point 28.3 Maxwell to Raina , 2 runs , steps out of the crease and lofts it to long-on , that did not come off the middle of the bat 28.2 Maxwell to Rohit , 3 runs , short and wide from Maxwell this time , Rohit makes room and punches it to sweeper cover , Cummins gives the ball a chase and saves a run 28.1 Maxwell to Rohit , no run , tossed up on middle and off , Rohit lunges on the front foot and blocks 27.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , FOUR , poor delivery from Sandhu , pays the price for it ! Bangs it short , Raina does well to rock on the back foot , pulls it wristily to fine leg 27.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 3 runs , short one on leg , Rohit swivels inside the line and pulls it along the ground to fine leg , good running between the wickets as the batsmen run three 27.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , 1 run , uses the depth of the crease to tuck this back of a length delivery to deep backward square leg 27.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , slower one on the pads , Rohit tucks it through backward square leg Both mid-off and mid-on in the circle for Sandhu 27.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , 1 run , short of length on the hips , Raina moves across and nudges it to square leg 27.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , short and outside off , Rohit stands tall and steers it uppishly to third man 26.6 Maxwell to Raina , no run , comes down the track and pushes it mid-on 26.5 Maxwell to Rohit , 1 run , wide of off , Rohit taps it to cover-point for a quick single 26.4 Maxwell to Rohit , no run , comes down the track and drives it back to the bowler 26.3 Maxwell to Rohit , no run , drifts on the pads , Rohit turns it to backward square leg 26.2 Maxwell to Rohit , FOUR , beautifully done by Rohit ! He dances down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and plays the lofted drive , sends the ball racing to the extra cover fence , good use of the feet 26.1 Maxwell to Rohit , no run , lunges forward to this flighted ball and defends it back Glenn Maxwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 25.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , no run , good length ball on middle and leg , Raina shuffles across and tucks it to square leg 25.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , lot of stuff happening here ! The ball nips back in sharply as Rohit looks to work it into the on-side , misses and the ball hits him on the back pad. Smith , behind square , picks up the ball and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , had that been a direct hit , Rohit was a goner ! The lbw shout looked quite close too , but the umpire reckoned he got a bat as he gave it as runs 25.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , 1 run , on the hips , Raina nudges it to square leg and sets off for a brisk single 25.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , no run , short of length on middle , Raina defends it off the back foot into the covers region Raina and Rohit in conversation. A bit of a delay as Raina waits for something. Sightscreen trouble , perhaps ? Seems like Raina got his helmet changed. Ok , sorted out. We are good to go.. . 25.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , no run , back of a length outside off , Raina knocks it behind point , does not attempt a single as the ball is fielded 25.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Raina , no run , Raina shimmies down the track and jams this slightly back of a length ball back to Sandhu Gurinder Sandhu [ 3.0-0-9-1 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Faulkner to Raina , 1 run , Raina opens the face of his bat and runs this short of length wide ball down to third man 24.5 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , another slower delivery on middle , Rohit clips it to mid-wicket 24.4 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , it kicks off the surface , Rohit gets down on one knee and looks to scoop , does not connect , the ball hits him on the glove and deflects onto his shoulder 24.3 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , fuller and wide of off , Rohit jams his bat down , the ball goes on the bounce to Haddin 24.2 Faulkner to Raina , 1 run , back of a length on the hips , Raina shuffles across and tucks it to deep square leg 24.1 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , on the pads , Rohit clips it to short mid-wicket for a quick single 23.6 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , short one from Watson , some extra bounce on that one , Rohit takes his bottom hand off the bat , gets a thick leading edge and the ball flies towards third man , he was lucky there were no slip fielders there 23.5 Watson to Rohit , no run , back of a length just outside off , Rohit punches it into the off-side 23.4 Watson to Raina , 1 run , goes on the back foot to this short of length delivery and pulls it to fine leg 23.4 Watson to Raina , wide , slides it down leg , Raina looks to glance but does not connect 23.3 Watson to Raina , no run , bouncer from Watson , Raina ducks under it Bit of a talking going around still . 23.2 Watson to Raina , no run , short of length on middle and leg , Raina gets back and tucks it to square leg , shouts a loud No after hitting that one 23.1 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover Words exchanged between Rohit Sharma and David Warner between overs. The umpires had to intervene. Tempers flaring already 22.6 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , sloppy fielding from Australia ! An overthrough has allowed the batsmen to get a single. It was full delivery on off , Rohit taps it to mid-off , Warner picked up the ball and fires a wayward throw to Haddin , the ball goes between his legs 22.5 Faulkner to Rohit , 2 runs , fullish and just outside off , Rohit leans forward , rolls his wrists elegantly and clips it to deep mid-wicket 22.4 Faulkner to Rohit , SIX , what a way to get to his 24th ODI fifty ! Rohit charges down the track , takes the ball on full and launches it between deep mid-wicket and long-on for a maximum 22.3 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , gets back to this short of length delivery and bunts it to backward point 22.2 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , shortish and just outside off , Rohit dabs it into the off-side 22.1 Faulkner to Rohit , no run , length delivery around off , Rohit gets forward and knocks it to point , wants a single to get to his landmark but turns back as the ball is fielded James Faulkner [ 2.0-0-11-1 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , just outside off , Rohit punches it softly towards sweeper cover to move on to 49 21.5 Watson to Rohit , no run , touch back of a length around off , Rohit stays back and defends it towards point 21.4 Watson to Raina , 1 run , shortish one on leg , Raina stays back and pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg 21.3 Watson to Raina , 2 runs , short of length on the hips , Raina shuffles across and tucks it through backward square leg , good running between the wickets by the batsmen 21.2 Watson to Raina , no run , short of length and nipping back into the batsman , Raina defends it back 21.1 Watson to Raina , FOUR , lovely shot ! A loose delivery from Watson this time , strays onto the pads , Raina leans on the front foot and whips it it to the deep mid-wicket fence 20.6 P Cummins to Raina , 1 run , on the pads , Raina clips it off his pads through backward square leg 20.5 P Cummins to Raina , no run , angled across the left-hander , Raina hangs his bat away from his body and is beaten 20.4 P Cummins to Raina , no run , short of length on middle and off , Raina defends it off the back foot towards mid-off 20.3 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , outside off this time , Rohit runs it down to third man 20.2 P Cummins to Rohit , FOUR , short on leg , Rohit moves back inside the crease and deftly pulls it to the fine leg fence , that did not come off the middle of the bat but he has placed it well 20.1 P Cummins to Raina , 1 run , short of length and wide of off , Raina guides it with an open bat face to square third man 19.6 Watson to Rohit , no run , short of length and outside off , Rohit slaps it to point 19.5 Watson to Rohit , no run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Rohit defends it off the back foot 19.4 Watson to Raina , 1 run , short of length on middle , Raina gets back and pulls it through backward square leg 19.3 Watson to Raina , no run , length ball around off , Raina defends it to short cover 19.2 Watson to Raina , no run , length delivery on off , Raina bunts it towards point , Rohit was halfway down the track but turns back as the fielder fires a direct hit at the non-striker 's stumps , but the batsman manages to get back 19.1 Watson to Raina , FOUR , Raina is looking well-set now ! It was a full ball from Watson , Raina strides forward confidently and lofts it towards the long-on fence. The mid-on was inside the circle and it was a safe shot from the batsman 18.6 P Cummins to Raina , 1 run , short of length and across off , Raina cuts it firmly to third man 18.6 P Cummins to Raina , wide , a quicker bouncer from Cummins but sliding down leg , Raina leaves it alone , easy call for the umpire 18.5 P Cummins to Raina , FOUR , short and punished ! The ball did not bounce as much as Cummins had expected ! Raina stands tall and muscles the pull along the ground to deep mid-wicket 18.4 P Cummins to Raina , no run , short of length on the hips , Raina hops inside the crease and tucks it to short mid-wicket , shouts a loud No , dissuading Rohit , who wanted a single 18.3 P Cummins to Raina , no run , good length ball angled across the left-hander , this time Raina watchfully leaves that alone 18.2 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and angled in on the pads , Rohit flicks it to fine leg 18.1 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , short of length and outside off , Rohit dabs it behind point Pat Cummins [ 4.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack After a short second burst from Starc , Cummins is back into the attack now . 17.6 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , short of length and angling in on the hips , Rohit nudges it towards backward square leg , the batsmen do n't push for two as the fielder in the deep was too quick for them 17.5 Watson to Raina , 1 run , short on leg , Raina shuffles across a touch and pulls it to deep backward square leg , straight towards the fielder 17.4 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length on middle and off , Rohit stays inside the line and tucks it to square leg 17.3 Watson to Raina , 1 run , just around off , Raina bunts it to cover-point for a quick single 17.2 Watson to Raina , no run , on a length and angling across the batsman , Raina pokes his bat at it and is beaten by the angle , poor from the left-hander , he should leave such kind of deliveries alone 17.1 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , full and shaping back into the batsman , Rohit works it to long-on and moves into the 40s 16.6 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , fuller one and wide of off , Rohit reaches out and drives it to deep backward point 16.5 Starc to Rohit , no run , slower one from Starc this time , Rohit gets forward and defends it into the leg-side 16.4 Starc to Rohit , no run , good leave , covers his sticks this time and lets the ball travel through to the keeper 16.4 Starc to Rohit , wide , well outside off , Rohit goes chasing after it and is beaten 16.3 Starc to Rohit , no run , back of a length one , Rohit looks to clip and misses , however , that was sliding down leg 16.2 Starc to Rohit , SIX , whack ! Fantastic shot from Rohit ! Starc banged this one short but Rohit has picked it up to perfection , he rocks on the back foot and muscles the pull just over the fine leg fence , excellent display of balance by the batsman , he was in full control of the shot 16.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , good length delivery on middle and off , Rohit gets forward and defends it into the off-side 15.6 Watson to Raina , no run , on the middle-stump line , Raina stays on the back foot and is solid in defence 15.5 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and wide of off , Rohit stays inside the line , reaches out and helps it to third man 15.4 Watson to Raina , 1 run , shortish one from Watson this time , does n't quite rise up , Raina swivels back and pulls it along the ground to fine leg 15.3 Watson to Raina , no run , touch back of a length and on middle and off , Raina defends it with a straightish bat to the left of the bowler 15.2 Watson to Raina , no run , short of length on middle , Raina stays solid on the back foot and blocks with a straight bat 15.1 Watson to Raina , no run , fullish and outside off , Raina lunges on the front foot and shoulders arms to it Drinks are on the field now. Excellent start for Australia. Starc , who has been on fire since the first game , pegged back the visitors in the first over itself by removing Dhawan. Debutant Sandhu picked up Rahane , while Faulkner dismissed Kohli ; both batsmen falling victim to the extra bounce. Luckily for India , Rohit has remained solid and has played some good shots . 14.6 Starc to Rohit , no run , short of length and coming back into Rohit , who stays inside the line and defends it by taking the bottom hand off the bat 14.5 Starc to Rohit , no run , fuller and just outside off , Rohit gets forward and taps it to short cover 14.4 Starc to Rohit , no run , short of length and just wide of off , Rohit gets back and steers it with an open bat face towards backward point 14.3 Starc to Rohit , no run , shortish and outside off , Rohit sways away from the line and lets that go through 14.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , full and shaping back in a touch , Rohit comes forward and turns it towards mid-on 14.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , probing line from Starc outside off , left alone by Rohit Mitchell Starc [ 3.0-0-16-1 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length on middle and off , Rohit leans forward and clips it to square leg , the call was for two initially but Haddin moved across and got to the ball and so Rohit asks Raina to stay still 13.5 Watson to Raina , 1 run , short of length on middle and leg , Raina tucks it off the inside half of the bat towards square leg and gets off the mark 13.4 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Rohit guides it with an open bat face to third man 13.3 Watson to Rohit , no run , fullish on off , Rohit gets forward and works it to mid-on 13.2 Watson to Rohit , no run , good length delivery around off , Rohit presses forward and soldily defends it to cover-point 13.1 Watson to Rohit , no run , length delivery on off , Rohit defends it with an angled bat off the front foot 12.6 Faulkner to Raina , no run , back of a length on middle , Raina looks to play across the line , gets a soft leading edge towards short cover , Rohit wants a single but Raina shouts , 'No ! No ! ' and sends him back Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 12.5 Faulkner to Kohli , out Caught by Bailey ! ! Huge huge wicket ! The Indian superman perishes ! Extra bounce has claimed another victim. It was a shortish one from Faulkner , Kohli gets back and pulls with all his might but he ends up top-edging it , the ball shoots up and does not travel far , Bailey runs in from mid-on and settles under an easy take. Kohli c Bailey b Faulkner 9 ( 16 ) Faulkner to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.4 Faulkner to Kohli , no run , length ball on middle , Kohli comes on the front foot and taps it to short cover , wants a single but Rohit shouts No ! 12.3 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , outside off , Rohit knocks it to deep backward point for a single 12.2 Faulkner to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli leans forward to this back of a length delivery on leg and tucks it to deep backward square leg 12.1 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Rohit gets forward and looks to defend it into the off-side , the ball takes the inside edge of the bat and rolls to square leg 11.6 Watson to Kohli , no run , length ball on off , Kohli gets forward and pushes it hard , straight back to Watson 11.5 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length on middle and off , Rohit nudges it through backward square leg 11.4 Watson to Kohli , 1 run , angling in on the hips , Kohli stays inside the line and tucks it neatly towards square leg 11.3 Watson to Kohli , no run , comes on the front foot and pushes it to the left of the bowler towards cover 11.2 Watson to Rohit , 1 run , banged in short around off , extra bounce from Watson here , Rohit stands tall inside his crease and steers it to third man 11.1 Watson to Rohit , no run , shaping back into the batsman , Rohit gets forward and pats it down the track Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Double change as Watson comes into the attack 10.6 Faulkner to Kohli , no run , full on middle , Kohli gets forward and jams it back to the bowler , who picks up the ball in an instant and mock-throws it at Kohli 10.5 Faulkner to Kohli , 2 runs , angling into the pads , Kohli rolls his wrists and flicks it to deep backward square leg 10.4 Faulkner to Kohli , 2 runs , fullish and straighter one from Faulkner , Kohli presses forward and drills it to long-off for a brace 10.4 Faulkner to Kohli , wide , sprays it down leg , Kohli gets forward to glance but does not connect 10.3 Faulkner to Kohli , no run , wide of off , Kohli opens the bat face and taps it to point 10.2 Faulkner to Kohli , 2 runs , direct hit but Kohli is safe ! It was a back of a length delivery on the hips , Kohli tucks it neatly to backward square leg , good running between the wickets by the Indian batsmen , Sandhu fires a direct throw at the striker 's end as Kohli returns back from the second run but he is well in 10.1 Faulkner to Rohit , 1 run , short of length and around off , Rohit guides it towards third man for a single James Faulkner , comes into the attack Faulkner replaces Cummins. Just a gully in place for him.. . 9.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Kohli , no run , back of a length and on the pads , Kohli gets forward and tucks it to short fine leg 9.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Kohli , no run , short of length and shaping back in a touch , Kohli gets back and defends it into the off-side by taking his bottom hand off the bat 9.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , shortish outside off and some extra bounce on it , Rohit hops inside the crease and runs it down to third man 9.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , wide , spraying down leg , Rohit just watches it closely and leaves it alone 9.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , no run , gets forward to this back of length ball on middle and off , Rohit bunts it short mid-wicket 9.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 2 runs , steps out of the crease to this shortish ball and pulls it along the ground through backward square leg 9.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , no run , length delivery on off , Rohit gets forward and pats it towards short cover , wants a single but is sent back 8.6 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , Cummins drags the length back this time but offers width , Rohit just stays in the crease , opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 8.5 P Cummins to Rohit , FOUR , cracking shot ! Overpitched by Cummins this time and wide of off , Rohit leans onto the front foot and creams the drive to the deep extra cover fence , Maxwell gives the chase but the ball beats him comfortably 8.4 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , short of length and outside off , Rohit chops it towards gully 8.3 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , back of a length and coming back in on off , Rohit is half-forward and bunts it into the covers region 8.2 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , keeps the length short and bowls this one outside off , Rohit shoulders arms to it 8.1 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , shortish and outside off , Rohit rocks back and drags the pull , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls behind square 7.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , short of length and coming back into the batsman , Rohit is pegged back and looks to defend , the ball goes off the outside edge towards third man 7.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , wide , banged in short on the stumps , Rohit ducks under it , that was too high and hence wided by the ump 7.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length and wide of off , Kohli opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 7.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Kohli , no run , short of length on middle and off , Kohli defends it off the back foot towards short cover 7.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Kohli , no run , on middle and leg , Kohli turns it into the leg-side Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Rahane , out Caught by Haddin ! ! Maiden ODI wicket for Sandhu on debut ! Rahane has been undone by the extra bounce ! It was a good delivery from Sandhu , short of length and not offering much width , Rahane opted to punch but it was not too wide , the ball takes the outside edge of the bat , simple catch for Haddin behind the stumps , who moves slightly across to his right and snaffles it. Rahane c Haddin b Gurinder Sandhu 12 ( 22 ) [ 4s-2 ] Gurinder Sandhu to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , length ball on the pads , Rohit deftly wrists it to deep mid-wicket 6.6 P Cummins to Rahane , no run , good leave from Rahane ! That was close to the off-stump line , Rahane covers the sticks and lets it go through 6.5 P Cummins to Rohit , 1 run , outside off , Rohit stays inside the crease and steers it with the open face of the bat towards third man 6.5 P Cummins to Rohit , wide , well outside off , Rohit watches it closely and does not make any attempt to play at it , easy call for the umpire 6.4 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , beaten neck and crop ! It was a length delivery from Cummins , straightens on Rohit , who looks to push at it with no feet movement , the ball whistles past the outside edge of his bat and nestles into the keeper 's gloves 6.3 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , bumper from Cummins ! Rohit swivels back and attempts to pull initially , bails out of the shot at the last instant , ducks slightly and gets his bat out of the way 6.2 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , short and outside off , does not interest Rohit into playing at it 6.1 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , back of a length and straighter one from Cummins , Rohit gets forward and taps it towards mid-on Pat Cummins [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Rahane , no run , good length ball around off this time , Rahane presses on the front foot and defends it to short cover 5.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Rahane , no run , on a good length on middle and leg , Rahane nudges it towards the man at short mid-wicket 5.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Rahane , no run , touch back of a length on middle , Rahane presses forward and defends it off the inside half of the bat towards short mid-wicket 5.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , 1 run , length ball on the pads , Rohit gets forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket 5.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , no run , shortish and outside off , Rohit stays back and punches it to point 5.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Rohit , no run , fullish and angling in on middle and leg , Rohit tucks it into the on-side Gurinder Sandhu , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 4.6 Starc to Rahane , 2 runs , good width on offer , Rahane comes forward and slices it hard to square third man , finds the fielder there 4.5 Starc to Rahane , no run , shortish and angling across , Rahane hops back and helps it behind point 4.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , short of length and shaping back in on middle , Rahane is forced back into the crease and manages to defend it 4.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , touch back of a length on middle , Rahane gets forward and turns it to short mid-wicket 4.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , coming back into the right-hander this time , Rahane defends it down the track back to the bowler 4.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , continues with the probing line outside off , Rahane tactfully decides to leave that alone 4.1 Starc to Rahane , wide , well outside off , Rahane lets that go through comfortably 3.6 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , outside off line again , left alone 3.5 P Cummins to Rohit , 4 runs , the batsmen have run four this time , excellent running between the wickets ! It was a full ball on leg , Rohit leans forward and whips it off his pads towards deep mid-wicket , the fielder gives the ball a chase and drags it back in front of the rope but the Indian batsmen have been quick and alert on their feet 3.4 P Cummins to Rohit , SIX , lovely shot ! Rohit takes the aerial route this time ! It was a half volley from Cummins on off , Rohit comes on the front foot and lofts it elegantly over the long-off fence , the ball has enough on it to clear the fence 3.3 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , length delivery coming back into the batsman , Rohit turns it into the on-side 3.2 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , full and outside off , Rohit lifts his bat and lets it go 3.1 P Cummins to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Rohit squeezes it to mid-on 2.6 Starc to Rahane , no run , beaten again ! It was a full and wide delivery from Starc , Rahane looks to swish at it and is beaten 2.5 Starc to Rahane , FOUR , shorter one but good width on offer this time , Rahane jumps in his crease and cuts it in the air past the diving point fielder to the deep backward point fence 2.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , back of a length and well outside off , left alone by Rahane 2.4 Starc to Rahane , wide , full and sliding down leg , wided by the ump 2.3 Starc to Rahane , FOUR , almost chopped that back on ! It was a short of length delivery from Starc but not all that wide to play the cut shot , Rahane is cramped for room and attempts to slash it through the off-side , gets a thick under edge that flies past the stumps to the fine leg fence. Indian batsmen are flirting with danger here 2.2 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , short of length on leg , Rohit gets forward and clips it off his pads to fine leg 2.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , in the channel outside off , Rohit covers his sticks and shoulders arms to it 1.6 P Cummins to Rahane , no run , length delivery on middle and leg , Rahane presses in front and turns it towards square leg 1.5 P Cummins to Rahane , no run , back of a length on middle , Rahane pushes at it and gets an inside edge towards backward square leg 1.4 P Cummins to Rahane , 2 runs , off the mark this time , Rahane comes forward and punches this length ball to long-on for a comfortable brace 1.3 P Cummins to Rahane , no run , beaten ! Rahane stays back and looks to poke at this back of a length delivery with laden feet , the ball beats the outside edge of his bat and goes through to the keeper 1.2 P Cummins to Rahane , no run , back of a length around off , Rahane stays in the crease and pushes it towards cover It is strange that Virat Kohli has not come in at number 3 and Rahane has been pushed up the order . 1.1 P Cummins to Rahane , no run , teasing line outside off , Rahane lifts his bat and lets it go through Pat Cummins , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Fantastic start for Australia. Cummins to share the new ball with Starc. Two slips for him as well 0.6 Starc to Rahane , leg byes , 1 run , full and angling in , Rahane misses the flick , the ball goes off his thigh pad towards fine leg Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.5 Starc to Dhawan , out Caught by Finch ! ! Starc strikes in the first over in this game too ! Disappointing start for India. Dhawan had got a lifeline just a couple of balls ago but has thrown it away this time. It was a fuller length ball shaping away , draws Dhawan on the front foot as he looks to drive , gets a thick outside edge and the ball travels into the safe hands of Finch at second slip , who catches this over his head. Dhawan c Finch b Starc 2 ( 4 ) [ /b } Starc to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 0.4 Starc to Dhawan , no run , back of a length delivery moving away , Dhawan looks to defend it off the back foot but is beaten 0.3 Starc to Dhawan , no run , fantastic delivery from Starc , completely ruffles Dhawan. It was a low full toss spearing into the batsman , Dhawan leans forward and looks to work it into the on-side , misses and is rapped on the pads. Loud appeal from Starc but the umpire is not interested ! That looked very close but looks like the umpire thought that was sliding down 0.2 Starc to Dhawan , 2 runs , short of length and angled into the batsman , Dhawan looks to work it across the line , gets a thick leading edge that flies past the slips to third man 0.1 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , shortish one from Starc to start off , swings this onto the pads , Rohit leans forward a touch and flicks it to fine leg to get off the mark Rohit and Dhawan are at the crease. Rohit is on strike. Starc will open the attack Mitchell Starc will start proceedings for Australia. Two slips to assist him. Rohit on strike. Here we go with the first ball.. . It is expected to be a competitive game of cricket as the top two ODI teams face off each other. Can Indian bowling match their classy batting ? asks Damien Martyn in the studio. The players are walking out to the middle. Dhawan and Rohit will be opening for India with Rahane coming in at No. 4 . Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Akshar Patel , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav Australia ( Playing XI ) : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , George Bailey ( c ) , Glenn Maxwell , Brad Haddin ( w ) , James Faulkner , Pat Cummins , Mitchell Starc , Gurinder Sandhu Bailey : " We were brilliant in the first game. The fielding needs a bit of improving. I was reasonably happy with how we played the other day. Eoin Morgan played an excellent innings. If we take early wickets , it makes death bowling a lot easier. Gurinder Sandhu makes his debut , he has been consistent in domestic cricket and deserves his chance. He replaces Xavier Doherty. " Dhoni : " We are looking to bat. The wicket looks good and the ball will come on nicely. A lot will depend on the dew factor. It is always good to be back. Yes , I have retired from the longer format , but good to be back playing ODIs. The World Cup is still far away , we have to concentrate on this tournament. It is almost the same side , the batting side is the same. Akshar Patel comes in. He is a tall lad , who can extract some extra bounce on this wicket. " India have won the toss and have opted to bat Pitch Report : " It looks like an excellent pitch. There is no grass on the wicket. Whatever grass was there it has been rolled over. It is a good batting wicket. The team will want to bat first as the ball will swing under lights , " reckon Sunil Gavaskar and Wasim Akram Gurinder Sandhu is set to make his ODI debut , he just received his cap from Rodney Marsh , becoming player No.206 to play for Australia. We still do not know who he is replacing . The hosts rested their ace bowler , Mitchell Johnson in the previous game and even gave Josh Hazlewood a break. Will the Aussies bring these two back and change a winning composition ? Hello and a warm welcome to the second ODI of the tri-series at the MCG. Toss and teams coming your way in a short while. Do n't go anywhere . Meanwhile , Australia cruised to victory in their first game against England. Starc provided them a dream start by picking two wickets in the very first over of the game and restricting England to 234. David Warner , then came out all guns blazing. The opener scored his first hundred in almost two years and saw his side overhaul the target comfortably . The batting order looks more or less settled for India , with Dhawan and Rohit opening and Virat , Rahane , Raina and Dhoni forming the middle-order. It is the bowling that will be a concern for the visitors as the fast bowlers have lacked discipline and penetration so far in the tour. With Ishant and Jadeja ruled out , the onus is on Bhuvi and Ashwin to spearhead the attack . After a gruesome Test series , Team India are back playing their favorite form of the game - ODIs. They come into this series after successful triumphs over England and Sri Lanka. The ODI outfit has been in top form for the past 12 months , thanks mainly to the batsmen and the spinners . Preview The time for experimentation is running out. It is time to finalise team compositions and secure a winning habit. With the 2015 ICC World Cup just 28 days away , it is crunch time as teams aim to gather momentum. For defending champions India , the preparations reach a head when they take on Australia in the second match of the tri-series in Melbourne on Sunday . Australia have made a statement with their victory with bonus point against England in Sydney on Friday. The hosts have always been a tough proposition at home and their showing on Friday secured that reputation. For India , who have lost just two games in the last 12 matches and have won four successive ODI series , will aim to extend their winning habit ahead of the World Cup . Team news India Aggressive openers. Check. Solid middle-order. Check. Excellent finishers. Check. India tick the batting boxes. Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma have shown their mettle at the top. However , India 's X-factor is Virat Kohli , a reliable match-winner. He was Indias leading run-scorer in ODIs in 2014 with 1054 runs ( average 58.55 ) and is in great form in Australia , having scored four hundreds in the recent Test series. Suresh Raina is another key player for India in ODIs. His century off 75 balls against England in Cardiff sparked off India 's recent domination. With MS Dhoni at the helm and Ajinkya Rahane playing the floaters role to perfection , the batting looks impregnable . However , there are questions when it comes to bowling. Though Mohammed Shami picked up 38 wickets in 16 ODIs last year , he had an economy rate of 6.16. The rest of the bowling has struggled for consistency. Death bowling has been a massive issue for Dhoni. India coach Bharat Arun put the pacers through their paces in Melbourne , emphasising the right line and lengths on these wickets. Bhuvneshwar Kumar got an extended net session following his rusty show in the Sydney Test while Ishant Sharma miss out in the first match due to a sore knee. Axar Patel and R Ashwin will man the spin department , considering the nature of Australian pitches this summer Probable XI 1. Shikhar Dhawan , 2. Rohit Sharma , 3 Ajinkya Rahane , 4 Virat Kohli , 5 Suresh Raina , 6 MS Dhoni ( c and wk ) , 7 R Ashwin , 8 Akshar Patel 9 Bhuvneshwar Kumar , 10 Umesh Yadav , 11 Mohammed Shami . Australia The hosts started off their campaign on a bright note. David Warner scored a brisk century and the middle-order was solid though none went on to make a big score. Australias real challenge will be for someone to step up the plate in case Warner and Steven Smith fail to make a big score. The bowling was well led by Mitchell Starc in Mitchell Johnsons absence. Starc generated good swing and pace and ended up with four for 42 in the first match against England. Pat Cummins bowled with good pace while James Faulkner kept it tight in the middle overs. They will have to tighten their death bowling though. In Sydney , they conceded 67 runs in 7.5 overs and will be looking to avoid a similar fate at Melbourne. Although , Warner complained of a sore hamstring in Sydney , he might play and thus the team might make no changes . Probable XI 1. David Warner , 2 Aaron Finch , 3 Shane Watson , 4 Steven Smith , 5 George Bailey ( c ) , 6 Glenn Maxwell , 7 Brad Haddin ( wk ) , 8 James Faulkner , 9 Mitchell Starc , 10 Pat Cummins , 11 Xavier Doherty . Stats In the last ODI series between these two teams in India , India won the seven-match series 3-2. The teams scored a total of 3596 runs in 11 completed innings , the most in ODI history . Australian skipper George Bailey scored 478 runs at an average of 95.6 in the same series , with a century and three half-centuries . Teams : India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( c/w ) , Stuart Binny , Akshar Patel , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Umesh Yadav , Ambati Rayudu , Mohammed Shami , Ishant Sharma , Mohit Sharma , Dhawal Kulkarni , Ravindra Jadeja Australia ( From ) : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , George Bailey ( c ) , Glenn Maxwell , Brad Haddin ( w ) , James Faulkner , Pat Cummins , Mitchell Starc , Xavier Doherty , Mitchell Marsh , Mitchell Johnson , Josh Hazlewood , Kane Richardson , Gurinder Sandhu Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
