Graphs With Australia winning this game , it allows India a chance to qualify for the final. However , they have to win their remaining games. Join us for the fifth ODI between India and Australia at the SCG on 26th January , which is a special day for both the countries. Until then , take care and Cya ! Smith : " It is nice to get few more runs tonight. We pulled it back nicely in the last 20 overs. They ( the bowlers ) were tight in the end and restricted them to 300. It was a good score for us to chase. I wo n't forget this summer. I think Haddin was very positive when he came out and took pressure off me. Starc held his nerve to score the winning runs. It is the Australian Day ( January 26th ) and I am looking forward to playing in front of my home crowd. " Steven Smith is the Man of the Match for his unbeaten 102 . Morgan : " I think it was not a bad day in general. Ian Bell played a terrific knock at the top and showed his class once again. Australia were brilliant at the death. They made good use of the reverse swing. The variations were also well used and that made it difficult for us. 300 was a par score , but 340-350 was a match-winning one. We will grow in confidence with every game. " Earlier in the day , Ian Bell played a terrific innings. He became the leading run-scorer for England in ODIs and was the pivot around which the other batters revolved. However , the visitors will feel the pinch off the last 10 overs , where they scored only 59 runs and lost 6 wickets. In the end , it was a matter of 10-15 runs. Stay tuned as we bring the quotes from the two captains.. . Steven Finn and Moeen Ali were the best England bowlers with James Anderson being economical. Moeen Ali once again proved his worth with the ball , picking up 2/50 in his 10 overs. Finn picked two wickets in one over and looked threatening. However , the form of Stuart Broad is a concern as the tall fast bowler leaked 61 runs in his 9 overs . Australia have qualified for the final. It should not have come so close. Nevertheless , it was a well paced run-chase from the hosts. Shaun Marsh and Aaron Finch provided a blazing start , scoring 67 runs off the first 10 overs. However , both batsmen threw it away and left it to Steven Smith to play the anchor. Glenn Maxwell , James Faulkner and Brad Haddin played around the stand-in skipper , who was simply brilliant today. He became the only player to score a hundred on Test and ODI captaincy debut . 49.5 Woakes to Starc , 1 run , Starc does it so calmly , it was fullish and just outside off , Starc drives it through cover and takes Australia home Australia have won ! 1 required off 2 balls. There are conferences everywhere. Morgan and Woakes are having one , while Smith and Starc have a chat. Buttler is up to the stumps.. . 49.4 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , low full toss on the stumps , Smith shuffles across and flicks it to deep mid-wicket Mitchell Starc , left handed bat , comes to the crease 49.3 Woakes to Henriques , out Henriques Run Out ! ! Is there a twist in the game ? Remember Australia defended 2 runs in the final over against Pakistan not so long ago. Can England still pull this off ? It was full and around off , Henriques digs it out to mid-off and hares across , Taylor had one stump to aim and he hit the bulls-eye. Henriques was nowhere in the picture , he was waiting for the fielder to miss. Henriques run out ( James Taylor ) 4 ( 11 ) Woakes to Henriques , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 49.2 Woakes to Henriques , no run , comes down the track , yorks himself , squeezes it to cover , Morgan has a shy at the non-striker 's end , he missed and Smith would have been a goner had that hit Australia need 2 off 5 balls. They should be able to do it. Unless there is a brain fade. . 49.1 Woakes to Henriques , no run , back of a length close to off , Henriques knocks it to cover off the back foot 48.6 J Anderson to Henriques , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Henriques plays the on-drive down to long-on 48.5 J Anderson to Henriques , no run , good length ball following the batsman , Henriques makes room and fails to nail the clip , ball hits the pad and dribbles to the right of the bowler 48.4 J Anderson to Henriques , 2 runs , fullish and on middle , Henriques leans forward and flicks it elegantly to deep mid-wicket for a brace 48.3 J Anderson to Henriques , no run , back of a length on off , blocked off the back foot to the right of Anderson 48.2 J Anderson to Henriques , no run , pitched up outside off , Henriques drills the drive , picks out Morgan at cover 48.1 J Anderson to Henriques , no run , on a length close to off , Henriques defends it calmly to cover 47.6 Woakes to Henriques , 1 run , fuller and around off , Henriques drives it wide of mid-off and picks up a single 47.5 Woakes to Henriques , no run , shortens the length around off , Henriques works it gently to short mid-wicket 47.4 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length on middle , Smith nurdles it to deep square leg for a run Moises Henriques , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.3 Woakes to Haddin , out Caught by Bell ! ! Haddin goes after an entertaining innings. It was a slower ball that is banged in halfway down the wicket , Haddin backs away and looks to ramp it over point , gets it off the toe-end , balloons it to Bell at point , who picks up his third catch. Haddin c Bell b Woakes 42 ( 29 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Woakes to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.3 Woakes to Haddin , wide , fires the yorker down the leg-side , Haddin does not bother with it , wided by the umpire 47.2 Woakes to Haddin , no run , change of pace outside off , Haddin goes for a wild heave towards cow corner , but is deceived by the lack of pace 47.1 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , Smith 's purple patch continues , brings up his 3rd ODI ton , hundred on captaincy debut in Tests and also in ODIs. He is the first player to achieve this feat. Takes off his helmet , kisses the Australian crest on the helmet and waves his bat at the crowd and to his team-mates. Coming to the ball , it was a slower one , Smith pulls it to deep backward square leg Chris Woakes [ 8.0-0-52-1 ] is back into the attack 46.6 J Anderson to S Smith , 1 run , Smith keeps strike and he is on 99 , slower short ball , he swivels and pulls it to fine leg 46.5 J Anderson to S Smith , 2 runs , takes the pace off the short of length delivery , Smith goes back and pulls it to deep square leg for another couple 46.4 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , fuller and just outside off , Smith drives it crisply but straight to cover 46.3 J Anderson to S Smith , SIX , Smith joins in the fun , a length delivery from Anderson , Smith 's eyes lit up as soon as he saw that , he clears his front leg and hammers it into the crowd at long-on. It went a good 20 rows back 46.2 J Anderson to Haddin , 1 run , slower short ball , Haddin swats the pull to deep mid-wicket 46.1 J Anderson to Haddin , 2 runs , fuller and just outside off , Haddin backs away and goes for the inside out loft , does n't time it too well , just clears the back-tracking Finn. It is good enough for a couple James Anderson [ 8.0-0-41-0 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Broad to Haddin , 1 run , full toss on off , Haddin punches it past the bowler and down to long-off , he keeps strike with that single 45.5 Broad to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length on off , Smith walks across and nurdles it to deep square leg , he moves into the 90s. Another hundred on the cards ? 45.4 Broad to Haddin , 3 runs , Haddin showing his range now , pitched up just outside off , Haddin opens up and plays an excellent cover drive , Root runs to his right from sweeper and pulls the ball in just before the rope 45.3 Broad to Haddin , FOUR , lovely shot ! Haddin is in a hurry now. A length delivery on middle and leg , Haddin shuffles slightly across and plays the pick up shot behind square leg , ball goes on the bounce to the fence 45.2 Broad to S Smith , 1 run , another change of pace from Broad , Smith hangs back and punches it to sweeper cover 45.1 Broad to Haddin , 1 run , leg-cutter outside off , Haddin waits in the crease and dabs it to short third man Those two hits from Haddin has brought the required run-rate down to 6.40. They need 32 runs off the last 5 overs . 44.6 Finn to S Smith , no run , this one keeps a tad low , Smith tries to force it off the back foot , but is beaten by the lack of bounce 44.5 Finn to Haddin , 1 run , after two length deliveries , Finn pulls the length back , gets some extra bounce as well , Haddin makes room and fends it off the gloves to the off-side. He jerked his bottom hand off as soon as he played that 44.4 Finn to Haddin , FOUR , brilliant hitting from Hadds , bit too full and on off , Haddin drags the heave over mid-on , that almost went the distance. That brings up the 50-run between these two 44.3 Finn to Haddin , SIX , massive ! That releases some of the pressure. A length delivery right in the slot for Haddin , who clears his front leg out of the way and gives it a proper whack , the ball goes well over the long-on fence 44.2 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Smith flays it off the toe-end to sweeper cover , he was looking to hit the cover off the ball 44.1 Finn to Haddin , 1 run , full and outside off , Haddin squeezes the drive to sweeper cover 43.6 Broad to S Smith , no run , right in the blockhole , Smith digs it out to short mid-wicket , no chance of a single 43.5 Broad to Haddin , 1 run , Broad gets away with a knee high full toss , Haddin shuffles across and flicks it to deep square leg 43.4 Broad to Haddin , no run , drags the length back , Haddin stays in the crease and bunts it in front of short mid-wicket 43.3 Broad to Haddin , FOUR , Broad misses the yorker and he pays the price for that , low full toss outside off , Haddin makes a bit of room and slices it over backward point , that raced away to the fence 43.2 Broad to Haddin , no run , good follow-up delivery from Broad , yorker that tails back in , Haddin moves away and jams it to the right of the bowler 43.1 Broad to Haddin , FOUR , clever from the experienced Haddin , saw that the man at third man was inside the ring , he backs away and steers the leg-cutter fine , no chance for the short third man to stop that Australia require 54 off 42 balls , England need to break this stand. Fasten your seat belts folks as we are in for a tight finish . 42.6 Finn to S Smith , no run , back of a length just outside off , Smith shuffles across and wrists it to mid-on , no chance of a run as the fielder is well inside the circle 42.5 Finn to S Smith , no run , half tracker outside off , Smith cuts it powefully and picks out Bell at backward point 42.4 Finn to S Smith , no run , shortish and outside off , Smith flashes a cut and does not make contact 42.3 Finn to Haddin , 3 runs , length delivery around off , Haddin clears his front leg and hoicks it wide of mid-wicket , did n't get it anywhere close to the middle , Root puts in the dive and stops the ball from reaching the fence 42.2 Finn to Haddin , no run , off-speed delivery outside off , Haddin heaves at it blindly , is nowhere close to making contact 42.1 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , short and outside off , Smith slaps it square of the wicket on the off-side 41.6 Broad to Haddin , no run , full and targeting the stumps , Haddin makes room and drills it straight down the ground , Broad does well to bed down and make a half stop 41.5 Broad to S Smith , 1 run , slower delivery on off , Smith taps it in front of mid-on and takes a quick single 41.4 Broad to S Smith , no run , fuller and just outside off , Smith opens the face and guides it to backward point Morgan and Broad have a chat. They are changing the field. The mid-wicket has gone back and long-on has come into the circle . 41.3 Broad to S Smith , 2 runs , this is amazing batting , picks this back of a length delivery from way outside off and glances it to fine leg , comes back for the second before the ball is fielded 41.2 Broad to S Smith , FOUR , short and outside off , Smith reaches out and throws his bat it , flays it just behind point for a boundary 41.1 Broad to S Smith , no run , length delivery around off , Smith gets forward and knocks it to point Stuart Broad [ 6.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Finn to S Smith , 3 runs , wrong line from Finn , drifts it onto Smith 's pads , he gets inside the line and tickles it fine , Broad had a long way to get across , he does well to slide and stop the ball , saves a run for the team 40.5 Finn to Haddin , 1 run , slower short ball , Haddin swivels and pulls it to deep square leg 40.4 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length on off , Smith walks across and nurdles it to deep backward square leg 40.3 Finn to S Smith , no run , short of length on off , Smith goes back and across , drops it to the off-side , looks for the single but Haddin sends him back 40.2 Finn to Haddin , 3 runs , on a length just outside off , Haddin moves away to the leg-side and lifts it over mid-off , it came right off the toe-end and had enough to clear the fielder. A better throw from Anderson would have made things interesting as Haddin called late for third run 40.1 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , short delivery outside off , Smith fetches it from there and pulls it along the carpet to deep mid-wicket Steven Finn [ 7.0-0-39-2 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Woakes to Haddin , no run , full and following the batsman who was making room , Haddin drills the drive to mid-off 39.5 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Smith shuffles across and short-arm pulls it to deep mid-wicket 39.4 Woakes to Haddin , 1 run , drags the length back , Haddin charges down and goes for the booming drive on the up , the ball flies off the outside edge to third man 39.3 Woakes to Haddin , no run , good length ball on off , Haddin backs away and blocks it to the bowler , he did n't have the room to work with 39.2 Woakes to Haddin , no run , back of a length on off , Haddin stays in the crease and dabs it to point 39.1 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Smith opens the bat face and drives it square of the wicket for a run The batting powerplay yielded 30 runs and the wicket of Faulkner. The equation now reads 77 off the last 11 overs. Still even-stevens. . 38.6 J Anderson to Haddin , no run , tails back in from a length , Haddin stays rooted to the crease and keeps it out 38.5 J Anderson to S Smith , 1 run , another wristy shot , full and on the stumps , Smith works it to mid-on for a quick single 38.4 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , on a length around off , Smith blocks with bat and pad close together 38.3 J Anderson to S Smith , 2 runs , fuller and outside off , Smith leans into the drive , he opened the face of the bat to get it behind square 38.2 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , keeps it short of length outside off , Smith ekes out an inside edge down the wicket 38.1 J Anderson to S Smith , FOUR , top shot ! It had class written all over it. Nothing wrong with the delivery , it was back of a length around off , Smith stands tall and punches it handsomely through the packed off-side field , no need to run for those 37.6 Woakes to S Smith , 3 runs , Woakes bowls this too straight , on middle and leg , that is bread and butter for Smith , who clips it off the pads to deep backward square , Anderson dives full length and saves a run for the team 37.5 Woakes to S Smith , no run , back of a length on off , Smith moves across and turns it to short mid-wicket 37.4 Woakes to Haddin , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Haddin runs it off the face of the bat to third man and gets off the mark 37.3 Woakes to Haddin , no run , back of a length close to off , Haddin stays in the crease and pats it in front of point Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 37.2 Woakes to Faulkner , out Caught by Bell ! ! Huge wicket ! Australia 's finisher has been nipped out. It was on a length and straightens a touch , Faulkner goes for the drive with no feet movement , the ball squirts off the outside half and flies to Bell at backward point , who takes a good low catch. It is still anybody 's game at the moment. Faulkner c Bell b Woakes 35 ( 43 ) [ 4s-4 ] Woakes to Faulkner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 37.1 Woakes to Faulkner , no run , length delivery attacking the stumps , Faulkner works it gently to short mid-wicket 36.6 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , back of a length close to off , Smith goes back and across , taps it to point 36.5 J Anderson to S Smith , FOUR , easy pickings these ! Half volley on the pads , Smith had all time in the world to pick his spot , he flicks it in the air behind square and collects his fourth boundary 36.4 J Anderson to Faulkner , 1 run , short of length on the hips , Faulkner rides the bounce and tucks it to deep square leg 36.3 J Anderson to S Smith , 1 run , drifts it onto Smith 's pads , he did n't have to move across this time to flick to deep mid-wicket , that also brings up the 50-run stand 36.2 J Anderson to Faulkner , 1 run , back of a length around off , Faulkner knocks it with soft hands to the left of cover , easy single on offer 36.1 J Anderson to Faulkner , no run , good length ball on off , defended back to the bowler 35.6 Woakes to Faulkner , 1 run , shortens the length around off , Faulkner taps it wide of backward point and sets off 35.5 Woakes to Faulkner , FOUR , Woakes errs in line , slips it down leg , Faulkner had to just get some wood on it , he gets enough to beat Buttler 's dive and the fielder in the deep 35.4 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , pulls the length back , the line is on middle , Smith tucks it to deep mid-wicket 35.3 Woakes to Faulkner , 1 run , fullish and on middle and leg , Faulkner leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 35.2 Woakes to Faulkner , no run , short of length on off , Faulkner remains right behind the line and defends it back to the bowler 35.1 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Smith punches it square of the wicket for a single Chris Woakes [ 5.0-0-37-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Australia have built a nice platform from where they can explode. But these two will be the key , with not much batting to follow. England need to break this partnership , if they have to stay in the game . 34.6 J Anderson to Faulkner , no run , inswinging yorker , Faulkner manages to get his front leg out of the way and jams it towards mid-wicket 34.5 J Anderson to Faulkner , 2 runs , drifts the back of a length delivery onto Faulkner 's pads , he clips it to deep square leg and hares across for the second 34.4 J Anderson to S Smith , 1 run , full and on the stumps , Smith shuffles across and whips it to long-on 34.3 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , short of length just outside off , Smith looks to force it off the back foot , squirts it off the inside edge to short mid-wicket 34.2 J Anderson to Faulkner , 1 run , on middle and leg , too straight from Anderson , Faulkner stays inside the line and clips it to deep mid-wicket 34.1 J Anderson to Faulkner , no run , good length ball around off , Faulkner presses it to cover by coming forward James Anderson [ 5.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack Australia have taken the batting powerplay. . 33.6 Finn to Faulkner , 1 run , glides it off the face of the bat to third man for another comfortable single 33.5 Finn to Faulkner , no run , good length ball that holds its line , Faulkner backs away and goes for the drive , the ball straightens enough to beat the outside edge 33.4 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , shortens the length , Smith walks across his stumps , fetches it from outside off and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 33.3 Finn to S Smith , 2 runs , superb running between the wickets , back of a length around off , Smith opens the bat face and runs it to third man , the fielder was a bit square and Smith sprinted across for the second 33.2 Finn to Faulkner , 1 run , on a length close to off , Faulkner remains inside the crease and dabs it wide of point 33.1 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , short of length on off , Smith moves across and tucks it to deep square leg 32.6 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , no run , drifts in from outside off , Faulkner drops it towards point , calls " wait on " for the single. Mo finishes an excellent spell , his figures read : 10-0-50-2 32.5 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , no run , pushes it from the crease to the right of the bowler. The ball stopped on him and Faulkner did well not to go hard at it 32.4 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , the juggernaut named Steven Smith rolls on , 4th ODI fifty , his first against England. Eases the drive to long-on to bring up the landmark. He raises his bat and acknowledges the applause from the crowd 32.3 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , 1 run , touch short , on middle and leg , Faulkner mistimes the pull to deep backward square leg 32.2 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , flighted on off , Smith skips out of the crease and drives it to long-on 32.1 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 2 runs , drifting onto the pads , nurdled away towards long leg for a brace 31.6 Finn to Faulkner , FOUR , superb shot ! It was half volley and Faulkner did not miss out , he got a long stride forward and crunches the drive off the sweet spot , the timing takes it to the deep extra cover fence 31.5 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , shortens the length outside off , Smith moves across , tries to force it off the back foot , ekes out an inside edge and the ball goes past the stumps. Finn thought he had his man 31.4 Finn to Faulkner , 1 run , on a length and angling into Faulkner 's pads , he flicks it behind square leg , looks for two but Bopara is onto it quickly 31.3 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , short of length on off , Smith shuffles across and tucks it in front of square on the leg-side 31.2 Finn to Faulkner , 3 runs , pitched up just outside off , Faulkner presents the straightest of bats and drives it back past the bowler , Morgan gives chase and hauls the ball in just before the rope Finn has a slip in place 31.1 Finn to Faulkner , no run , back of a length on off , Faulkner stays in the crease and taps it down the wicket Steven Finn [ 5.0-0-23-2 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Moeen Ali to S Smith , no run , nice loop and turn , Smith pushes forward and knocks it back to the bowler 30.5 Moeen Ali to S Smith , no run , bit too full and on the stumps , Smith squeezes it to the left of Moeen Ali 30.4 Moeen Ali to S Smith , no run , tossed up on off , Smith push-drives it back to the bowler 30.3 Moeen Ali to S Smith , no run , flatter and on off , Smith punches it to short mid-wicket 30.2 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , 1 run , flighted just outside off , Faulkner eases the drive to long-off 30.1 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , FOUR , half tracker from Mo and Faulkner has taken full toll of it , Faulkner swivels and pulls it to deep square leg , split the fielders in the deep to perfection 29.6 Broad to Faulkner , 1 run , on middle and leg , too straight from Broad , Faulkner leans forward and flicks it to deep square leg 29.5 Broad to Faulkner , no run , banged in mid-way down the wicket , Faulkner drops it wrists and allows the ball to go through 29.4 Broad to Faulkner , no run , run-out chance missed ! A direct hit and Faulkner was on his way back to the pavilion. On a length close to off , Faulkner drops it in front of cover and sets off for a risky single before being sent back , Taylor has a shy and fails to hit the sticks. Even a dive from Faulkner would have not saved him 29.3 Broad to Faulkner , no run , good length ball on off , Faulkner stays low and works it to mid-on 29.2 Broad to Faulkner , no run , on a length and straightens outside off , Faulkner goes fishing after it and is beaten. The ball hardly carries to Buttler 29.1 Broad to S Smith , 1 run , that was dangerous , yorker that tails back in , Smith walks a long way across his stumps and flicks it to deep square leg. Had he missed that , he would have been right in front 28.6 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , presents the full face of the bat and drives the tossed up delivery to long-on 28.5 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , 1 run , flatter and on off , punched down to long-on 28.4 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , no run , tossed up on off , Faulkner wrists it straight to Morgan at short mid-wicket 28.3 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , no run , flighted on off , Faulkner turns it gently in front of short mid-wicket 28.2 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , no run , drags the length back , Faulkner stays in the crease and knocks it to the on-side 28.1 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , no run , rolls his wrists on top of the ball and works it to short mid-wicket 27.6 Broad to Faulkner , 1 run , on a length close to off , Faulkner opens the bat face at the last instant and runs it down to third man 27.5 Broad to Faulkner , FOUR , fantastic shot ! It was a fullish delivery outside off , Faulkner gets a good stride forward and creams the drive to the left of mid-off , Woakes gives chase but the ball wins the race 27.4 Broad to Faulkner , no run , pitched up just outside off , Faulkner drives it towards mid-off , thinks about the single but decides against it as he had hit it too well 27.3 Broad to Faulkner , no run , fuller and on off , Faulkner presses it to cover after coming forward 27.2 Broad to Faulkner , no run , too far across off , Faulkner is happy to leave that through to Buttler 27.1 Broad to Faulkner , no run , good length ball outside off shapes back in after Faulkner allows it to go through Stuart Broad [ 4.0-0-27-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , 1 run , nudged away from a middle-stump line to deep mid-wicket , opens his account with that single 26.5 Moeen Ali to Faulkner , no run , quicker and on off , Faulkner hangs back and bunts it to short mid-wicket James Faulkner , right handed bat , comes to the crease 26.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , out Caught by J Root ! ! Moeen has struck once again against the run of play. He has given England another crucial breakthrough. A needless shot from Maxi though. It was floated up around off , Maxwell kneels down and slog sweeps it to deep mid-wicket , Root did n't have to move an inch as he took it calmly. Maxwell c J Root b Moeen Ali 37 ( 38 ) [ 4s-4 ] Moeen Ali to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 26.3 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , slower and on off , Maxwell leans forward and drops it in front of short mid-wicket 26.2 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , tossed up on off , Smith works it down to long-on 26.1 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 2 runs , rank long hop and Moeen gets away with it , Smith swivels and pulls it to deep backward square leg , Broad does the tiding up near the rope 25.6 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , Smith moves across his stumps and dabs it to third man 25.5 Woakes to Maxwell , 1 run , back of a length around off , Maxwell steers it to third man with an angled bat 25.4 Woakes to Maxwell , FOUR , lovely improvisation , it was tad short , Maxwell shuffles across and pulls it behind square leg , he manufactured that shot as he had to fetch the ball from outside off 25.3 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , fuller and outside off , driven away to sweeper cover 25.2 Woakes to Maxwell , 1 run , back of a length outside off , Maxwell glides it off the face of the bat to square third man 25.1 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , shortish and around off , Smith guides it in front of third man for a single At this stage , England were 150/2 and Australia are 149/3. Nothing to chose between the two teams . 24.6 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , floated up outside off , Maxwell drills the drive back to the bowler 24.5 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , fired in on the stumps , whipped along the ground to long-on 24.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , another well judged run , Maxwell turns it in front of mid-wicket and takes off , good response from Smith as well 24.3 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , easily done , gets to the pitch and wrists it to long-on 24.2 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , nudged this from an off-stump line to deep square leg , wanted two but has to settle with one 24.1 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , flighted on off , Smith leans forward and works it to long-on Moeen Ali [ 5.0-0-29-1 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , fullish and close to off , Maxwell drives and picks out the fielder at mid-off 23.5 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , another nice looking cover drive , but hit straight to the man at sweeper cover 23.4 Woakes to Maxwell , 1 run , back of a length on off , Maxwell short-arm pulls it to deep square leg 23.3 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Smith leans into the drive and caresses it to sweeper cover 23.2 Woakes to S Smith , no run , good length ball outside off , Smith shuffles across and wrists it to mid-on , finds the fielder there There is a slip in place for Woakes 23.1 Woakes to Maxwell , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Maxwell crunches the drive to sweeper cover Chris Woakes [ 3.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 22.6 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , full and outside off , Maxwell drills the drive towards cover , Morgan dives and makes a fine stop to his right , he saved a couple of runs there 22.5 Finn to Maxwell , no run , back of a length and rises up , Maxwell jumps up and drops it towards cover , shouts " no " for the single 22.4 Finn to Maxwell , no run , again , slightly short and around off , Maxwell goes back and bunts it to cover 22.3 Finn to Maxwell , no run , keeps it short of length on off , Maxwell guides it to point with an angled bat 22.2 Finn to Maxwell , no run , loose from Maxi , back of a length and holds its line , Maxwell tries to steer it to third man with an open bat face , is beaten all ends up 22.1 Finn to Maxwell , no run , pitched up just outside off , Maxwell drives it crisply but straight to short cover 21.6 Bopara to Maxwell , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Maxwell presses forward and knocks it to sweeper cover. An expensive first over from Bopara , 11 runs came off it 21.5 Bopara to Maxwell , FOUR , this ball deserved the punishment , half volley on the pads , Maxwell leans forward and glances it past short fine , once the ball beat the fielder it was heading in only one direction 21.4 Bopara to S Smith , 1 run , fullish and on the fourth stump line , Smith eases it down to long-on 21.3 Bopara to Maxwell , 1 run , on middle , too straight from Bopara , Maxwell nurdles it to deep square leg for a single 21.2 Bopara to Maxwell , no run , fuller and just outside off , Maxwell plays a loose drive with laden feet , is beaten comprehensively 21.1 Bopara to Maxwell , FOUR , that ball did n't deserve to get to the boundary , but Maxwell will take that. It was full and almost a yorker , Maxwell toe-ends the drive , with the keeper standing up the ball runs away fine , no chance for Finn to stop that Ravi Bopara , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 20.6 Finn to S Smith , 2 runs , " couple " was the call from Smith and couple is what they get. Full on off and middle , Smith walks across his stumps and clips it wide of mid-wicket , comes back for the second before the ball is hunted down 20.5 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , little extra bounce on that occasion , Maxwell rides it and steers it with an angled bat to third man 20.4 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length on off , Smith works it through mid-wicket for another easy single 20.3 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , short on middle and leg , Maxwell gets inside the line and helps it on the way to fine leg 20.2 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , Finn targets the stumps , but Smith is too good there , he moves across and flicks it to deep square leg 20.1 Finn to S Smith , 2 runs , good length ball on off , Smith shuffles across and plays it round his pads behind square , Broad slides and keeps them down to two 19.6 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , flighted on off and middle , whipped away off the front foot to deep mid-wicket 19.5 Moeen Ali to S Smith , FOUR , fabulous shot ! Slightly short and outside off , Smith stays leg-side of the ball and cracks it square of the wicket on the off-side , Bopara gives chase in vain 19.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , tad too full this time , Maxwell leans forward and eases it along the ground to long-on 19.3 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , bit of extra bounce , Smith is surprised by that , he checks his shot and pushes it to long-on 19.2 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , presses forward , rolls his wrists on top of the ball and works it to long-on 19.1 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , works it away with the spin to deep mid-wicket 18.6 Finn to Maxwell , no run , on a length close to off , Maxwell blocks it solidly towards mid-off , shouts a loud " no " for the single 18.5 Finn to Maxwell , no run , dug in halfway down the wicket , Maxwell was way too early into the pull , toe-ends it to short mid-wicket 18.4 Finn to Maxwell , no run , shortens the length around off , Maxwell gets right behind the line and defends it to cover 18.3 Finn to Maxwell , 2 runs , pitches it further up , Maxwell plays a free flowing drive between cover and mid-off , the timing allows him to come back for the second 18.2 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , short and a bit of width on offer , Maxwell latches onto it in a flash , he opens the bat face and cuts it in front of square , the ball scooted to the fence in no time 18.1 Finn to Maxwell , no run , back of a length and holds its line , Maxwell defends it off the outer half towards point 17.6 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , tosses it up on off , Maxwell leans forward and works it down to long-on 17.5 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , darted in full and on the stumps , Smith whips it past the bowler for a single 17.4 Moeen Ali to S Smith , FOUR , lovely batting ! It was not all that short , but Smith made it into one by using the depth of the crease , he cuts it behind point and there is no one patrolling the fence in the deep 17.3 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , takes a step forward , almost yorks himself , manages to dig it out to long-on 17.2 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , comes down the track and drives it to long-on , nice use of the feet 17.1 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , eases the drive to the flighted delivery to long-on 17.1 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , wide , fired down the leg-side , Maxwell ca n't help it round the corner , wide signalled 16.6 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , dropped ! Finn almost had his third wicket. It was a repeat of the previous shot , only this time Maxwell did n't get the elevation , he clipped it to the left of short mid-wicket , Anderson dives to his left , gets a hand but ca n't hang on. Infact he got it on his wrist 16.5 Finn to Maxwell , 2 runs , full and curls in on off , Maxwell chips it in the air just over the short mid-wicket for a brace 16.4 Finn to Maxwell , no run , shortens the length and gets it to jag away outside off , Maxwell does not bother with it Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.3 Finn to Cameron White , out Lbw ! ! Trapped in front ! White 's return to the 50-over format is a short lived one. Finn picks up his second off the over. Where was he till now ? Excellent delivery , fast and tails back into the batsman , White is late in bringing his bat down , is struck right in front of middle. The umpire had no hesitation in raising his finger. Cameron White lbw b Finn 0 ( 2 ) Finn to Cameron White , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 16.2 Finn to Cameron White , no run , White has a iffy poke on his return to ODI cricket , it was back of a length and straightens just outside off , White has a feel for it and is beaten neck and crop Cameron White , right handed bat , comes to the crease Time for a drinks break. Australia matched England in the first 10 overs , the hosts scored 67 runs as compared to England 's 69. However , they have lost their openers now and it is time to rebuild the innings . 16.1 Finn to S Marsh , out Caught by Bell ! ! Marsh throws away a start ! Finn strikes in his second over and well set Marsh departs. It was full and slanted across the left-hander , Marsh goes for the drive away from the body , ends up slicing it straight to backward point , Bell holds onto a sharp catch as the ball was travelling. S Marsh c Bell b Finn 45 ( 48 ) [ 4s-6 ] Finn to S Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.6 Moeen Ali to S Marsh , 1 run , slides it onto the leg-stump , Marsh gets to the pitch and wrists it to long-on 15.5 Moeen Ali to S Marsh , no run , slower , drifts and turns away , Marsh waits and knocks it to cover A slip comes in for Marsh 15.4 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , too full and just outside off , Smith squeezes the drive to long-off 15.3 Moeen Ali to S Smith , no run , flatter and on off , Smith punches and picks out the short mid-wicket 15.2 Moeen Ali to S Smith , no run , works it from an off-stump line to backward square , straight to the fielder 15.1 Moeen Ali to S Smith , no run , goes straight on , Smith push-drives it back to the bowler 14.6 Finn to S Marsh , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven towards mid-off 14.5 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , too full and on Smith 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 14.4 Finn to S Smith , no run , full and just outside off , Smith moves a long way across his stumps as he defends 14.3 Finn to S Smith , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Smith was looking to chop it down with an angled bat , gets an inside edge and the ball rolls away towards the off-side 14.2 Finn to S Smith , FOUR , lovely shot , full and on the stumps , Smith presents the full face of the bat and pushes it back past the bowler , beats mid-on and races away to the fence 14.1 Finn to S Smith , no run , Finn floats his first ball on middle , driven towards mid-on Steven Finn , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 13.6 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , Moeen drops one short and on off , punched down towards long-on for a single 13.5 Moeen Ali to S Marsh , 1 run , tossed up and on off , punched down towards long-on for a single 13.4 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , Moeen gives this one more air and on Smith 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a run 13.3 Moeen Ali to S Marsh , leg byes , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , ends up angling into Marsh 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , sneaks in a leg-bye 13.2 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , slower and on off , punched down towards long-on for a single 13.1 Moeen Ali to S Marsh , 1 run , Moeen drifts one onto Marsh 's pads , driven down towards long-on for a single 12.6 Broad to S Smith , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Smith prods across and blocks 12.5 Broad to S Marsh , 1 run , short and on Marsh 's hips , some extra bounce for Broad , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 12.4 Broad to S Marsh , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Marsh defends with an open face 12.3 Broad to S Marsh , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Marsh lunges forward and drives it towards cover 12.2 Broad to S Smith , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , punched off the back foot towards deep cover 12.1 Broad to S Smith , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Smith shuffles across and blocks 11.6 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , Moeen drifts one on off , worked away towards long-on for a single 11.5 Moeen Ali to S Smith , no run , flighted and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 11.4 Moeen Ali to Finch , out Bowled ! ! Moeen has struck ! A nothing shot from Finch though , this was generously tossed up on middle , Finch saw some runs and went for the big lofted on-drive , ends up playing all over the ball , it sneaks past the inside edge and hits the leg-stump. Once again , Moeen provides the crucial opening for his team. The partnership has been broken. Finch b Moeen Ali 32 ( 32 ) [ 4s-3 ] Moeen Ali to Finch , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 11.3 Moeen Ali to S Marsh , 1 run , flighted and on off , eased past the bowler for a single 11.2 Moeen Ali to S Marsh , no run , Moeen gives this one more air , driven back towards the bowler 11.1 Moeen Ali to Finch , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single Moeen Ali , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 10.6 Broad to Finch , 1 run , length ball and on Finch 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a brace 10.5 Broad to S Marsh , 1 run , Broad was imploring for a LBW , but the umpire reckoned there was some bat on that , Marsh was opened up as he looked to nudge it towards the on-side , gets a slight leading edge onto the pads as the ball deflects away towards third man 10.4 Broad to Finch , 1 run , fuller from Broad , driven towards mid-off for a quick single 10.3 Broad to Finch , 2 runs , late swing for Broad , but he ends up drifting onto Finch 's pads , worked behind square on the on-side for a brace 10.2 Broad to Finch , 2 runs , width on offer from Broad , Finch cracks it square and to the left of sweeper cover , runs hard and gets back for the second run 10.1 Broad to Finch , no run , short of a length and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 9.6 J Anderson to S Marsh , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Marsh prods across and defends it 9.5 J Anderson to S Marsh , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 9.4 J Anderson to Finch , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , punched off the back-foot towards deep cover 9.3 J Anderson to Finch , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Finch gets behind the line and defends it 9.2 J Anderson to S Marsh , 1 run , short of a length and on Marsh 's hips , worked past square leg for a single 9.1 J Anderson to S Marsh , no run , fuller length delivery and angling back into Marsh , he closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on 8.6 Broad to S Marsh , 1 run , short of a length and on Marsh 's hips , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 8.5 Broad to S Marsh , FOUR , too short and well down leg-side , Marsh shuffles across on the pull , gets a bit of glove and beats the keeper to the fence 8.4 Broad to Finch , 3 runs , nicely played by Finch , this was full and wide outside off , Finch gets forward and goes inside out over extra cover , the ball plugs in the outfield. Taylor and Woakes give chase and keep the batsmen down to three runs 8.3 Broad to S Marsh , 1 run , full and on Marsh 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 8.2 Broad to Finch , 1 run , almost carried to Finn at short fine , leg-stump half-volley from Broad , Finch flicked it in the air , just bounces short of the lanky bowler 8.1 Broad to S Marsh , 1 run , length ball on Marsh 's pads , flicked away behind square on the on-side for a single 7.6 J Anderson to Finch , 2 runs , fraction too short from Anderson , Finch presses across and works it in front of square on the on-side , another couple of easy runs 7.5 J Anderson to Finch , no run , Anderson shortens his length outside off , Finch rides with the bounce and defends it 7.4 J Anderson to Finch , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Finch stands tall and punches it towards mid-off 7.3 J Anderson to Finch , 2 runs , Anderson has n't got his line right , once again drifts this one onto Finch 's pads , worked past square leg for a couple of runs 7.2 J Anderson to S Marsh , 1 run , length ball on off , Marsh shuffles across and whips it in front of square on the on-side for a single 7.1 J Anderson to S Marsh , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Marsh presses forward and drives it towards mid-off 6.6 Broad to Finch , FOUR , too short from Broad , easy pickings for Finch as he swivels across and helps it on its way , beats the man in the ring and picks up a boundary 6.5 Broad to Finch , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Finch gets half-forward and defends it towards cover 6.4 Broad to Finch , no run , tad fuller and on off , Finch prods across and defends it towards the on-side 6.3 Broad to S Marsh , 1 run , too straight from Broad , worked past square leg for a single 6.2 Broad to S Marsh , 2 runs , Broad shortens his length on middle , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs 6.1 Broad to S Marsh , no run , full and on off , Marsh drives it back towards the bowler Stuart Broad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 5.6 J Anderson to Finch , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Finch hops across and punches it towards mid-on 5.5 J Anderson to S Marsh , 1 run , full and on off , Marsh presses forward and drives it to the right of mid-on. Finn does well to tumble and stop some runs 5.4 J Anderson to S Marsh , 2 runs , Anderson gets this one to angle back into Marsh , clipped away backward of square on the on-side for a couple of runs 5.3 J Anderson to S Marsh , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Marsh presses across , lifts his bat and lets it go 5.2 J Anderson to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Marsh shuffles across and punches it towards mid-on 5.1 J Anderson to S Marsh , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Marsh prods across and defends it Change of angle for Anderson. He is coming from round the wicket 4.6 Woakes to S Marsh , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven to the left of cover-point for a quick single 4.5 Woakes to S Marsh , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Marsh shuffles across and punches it towards mid-on 4.4 Woakes to S Marsh , FOUR , there 's no stopping this one though , full and well outside off , Marsh leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and drives it past extra cover , no need to run for those 4.3 Woakes to S Marsh , no run , Woakes keeps it full and on off , Marsh presents the full face of the bat as he drives back towards the bowler , Woakes does well to bend down and saves some runs 4.2 Woakes to S Marsh , 2 runs , fraction too short from Woakes , worked away past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 4.1 Woakes to S Marsh , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Marsh presses across and defends it 3.6 J Anderson to Finch , no run , on a length and just outside off , Finch presents the full face of the bat and defends it back towards the bowler 3.5 J Anderson to S Marsh , 1 run , too short and on Marsh 's pads , clipped away towards long leg for a single 3.4 J Anderson to S Marsh , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Marsh prods across and defends it 3.3 J Anderson to Finch , 1 run , Anderson shortens his length on off , pushed in front of mid-on for a quick single 3.2 J Anderson to Finch , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Finch drives and finds the man at cover 3.1 J Anderson to Finch , FOUR , this has been a batting masterclass so far from the two overs , overpitched and right in the slot , Finch leans into the cover drive and sends it racing past extra cover for a boundary 2.6 Woakes to S Marsh , no run , much better from Woakes , on a good length and shaping away from off , Marsh covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 2.5 Woakes to S Marsh , FOUR , Woakes now goes short and wide , this is n't the best of starts from England , Marsh gets on top of the bounce and crashes it through extra cover for the third straight boundary 2.4 Woakes to S Marsh , FOUR , this is even better ! Fraction fuller and on the middle stump line , Marsh shuffles across and whips it past mid-on for a boundary 2.3 Woakes to S Marsh , FOUR , that 's easy pickings for Marsh , a long half-volley from Woakes , full and on Marsh 's pads , whipped away past mid-on for a boundary 2.2 Woakes to Finch , 1 run , Woakes shortens his length and drifts one onto Finch 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 2.1 Woakes to Finch , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Finch stays back and plays with an angled bat , gets it to the right of mid-on 1.6 J Anderson to Finch , 1 run , this one nips back in slightly off the deck , Finch presses across and nudges it in front of mid-on for a quick single 1.5 J Anderson to Finch , no run , much better line to the right-hander , on a good length and just outside off , Finch presses across and defends it with an open face 1.4 J Anderson to S Marsh , leg byes , 1 run , short of a length and on Marsh 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards square leg for a leg-bye 1.3 J Anderson to S Marsh , FOUR , too straight from Anderson , the fine leg was pretty square , Marsh gets his flick fine and earns his first boundary 1.2 J Anderson to S Marsh , no run , tad fuller and on off , Marsh shuffles across and defends it with a straight bat 1.2 J Anderson to S Marsh , wide , Anderson pushes this one well down leg-side , wide called 1.1 J Anderson to Finch , 1 run , some swing for Anderson , on a good length and a hint of shape away , Finch was pushing forward in defence , gets a thick edge towards third man , he was almost opened up there , squirts it away towards third man James Anderson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Two slips in for Anderson 0.6 Woakes to S Marsh , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Marsh leans into a crisp drive , finds the man at cover 0.5 Woakes to S Marsh , no run , short of a length and angling across Marsh , he presses across and punches it towards cover-point 0.4 Woakes to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , Woakes drifts one onto Finch 's pads , he looks to work it towards the on-side and misses , the ball rolls away towards square leg 0.3 Woakes to Finch , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Finch hops across and defends it towards the on-side 0.2 Woakes to Finch , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Finch closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on 0.1 Woakes to Finch , FOUR , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Finch leans into the drive and caresses it past short extra cover , the timing is sweet and the ball races away to the fence , good start from Finch Finch and S Marsh are at the crease. Finch is on strike. Woakes will open the attack Welcome back. . For Australia , it was an innings of two halves. The bowlers struggled against England 's top-order but made up with some sensational bowling towards the end. Starc and Faulkner were the key and they were well supported by Sandhu. England have got the runs on the board but the Australians , despite missing Warner and Watson , will back themselves to chase the score down. Join us in a while for the chase. . Australia will be pretty chuffed with their effort in the last 10 overs. England just added 59 runs and lost 6 wickets in the process. At one stage , they looked good to get a score around 350. Ian Bell was striking the ball smoothly , Joe Root looked well settled. Bell got to his 4th hundred , Root managed his 8th fifty , but things fell apart later on. Gurinder Sandhu struck twice in his 9th over , dismissing Bell and Eoin Morgan. Ravi Bopara struggled against some disciplined death over bowling from Starc and Faulkner. Jos Buttler lost his fluency as well and England might feel they have ended up at least 25 short of a challenging score . 49.6 Starc to Broad , out Woakes Run Out ! ! Excellent death bowling from Starc. He went fuller and wider as Broad backed away , Broad was n't in any position to play a shot , he just lets it go and looks to scramble a quick bye. Haddin and his under-arm throws has been outstanding today , he hits the stumps and finds Woakes just short. England end up on 303. Woakes run out ( Haddin ) 0 ( 1 ) Starc to Broad , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! The third umpire has been called for another run-out chance. Woakes is OUT Stuart Broad , left handed bat , comes to the crease 49.5 Starc to Woakes , out Buttler Run Out ! ! Another dot ball and the big hitting Buttler falls ! This was full and just outside off , Woakes pushed at that and missed. Buttler needed the strike , they decide to risk a bye. Haddin takes a step or two forward before breaking the stumps with an under-arm throw. Buttler was well short despite a valiant dive. Buttler run out ( Haddin ) 25 ( 24 ) [ 4s-2 ] Starc to Woakes , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! The third umpire has been called for a run-out chance. Buttler is already walking. He is well short. OUT is the call Chris Woakes , right handed bat , comes to the crease 49.4 Starc to Bopara , out Bowled ! ! Starc deserved this wicket ! Bopara could n't get going at all in this innings. He went right across his stumps , Starc fired the inswinging yorker , Bopara was completely beaten for pace and the ball swirled back to rattle his leg-stump. Australia have been superb in the death , Bopara 's misery is over. Bopara b Starc 7 ( 16 ) Starc to Bopara , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 49.3 Starc to Buttler , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 49.2 Starc to Bopara , 1 run , a direct hit and Bopara might have been running back to the pavilion , he was shuffling across his stumps , Starc spots it early and fires this one full and on off , driven towards mid-on. Bopara was so back in the crease that he had no chance , luckily for him , the throw missed the stumps 49.1 Starc to Bopara , no run , another terrific yorker from Starc , right at the base of off-stump , Bopara just about gets his bat down in time 48.6 Faulkner to Buttler , FOUR , a boundary for England , Buttler does n't make the same mistake again , he was looking for the yorker there , Faulkner , ends up offering a juicy full toss , drilled back over his head for a boundary 48.5 Faulkner to Bopara , 1 run , yorker length delivery and on the stumps , worked wide of mid-on for a single 48.5 Faulkner to Bopara , wide , another slower ball from Faulkner , but he sprayed it well outside off , wide called 48.4 Faulkner to Buttler , 1 run , make it 27 , but this one should have been put away , Buttler went hard on the full-toss and ends up mistiming the drive towards mid-off 48.3 Faulkner to Bopara , 1 run , short and on the stumps , pulled away to Maxwell at deep mid-wicket for a run , the last boundary came 26 balls back 48.2 Faulkner to Buttler , 1 run , another back of the hand slower ball , Buttler comes down the track and swats it to deep mid-wicket , just a single 48.1 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , the slower ball from Faulkner , angling across the right-hander , Buttler went for the reverse pull and misses 47.6 Starc to Buttler , leg byes , 1 run , this is excellent bowling from Starc , full and tailing back into Buttler , he has no room on the whip , misses and the ball lobs off his pads , just a leg-bye 47.5 Starc to Buttler , 2 runs , Starc goes full and just outside off , Buttler was looking to go back over the bowler 's head , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up slicing it over mid-off for a couple of runs 47.4 Starc to Buttler , 2 runs , the bouncer from Starc , Buttler does n't get hold of the pull , the ball dribbles away towards backward square leg , just a couple of runs 47.3 Starc to Buttler , no run , short of a length and angling away from the right-hander , Buttler pushes at that and misses 47.2 Starc to Bopara , 1 run , this is excellent bowling from Starc , slips in the yorker at the base of leg-stump , worked away past mid-wicket for a single 47.2 Starc to Bopara , wide , Starc goes for the wide yorker , ends up spraying it wider outside off , called by the umpire 47.1 Starc to Bopara , no run , another slower bouncer from Starc , Bopara was way too early on the pull , the ball lobs off the toe-end and loops towards cover 46.6 Faulkner to Buttler , 2 runs , on a good length and on the stumps , tucked away in front of mid-wicket for an easy couple 46.5 Faulkner to Buttler , 2 runs , full and on the stumps , flicked away wide of long-on for a couple of runs 46.5 Faulkner to Buttler , wide , the back of the hand slower ball now , goes a bit too wide though , called by the umpire 46.4 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , great change in variation from Faulkner , slips in the off-cutter now , Buttler plays inside the line and misses 46.3 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Buttler prods across and defends it 46.2 Faulkner to Bopara , leg byes , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Bopara 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads 46.1 Faulkner to Buttler , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Buttler slices it towards sweeper cover , the spin of the ball almost fools Cummins , he does well to dive across and keeps the batsmen down to a single James Faulkner [ 8.0-0-44-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Starc to Bopara , no run , the bouncer from Starc , Bopara ducks underneath it and lets it go 45.5 Starc to Bopara , 2 runs , Starc loses his line , full and on Bopara 's pads , flicked away towards fine leg for a couple of runs 45.4 Starc to Bopara , no run , yorker length delivery and just outside off , Bopara ca n't get any bat on that , another superb ball in the death overs 45.3 Starc to Bopara , no run , the slower bouncer now , Bopara was way too early on the pull and missed , the ball grazes the shoulder on the way to the keeper 45.2 Starc to Bopara , no run , Starc slips in the slower ball as Bopara advanced down the track , defended back towards the bowler 45.1 Starc to Bopara , no run , on a length and just outside off , Bopara shuffles across and defends it Mitchell Starc [ 7.0-0-50-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 P Cummins to Bopara , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Bopara pushes it in front of mid-on and sets off for a quick single 44.5 P Cummins to Bopara , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Bopara plays with an open face and guides it towards backward point Ravi Bopara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.4 P Cummins to J Root , out Caught by Finch ! ! Cummins has a wicket as well ! This was pitched up and held its line outside off , Root was backing away , has to reach out for the shovel over mid-on , he did n't get enough power behind the shot and finds Finch to perfection at mid-on. England are losing too many wickets here. J Root c Finch b P Cummins 69 ( 70 ) [ 4s-6 ] P Cummins to J Root , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.3 P Cummins to Buttler , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , Buttler backs away and tucks it in front of point for a single 44.2 P Cummins to J Root , 1 run , Cummins follows Root with a low full toss as the batsman backed away , flicked away towards mid-wicket for a single 44.2 P Cummins to J Root , wide , the slower bouncer from Cummins , a bit too high though , wide called 44.1 P Cummins to Buttler , 1 run , Cummins goes short and wide as Buttler backed away , worked away towards deep cover 43.6 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , FOUR , there 's no justice for the bowlers on this deck , this was perfectly bowled by Sandhu , on a good length and just outside off , Root was looking for the reverse scoop , changes his shot at the last moment and plays the reverse sweep , beats the man in the ring and races away to the fence 43.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Buttler , 1 run , Sandhu goes for the yorker and offers a low full toss , flicked away off the inside edge behind square for a single 43.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Buttler , FOUR , edged and four , full and wide from Sandhu , Buttler went hard on the drive , gets a thick edge , the third man was inside the ring , the ball races away to the fence 43.3 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , the slower ball from Sandhu , pulled away towards deep mid-wicket for a single 43.2 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , full and slanting into Root , driven back towards the bowler 43.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Buttler , 1 run , the slower ball from Sandhu , eased towards deep cover for a single 42.6 P Cummins to J Root , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Root prods across and defends it towards the on-side 42.5 P Cummins to J Root , FOUR , that 's beautifully played by Root , shuffles across his stumps , waits on the low full toss and paddles it up and over short fine , one bounce and over the ropes 42.4 P Cummins to Buttler , 1 run , full and on Buttler 's pads , clipped away in front of square on the on-side for a single 42.3 P Cummins to Buttler , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed in front of point , Root set off for a quick single and is sent back 42.2 P Cummins to Buttler , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , left alone 42.1 P Cummins to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , worked away towards long-on for a single 41.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Buttler , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Buttler stays back and defends it 41.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Buttler , no run , on a good length and a hint of nip back into Buttler , defended with a straight bat Jos Buttler , right handed bat , comes to the crease 41.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Eoin Morgan , out Caught by Haddin ! ! First ball duck for England 's captain. Two wickets in the over for Sandhu , this was a back of a length delivery that seamed across the left-hander , Morgan was rooted to his crease as he poked at that , gets a thick edge and a simple catch to the keeper. A massive setback for England , Morgan could have dominated the final few overs. Eoin Morgan c Haddin b Gurinder Sandhu 0 ( 1 ) Gurinder Sandhu to Eoin Morgan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.3 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Root shuffles across and flicks it past mid-wicket for a single Eoin Morgan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 41.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , out Caught by Starc ! ! Bell 's fine innings comes to an end. He departs after an entertaining 141. This was the slower ball bouncer from Sandhu , Bell was advancing down the track , he had no pace to use , has to generate all the power himself as he attempted to swat it over mid-off , ends up looping it in the air. Starc runs back from mid-off , keeps his eyes on the ball and holds onto a fine tumbling catch over his shoulder. Bell gets a big ovation as he walks back to the hut. Bell c Starc b Gurinder Sandhu 141 ( 125 ) [ 4s-15 6s-1 ] Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.1 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , pulled away towards deep mid-wicket for a single Gurinder Sandhu [ 8.0-0-36-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 P Cummins to Bell , no run , yorker length delivery and just outside off , squeezed away towards backward point 40.5 P Cummins to Bell , no run , another short ball from Cummins , extra pace and bounce as well , Bell backed away on the pull , loses his shape and misses the ball completely 40.4 P Cummins to Bell , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Bell backs away and pushes it towards cover 40.3 P Cummins to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 40.2 P Cummins to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Bell steers it down towards third man for a single 40.1 P Cummins to Bell , SIX , top-edge and six , this was banged in short and just outside off , Bell went for the pull , did n't hit it cleanly , but the small boundaries help the ball sail into the crowd at mid-wicket 39.6 Faulkner to J Root , 2 runs , on a length and on the stumps , Root comes down the track and works it in front of square on the on-side , back for the second run 39.5 Faulkner to Bell , 3 runs , short and on off , Bell makes room by backing away and slices it over cover , the fielder in the deep gets across , puts in the slide and drags the ball back in , saves a run for his team. Henriques was the fielder 39.4 Faulkner to Bell , no run , another back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , Bell runs down the track , is completely done in by the lack of pace , gets beaten by a long way 39.3 Faulkner to J Root , 1 run , the back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , Root spotted it early , waits on the back-foot and pulls it towards mid-wicket for a single 39.2 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , short and on off , Bell makes room by backing away and cuts it square on the off-side , he wanted a second run but the fielder is quick onto the ball 39.1 Faulkner to Bell , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bell makes room and drives it towards cover 38.6 P Cummins to Bell , 1 run , short and just outside off , Bell waits on it and runs it down towards third man for a single 38.5 P Cummins to J Root , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Root leans forward and drives it towards sweeper cover for a single 38.4 P Cummins to J Root , 2 runs , fifty for Root , his 8th ODI fifty , this has been a handy knock , length ball on Root 's pads , clipped away backward of square on the on-side for a couple of runs 38.3 P Cummins to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 38.2 P Cummins to Bell , FOUR , Bell is opening his shoulders here , this was a length ball on off , Bell clears his left leg and lofts it through the line , clears mid-off and races away to the fence for a boundary 38.1 P Cummins to J Root , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , worked past mid-wicket for a single Pat Cummins [ 6.0-0-45-0 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Faulkner to Bell , FOUR , cracking shot , width on offer from Faulkner , Bell makes room by backing away and cracks it square past the diving point fielder , there 's no one in the deep and the ball races away to the fence 37.5 Faulkner to J Root , leg byes , 1 run , full and on Root 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , mild shout for LBW , but the ball had pitched well outside leg 37.4 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , Faulkner shortens his length on off , Bell backs away and works it wide of cover for a single 37.3 Faulkner to Bell , no run , slower ball , Bell looks to heave it to cow corner , is deceived by the lack of pace 37.2 Faulkner to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , eased down towards long-on for a single 37.1 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , Bell makes room and slaps it to deep point for a single James Faulkner [ 6.0-0-30-1 ] is back into the attack 36 runs in ther batting PP. Steady going from England , they have plenty of big hitters lined up and ready to launch. . 36.6 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Root shuffles across and flicks it towards mid-wicket 36.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , the slower ball from Sandhu , Bell gets on top of the ball and eases it past cover-point for a single 36.4 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , yorker length delivery and on Root 's pads , flicked behind square for a single 36.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , another short ball from Sandhu , Bell leans forward and pulls it over square leg , there 's a man in the deep , just a single 36.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , FOUR , too short from Sandhu , Bell is quick rock and pulls it over mid-wicket , the man in the deep is very square , the ball beats him to the fence 36.1 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , Root swivels across and pulls it past square leg for a single 35.6 Starc to Bell , no run , Starc keeps this one full and on the stumps even as Bell backed away , defended towards backward point 35.5 Starc to Bell , 2 runs , the slower ball from Starc , he rolled his fingers around it , Bell goes over cover with the drive , did n't get hold of the shot and settles for a couple 35.4 Starc to Bell , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Starc , yorker length delivery and just outside off , Bell was late as he attempted to glide it towards third man , the ball goes past the outside edge Back to over the wicket 35.3 Starc to J Root , 1 run , full and angling into Root , worked wide of mid-on for a run 35.2 Starc to J Root , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Root leans into the drive and gets it square past point , back for the second run Starc switches to round the wicket 35.1 Starc to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and on Bell 's hips , tucked in front of square leg for a single 34.6 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , full toss from Sandhu , Root will feel he missed out there , flicked straight to mid-wicket 34.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 leg byes , another slower ball from Sandhu , nudged in front of square leg for a single , the ball infact went off the thigh pad 34.4 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and on the stumps , worked towards mid-on for a single 34.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , the slower ball from Sandhu , he rolled his fingers around it , worked away towards fine leg for a single 34.2 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Root swivels across and pulls it down towards long leg for a single 34.1 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with an open face towards backward point Gurinder Sandhu [ 6.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Australia have been listless at times , the small boundaries have made defending even more tougher. England look good for a score around 320 33.6 Starc to Bell , no run , full and wide from Starc , Bell plays with an open face and squeezes it towards backward point 33.5 Starc to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 33.4 Starc to J Root , FOUR , too straight from Starc , ends up drifting onto Root 's pads , he walks across and flicks it behind square for a boundary 33.3 Starc to Bell , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , sliced away towards sweeper cover for a single 33.2 Starc to J Root , 1 run , short of a length and shaping away , dabbed away towards third man for a single 33.1 Starc to J Root , FOUR , edged and four , on a good length and slanting across the right-hander , Root went hard on the drive , gets a thick edge that runs away to the fence , third man was a bit too square Mitchell Starc [ 5.0-0-33-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 P Cummins to J Root , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 32.5 P Cummins to J Root , no run , tad fuller and well outside off , Root leans forward and pushes it towards backward point 32.4 P Cummins to J Root , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Root presses across and defends it 32.3 P Cummins to Bell , 1 run , short and wide from Cummins , slapped away square on the off-side for a single 32.2 P Cummins to Bell , FOUR , that 's exquisite timing from Bell , short and wide from Cummins , Bell gets on top of the bounce and cuts it square behind point , beats Sandhu getting across from third man , another boundary for Bell 32.1 P Cummins to J Root , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Root plays with an open face and guides it down towards third man England have decided to take an early batting PP. Both batsmen have looked settled , will they throw their bats around in the next 5 overs ? 31.6 Henriques to J Root , 1 run , full toss from Henriques , punched down towards long-on for a single 31.5 Henriques to J Root , 2 runs , full and on off , worked past square leg for a couple of easy runs 31.4 Henriques to Bell , 1 run , tad fuller and on the stumps , eased down towards long-on for a single 31.3 Henriques to Bell , no run , on a length and holding its line outside off , Bell looks to force it away off the back-foot , gets an inside edge high onto his pads 31.2 Henriques to J Root , 1 run , tad fuller and on Root 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 31.1 Henriques to Bell , 1 run , Henriques slips in the slower ball , Bell waits on it and chops it away towards third man 30.6 P Cummins to J Root , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Root leans forward and pushes it towards cover 30.5 P Cummins to J Root , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with an open face towards cover-point 30.4 P Cummins to Bell , 1 run , hundred for Bell , his 4th in ODIs , 3rd as an opener , he punches the air in delight , lifts his helmet and raises his bat to all parts of the ground , his first against Australia 30.3 P Cummins to J Root , 1 run , half-volley on Root 's pads , whipped away in front of square on the on-side for a single 30.2 P Cummins to J Root , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , Root looks to cut and misses 30.1 P Cummins to J Root , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Root presses across and defends it Pat Cummins [ 4.0-0-36-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Henriques to Bell , no run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Bell pushes it back to Henriques. He will have to wait for another over to get to the landmark 29.5 Henriques to Bell , no run , short of length and outside off again , Bell gently dabs it towards point 29.4 Henriques to Bell , no run , back of a length and outside off , Bell knocks it behind point , straight to the fielder 29.3 Henriques to J Root , 1 run , straighter one from Henriques , Root drives it with the full face of the bat to mid-on , where Sandhu fields beautifully 29.2 Henriques to J Root , 2 runs , fuller and coming back in on middle and leg , Root flicks it to deep mid-wicket , Marsh does well at the rope to field the ball and is quick to throw it back as well 29.1 Henriques to J Root , no run , touch back of a length around off , Root gets forward and defends it with an angled bat towards cover Moises Henriques [ 5.0-0-25-1 ] is back into the attack Henriques replaces Starc in the attack . 28.6 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Root steers it to square third man 28.5 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , length delivery around off , Root presses on the front foot and pats it to cover-point 28.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and wide of off , Bell dabs it with an open bat face towards third man and moves on to 99 28.3 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , fuller and straying onto the pads , Root leans forward and clips it to deep backward square leg 28.2 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , length delivery outside off , Root presses forward and bunts it to point , who moves to his left and fields it 28.1 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Root shuffles across and tucks it to short mid-wicket 27.6 Starc to J Root , 1 run , length delivery around off , Root punch-drives it to deep extra cover 27.5 Starc to J Root , FOUR , shortish on the stumps , Root is quick to swivel on the back foot and pulls it elegantly to the fine leg fence 27.4 Starc to Bell , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it to deep extra cover , becomes the leading run-scorer for Engalnd in ODIs with that single 27.3 Starc to Bell , no run , shout of 'catch it ' but does not look like the ball carried to Steve Smith at short cover. Bell leans into the drive , the ball was in the air for a while but falls just short of Smith 27.2 Starc to J Root , 1 run , fuller and around off again , Root drives it to sweeper cover 27.1 Starc to Bell , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Bell presses forward and eases it to sweeper cover 26.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 3 runs , short and pulled to deep mid-wicket , Faulkner slides near the rope and drags it back , then throws it to the long-on fielder 26.5 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , 1 run , on the pads , Root whips it to deep square leg 26.4 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , gets forward and pushes this length delivery into the off-side towards cover 26.3 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , FOUR , short of length and outside off , Root gets back , opens the face of his bat and looks to cut , gets a thick outside edge and the ball runs down to the third man fence 26.2 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , length delivery around off , Root gets forward and bunts it to point 26.1 Gurinder Sandhu to J Root , no run , back of a length outside off , Root guides it behind point , wants a single but is sent back Gurinder Sandhu [ 4.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack Joe Root is getting some attention from the physio. He is applying some bandage on Root 's neck . 25.6 Starc to Bell , no run , touch fuller and straighter , Bell knocks it towards point 25.5 Starc to J Root , 1 run , shortish one , Root gets back and pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 25.4 Starc to Bell , 1 run , good length ball angled across , Bell comes forward and drives it to sweeper cover 25.3 Starc to J Root , 1 run , overpitched this time and wide of off , Root punch-drives it to deep extra cover , finds the fielder 25.2 Starc to J Root , no run , back of a length again on middle and leg this time , Root blocks it with a straightish bat off the back foot 25.1 Starc to J Root , no run , back of a length and angled across the right-hander , Root dabs it with an open bat face behind point Mitchell Starc [ 3.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack This is Ian Bell 's highest score against Australia in ODIs . 24.6 Henriques to Bell , no run , touch back of a length and just outside off , Bell defends it to short cover 24.5 Henriques to Bell , no run , length delivery around off , Bell gets forward and pushes it to mid-off 24.4 Henriques to Bell , FOUR , short of length and angling in the pads , Bell shuffles across , uses his wrists and flicks it to the fine leg fence 24.3 Henriques to Bell , no run , yorker on middle , Bell manages to squeeze it towards deep mid-wicket 24.2 Henriques to Bell , no run , back of a length and around off , Bell dabs it behind point 24.1 Henriques to Bell , FOUR , another wonderful boundary for Bell , he comes on the front foot to this fullish ball and drives it a tad uppishly to the extra cover fence , Smith leaps up at cover but is not able to stop the ball as it goes well over him 23.6 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and angled across , Bell stays back and pats it to cover-point for a quick single 23.5 Faulkner to Bell , 2 runs , gets forward to this length ball around off , Bell drives it to deep extra cover 23.5 Faulkner to Bell , wide , back of the hand slower ball well outside off 23.4 Faulkner to J Root , 1 run , length delivery on middle and off , Root nudges it to deep mid-wicket 23.3 Faulkner to J Root , no run , straighter one from Faulkner , Root drives it back to the bowler 23.2 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Bell makes room and cut , the ball flies off the toe-end of the bat to the right of Haddin , who dives full length , he gets a hand to it but is unable to hold on , the ball runs down to third man. It was a tough chance but Haddin dropped it 23.1 Faulkner to J Root , 1 run , back of a length and angled across , Root steers it down to third man 22.6 Henriques to J Root , 1 run , short of length and coming back into the batsman , Root hops back and turns it to mid-wicket 22.5 Henriques to J Root , 2 runs , fuller and outside off , Root drives it just behind point to get off the mark 22.4 Henriques to J Root , no run , fuller one just outside off , Root drives it softly to the left of the bowler , who moves across and fields it 22.3 Henriques to J Root , no run , length ball around off , Root presses on the front foot and defends it to point Joe Root , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.2 Henriques to James Taylor , out Caught by Faulkner ! ! Soft dismissal for Taylor ! It was a fuller one from Henriques on off , Taylor checks his front foot drive at the last instant , ends up scooping the ball off the toe-end , straight into the hands of Faulkner at mid-off. The pressure was probably building on the young batsman as he was finding it difficult to score runs. James Taylor c Faulkner b Henriques 5 ( 14 ) Henriques to James Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.1 Henriques to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Bell guides it with an open bat face to third man 21.6 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it softly towards long-off for a comfortable single 21.5 Faulkner to James Taylor , 1 run , opens the face of his bat and runs it down to third man 21.4 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , gets forward to this fuller length delivery on off and drives it to long-off 21.3 Faulkner to Bell , no run , touch back of a length around off , Bell knocks it towards point 21.2 Faulkner to Bell , FOUR , powerful shot from Bell , he did not middle it but the ball had enough to reach the fence , clears his front leg , picks up this fuller length ball and slogs it to long-on 21.1 Faulkner to James Taylor , 1 run , fuller and angled on middle and leg , Taylor drives it to mid-on for a brisk run 20.6 Henriques to Bell , no run , just short of a good length on middle , Bell punches it back to the bowler 20.5 Henriques to James Taylor , 1 run , shortish and outside off , the ball flies off the outside edge of Taylor 's bat to third man as he looks to cut , there was some extra bounce on that one 20.4 Henriques to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Bell stays back and helps it towards third man 20.3 Henriques to Bell , no run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Bell turns it to short mid-wicket 20.2 Henriques to James Taylor , 1 run , shortish one from Henriques , Taylor drags the pull from outside off to deep backward square leg 20.1 Henriques to Bell , 1 run , fuller on off , Bell comes forward and drives it straight down the ground , the long-off fielder moves slightly to this right and fields it 19.6 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , makes room and flashes at this short of length wide ball , it goes off the outside edge to third man 19.5 Faulkner to James Taylor , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Taylor cracks it to square third man 19.4 Faulkner to James Taylor , no run , length ball just outside off , Taylor knocks it in front of point 19.3 Faulkner to James Taylor , no run , fuller on middle and off , Taylor gets forward and drills it down the pitch , the bowler fields it by moving to his right 19.2 Faulkner to James Taylor , no run , full and around off , Taylor presses forward and drives it forcefully , but finds the fielder at short cover 19.1 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 18.6 Henriques to James Taylor , no run , back of a length and outside off , Taylor guides it to backward point , where Smith dives to his left and makes a fine stop 18.5 Henriques to James Taylor , no run , back of a length and angling in on middle and leg , Taylor looks to work it into the on-side , gets a leading edge to point 18.4 Henriques to James Taylor , no run , back of a length and moving away from the batsman , Taylor gets forward and looks to dab , the ball beats the outside edge 18.3 Henriques to Bell , 1 run , full on off , Bell punch-drives it to long-on 18.2 Henriques to Bell , no run , closer to the off-stump line , Bell covers the sticks and lets that go through 18.1 Henriques to Bell , 2 runs , shuffles across and turns this fuller length delivery on middle and off to deep mid-wicket 17.6 Faulkner to James Taylor , no run , back of a length and outside off , Taylor slaps it behind point 17.5 Faulkner to James Taylor , no run , fullish and around off , Taylor taps it to short cover James Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now. England started off in a positive fashion , putting up a 113-run opening stand. Bell made his intent clear right at the beginning and has went on to score his 33rd ODI fifty. Ali then fell for a well made 46 . 17.4 Faulkner to Moeen Ali , out Caught by ( sub ) Doherty ! ! Moeen Ali perishes as he looks for quick runs ! Faulkner sees him skipping down the track and drags his length back , Ali goes through with the heave , miscues it , the ball goes off the top-edge and flies into the off-side , Doherty at extra cover does well to settle under it and takes a well judged catch. Moeen Ali c ( sub ) Doherty b Faulkner 46 ( 48 ) [ 4s-3 6s-3 ] Faulkner to Moeen Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.3 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , on the hips , Bell shuffles across and works it to square leg 17.2 Faulkner to Moeen Ali , 1 run , back of a length and on the hips , Ali tucks it to deep square leg 17.1 Faulkner to Moeen Ali , no run, 16.6 Henriques to Bell , 2 runs , back of a length and on the pads , Bell clips it through backward square leg for a brace 16.5 Henriques to Bell , no run , around the off-stump line again , Bell punch-drives it to the left of the bowler 16.4 Henriques to Bell , 2 runs , fuller just outside off , Bell comes froward and drives it to deep extra cover 16.3 Henriques to Moeen Ali , 1 run , pitched up around off , Ali comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off , the fielder runs across to his left and makes a fine stop 16.2 Henriques to Bell , 1 run , short of length on middle , Bell gets back and pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 16.1 Henriques to Bell , no run , fuller on middle and off , Bell defends it to short mid-wicket Moises Henriques , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 15.6 Faulkner to Moeen Ali , no run , beaten ! The ball shapes away from Ali as he looks to poke at it with laden feet , goes through to the keeper 15.5 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , presents the full face of the bat and drills it to long-off 15.4 Faulkner to Bell , no run , short of length and outside off , Bell looks to guide it towards third man but is beaten by the extra bounce 15.3 Faulkner to Bell , 2 runs , guides this length ball to deep backward point for another brace 15.2 Faulkner to Bell , 2 runs , fuller length delivery just outside off , Bell powerfully drives it between extra cover and mid-off this time , but finds the long-off fielder 15.1 Faulkner to Bell , 2 runs , fullish and around off , Bell comes on the front foot and plays the lofted drive to deep extra cover , the ball falls in the no-man 's land 14.6 Maxwell to Moeen Ali , FOUR , Ali quickly gets down on one knee this time and slog sweeps it to the deep mid-wicket fence 14.5 Maxwell to Moeen Ali , FOUR , shortish and around leg , Ali gets back to pull , does not connect properly , but the ball races to the fine leg fence , the fine leg fielder was inside the circle , he gives the ball a chase but it beats him to the fence 14.4 Maxwell to Bell , 1 run , goes on the back foot and pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 14.3 Maxwell to Moeen Ali , 1 run , uses the depth of the crease this time to punch this shortish ball to long-on 14.2 Maxwell to Bell , 1 run , uses his feet on this shortish ball and punches it to long-on 14.1 Maxwell to Bell , no run , flighted on leg , Bell clips it to short mid-wicket 13.6 Faulkner to Moeen Ali , no run , continues with the fuller length and bowls this one onto the pads , Ali flicks it towards mid-on 13.5 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , fullish and just outside off , Bell drives it to sweeper cover 13.4 Faulkner to Bell , no run , length ball coming back into the batsman , Bell defends it to the right of the bowler , who moves across and fields it with his boots 13.3 Faulkner to Moeen Ali , 1 run , Ali stays back , opens the face of his bat and runs it down to third man 13.2 Faulkner to Bell , 1 run , fuller on off , Bell gets forward and drills it to long-off to get to his 33rd ODI fifty , he raises his bat and acknowledges the applauding crowd 13.1 Faulkner to Bell , no run , length delivery around off , Bell drives it to mid-off James Faulkner , comes into the attack Another bowling change as Faulkner replaces Sandhu 12.6 Maxwell to Bell , 1 run , Bell shuffles across and nudges it to square leg 12.5 Maxwell to Moeen Ali , 1 run , leans forward and turns it towards mid-wicket 12.4 Maxwell to Bell , byes , 1 run , Bell gets down on one knee and looks to reverse sweep , the ball goes on straight with the arm as he fails to connect , it misses the stumps as well , also the keeper is not able to collect it cleanly 12.3 Maxwell to Moeen Ali , 1 run , skips forward and punches it to extra cover , a slight misfield allows the batsmen to run a single 12.2 Maxwell to Moeen Ali , no run , gets forward and pushes at this fullish ball , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat into the leg-side 12.1 Maxwell to Bell , 1 run , drifts it onto the pads , Bell moves across and glances it to deep square leg 11.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Moeen Ali , no run , on the hips , Ali tucks it towards short mid-wicket 11.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and on the hips , Bell tucks it through backward square leg , the batsmen initially think about the second run but decide against it as the throw comes in from the deep 11.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Moeen Ali , 1 run , fuller and straying onto the pads , Ali shuffles across and clips it to deep mid-wicket 11.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Moeen Ali , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Ali gets forward and punches it to mid-off 11.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Moeen Ali , no run , short of length on middle , Ali stays inside the line and pushes it back to Sandhu 11.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , hops back in the crease and guides this back of a length delivery towards third man with an open bat face 10.6 Maxwell to Bell , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-on 10.5 Maxwell to Bell , FOUR , drifts it in , Bell bends down and reverse sweeps it to third man , the ball beats the fielder at short third man and crosses the rope comfortably 10.4 Maxwell to Moeen Ali , 1 run , comes forward and taps it to cover-point for a quick single 10.3 Maxwell to Moeen Ali , no run , gets down on one knee and looks to sweep , misses as the ball goes on straight , through to the keeper 10.2 Maxwell to Moeen Ali , no run , full around off , Ali gets forward and drives it to Maxwell 10.1 Maxwell to Bell , 1 run , flighted around off , Bell drives it to sweeper cover Glenn Maxwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack This is the best powerplay score in the series ! 9.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , short of length and in the channel outside off , Bell runs it down to third man 9.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , no run , back of a length around off , Bell punches if off the back foot in front of point 9.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Moeen Ali , 1 run , shortish ball on middle and leg , Ali pulls off the back foot , he has not middled it , it flies off the top edge to deep square leg , falls in no-man 's land , Maxwell runs forward from the deep but is unable to reach to the ball 9.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , stays back , opens the bat face and helps this back of a length widish delivery towards third man 9.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , no run , length delivery around off , Bell gets forward and taps it to cover 9.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , no run , touch back of a length on middle and off , Bell pushes it back to Sandhu 8.6 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , no run , tucks it behind square on the leg-side 8.5 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , SIX , three maximums in a row , thanks to Marsh at deep square leg ! Ali goes for the pull shot yet again , Marsh is near the rope , he bends backwards raising his hands over his head , catches the ball but is unable to hold on , loses his balance and tries to throw the ball , but is unable to do so and drags the ball back with him as he tumbles over the rope 8.4 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , SIX , back-to-back sixes for Ali ! This time , the ball has gone off the middle of the bat , rocks back and muscles the pull beautifully over backward square leg 8.3 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , SIX , banged in short by Cummins , Ali swivels back and pulls , the ball goes off the toe-end of the bat just over the deep mid-wicket fence 8.2 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , no run , punches this length ball straight to the mid-off fielder 8.1 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , no run , beaten ! Ali goes on the back foot and looks to slap this back of a length delivery into the off-side , misses as the ball shapes away from him 7.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Moeen Ali , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Ali runs it down to third man for a comfortable single 7.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , outside off , Bell opens the bat face and guides it to third man 7.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , no run , presents the full face of the bat and drives it back to the bowler 7.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Moeen Ali , 1 run , short of length and angled across , Moeen cuts it in the air , the ball flies off the outside edge to square third man , it was wide of the fielder 7.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Moeen Ali , no run , angled across the left-hander , Ali looks to steer it towards third man and is beaten 7.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Moeen Ali , no run , outswinger from Sandhu this time , Ali is beaten neck and crop as he prods at it with laden feet 6.6 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , 1 run , shortish and pulled by Ali to deep square leg , goes on the bounce to the fielder after remaining in the air for some time 6.5 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , no run , Ali has a waft at this outswinger from Cummins , misses the drive and the ball travels into the keeper 's gloves 6.4 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , no run , lovely delivery from Cummins ! This one shapes away just a touch after pitching on middle and off , beats the outside edge of Ali 's bat as he looks to push at it and goes through to the keeper 6.3 P Cummins to Bell , 1 run , touch back of a length and outside off , Bell runs it down to third man with an open bat face 6.2 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , 1 run , bangs it short this time on middle and leg , Ali gets back and pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket , finds the fielder there 6.1 P Cummins to Bell , 3 runs , Bell displays the full face of his bat yet again and drives this full and straight delivery to long-on , it is fielded just near the rope Pat Cummins [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , 1 run , straighter one from Sandhu , Bell punches it straight down the ground for a comfortable single , mid-on moves across and fields it well 5.5 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , FOUR , Sandhu switches back to bowling full , it was on the off-stump line , Bell gets forward and drills it to the long-off fence with the full face of the bat , the fielder looks to stop the ball with his boot near the rope but is unsuccessful 5.4 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , no run , back of length delivery this time on off , Bell stays back and blocks it to the right of the bowler 5.3 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , no run , fuller again on middle and off , Bell punch-drives it to mid-on 5.2 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , no run , fullish and on middle , Bell defends it to mid-on with the full face of the bat One slip in place 5.1 Gurinder Sandhu to Bell , no run , length ball on middle and leg , Bell defends it with a straightish bat to short mid-wicket Gurinder Sandhu , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 4.6 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , short of length and on the hips , Ali hops back and tucks it just in front of square on the leg-side 4.5 Starc to Bell , 1 run , angling onto the pads , Bell shuffles across a touch and clips it to fine leg 4.4 Starc to Bell , FOUR , cracking shot , that is Bell 's sixth boundary already ! This time Starc bowls it a touch fuller and outside off , Bell caresses the drive off the front foot to deep extra cover 4.3 Starc to Bell , no run , terrific delivery from Starc and a good leave by Bell ! It was much closer to the off-stump and he dragged back the length as well , Bell covers the line and lets it go through 4.2 Starc to Bell , no run , coming back into the batsman , Bell turns it towards the right of the bowler 4.1 Starc to Moeen Ali , 1 run , fuller and on middle and leg , Ali looks to clip , the ball goes off the inside edge to deep square leg 3.6 P Cummins to Bell , no run , Cummins tempts Bell with this outswinger , Bell gets forward to drive and is beaten 3.5 P Cummins to Bell , FOUR , shortish and width on offer as well , Bell slaps it powerfully to the deep point fence , that was a beautiful example of the square cut 3.4 P Cummins to Bell , no run , shortish on off , Bell gets back and looks to pull initially , takes his bat out of the way at the last instant 3.3 P Cummins to Bell , FOUR , full and angled onto the pads , Bell quickly leans forward and wristily clips it to the deep mid-wicket fence 3.2 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , 1 run , comes on the front foot and past it to mid-off for a quick single 3.1 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , no run , back of a length and coming back in on middle and leg , Ali tucks it towards short mid-wicket 2.6 Starc to Bell , FOUR , another outswinger from Starc , Bell gets forward to drive it into the off-side , the ball flies off the outside half of the bat and runs down to third man , 12 runs came off that over 2.5 Starc to Bell , no run , back of a length and outside off , Bell pushes it into the off-side 2.4 Starc to Bell , FOUR , excellent timing by Bell ! It was a good length delivery around off , Bell comes on the front foot and plays the cover drive to perfection , the ball races away to the sweeper cover fence 2.3 Starc to Bell , no run , fuller and just moving away from the batsman , Bell lifts his bat and lets it go 2.2 Starc to Bell , no run , gets forward to this fullish ball and knocks it towards cover-point 2.1 Starc to Bell , FOUR , good-looking shot by Bell ! It was a fuller ball just outside off from Starc , draws Bell on the front foot , who leans into it and creams the drive to the deep point fence. Bell gets to 5000 ODI runs 1.6 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , no run , length delivery on off , Ali defends it with an angled bat off the front foot 1.5 P Cummins to Bell , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Bell stays back and flashes at it , the ball flies off the outside edge wide of the second slip towards third man 1.4 P Cummins to Bell , no run , teasing line outside off , Bell covers the sticks and shoulders arms to it 1.3 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , 1 run , short of length and angled across the left-hander , Ali guides it with an open bat face to third man 1.2 P Cummins to Moeen Ali , no run , length ball just outside off , Ali defends it to the right of the bowler 1.1 P Cummins to Bell , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Bell reaches out and flays at it awkwardly towards extra cover , the ball almost came off the bottom of the bat Pat Cummins , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , presents the full face of the bat and defends it back to Starc 0.5 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , Ali gets forward and pushes this length ball around off towards cover 0.4 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , lovely delivery by Starc ! The yorker sharply jags back in , Ali brings his bat down and manages to squeeze it back to the bowler 0.3 Starc to Moeen Ali , FOUR , nicely done by Ali. Fuller and straying onto the pads , Ali leans in front , rolls his wrists and flicks it to the deep mid-wicket fence 0.2 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , fullish and coming back into the batsman , Ali leans and turns it towards mid-on 0.1 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , length delivery to start off , wide of off , Ali opens the face of the bat and helps it behind point Moeen Ali and Bell are at the crease. Moeen Ali is on strike. Starc will open the attack The Australian players are taking their places on the field. Moeen Ali and Ian Bell have walked out to the middle. Mitchell Starc to start off. Two slips to assist him.. . Teams : Australia ( Playing XI ) : Aaron Finch , Cameron White , Shaun Marsh , Steven Smith ( c ) , Glenn Maxwell , Moises Henriques , Brad Haddin ( w ) , James Faulkner , Pat Cummins , Mitchell Starc , Gurinder Sandhu England ( Playing XI ) : Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , James Anderson , Steven Finn Eoin Morgan : " The pitch is looking good. Do n't think it will change much so we are not too concerned about having to bat first. We have the capability to chase down scores as well. The guys are in a good place at the moment and they are looking to improve. Hopefully , we can grab a bit of momentum and perform like the previous game. Yeah , Mitchell Starc is a threat , he is an excellent bowler. " Steven Smith : " We will bowl first. There is a little bit of moisture in the wicket so we will try to use it. It was disappointing for George ( Bailey ) not to play in front of his home crowd but we are not too worried. We have the same bowling attack. Shaun Marsh , Cameron White and Moises Henriques come in. " Australia have won the toss and have opted to field The news from the Australian camp is that Moises Henriques will be replacing an injured Shane Watson. England are unchanged . Meanwhile , England have a firing James Anderson and back to form Steven Finn. The four-man pace attack did an excellent job against India. However , it will have to be seen whether England will go in with the same combination. The batting looks good with Ian Bell and James Taylor helping themselves to fifties in the previous game and Eoin Morgan scoring a hundred in the first game. Nonetheless , can they stop a fiery Mitchell Starc ? Hello and welcome to the fourth ODI of the tri-series , being played at the Bellerive Oval. Stay tuned as the toss and teams are not far away.. . Steven Smith will lead Australia in Bailey 's absence. Shaun Marsh and Cameron White have been drafted into the 15-member squad. The latter is back in the ODI side after a span of more than three years. It looks most likely that Marsh and White will get a game. Australia may go in with an extra bowler and push James Faulkner up the order . England 's huge win against India should boost their morale as they take on an Australian side that is without three key players. George Bailey has been handed suspension due to a slow over rate against India at Melbourne. David Warner who scored a belligerent 127 when these two teams met for the first time in the series has been rested with a hamstring scare. Shane Watson , on the other hand , was a late back-out as he complained of hamstring tightness during training . Preview The equation for Australia at Hobart 's Bellerive Oval on Friday is simple : Win and secure a spot in the Carlton Mid Tri-Series final on February 1. For England , coming off a massive win over India , the challenge is to repeat that against the team that beat them with three wickets and 61 balls remaining in the series opener last week. Australia have bossed England in limited-overs cricket in recent years , but without three first-choice players for game four of the competition they will need to play harder to beat England . With two wins out of two , Australia lead the points table with nine while England are second after taking a bonus point from a nine-wicket thrashing of India at the Gabba earlier in the week. That win was their biggest win in terms of balls remaining ( 135 ) in the ODI format and Eoin Morgan will hope it proves a catalyst for a turnaround in fortunes after a chastising 2014 . Considering the ease with which England bowled out India 153 in 39.3 overs , with Steven Finn and James Anderson sharing nine wickets , and then chased down the target in 27.3 overs , there is no need to tinker the team . Australia will be without captain George Bailey , who is serving a one-match suspension for poor over-rate against India , David Warner and Shane Watson. Shaun Marsh will fill in for Warner at the top while Bailey 's absence has created an ODI opportunity for batsman Cameron White after nearly four years , and the Victorian comes into the match with good limited-overs form this season. The pair now has the chance to stake their claim for a last-minute inclusion to Australia 's ICC World Cup squad should Michael Clarke fail to meet the February 21 deadline to recover from a hamstring injury . Watson 's latest injury means that the management will likely slot in an extra bowler and bump James Faulkner up a spot to No 7. Steven Smith will captain in place of Bailey - the first time he has got the chance in ODIs - and will be key to the batting prospects . Australia have lost one ODI in Hobart in the last five and half years , to India in 2012 . Teams : England ( From ) : Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steven Finn , James Anderson , Chris Jordan , Gary Ballance , Alex Hales , James Tredwell Australia ( From ) : Aaron Finch , Cameron White , Shaun Marsh , Steven Smith ( c ) , Glenn Maxwell , Moises Henriques , Brad Haddin ( w ) , James Faulkner , Pat Cummins , Mitchell Starc , Gurinder Sandhu , Mitchell Marsh , Xavier Doherty , Josh Hazlewood , Kane Richardson Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
