Graphs So we will wrap up our coverage of this game. We had fun asking the questions and it was a delight to see so many responses. Your replies kept everyone entertained during all those frustrating rain breaks. Hope to do more of the same in the future too. Do join us on the 30th for England v India. Before that there is a lot of cricket to look forward to as New Zealand v Sri Lanka and South Africa v West Indies play each other. Until next time , it 's goodbye from all of us here. Do remember to sleep tight ! The pitch had pace and bounce and Dhawan struggled. He got out to Starc and Rayudu came out with an intent to play a stroke every ball. He got away a few times , but his luck ran out soon. Rahane and Kohli were there in the middle when the rain came down. India will be happy with the two points as it now gives them a realistic chance of making the final. If they beat England at Perth , they are through. Do n't worry about the weather at Perth , it has n't rained in ages there. So expect a full game on Friday . 20 : 07 Local Time , 09 : 07 GMT , 14 : 37 IST : So the inevitable has happened. The match has been called off. From yesterday rain was predicted for Sydney today and the forecast promptly came true. The start of the match was delayed by 40 minutes. We got some play in before a rain delay for 50 minutes. The rain relented and the players came back to play. 16 overs were possible before a big storm struck and forced the abandonment . 19 : 56 Local Time , 08 : 56 GMT , 14 : 26 IST : The umpires are out there inspecting. We should know the fate of the game very soon. It looks highly unlikely that we will get a 20-over game in - even as the rain seems to have stopped - but we will wait for official confirmation . 19 : 42 Local Time , 08 : 42 GMT , 14 : 12 IST : Crickettalkback offers us this via his tweet - 'Play can not restart after 8.45pm. As players need 30-45 minutes notice to warm up , a final decision will be made by 8-8.15pm.' 19 : 19 Local Time , 08 : 19 GMT , 13 : 49 IST : More bad news ; in the form of Chetan Narula 's tweet - 'Raining heavily now. Darkest its been today. Will be surprised if there is any more play today. ' So we will be lucky to get even a 20-over game in , going by the look of things. India will be more than happy to accept the two points and go to Perth , to take on England in a virtual semi-final . 18 : 42 Local Time , 07 : 42 GMT , 13 : 12 IST : For those wondering about the cut-off time for a 20-over game to begin , it 's 20 : 40 local which is two hours away. Not looking good though , even to get that sort of a game in at the moment . 18 : 39 Local Time , 07 : 39 GMT , 13 : 09 IST : Dean Jones with this tweet and it 's a dampener - 'We have got no chance now.. Smashing down. ' If it 's a washout , India 's chances of going through to the final improve. They will get two points from this game and that will make their final game versus England a virtual semi-final. The winner of that game will then go through to the final. Nothing to worry about bonus points , NRR and all that stuff . 17 : 55 Local Time , 06 : 55 GMT , 12 : 25 IST : More bad news pouring in. The weather is getting worse by the minute. We should have had one innings completed by now. Have been off the field for an hour now. India might not actually be too fussed about this rain. A shortened match would have only been to the advantage of Bailey 's men . 17 : 36 Local Time , 06 : 36 GMT , 12 : 06 IST : Chetan Narula with this tweet and it 's not good news - 'The rain has just got heavier. This should be a long break in play.' 17 : 15 Local Time , 06 : 15 GMT , 11 : 45 IST : Just a reminder. We 've started losing overs. Still raining . Coming back to 15.5 , replays show that it hit the handle of the bat. After that false stroke , Haddin indulged in some banter with Kohli. The Indian Vice-captain though kept quiet. Another close shave the next ball as the inside edge missed the stumps before rain brought a halt to proceedings . 16 : 58 Local Time , 05 : 58 GMT , 11 : 28 IST : Hoho ! The rain 's back. This is so frustrating. The big cover has been placed on the pitch. Not looking good as dark clouds encircle the stadium. The story of the innings so far. Familiar failure for Dhawan as he gave slip catching practice. Rayudu played a shot-a-ball and got out , courtesy of a fine running catch from Warner - who was getting some stick from the Indians in the crowd. After taking the catch , he fist-pumped in their direction silencing them for a while. Kohli has looked edgy in his short stay. Rahane at the other end has fought bravely and has hung in . 15.6 Doherty to Kohli , 1 run , now an inside edge misses the stumps , they take a quick single to short fine leg. Doherty wears a disappointed look on his face 15.5 Doherty to Kohli , no run , Kohli is surprised by that. Bounced extra and looked a different delivery on release , Kohli went for the cut and the backspin plus the extra bounce forced the batsman to mistime the shot. Dribbles back down the track 15.4 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , driven past the left of the diving Doherty 15.3 Doherty to Kohli , 1 run , plays a wristy drive to deep extra cover 15.2 Doherty to Kohli , no run , defended to point , they decide against the quick single as the fielder is in quickly 15.1 Doherty to Kohli , no run , Kohli makes room and drives it back to Doherty 14.6 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , turned gently to short mid-wicket 14.5 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , pitched up on the stumps , Rahane clips sweetly to mid-on , he is timing them well , but not finding the gaps 14.4 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , another well-timed drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-off. There is a slight fumble , but they do n't risk the quick single 14.3 Faulkner to Rahane , 2 runs , short on the stumps , Rahane rolls his wrists and pulls it down to deep backward square leg 14.2 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , pitched up on the stumps , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 14.1 Faulkner to Rahane , no run , down leg and Rahane misses out , rolls off the pad to Haddin James Faulkner , comes into the attack 13.6 Doherty to Kohli , no run , sliding onto off , Kohli blocks to cover 13.5 Doherty to Kohli , no run , defends it solidly to cover 13.4 Doherty to Kohli , no run , Kohli defends off the inside half of the bat to short mid-wicket , no chance of a quick single 13.3 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , whipped off the pads to deep square leg 13.2 Doherty to Rahane , no run , down leg , Rahane misses the flick , takes it on the pad 13.1 Doherty to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli is off the mark with a single to long-on 12.6 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , gets forward and defends it back to Marsh Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.5 M Marsh to Rayudu , out Caught by Warner ! ! Warner takes a superb running catch and celebrates in front of the Indians in the crowd. Rayudu charged at Marsh and lofted it over cover , it came more off a thick outside half , the skier was travelling , but Warner ran backwards from point and took it over his shoulder. He made it look so easy and then goes off in celebration. Mind you , it was n't an easy catch at all. But such is Warner 's quality. Rayudu c Warner b M Marsh 23 ( 24 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] M Marsh to Rayudu , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.5 M Marsh to Rayudu , wide , an appeal for a leg-side strangle , but Rayudu flicked and missed. Wide called and there was no edge too 12.4 M Marsh to Rayudu , FOUR , deliberately played and well done by Rayudu. Short outside off , upper cut over the vacant slip region. The length and line were just right for that shot 12.3 M Marsh to Rayudu , no run , Rayudu looks for a quick single after nudging it near short mid-wicket , Rahane though sends him back and that 's a good call as the fielder was charging forward to field the ball. If they had gone for it , could 've proved costly 12.2 M Marsh to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane hops back and then opens the face of the bat to run it down to third man. Handled the extra bounce well there 12.1 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , Rahane comes on the front foot and defends it back to the bowler 11.6 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , punched wide of cover 11.5 Doherty to Rayudu , 1 run , dabbed in front of point , quick single taken 11.4 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , full on leg , flicked to square leg 11.4 Doherty to Rahane , wide , down leg , Rahane looks for a big sweep and misses 11.3 Doherty to Rayudu , 1 run , 'catch ' was the call as Rayudu checked his drive , it flew at a catchable height to Doherty 's left , the bowler dived , but it was out of his reach. Looked like it stopped on Rayudu a tad 11.2 Doherty to Rayudu , no run , driven back to Doherty Doherty is bowling from round the wicket with no slip in place. He has two men at point though 11.1 Doherty to Rayudu , no run , gets forward and defends to point Xavier Doherty , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 10.6 M Marsh to Rayudu , 1 run , full on the pads , flicked to deep mid-wicket , for a single 10.5 M Marsh to Rayudu , no run , another short ball , dug in and Rayudu sees it before letting it go over his head 10.4 M Marsh to Rahane , 1 run , looks to punch and gets a thick outside edge down to third man 10.3 M Marsh to Rayudu , 1 run , rides the bounce and then goes deep in his crease to wrist it to mid-wicket 10.3 M Marsh to Rayudu , wide , way too short and Rayudu failed to reach it as he went for an upper cut. Rightly called a wide Just a lone slip in place now 10.2 M Marsh to Rahane , 1 run , a slight leading edge on the flick , but a single to mid-on 10.1 M Marsh to Rayudu , 1 run , pushed off the front foot to mid-on , quick single taken 9.6 Hazlewood to Rayudu , 1 run , stays beside the line , makes room slightly and dabs to third man 9.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , tucked off the pads to deep backward square leg 9.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , gets forward and defends solidly to cover 9.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , that bounced extra and lifted off the deck , rose sharply and surprised Rahane , hits him on the glove. Rahane looks suspiciously down at the pitch David Warner who is placed on the boundary is getting a lot of booing from the Indians in the crowd. A young kid boos him and then points at the Indian badge on his jersey to the Aussie. Warner is a sport though as he waves back and then signs some autographs 9.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , short of length and defended solidly off the back foot to cover 9.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , 2 runs , Rahane rode the bounce well , took it from outside off and rolled his wrists on the pull to get it through mid-wicket for a couple 8.6 M Marsh to Rayudu , SIX , fine shot from Rayudu. Once again lot of pre-meditation involved but he has pulled it off. Charges Marsh and then strikes through the line of the ball. Lofted over long-on and just cleared the ropes 8.5 M Marsh to Rayudu , no run , full on the stumps , Rayudu nearly falls over , but drives straight to the fielder at mid-on 8.4 M Marsh to Rahane , 1 run , angled into the pads , wristed to deep square leg , for a single 8.3 M Marsh to Rayudu , 1 run , bounces a tad extra , Rayudu nudges it with soft hands to square leg , another single 8.2 M Marsh to Rahane , 1 run , turned softly to short mid-wicket , easy single 8.1 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , Rahane sensibly sends Rayudu back as the latter looked for a quick single after the former dabbed to cover Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , now Rahane pushes and runs into the cover region. Quick single once more 7.5 Hazlewood to Rayudu , 1 run , defended in front of mid-on , quick single taken 7.4 Hazlewood to Rayudu , FOUR , much better connection and lofts the pitched up delivery over mid-on. He was aiming to do that to the previous delivery too , but found the timing right and the placement too this time 7.3 Hazlewood to Rayudu , no run , an agricultural hoick , the ball falls in front of mid-on. If he had holed out , there , he might have as well walked out of the ground instead of the dressing room 7.2 Hazlewood to Rayudu , no run , nips back in once more and has Rayudu in trouble , the inside edge is found , but misses the stumps. Rayudu did n't know where the ball went and was searching for the ball as he wandered down the track 7.1 Hazlewood to Rayudu , no run , very good leave from Rayudu as the ball nipped back in a tad , he knew where his off stump was and left it alone. Close to the off stump but did n't nip back in enough 6.6 Starc to Rahane , no run , short and angled across Rahane , he does n't play a stroke 6.5 Starc to Rayudu , 1 run , full on the stumps , Rayudu gets forward and drives wide of mid-off to get off the mark 6.4 Starc to Rayudu , no run , short again and Rayudu this time lets it go as the line was outside off. Sensible batting that time from Rayudu 6.4 Starc to Rayudu , wide , what is Rayudu thinking ? A pre-meditated stroke that , charges Starc as he looks for the big stroke and the bowler bowls it well outside off , short and it flew to Haddin. Called a wide rightly Looks like it 's drizzling again 6.3 Starc to Rayudu , no run , defended to point , looks for a quick single , not there as the fielder comes in quickly 6.2 Starc to Rayudu , no run , Starc nearly opened up Rayudu with a length delivery on middle and off , Rayudu does well not to close the face and defends to point Ambati Rayudu , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.1 Starc to Dhawan , out Caught by Finch ! ! The failures continue for Dhawan. Nothing stroke from him. Bit of extra bounce for Starc outside off , Dhawan was trying to dab that fine with two slips in place , not sure whether that was a great idea , he edges a simple take for Finch who accepts the dolly at first slip. Dhawan c Finch b Starc 8 ( 13 ) Starc to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , much more solid , on the front foot to show the full face of the bat to the bowler , defended down the track 5.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , gets forward to defend and it runs off a thick inside edge to square leg 5.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane gets away with a glove down the leg-side. Went to pull and got a glove , Haddin leapt to his left , full length but the ball eluded his glove as it did n't touch it. Great effort from Hadds , but not good enough. We have seen Haddin pull off so many acrobatic takes like that in his career , not that time though 5.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , short of length outside off , dabbed to point 5.2 Hazlewood to Dhawan , 1 run , well run by Dhawan , dropped it with soft hands in front of short cover , and sets off. Rahane responded well too 5.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , 1 run , tucked to the right of backward square leg , Bailey gets to the ball but the batsmen complete a quick single 4.6 Starc to Dhawan , no run , short and coming back in , Dhawan though arches back and lets it go 4.5 Starc to Dhawan , 2 runs , tad overpitched from Starc , Dhawan is standing outside his crease and drives wide of Warner at mid-off. The bat turned in his hand as he played that , foiling his timing. Warner races after it to keep it to a couple 4.4 Starc to Dhawan , no run , gets forward and pushes it to mid-off 4.3 Starc to Dhawan , no run , short of length outside off , rising too , left alone Revised playing conditions : The first Powerplay is for 9 overs. Batting PP for four. Four bowlers can bowl nine , one bowler eight. The innings break will be just for 25 minutes. So that 's about it ! 4.2 Starc to Dhawan , 2 runs , a carbon copy of the previous delivery and once again Dhawan flicks into the gap at mid-wicket 4.1 Starc to Dhawan , 2 runs , angling in to middle and leg , whipped through mid-wicket for a couple 3.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , solidly forward and pushed to mid-on 3.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , FOUR , full and down leg , Rahane gets forward and flicks in the air , but backward of square , beats fine leg with ease who was nowhere near the ball. The Indians in the crowd get a chance to display their joy 3.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , 2 runs , down leg , neatly glanced to fine leg , for a couple 3.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , tight delivery on the stumps , Rahane defends solidly to short mid-wicket , Bailey fields and then has a smile on his face 3.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , on a length and outside off , left alone 3.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , 137kph inswinging yorker , heading into off and targetting Rahane 's toes , Rahane does well to keep it out , taking the toes out of the ball 's path 2.6 Starc to Dhawan , no run , 142kph lifter outside off , thudded into Haddin 's mitts after Dhawan left it alone. Hadds took it over his head 2.5 Starc to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on off , Dhawan gets forward and drives firmly , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 14 : 04 Local Time , 05 : 04 GMT , 10 : 34 IST : Still overcast , but at least it 's not raining. Dhawan and Rahane stride out to the middle. Just a reminder. Keep those replies coming in to the question that we asked. We will post them at regular intervals. Back to the game and Starc will restart . 15 : 55 Local Time , 04 : 55 GMT , 10 : 25 IST : Chetan Narula again , tweeting : 'Play to resume at 4.06pm local time. Thats 11 minutes. 44-overs a side match. ' So great news coming in. Hopefully we do n't get too many interruptions once it restarts . 15 : 48 Local Time , 04 : 48 GMT , 10 : 18 IST : As I was typing that question out , the rain has stopped and the covers are off. We have already started to lose overs. Will keep you posted on what the revised playing conditions are once I get to know . 15 : 34 Local Time , 04 : 34 GMT , 10 : 04 IST : Scratch that previous update. Chetan Narula with this tweet : 'Just as groundsmen had finished removing covers , starts raining again. Covers coming on ! ' 15 : 29 Local Time , 04 : 29 GMT , 09 : 59 IST : Some good news as the covers are coming off . 15 : 16 Local Time , 04 : 16 GMT , 09 : 46 IST : Oops ! The players are off as the rain returns. It could be that kind of a day. The groundstaff are out and bring the hessian on to cover the pitch. It looks quite gloomy in the background as dark clouds hover over the stadium. Patience is the need of the hour . 2.4 Starc to Rahane , 1 run , the pressure has got to Rahane and he lashes out wildly , saw the width and the angle across , a thick outside edge is found , but the ball does n't carry to third man 2.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , Rahane gets forward and defends solidly towards mid-on 2.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , angled across on a fuller length , left alone 2.1 Starc to Dhawan , 1 run , drifts onto middle and leg , easy for Dhawan as he turns it to deep backward square leg , to get off the mark 1.6 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , what a leg-cutter that is ! Glenn McGrath would 've been proud of it. Did everything except take the outside edge. Angled in and then seamed away past the hanging blade of Rahane , who pushed out at it. Hazlewood follows through and has a wry smile on his face Hazlewood too has two slips in place 1.5 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , pushed off the front foot past Dhawan , Doherty though dives to his left and saves any runs being taken. That 's why Rahane waited and told Dhawan the same 1.4 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , pitched up outside off , left alone. Carries well to Haddin 1.3 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , loud shout for lbw , was there an inside edge onto the pads too ? Nips back in and caught Rahane above the knee roll. Height was a factor and Erasmus got it right. Replays show that there was no inside edge. Easy call for the ump. Rahane got his front foot slightly across and played around it 1.2 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , pushed off the front foot to mid-wicket 1.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , no run , that 's much better from Hazlewood , readjusts his radar and gets it in the channel outside off , Rahane shoulders arms It has started to drizzle at Sydney. The lights have been on from the start at the SCG 1.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , wide , third wide in a row , Hazlewood not getting the line right at all 1.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , wide , bounce for Hazlewood , but wrong line , down leg , Rahane glances and misses 1.1 Hazlewood to Rahane , wide , slides down leg , wide called Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Starc to Dhawan , no run , great first over from Starc , gets this to rise sharply from a back of a length outside off , Dhawan lets it go and Haddin collects above his waist 0.5 Starc to Dhawan , no run , ooh ! Dhawan was ages late on the defence , as Starc curved the ball back in , it straightened past the groping blade of Dhawan who initially thought to leave , then as he saw the ball close to his off , brought his bat down at an angle , very lucky that the ball missed the edge and the off stump 0.4 Starc to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane stuttered for an instant after pushing it to short mid-wicket , but easily done in the end. Dhawan had no trouble in getting to the other end though Two slips in place for Starc 0.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , nice carry to Haddin after Rahane left it for the third time in a row 0.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , another probing delivery outside off , pitched up and a hint of shape back in , but not enough to threaten off , Rahane shoulders arms 0.1 Starc to Rahane , no run , hint of inswing for Starc , nothing more than that , full outside off , Rahane lets it go Rahane and Dhawan are at the crease. Rahane is on strike. Starc will open the attack The players walk out and Bailey had them in a huddle. The Indian openers are out there too. Starc has the new ball. He has been deadly with the white Kookaburra. He will get swing and with overcast conditions to help him , could prove to be a handful. Here we go with the first ball as Rahane takes strike MS Dhoni : " We were also looking to bowl first. Good weather if it stops raining , it will be good to play cricket. It was very overcast earlier. The one good thing with us is that wherever we go the fans follow. It always helps with the support. Apart from Rohit everybody was available for selection. We have made a couple of changes. Ishant and Jadeja come in. Umesh and Bhuvi make way for them. Rohit has a sore hamstring. It is not that bad but we do n't want to push him. No place for Vijay yet. " George Bailey : " We will bowl first. There is a little bit of rain about and Duckworth-Lewis might come into play later. It is a touch tacky underfoot. The ball might stick into the wicket a little bit. It was not much fun watching the other night ( when asked about missing the previous game ) . Doherty and Hazlewood come in , so does Mitchell Marsh. We have to continue the momentum. This is just another piece in the puzzle. " Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Ajinkya Rahane , Shikhar Dhawan , Ambati Rayudu , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Stuart Binny , Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel , Mohammed Shami , Ishant Sharma Australia ( Playing XI ) : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Steven Smith , George Bailey ( c ) , Mitchell Marsh , Glenn Maxwell , James Faulkner , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Starc , Xavier Doherty , Josh Hazlewood Hazlewood , Mitch Marsh , Bailey , Warner and Doherty come in for Australia. They replace White , Shaun Marsh , Cummins , Henriques , and Sandhu. India bring in Ishant and Jadeja in place of Umesh and Bhuvneshwar . Australia have won the toss and have opted to field 14 : 36 Local Time , 03 : 36 GMT , 09 : 06 IST : Toss at 14 : 40 local time and a possible start at 15 : 00 local time , if it stays dry. No overs have been lost . Some good news. Chetan Narula has tweeted : 'Its just gone a whole lot brighter. Groundsmen are starting to remove covers.' Covers are coming off and the groundstaff begin work. Toss has been delayed. Scratch the previous sentence , the drizzle decides to make a comeback. Looks like we are in for a long day . Seems to have stopped drizzling for the moment and the umpires are having a look around. But it is very overcast. Looks like a start-stop kind of a day . Just to remind all of you - If India lose today or the match gets washed out , their ODI against England on Friday , becomes a knock-out game. India will have to secure a bonus point win in case of a loss today . The news coming from the ground is that it is drizzling in Sydney at the moment and very cloudy . The bowlers have been wayward and miserably inconsistent. India have failed as a unit in both their matches. However , Ishant Sharma and Ravindra Jadeja 's return to the side might give the visitors a glimmer of hope. Will the bowlers finally be able to prove themselves ? Join us in a short while as we bring you the toss and team updates.. . For India , it has been a sorry tale. Opting to bat first in both their games , the visitors stuttered in the initial overs. They were able to post a decent 267 against Australia in the first match , but it was no match for a flamboyant Australian batting attack. Against England , it was yet another story. Collective failure from the batsmen meant that India could only post a meagre 153 on board. There continues to be a big question mark over Shikhar Dhawan 's form and Virat Kohli 's batting position still seems uncertain. Even Rohit Sharma continues to remain out of the side due to a hamstring injury . The hosts are in terrific touch. Their bowling attack is solid , with Mitchell Starc enjoying a dream run. He was ruthless in their first two games , and combined well with other bowlers in their last match to put up an admirable display of death bowling. Although their batting lacks the same consistency as their bowling , their depth has allowed them to play more freely. George Bailey , who missed the last game due to suspension , will take over the captaincy from Steve Smith. Shaun Marsh will make way for David Warner. Mitchell Johnson is fit but it remains to be seen whether Australia would rush him for a seemingly inconsequential game. The fact that Australia are already through offers them a good chance to experiment . January 26 - a very very special day for both the teams. While India celebrate their 66th Republic day , the hosts will be celebrating Australia day , their official national day. A win in today 's game will be of momentous significance for both the teams. Australia are already through to the final and will be looking forward to keep the momentum going. On the other hand , winless India find themselves in a do-or-die situation . Preview : Australia and India , pre-tournament favourites for the upcoming Cricket World Cup , have taken largely contrasting routes in the build-up to the big event. By virtue of their three wins , Australia sit pretty at the top of the table , having already booked their place for the final. The effects of a long tour has affected India adversely and they now find themselves facing , potentially two must-win games to make the tri-series final. Alternatively , if they lost the next one , they 'll have to then beat England by a bonus point and ensure that they trump Eoin Morgan 's men , even in the Net Run Rate battle. 26th of January marks a special day for both these Commonwealth countries. Australia celebrate the Australia Day and India , the Republic Day - An added motivation for both teams to put up a good show . Australia : Australia have enjoyed the perfect tune-up thus far. Their first two victories were set up by Mitchell Starc and their bursts with the new ball. Then , in their last game against England , Starc and James Faulkner came up with a fine exhibition of death bowling to restrict England to 303 , when they looked set to get much more. The batting has remained solid , if not flamboyant. The depth in batting has allowed the top-order to bat with freedom . For the India game , there are welcome returns to the squad. George Bailey will take over as captain missing the last game due to suspension. Mitchell Marsh has sufficiently recovered from an injury sustained during the Brisbane Test against India. David Warner and Shane Watson missed the Hobart ODI with hamstring injuries and It remains to be seen , if the think-tank would rush them for an inconsequential game. Mitchell Johnson , though fit , will make a return only for the final. However , Josh Hazlewood and Xavier Doherty are expected to play on Monday . India : The defending World Champions had a sorry day at the office against England. They were blown away by Steven Finn and James Anderson and there appear to be cracks creeping up into the famed batting line-up. There are question marks surrounding Shikhar Dhawan 's place in the side and Virat Kohli 's batting position. India 's two aggressive batsman at the top of the order have failed to get started. Rohit Sharma , India 's centurion against Australia in Melbourne , has been sidelined by a hamstring injury and will miss the encounter in Sydney . India , however , will be boosted by Ishant Sharma 's and Ravindra Jadeja 's steady return to fitness. Stuart Binny , who shone in an otherwise forgettable day against England , may keep his place even if India opt to for a two-spinner attack. Jadeja 's bowling readiness may help the team management make the choice among the three available spinners. A five day break after their twin defeats may augur well for a team that looks to regain its mental freshness . Pitch and Conditions : The wicket at Sydney is expected to be dry and is said to assist spin. However , there is a 60 % chance for rain , late on Monday afternoon. That may influence the team composition . Stats and Trivia : Sachin Tendulkar scored a masterly 117 in 2008 to mastermind India 's only victory over Australia in a One-Day International in Sydney . Quotes : " In Australia and New Zealand you can lose wickets quickly and with Kohli at No 3 , he might be vulnerable.Coming in at No 4 , he will have a better perspective of the innings going forward. " - Viv Richards voiced his support on India 's decision to move Virat Kohli to No. 4 . Teams : India ( From ) : Ajinkya Rahane , Shikhar Dhawan , Ambati Rayudu , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( c & w ) , Stuart Binny , Axar Patel , Ravindra Jadeja , Ishant Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohammed Shami , Mohit Sharma , Umesh Yadav , Dhawal Kulkarni Australia ( From ) : Aaron Finch , Shaun Marsh , Steven Smith ( c ) , Cameron White , Glenn Maxwell , Moises Henriques , Brad Haddin ( w ) , James Faulkner , Pat Cummins , Mitchell Johnson , Gurinder Sandhu , Mitchell Marsh , Xavier Doherty , Josh Hazlewood , Kane Richardson Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
