Graphs That 's all we have from this game. Hope you enjoyed our coverage as much as we did bringing it to you. Do join for the final between Australia and England on Sunday. Until then , take care and Cya ! Meanwhile , England are slowly gathering pace. The opening combo of Bell and Moeen Ali look good. By scoring a fifty in this game , Taylor did no harm to his chances in the starting line-up. Joe Root and Eoin Morgan have been amongst the runs , while Buttler too had a good outing today. The four-man pace attack has worked for them. Anderson looks menacing with the new ball and Finn has started to fire at the right time. If Stuart Broad and Ravi Bopara come back to form , then they would have ticked all the boxes . India have a lot of issues to address before the World Cup. Even though Dhawan scored 38 today , he was not convincing. Kohli was pushed to No.3 after batting at No.4 in the first three game , but he failed to make an impact. The lower middle-order has n't fired at all in the entire series. The bowling on the other hand , does not seem all that threatening. The form of Bhuvi and Umesh has been a concern , the returning Jadeja looked rusty. A lot to ponder about for India as they have 15 days before their first game against Pakistan . Morgan : " Yeah , it did ( when asked if it got tight in the end ) . We certainly made it difficult for ourselves and I think both sides battled with the conditions. It was quite difficult throughout the game which we did n't expect at the start of the game. I always had a lot of confidence in the fact that if the guys got themselves in , they could take the responsibility , an area we have improved upon in the last 6-7 months and the guys were ruthless when they got in. Jos ( Buttler ) and James ( Taylor ) were outstanding and ruthless in the chase. He ( Buttler ) is and I think there is lot more to come. We have certainly seen a lot of him in County cricket and in the nets we get to see his full range of repertoire which is great to see and his talent is up there with anybody else in the world. Hopefully , he will fulfil it. Great opportunity to play in a final. Australia have been on a good run and it is always nice to play Australia because it is a good test of where you are at. I think Sunday will be no different. It is absolutely and we have gone from strength to strength ( qualifying for the final ) . We are really proud of the guys with the way they fought today. Our bowling has shone through , particularly the taller guys took advantage of the bounce here. Again building little blocks on our way to the World Cup which lifts our confidence. " Dhoni : " When we started off , we did decently well with the new ball because there was some assistance for the bowlers. The openers did well to see it off , but a bit more runs initially would have helped us. To some extent , good bowling and poor selection of shots because of which we were under pressure and that was the main reason why we were not able to score 20-25 more runs. That should have been the minimum we were looking for. A few of the deliveries misbehaved , but overall either it was good deliveries or bad shots. I do n't think that the wicket played a factor , but at the same time the English bowlers were more suitable for these conditions because of their height and they hit the deck hard. You know when you get more bounce out of the wicket , the difference between a normal delivery and the one that misbehaves is really difficult to encounter. That is something that we will have to look at , at the same time it is important to look at the complete balance of the side. We are playing with 2 seamers and 3 spinners , the reason being Ash and Jadeja or Ash and Axar can bat a bit , but if we look to go in with 4 seamers and 1 spinner , our batting order really suffers. At the same time , we can argue that our lower-order is n't doing much. To be good and consistent the lower-order needs to perform , they need to get the number of runs. It 's a catch 22 situation , it 's a difficult one for us. But , whenever we have played with 4 seamers there have been , two things very common , one we lose and two , the captain gets banned because of the over-rate. I think we will be ( when asked if they will be ready for the World Cup opener against Pakistan ) . This is a much needed break. It is important for the guys to vanish , lock in their kit bags and not think about cricket. I feel it is very important to switch off , it is a long tour for us if you include the World Cup in it. Maybe the next 5-10 days we can break off and complete a turn over as a new team with a fresh mindset. The Test series itself drains you a lot and now the tri-series. I feel a lot of the guys batted well in the Test series , just that they need to carry the confidence into the ODIs. " Taylor : " Delighted with the win and making it through to the final. Credit to Jos Buttler for an outstanding effort. I was trying to concentrate as I was struggling and was n't feeling the best. Jos Buttler 's innings was outstanding as he kept me going. I have been waiting in the wings to get an opportunity , I am trying to get myself settled in the side and trying to put in performances like that to win the game. I knew if I was there at the end , we knew we would get there. Thankfully , Jos ( Buttler ) played an outstanding innings in the middle and took pressure off me. It was a decent cricket wicket , uneven bounce made it interesting and gave the bowlers something to work with , it was a challenge. Massive game against Australia on Sunday and we are all looking forward to it. " James Taylor is the Man of the Match for his defining innings of 82 Jos Buttler then joined Taylor at the crease and the duo treated the bowling on merit. With India 's fifth bowler , Ravindra Jadeja , not able to control things , England upped the ante and all the pressure evaporated. After the partnership crossed 50 , Taylor raised his bat for a well compiled half-century - 4th in ODIs - and Buttler soon followed him bringing up his 6th ODI fifty. Although both perished after sharing a fantastic 125-run stand , England got past the line with three wickets and 19 balls to spare. Binny finished with three wickets , while Mohit Sharma bagged two. Mohammed Shami and Axar Patel too bowled well , but their batsmen did not give them enough runs to play with. Stay tuned for the presentation.. . Chasing a low target , England did not get off to the best of starts as they lost Ian Bell very early. With the pitch offering a lot of assistance , India 's bowlers bowled a tight line to keep both Moeen Ali and James Taylor calm. When the pressure was building , Ali tried to take the attack to spinner Axar Patel and holed out to long-off in his second over attempting a big shot. India 's new new-ball bowler , Stuart Binny , then had Joe Root caught and bowled , Ravi Bopara caught at backward point and Eoin Morgan caught at mid-on to reduce England to 66/5 . 46.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Woakes , no ball , England win ! They have also qualified for the final. Jadeja oversteps and fires it around off , Woakes drives it wide of cover , but it does n't matter as just the one run was needed 46.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Broad , 1 run , tossed up on off , bowled from over the wicket , Broad wrists it to long-on 46.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Woakes , 1 run , straight roller on off , Woakes gets back and across , nudges it through mid-wicket 46.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Woakes , no run , slows this up considerably , Woakes comes forward and drops it dead on the off-side 46.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Broad , 1 run , on the pads , nurdled off the back foot to deep backward square leg Coming back to the Broad caught behind appeal , the arm guard was not in contact with the glove. Hence a good decision from the umpire 46.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Woakes , 1 run , flighted on off , Woakes knocks it wide of cover and scampers across for the single Ravindra Jadeja [ 9.0-0-57-0 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Shami to Woakes , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Woakes taps it to sweeper cover 45.5 Shami to Broad , 1 run , slower and on off , Broad wrists it to mid-on and gets to the other end 45.5 Shami to Broad , no ball , another lifter closer to Broad , who looks to defend , but it was too high and no-ball given as it was the third bouncer of the over 45.4 Shami to Broad , no run , bumper around off , Broad this time leaves it alone by getting out of the way 45.3 Shami to Broad , no run , huge shout for caught behind , but the umpire is not interested. Broad points towards his arm guard when one of the Indian fielders asks him. A well directed short delivery , Broad tries to fend it , the ball brushes the arm guard on the way to Dhoni. But was the guard in contact with the glove ? Will need a few more replays to confirm that A slip comes in now. . Stuart Broad , left handed bat , comes to the crease 45.2 Shami to Buttler , out Caught by Rayudu ! ! Buttler holes out and is there a twist in the game ? He was peppered with short balls in the previous over from Mohit and wanted a release shot , he saw that the ball was pitched up and the room was also provided , goes for it and ends up slicing it straight down Rayudu 's throat at sweeper cover. Buttler c Rayudu b Shami 67 ( 78 ) [ 4s-7 ] Shami to Buttler , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.1 Shami to Buttler , no run , bouncer on off , Buttler thought about the pull , but decided against it at the last instant Mohammed Shami [ 8.0-0-28-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 A Patel to Buttler , 1 run , drops it short and on middle , Buttler pulls it to deep backward square leg 44.5 A Patel to Buttler , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Buttler knocks it to the right of Axar 44.4 A Patel to Woakes , 1 run , tad short and around off , Woakes chops it to backward point , Buttler calls for a sharp run. A direct hit would have made things interesting 44.3 A Patel to Woakes , no run , presses forward and drives it to mid-off , straight to the fielder 44.2 A Patel to Woakes , no run , slides on , Woakes leans forward and gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball lobs up and drops in the leg-side 44.1 A Patel to Woakes , no run , goes on with the arm , Woakes taps it towards mid-on Axar Patel [ 9.0-1-37-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , fourth short delivery of the over , Buttler is not interested in playing , lets it sail past him 43.5 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , short of length on off , Buttler stands up and punches it to point 43.4 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , another effort delivery , Buttler has nothing to do with it as he gets away from the line 43.3 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , bumper just outside off , Buttler sways back and allows the ball to go through to Dhoni Chris Woakes , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.2 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , out Caught by Binny ! ! A fine innings from Taylor comes to an end. It is a bit too late for India though. A short delivery that gets slightly big on Taylor , who shuffles across and top-edges the ball , it was in the air for a long time and Binny did well at fine leg to judge and take it. Taylor was not happy with himself for throwing it away. James Taylor c Binny b Mohit Sharma 82 ( 122 ) [ 4s-4 ] Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.1 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , no run , on a length close to off , Taylor knocks it towards backward point 42.6 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , dabs the flatter delivery to backward point and picks up an easy single 42.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 5 runs , goes for the reverse sweep once again , does not get it anywhere close to the sweet spot on the bat , the ball dribbles towards short third man , Taylor calls for a risky single. The throw comes in at the bowler 's end , Buttler had got in and the ball ricochets off the stumps for four bonus runs Third umpire called in for a run-out chance. Buttler has just about made his ground. Not Out flashes on the giant screen . 42.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , FOUR , top shot ! It was quicker , fuller and on off , Buttler bends down and reverse sweeps it behind point , no chance for the sweeper to stop that. That came right off the middle 42.3 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , tossed up around off , Taylor comes down the track and drives it wide of mid-off 42.2 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 2 runs , Taylor makes it into a short ball by going deep in the crease , he cuts it behind square and collects an easy two 42.1 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , no run , Taylor takes couple of steps down the wicket , drives it straight to cover 41.6 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , bouncer around off , Buttler arches back and gets away from the line of the ball 41.5 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , 1 run , England are doing it with ease , Taylor allows the ball to run off the face of the bat to third man 41.4 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , 1 run , change of pace from Mohit , Buttler waits on the back foot before steering it to third man 41.3 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , 1 run , fullish on middle and leg , Taylor leans forward and chips it over mid-wicket for a single 41.2 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , 1 run , shortens the length on off , Buttler looks to defend from the crease , gets an outside edge down to third man , the ball went all along the ground 41.1 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , 1 run , back of a length on off and middle , Taylor goes deep in the crease and nudges it square of the wicket on the on-side 40.6 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Taylor drives it to sweeper cover , keeps strike 40.5 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , FOUR , terrific shot ! Great use of the feet. Makes a difficult shot look easy. Shimmies down the wicket , meets the pitch of the ball and clips it between mid-wicket and mid-on. A tough shot to play against the turn 40.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , leans forward to the flighted delivery and eases it to long-off 40.3 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , driven down to long-off 40.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , that was close ! Buttler dabs the quicker delivery behind point , Taylor calls him for a sharp single. The throw from Binny comes in at the non-striker 's end , misses and Buttler gets home. That also brings up the 100-run stand 40.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 2 runs , floated up outside off , Buttler drives it along the ground wide of long-off England have seen off the batting powerplay without losing a wicket , they also managed to score 22 runs . 39.6 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , 1 run , on the leg-stump line , Buttler nurdles it to short fine leg and Taylor calls him through for a brisk single 39.5 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , the ball holds up on the surface , Buttler again checks his shot , chips it in the air well short of the mid-on fielder 39.4 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , back of a length on off , Buttler hangs back and bunts it to cover , shout is for " wait " 39.3 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , FOUR , Buttler brings up his 6th ODI fifty , gets there with a chip. It on a length and on off , Buttler checks his shot , manages to get it over the mid-on fielder. It has been a fine innings as the English supporters applaud 39.2 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , FOUR , superb shot ! Fantastic cricket shot , it was fuller and around off , Buttler gets a good stride forward and drives it to the right of mid-off , Dhawan dives in vain 39.1 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , starts with the short one outside off , Buttler cuts and finds backward point Mohit Sharma [ 7.0-0-22-1 ] is back into the attack 38.6 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , slider on middle and leg , Taylor bends his front knee , goes for the sweep and gets a top-edge that lobs over Dhoni and falls in no-man 's land 38.5 A Patel to James Taylor , 2 runs , drops it short and outside off , Taylor cuts it square of the wicket , Binny does the mopping up near the rope. Dhoni is not happy with the effort as he felt there was no two in that 38.4 A Patel to James Taylor , FOUR , almost had his man ! Taylor charges down the wicket , Axar sees that and darts it on leg-stump , Taylor somehow manages to get some bat on that and sweep it to the long leg fence 38.3 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , bit of extra bounce on the occasion , ball hits the splice of the bat and rolls in front of cover 38.2 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , drifts it into the batsman , Taylor taps it to the right of the bowler 38.1 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , fires it full and outside off , Taylor drives it hard and straight to cover 37.6 Shami to Buttler , no run , pitched up outside off , Buttler leans into the drive , ca n't get it past Kohli at cover , who makes an acrobatic save diving to his left. He then gets up and stares at Buttler 37.5 Shami to Buttler , no run , off-cutter on the fourth stump line , Buttler waits and knocks it to cover 37.4 Shami to Buttler , no run , on a length just outside off , Buttler push-drives it to cover 37.3 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , this time middles the pull , but hits it close to the fielder at deep square leg , Binny gets across , slides and keeps it to one 37.2 Shami to James Taylor , no run , shortens the length close to off , Taylor stands up and dabs it to backward point 37.1 Shami to James Taylor , 2 runs , dug in mid-way down the wicket , Taylor pulls it off the front foot to deep mid-wicket , Binny tidies up in the deep. He did n't get it off the meat of the bat 36.6 A Patel to James Taylor , 1 run , pushed through on off and middle , Taylor presses forward and works it towards mid-on 36.5 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , tucks the batsman for room , Taylor stays back and knocks it to the right of Axar 36.4 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , takes a step forward and wrists it to mid-on , shouts a loud " no " for the single 36.3 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , nice flight on this , Taylor is half-forward and defending back to the bowler 36.2 A Patel to Buttler , 1 run , bit more air on this , Buttler comes forward and eases it to long-off 36.1 A Patel to James Taylor , 1 run , 96kph quicker delivery , Taylor goes back and across , pushes it wide of cover 35.6 Shami to Buttler , no run , lovely delivery to end the over , fuller and holds its line outside off , Buttler is drawn into the drive , his feet went nowhere as the ball whizzes past the outside edge 35.5 Shami to Buttler , no run , rolls his fingers on top of the ball , Buttler spots it well and defends it to cover 35.4 Shami to Buttler , no run , pitches it up outside off , Buttler drives it off the outside half , the ball was in the air and bounces just in front of backward point 35.3 Shami to Buttler , no run , every now and then the ball beats the outside edge , this is short of length in the corridor of uncertainty , Buttler looks to force it off the back foot , is beaten neck and crop 35.2 Shami to Buttler , no run , off-speed delivery around off , keeps a tad low as well , Buttler manages to bring his bat down and bunt it in front of point 35.1 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Taylor taps the ball on the head and runs it down to third man Mohammed Shami [ 6.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay ! The next 5 overs might just make or break the game for India . 34.6 A Patel to James Taylor , 1 run , Taylor gets right to the pitch of the ball and works it to mid-on , early call for the run and they get it easily 34.5 A Patel to Buttler , 1 run , flatter and on off , Buttler punches it to long-off 34.4 A Patel to James Taylor , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Taylor chops the cut and the ball bounces over Raina at slip , the batsmen scamper across for a single 34.3 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , hangs back and knocks it in front of mid-wicket 34.2 A Patel to James Taylor , 2 runs , Binny concedes the extra run , Taylor goes back and whips it towards mid-wicket , Binny runs to his right , slides and allows the ball to go through 34.1 A Patel to Buttler , 1 run , slider on middle , Buttler gets inside the line and works it in front of square on the leg-side Axar Patel [ 6.0-1-22-1 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , no run , fraction short and around off , Taylor uses the depth of the crease , cuts it towards backward point , where Binny makes a diving stop 33.5 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , no run , skips out of the crease and drives it to mid-on , ca n't beat the fielder 33.4 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 2 runs , quicker and outside off , Taylor goes hard on the drive , slices it off the outer half to deep backward point 33.3 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , no run , again , uses his feet , gets to the pitch and wrists it to mid-on 33.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , Buttler leans forward and eases it to the left of cover , another easy single 33.1 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , flighted outside off , Taylor comes down the track and places the drive wide of the extra cover fielder Time for a drinks break. England after struggling at 66/5 have managed to stitch a nice 65-run stand for the 6th wicket. Taylor has stuck it out at one end , while Buttler has been the aggressor. The match is slipping out of India 's hands and they need a few quick wickets to pull things back . 32.6 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , lifter on the stumps , Buttler gets his head out of the way and lets it pass 32.5 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , the slower delivery , back of the hand slower one , Buttler taps it in front of point 32.4 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , 1 run , 4th ODI fifty for Taylor , his second of the series and both have come against India. Walks forward and checks his drive , hits it past the bowler and calls for a quick single. Raises his bat to acknowledge the applause from the crowd. Buttler too congratulates his partner A gully is placed to stop the dab to third man 32.3 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , 1 run , back of a length around off , Buttler knocks it through cover-point for a single 32.2 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , 1 run , moves across his stumps and glides this back of a length delivery down to third man 32.1 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , no run , touch short and outside off , Taylor goes for the cut and is beaten , there was a hint of away movement on that occasion Just after the 4th ball of the over , Dhoni told Jadeja to slow down the pace at which he was bowling . 31.6 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , again , Taylor uses his feet , almost ends up yorking himself , but does well to squeeze it to long-on 31.5 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , no run , steps out of the crease and takes it on the full , clips it straight to short mid-wicket 31.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , slower and close to off , Buttler eases it wide of cover and crosses over to the other end 31.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , no run , Buttler finds that fielder with a drive There is a fielder placed at silly mid-off 31.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , no run , tosses it up around off , Buttler drives and picks out Kohli at cover 31.1 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , flighted outside off , Taylor square drives it to sweeper cover 30.6 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , ends the over with a bumper on leg-stump , Buttler ducks and allows it to sail over his left shoulder 30.5 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , FOUR , someone shouted " catch it " , but it was nowhere close to the fielder. Fullish and just outside off , Buttler leans forward and creams the drive in the air , places it right between extra cover and mid-off. That was hit very hard as the ball scooted away to the fence 30.4 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , good length ball around off , Buttler comes half-forward and taps it to point 30.3 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , no run , effort delivery from Mohit , grunts as he delivers the bouncer , it was right at the batsman , Buttler sways away from the line of the delivery. Square leg umpire signals one for the over 30.2 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , 1 run , on a length just outside off , Taylor shuffles across , opens the bat face and steers it to third man The floodlights have been switched on as it has become gloomy. . 30.1 Mohit Sharma to Buttler , 1 run , short and wide from Mohit , Buttler rides the bounce and cuts it square of the wicket for a single Mohit Sharma [ 5.0-0-13-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , floated up outside off , Buttler knocks it to sweeper cover and he will keep the strike 29.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , no run , pushed through on off stump line , Buttler pushes at it , the ball rolls away into the on-side off the inside half of the bat 29.4 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , drifting on middle stump line , Taylor skips down , works it to mid-on and gets to the other end 29.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , floated up outside off , Buttler drills the drive to long-off , splitting the bowler and the short cover fielder 29.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , FOUR , flatter and outside off , Buttler waits for it inside the crease and dabs it very late , the ball runs away to the third man fence , beats the chase and dive from the short third man fielder 29.1 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , floated up outside off , Taylor goes down on one knee and paddle sweeps it to fine leg Ravindra Jadeja [ 4.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack So , the two left-arm spinners Jadeja and Patel will bowl in tandem now 28.6 A Patel to Buttler , no run , flighted delivery around off , Buttler leans forward and pushes it into the off-side with soft hands 28.5 A Patel to Buttler , no run , looks to clip this through the on-side , but ca n't connect and wears it on his pad 28.4 A Patel to Buttler , 2 runs , another one down leg , Buttler waits inside the crease and helps it towards the fine leg region , good running ensures that the batsmen come back for the second , there was a direct hit from the deep , but the batsman was well in 28.3 A Patel to James Taylor , 1 run , floated up around off , Taylor goes down on one knee and plays the lap , the batsman take a single as the ball dribbles away to fine leg 28.2 A Patel to James Taylor , 2 runs , on middle and leg again , Taylor works it past the mid-wicket region for a brace 28.1 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , pushed through quicker on leg stump line , Taylor fails to work it into the on-side and wears it high on his pad , there was an appeal , but the ball was definitely snaking down leg Axar Patel [ 5.0-1-17-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , sliding down leg , Taylor works it in front of square on the on-side 27.5 Shami to Buttler , 1 run , just short of a good length and slightly wide outside off , Buttler cuts it towards deep backward point 27.4 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , slightly shortish and outside off , Taylor stays on the back foot and cuts it square of the wicket for a single 27.3 Shami to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and outside off , Taylor defends it with a straight bat to point 27.2 Shami to Buttler , 1 run , touch fuller this time and on middle stump line , Buttler clips it towards deep mid-wicket and gets to the other end 27.1 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Taylor was looking to fend it away as the ball had a little extra bounce on it , it thuds into his gloves and the ball rolls away into the on-side , the batsmen cross over 26.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , no run , quicker and shortish outside off , Buttler waits inside the crease and looks to cut hard , but fails to make a connection and Dhoni takes it 26.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , no run , slightly flatter outside off , Buttler dabs it towards backward point 26.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , no run , was that a drop ? It is a drop catch in fact. It was flighted outside off , Buttler went for the reverse sweep and ends up hitting it straight towards Raina at slip , who manages to get down , gets his hands on it , but ca n't hold onto it and Buttler survives 26.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , no run , bowls this one slightly wide outside off , Buttler chops it into the off-side 26.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , no run , floated up outside off , Buttler mistimes the drive to short cover 26.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , FOUR , good shot from Buttler , it was tossed up outside off , Buttler leans forward and drives it past a diving extra cover , the ball runs away to the fence , Kohli was the fielder there and the ball went through him as he did n't get his body behind the ball 25.6 Shami to Buttler , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Buttler drives it to sweeper cover , he did n't time it well , but it was good enough for a single 25.5 Shami to Buttler , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Buttler jumps in the crease and defends it back in the direction of the bowler 25.5 Shami to Buttler , wide , banged in short and outside off , it went over the batsman 's head as well , Dhoni leaps up and collects it and the umpire exercises his arms 25.4 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , in the channel outside off , Taylor waits for it , opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 25.3 Shami to James Taylor , no run , just short of a good length and the ball had extra bounce as well , Taylor was looking to run it down to third man , but the ball goes way over the blade because of the extra bounce , it was the cross seam delivery from Shami 25.2 Shami to Buttler , 1 run , length delivery on off stump line , Buttler goes slightly across and works it wide of mid-on for another run 25.1 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , slightly fuller outside off , Taylor looks to drive it through the off-side , gets a thick outside edge that runs away towards the third man region and the batsmen take a single 24.6 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , floated around off , Taylor knocks it square of the wicket and retains strike 24.5 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , no run , tossed up outside off , Taylor gives the charge and drills it towards straightish short cover 24.4 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Taylor skips out and was n't upto the pitch of the ball , he defends it into the off-side 24.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 3 runs , flighted delivery around off , Buttler goes down on one knee and paddles it fine , the batsmen take three before the ball is hunted down in the deep 24.2 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , floated up outside off , Taylor gives the charge and wrists it to long-on 24.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , flatter outside off , Buttler goes deep in the crease and punches it to long-off 23.6 Shami to Buttler , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Buttler drops it in front of cover and sets off for a single , Rahane charges in from cover , under-arms the throw once again , but Taylor had put in the dive at the striker 's end and would have been in even if it was a direct hit 23.5 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , length delivery on off and middle , Taylor goes slightly across and works it towards mid-on , the batsmen pinch a quick single 23.4 Shami to James Taylor , no run , slightly back of a length and just outside off , Taylor gets behind the line of the ball and defends to point 23.3 Shami to Buttler , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Buttler looks to punch it through the off-side , gets a thick outside edge that rolls away towards third man 23.2 Shami to Buttler , no run , short of length delivery around off , Buttler hangs back and defends it into the off-side Just a lone slip in place for Shami 23.1 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , bit straighter in line , Taylor moves across and tucks it away behind square for a single Mohammed Shami [ 3.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack Stuart Binny gets some rest as Shami comes into the attack 22.6 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , steps out of the crease and works this flighted delivery on middle stump line to mid-on , he will keep the strike 22.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , floated up on off , Buttler drives it to long-off for another single 22.4 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Taylor gives the charge and drives it to long-off 22.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Buttler bunts it towards sweeper cover 22.2 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Taylor eases it down to long-off and gets to the other end 22.1 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , no run , floated up on off , Taylor leans forward and drives towards cover , who puts in the dive and stops the ball 21.6 Binny to Buttler , FOUR , on the pads this time , Buttler flicks it wide of mid-on and the ball races away to the fence 21.5 Binny to James Taylor , 1 run , run-out chance missed ! It was a length delivery around off , Taylor pushes it into the off-side and decides to go through with the single , Buttler was charging to the striker 's end as Rahane picks the ball up after running in from short cover and under-arms it at the stumps , had that been a direct hit , Buttler would have been a goner even though he put in the dive 21.5 Binny to James Taylor , wide , banged in short and outside off , Taylor leaves it alone , the umpire judges it to be over the batsman 's head and calls it a wide 21.4 Binny to Buttler , 1 run , on a good length and angling in on off and middle , Buttler wrists it towards mid-on and sets off for a single , the fielder has a shy at the non-striker 's end , but the batsman was well in 21.3 Binny to Buttler , no run , back of a length delivery on off stump line , Buttler hangs back and drops his wrists on it , the ball rolls back on the track 21.2 Binny to Buttler , no run , fullish delivery outside off , Buttler drives it to mid-off , he did n't time it that well though 21.1 Binny to Buttler , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Buttler defends it into the off-side off the front foot Binny will continue for his 8th over 20.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , floated up around off , Buttler drives it to long-off and he will keep the strike 20.5 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Taylor presses forward , opens the face of the bat and drives it to sweeper cover 20.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , 1 run , very full this time , Buttler jams the drive to long-off 20.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Buttler , no run , floated up outside off , Buttler leans forward and pushes it to cover 20.2 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Taylor eases it down to long-off A slip and a leg slip in place for Jadeja as well 20.1 Ravindra Jadeja to James Taylor , no run , flighted delivery outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and drives it to cover Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Jos Buttler , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.6 Binny to Bopara , out Caught by Ravindra Jadeja ! ! Bopara goes and half the English side is back in the hut. It was not a wicket taking delivery , but the Indians would n't mind this. It was short and wide outside off , Bopara jumps up in the crease and looks to cut , but he ca n't time it right and hits it straight to point. Binny has now taken a wicket off the last ball of his past three overs. Bopara c Ravindra Jadeja b Binny 4 ( 6 ) Binny to Bopara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.5 Binny to Bopara , no run , bowls this one slightly wide outside off , Bopara is not interested in playing at those and he lets this one go as well 19.4 Binny to Bopara , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Bopara shoulders arms 19.3 Binny to James Taylor , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Taylor drives it wide of mid-off , Dhawan dives to his left and stops the ball , the batsmen take a single 19.2 Binny to Bopara , 3 runs , fullish delivery outside off , Bopara leans forward and drives it towards the deep extra cover region , Mohit from sweeper runs across and fires in the throw at the non-striker 's end , where Virat Kohli ca n't collect the ball cleanly and allows an extra run on the throw 19.1 Binny to Bopara , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Bopara drops it right next to the pitch by employing soft hands , he was looking for the single there , but Taylor sends him back 18.6 A Patel to James Taylor , FOUR , poor delivery to end the over from Patel , it was short and wide , Taylor hangs back inside the crease and cuts it square of the wicket , the fielder at sweeper cover had no chance of cutting that off 18.5 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , darted on middle and leg , Taylor defends it with a straight bat 18.4 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , flighted delivery around off , Taylor pushes it back towards the bowler 18.3 A Patel to Bopara , 1 run , slightly flatter outside off , Bopara punches it to sweeper cover and gets to the other end 18.2 A Patel to James Taylor , 1 run , quicker one from Patel , Taylor was on the move and he bunts it towards mid-on and races to the other end 18.1 A Patel to James Taylor , 2 runs , pushed through on the pads , Taylor tucks it away through mid-wicket off the back foot for a brace Ravi Bopara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.6 Binny to Eoin Morgan , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! The English captain perishes now. It was a length delivery just outside off , Morgan was looking to drive it on the up , but the length was not there. The bat face closes as he was not upto the pitch of the ball and he ends up chipping a dolly to mid-on , who takes the simplest of catches. The Indians are delighted and Binny has his second of the day. Eoin Morgan c Dhawan b Binny 2 ( 13 ) Binny to Eoin Morgan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 17.5 Binny to Eoin Morgan , no run , length delivery outside off , Morgan watches it closely and leaves it alone for the keeper 17.4 Binny to James Taylor , 1 run , slower ball from Binny , it was just short of a good length and outside off , Taylor stays inside the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover 17.3 Binny to James Taylor , no run , short delivery outside off , Taylor looks to cut it up and over backward point , he ca n't connect though and the keeper collects 17.2 Binny to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Taylor lifts his bat and lets it go after covering the stumps , the ball shaped back sharply after it passed the batsman 17.1 Binny to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , fullish delivery angling in on off , Morgan steps out and across and works it away to deep square leg for a single Binny continues from round the wicket to the left-hander 16.6 A Patel to James Taylor , FOUR , flighted delivery just outside off , Taylor goes down on one knee and slog sweeps it to the deep mid-wicket fence , the ball raced away to the fence in no time 16.5 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , floated up on off , Taylor comes on the front foot and defends 16.4 A Patel to Eoin Morgan , 1 run , quicker and short again from Patel , Morgan is surprised by the extra bounce as he looks to fend it away , the ball loops up into the leg-side off the top glove 16.3 A Patel to Eoin Morgan , no run , good bounce on this one , Morgan was looking to work it away into the on-side , a leading edge balloons up on the off-side but there was no fielder there at short cover 16.2 A Patel to James Taylor , 1 run , shortish from Patel , Taylor goes for the pull and gets it fine , but the fielder at leg slip gets a hand on it and helps save three runs for his side 16.1 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , floated up around off , Taylor leans forward and dead-bats it Patel will continue after the drinks break Drinks are on the field now. For the first time on this tour , the Indian pacers have exerted some pressure on the batsmen. Mohit was excellent with the new ball and the back-up has been good as well . 15.6 Binny to Eoin Morgan , no run , short of a length outside off and holding its line , left alone 15.5 Binny to Eoin Morgan , no run , loud shout for LBW , but the ball might have been sneaking down leg , this was pitched around off and shaped back in , Morgan was struck on his pads as he went for the flick , the impact might have well been outside off as well. This is excellent bowling from Binny 15.4 Binny to Eoin Morgan , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , left alone 15.3 Binny to Eoin Morgan , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Morgan checked his drive at the last moment. Binny does well to bend down and stops the ball 15.2 Binny to Eoin Morgan , no run , on a length and nipping back into Morgan , he was looking to flick and is struck high on the pads Binny goes round the wicket to Eoin Morgan 15.1 Binny to James Taylor , 1 run , short and just outside off , swivel pull towards mid-wicket for a single 14.6 A Patel to Eoin Morgan , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Morgan nudges it towards the on-side. Taylor wanted a single but is sent back by Morgan 14.5 A Patel to Eoin Morgan , no run , slower and on off , Morgan goes back and blocks it with a straight bat 14.4 A Patel to Eoin Morgan , no run , slower and on the off-stump line , Morgan goes back and defends it with a straight bat 14.3 A Patel to James Taylor , 1 run , Taylor comes down the track to a well tossed up ball and drives it down towards long-off for a single 14.2 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , the slider from Patel , came back with the angle , Taylor stays back in defence 14.1 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Taylor prods forward and blocks Eoin Morgan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 13.6 Binny to J Root , out Caught&Bowled ! ! That 's an excellent catch from Binny. This was pitched up and held its line outside off , Root pressed forward on the drive , played it a bit too early though , ends up hitting it in the air and back towards the bowler. Binny was on his followthrough , he keeps his eyes on the ball and snaps it up gleefully. That 's a big wicket for India , they are making a strong comeback into the match. J Root c and b Binny 3 ( 2 ) Binny to J Root , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! 13.5 Binny to James Taylor , 1 run , length ball on Taylor 's pads , he shuffles across and works it behind square on the on-side for a single 13.4 Binny to James Taylor , no run , back of a length and well outside off , slapped straight to Jadeja at point 13.3 Binny to James Taylor , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Taylor goes hard on the cut and mistimes it towards point 13.2 Binny to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 13.1 Binny to J Root , 3 runs , that 's easy pickings for Root , half-volley on his pads , whipped past mid-wicket for an easy three , nice way to get going 12.6 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , Patel drifts one across Taylor , he was forward on the flick , misses and is struck on the body 12.5 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , pushed through by Patel , Taylor gets his bat in front of the pads as he blocks towards the bowler 12.4 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , slower and wider outside off , Taylor prods forward in defence 12.3 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Taylor lunges forward and blocks 12.2 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , flatter and well outside off , Taylor slaps it hard and straight to backward point , he hit the ground hard and the ball bounced nicely through to the fielder Joe Root , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.1 A Patel to Moeen Ali , out Caught by Rayudu ! ! Moeen 's scratchy innings comes to an end ! This was a nothing shot , he knew there was a long-off in place , yet , he danced down the track to a flighted delivery and hit it straight to that man. Rayudu comes in , dives forward and takes a well judged catch. He did n't seem too happy though , signalled that he perhaps did n't pick it up on the first instant , but all 's well for India. Moeen Ali c Rayudu b A Patel 17 ( 34 ) [ 4s-1 ] A Patel to Moeen Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.6 Binny to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , left alone 11.5 Binny to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , no room for Taylor to play his shots , blocked back towards the bowler 11.4 Binny to James Taylor , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Taylor prods forward and defends it towards the off-side 11.4 Binny to James Taylor , wide , Binny goes full and wide outside off , a bit too wide though , called by the umpire 11.3 Binny to James Taylor , 2 runs , that 's excellent running from Taylor , drops a length ball in front of mid-wicket , runs hard and gets back for the second run 11.2 Binny to James Taylor , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Taylor shuffles across and punches it towards short extra cover 11.1 Binny to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor prods across and defends it Stuart Binny [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 A Patel to Moeen Ali , no run , flighted and wider outside off , Moeen reaches out and defends it back towards the bowler 10.5 A Patel to James Taylor , 1 run , Patel gives this one more air , Taylor comes down the track and drives it wide of long-off for a single 10.4 A Patel to James Taylor , no run , pushed through by Patel and drifting onto Taylor 's pads , defended with a straight bat 10.3 A Patel to Moeen Ali , 1 run , flighted delivery and on off , Moeen comes down the track and eases it down towards long-off for a single 10.2 A Patel to Moeen Ali , no run , nicely bowled by Patel , slower and just outside off , gets some bounce as well , Moeen waits on it and defends it with an open face towards 1st slip A slip and a leg slip in 10.1 A Patel to Moeen Ali , no run , tossed up and just outside off , driven back towards the bowler Axar Patel , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 9.6 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Taylor 's eyes lit up as he saw the width , threw his bat at that and missed 9.5 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , 3 runs , Sharma keeps it full and well outside off , Moeen was hanging on the back-foot as he played the drive , spoons it in the air and luckily gets it wide of Kohli at mid-off , gets back for the third run 9.4 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Moeen gets behind the line and punches it towards cover-point 9.3 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , more runs saved by Rahane , this was pitched up and well outside off , Moeen drives it on the up and to the left of cover-point , Rahane throws himself and saves a boundary 9.2 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , the bouncer from Mohit , Moeen made a belated attempt at playing the pull , gets nowhere near the ball and misses by a long margin 9.1 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Moeen gets well forward and punches it towards cover-point 8.6 Shami to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , another easy leave for Taylor 8.5 Shami to Moeen Ali , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Moeen was hanging back in defence , gets an inside edge towards the on-side , Taylor calls for a quick single and beats Shami to the crease 8.4 Shami to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's beautifully played , pitched up and well outside off , Ali leans forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and drives it through point , no need to run for those 8.3 Shami to James Taylor , 1 run , excellent fielding from Rahan at short square leg , saves three runs for his team , this was banged in short and just outside off , Taylor swivelled on the pull , ca n't get it past Rahane 's dive 8.2 Shami to James Taylor , no run , nicely bowled by Shami , goes full and gets this one to nip away further , lures Taylor into the drive and beats the outside edge 8.2 Shami to James Taylor , wide , Shami drifts this one well down leg-side , wide called 8.1 Shami to James Taylor , no run , swish and a miss from Taylor , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Taylor was drawn into the big drive , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 7.6 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , edged ! But the ball dropped well in front of 1st slip , Moeen was pushing away from his body , does n't cover the line and ends up getting a thick edge Back to round the wicket 7.5 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , 3 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Taylor leans into the drive and gets it in the gap past cover. Kohli and Rayudu give chase and keep them down to three runs 7.4 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , no run , another slower cross seam delivery , but this time he rolled his fingers around it , defended towards the off-side 7.3 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , no run , the slower ball from Mohit , Taylor spots it early and defends it. It was bowled from the back of the hand , ala James Faulkner 7.2 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , no run , full and tailing into Taylor , driven towards mid-off 7.1 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Moeen drives with an open face , gets a single as the ball goes behind square on the off-side 6.6 Shami to James Taylor , no run , tad fuller and on the stumps , Taylor prods across and defends it Back to over the wicket 6.5 Shami to Moeen Ali , 1 run , Shami comes from wide of the crease and angles one into Moeen , he pushes forward and gets an inside edge , the ball stops besides the pitch , the batsmen sneak in a single 6.4 Shami to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and angling back into the left-hander , punched back towards the bowler Shami changes to round the wicket for the left-hander 6.3 Shami to Moeen Ali , no run , back of a length and around the off-stump channel , Moeen rides with the bounce as he pushes it towards the off-side 6.3 Shami to Moeen Ali , wide , Shami sprays this one miles outside off , wide called 6.2 Shami to Moeen Ali , no run , Shami shortens his length outside off , Moeen pushes forward and gets an inside edge back towards the bowler A slip and a gully in place 6.1 Shami to Moeen Ali , no run , short and angling across the left-hander , Moeen was looking to fetch that one as he pulled , misses it by a long way 5.6 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , no run , full and on the stumps , Taylor presses across , presents the full face of the bat and defends it towards mid-on Back to over the wicket for the right-hander 5.5 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Moeen went hard on the drive , gets a thick edge down towards third man for a single 5.4 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Moeen closes the face of the bat on the drive. Axar gets across from mid-on , puts in the dive and saves a couple of runs 5.3 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , Mohit shortens his length and gets this one to angle back into Moeen , punched off the back-foot towards cover-point , bowled with a cross seam there , Mohit Change of angle from Mohit , he switches to round the wicket 5.2 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , Moeen gets the pull away , this was short and on the stumps , Moeen swivelled across on the shot , did n't get hold of it completely. Binny gets across from fine leg and keeps them down to a brace 5.1 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , on a length and just outside off , Moeen whips it powerfully but straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 4.6 Shami to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Taylor is happy to let that go through to the keeper 4.5 Shami to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Taylor presses across and punches it towards mid-off 4.4 Shami to James Taylor , no run , Taylor fell over after playing the flick , the impact resulted in the ball going in the air , falls well short of Rayadu in front of square leg. Taylor slipped as he played the shot , did n't get the required control over the shot 4.3 Shami to James Taylor , no run , Shami keeps it full and gets it to shape away from outside off , left alone 4.2 Shami to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Taylor covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 4.2 Shami to James Taylor , wide , the bouncer from Shami , it 's a bit too short and too high , wide called 4.1 Shami to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Taylor gets a big stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 3.6 Mohit Sharma to James Taylor , 1 run , on a good length and angling into Taylor , he shuffles across and works it to the right of mid-on for a single James Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.5 Mohit Sharma to Bell , out Lbw ! ! That 's a grubber on this bouncy WACA track. Bell looks as surprised as Dhoni was when India batted. This was pitched around off and middle , did n't rise as much as Bell expected , he was back on the defensive push , the ball sneaks under the bat , brushes the front pad and raps him low on the back pad. The impact was around off and the ball would have been crashing into the stumps. Early strike by India , this is a huge wicket. The in-form Bell walks back gutted. Bell lbw b Mohit Sharma 10 ( 13 ) [ 4s-2 ] Mohit Sharma to Bell , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 3.4 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , driven wide of cover for a single 3.3 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , another bouncer from Sharma , this time it was outside off , Moeen went for the pull and missed out once again 3.2 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , the bumper from Sharma , short and on the leg-stump line , Moeen was looking to help it on its way and missed 3.1 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Moeen went for the big drive and missed 2.6 Binny to Bell , no run , that 's a snorter from Binny , shortens his length and gets this one to spat onto Bell , he was taken by surprise and fends it off rather uncomfortably , the ball lobs towards the slip cordon , but drops well in front 2.5 Binny to Bell , FOUR , there 's no one stopping this one though , on a good length and well outside off , Bell leans into the drive , presents the full face of the bat and drives it sweetly past cover , no one moved 2.4 Binny to Bell , no run , Kohli has saved a certain boundary , this was exquisitely done by Bell , presents the full face of the bat and drove a length ball to the right of mid-off. Kohli rushes across , puts in a full length dive and saves four runs 2.3 Binny to Bell , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Bell went chasing after that , gets a thick edge behind backward point , the ball drops well in front of the advancing third man , back for the second run 2.2 Binny to Bell , no run , much better from Binny , fuller length delivery and shaping away gently , left alone 2.1 Binny to Moeen Ali , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , pushed in front of mid-off for a quick single 1.6 Mohit Sharma to Bell , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Bell was neither forward nor back , pushes his bat in front of the body and gets an inside edge towards the on-side 1.5 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , 1 run , full and on off , Moeen closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on. Shami does n't stop the ball cleanly and allows a single 1.4 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Moeen watches it all along and shoulders arms Two slips in place for Mohit as well 1.3 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Moeen is happy to let it go through to the keeper 1.2 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , that 's nicely bowled , this was pitched up and nips away from a length , straightens at the last moment and beats Moeen 's ambitious drive 1.1 Mohit Sharma to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape back into Moeen , he was looking to work it towards the on-side and gets hit high on the pads Mohit Sharma , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Binny to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Bell gets a big stride forward and drives it towards Kohli at mid-off 0.5 Binny to Bell , no run , much better from Binny , on a good length and just outside off , Bell presses across and defends it 0.4 Binny to Bell , FOUR , that 's creamed , long half-volley from Binny , he was searching for the swing , Bell gets down on his knees and drives it on the up , clears the infield and races away to the extra cover fence 0.3 Binny to Bell , no run , short of a length and shaping away from off , Bell covers the line and watches it go through to the keeper 0.2 Binny to Bell , no run , tad fuller and a hint of shape away from off , Bell covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 0.1 Binny to Bell , no run , short of a length and well outside off , gets some extra bounce as well , Bell looks to cut and misses Two slips in place 0.1 Binny to Bell , wide , Binny bangs one short , but it 's way too short , called as a wide Bell and Moeen Ali are at the crease. Bell is on strike. Binny will open the attack Welcome back.. India 's batting was poor once again and it 's up to the bowlers to restore some pride. Can they defend 200 ? The openers are out in the middle. Binny has the ball in his hands . Dhawan was the first to fall , getting a bottom edge on the cut , Kohli and Raina fell cheaply , so did Rayudu. Rahane held one end firm , but he could n't capitalise on his start and was dismissed for 73. Dhoni and Binny looked good , but failed to press on. Jadeja 's first bat on the tour ended with a horrible swipe , Axar Patel just about got his first run in Australia but nothing more. Shami swung his bat merrily and India just about got to 200. So England need 201 to book a berth in the final. On the back of India 's bowling display so far on this tour , you would n't back them to defend this total. Join us in a while for the chase. . Another feeble batting display by the Indians. The WACA pitch had pace , bounce and everything that the Indian batsmen normally fear , but after getting off to a reasonable start , they folded away rather badly. If not for the final pair , they would have fallen for an even lower score. The capitulation started at the exit of Kohli and never stopped afterwards. Dhawan and Rahane took their time to settle , added 83 for the first wicket. It was n't the most convincing cricket at times , but they did manage to keep the England bowlers at bay . 48.1 Woakes to Shami , out Caught by Buttler ! ! India have been bowled out for exactly 200 ! The slower ball does the job for Woakes , it was a leg-spinner , Shami swung hard , he was through with his shot even before the ball arrived , ends up getting a thick edge and it 's a simple catch to the keeper. Shami falls after a breezy cameo , India have been bowled out with 11 balls unused. Shami c Buttler b Woakes 25 ( 18 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Woakes to Shami , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 48.1 Woakes to Shami , wide , 200 up for India , Woakes looks to go for the wide yorker and ends up drifting it way outside off , wide called 47.6 J Anderson to Shami , 1 run , full and on Shami 's pads , clipped away towards long leg for a single 47.5 J Anderson to Shami , FOUR , bonus runs for India , this was the slower ball from Anderson , Shami was way too early on the cut , gets a thick edge past the keeper. The third man was inside the ring and the ball races away to the fence 47.5 J Anderson to Shami , wide , Anderson hurls this one wider down leg as he looked to follow the batsman , wide called 47.4 J Anderson to Shami , no run , short and on the stumps , Shami does n't get hold of the pull , the ball balloons in the air and falls in front of a diving Woakes at short fine 47.3 J Anderson to Shami , 2 runs , that 's comedy stuff from the two batsmen , and it nearly ended as a run-out. Anderson misses the return on the first attempt , by the time he broke the stumps , Mohit Sharma was well home. The slower ball from Anderson , Shami drove it to the right of extra cover , there was never a second run there and it should n't have been , if not for Anderson 47.2 J Anderson to Mohit Sharma , 1 run , Anderson follows Sharma as he backed away , the batsman was looking to nudge it towards the off-side , misses and the ball rolls away off his arms , given as a run by the umpire 47.1 J Anderson to Mohit Sharma , no run , short of a length and in that channel outside off , Sharma was looking to run it down towards third man , is surprised by the bounce and gets beaten James Anderson [ 8.0-1-15-1 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Woakes to Mohit Sharma , 1 run , back of a length and on the stumps , Sharma makes some room , opens the face of the bat and runs it down towards third man 46.5 Woakes to Shami , 1 run , another slower ball from Woakes , Shami spots it early and dabs it square behind point , he wanted a second run but is wisely sent back 46.5 Woakes to Shami , wide , Woakes slips in the slower ball , but ends up spearing it well down leg-side , wide called 46.4 Woakes to Shami , FOUR , this is even better ! Shami is making a case for him to be pushed up the order , short and wide from Woakes , Shami gets on top of the bounce and crashes it square on the off-side , beats point and races away to the fence 46.3 Woakes to Shami , no run , Woakes goes full and wide outside off , Shami makes room on the slash and misses 46.2 Woakes to Shami , SIX , that 's nicely played , a clean swing from Shami , this was a back of a length delivery and on the stumps , Shami frees his arms and sends the ball sailing into the deep backward square stands , more handy runs for India 46.1 Woakes to Shami , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Shami backs away on the pull , does n't get any bat on that and misses Chris Woakes [ 8.0-1-33-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Broad to Mohit Sharma , FOUR , handy runs for India , Broad banged one short and just outside off , does n't get the required bounce , Sharma backs away and slaps it high over point for a boundary 45.5 Broad to Shami , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Shami swivels across and pulls it down towards long leg for a single 45.4 Broad to Mohit Sharma , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Sharma makes room and steers it down towards third man for a single 45.3 Broad to Shami , 1 run , Mohit Sharma was a goner had Moeen made a direct hit at the striker 's end , Shami backed away to a short of a length ball and pushed it in front of cover , he set-off immediately , Mohit Sharma responded but would n't have made his ground if Moeen had found the target 45.2 Broad to Shami , no run , back of a length and angling into Shami , that spat onto the batsman. Shami was surprised , but does well to take his bottom hand away as he blocks 45.1 Broad to Shami , no run , short and angling down leg-side , Shami was looking to help it on its way and misses 44.6 Finn to Shami , 1 run , that 's a strange looking pull from Shami , he somehow managed to control it though , just a single to deep mid-wicket 44.5 Finn to Shami , no run , another short ball , well outside off , Shami made room for the cut and missed 44.4 Finn to Shami , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Shami , this was short and well outside off , Shami waits on it , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and guides it over the lone slip for a boundary 44.3 Finn to Shami , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Shami does n't get to the pitch of the ball but still drives , the ball whizzes past the outside edge Mohammed Shami , right handed bat , comes to the crease 44.2 Finn to A Patel , out Caught by Bell ! ! Wickets are tumbling here ! Another good take by Bell at 1st slip , a carbon copy of Binny 's dismissal. This was floated outside off by Finn , tempting Patel into the big drive , he goes hard on the shot , gets a thick edge , to the left of Bell. He slides across , keeps his eyes on the ball and completes the catch. The collapso cricket from India continues , they are now down to their last pair. A Patel c Bell b Finn 1 ( 5 ) Finn to A Patel , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.1 Finn to A Patel , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Patel leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and blocks Steven Finn [ 9.0-0-31-2 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Broad to Mohit Sharma , no run , another short ball from Broad , but the line is well outside off , Sharma watches it sail through to the keeper 43.5 Broad to A Patel , 1 run , 1st run for Patel in Australia , shuffles across to a length ball and works it in front of square on the on-side 43.4 Broad to A Patel , no run , the bumper from Broad , Patel watches it all along , drops his wrists and sways away from the line 43.3 Broad to A Patel , no run , on a good length and from round the wicket , Patel gets half forward and pushes it towards the off-side , it was in the air for a while , but drops well in front of the fielder at mid-off Mohit Sharma , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.2 Broad to Ravindra Jadeja , out Caught by Finn ! ! Horrible cricket from Jadeja. Broad banged this one short as Jadeja jumped down the track , he was n't in any position to play the pull , gets into a huge tangle , gets a top-edge and it 's a simple catch to Finn at mid-on. Can India last 50 overs ? Ravindra Jadeja c Finn b Broad 5 ( 9 ) Broad to Ravindra Jadeja , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 43.1 Broad to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , on a good length and shaping away , left alone Stuart Broad [ 8.0-1-48-1 ] is back into the attack Axar Patel , left handed bat , comes to the crease 42.6 J Anderson to Dhoni , out Lbw ! ! Massive blow for India ! Dhoni takes a suspicious look at the pitch before walking away. He was hanging on the back-foot , this was back of a length around the off-stump channel and held its line , Dhoni was caught on the shuffle , the ball did n't bounce as much as he expected. The ball raps him on the pads , he was jumping in the air , but the ball stayed so low that it would have crashed into the stumps. Easy call for umpire Erasmus. Dhoni lbw b J Anderson 17 ( 32 ) [ 4s-3 ] J Anderson to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 42.5 J Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , Anderson bangs one short and on the stumps , Jadeja swivels across and pulls it down towards long leg , just a single 42.4 J Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , tad fuller and on off , Jadeja presses forward and blocks 42.3 J Anderson to Dhoni , 1 run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Dhoni stays back and punches it on the up over cover , clears the men in the ring , just a single to the fielder in the deep 42.2 J Anderson to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhoni prods across and defends it 42.1 J Anderson to Dhoni , no run , that 's nasty from Anderson , gets this one to rear from a length , that took off , Dhoni was pressing forward , the ball climbed and hits him on the helmet. Dhoni was taken by surprise there , umpire Erasmus smiles , so does the bowler. Dhoni takes some time to compose himself. It was bowled with a cross seam position by Anderson 41.6 Moeen Ali to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , Moeen drifts one on the middle stump channel , Jadeja is happy to block it 41.5 Moeen Ali to Dhoni , 1 run , flighted delivery and on off , worked past square leg for a single 41.4 Moeen Ali to Dhoni , no run , slower and wider from Moeen , Dhoni was lunging forward in defence , plays well in front of his body and nearly pops a return catch to Moeen 41.3 Moeen Ali to Dhoni , no run , Moeen drifts one wider outside off , tucked towards the on-side 41.2 Moeen Ali to Dhoni , no run , slower and on off , Dhoni quietly plays it towards short mid-wicket 41.1 Moeen Ali to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , Moeen gives this one more air , driven down towards long-on for a single Moeen Ali [ 9.0-0-33-2 ] is back into the attack 40.6 J Anderson to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhoni prods across in defence 40.5 J Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , another near catch ! Finn was the fielder at fine leg , he rushed in , dived forwards but the ball bounced in front of him. Jadeja was way too late on the pull as Anderson bowled short , gets the top-edge and the ball hung in the air forever 40.4 J Anderson to Dhoni , 1 run , too straight from Anderson , worked past square leg for a single. Dhoni slipped while he was playing that shot 40.3 J Anderson to Dhoni , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Dhoni slices the drive to the left of point where the fielder makes a tumbling stop 40.2 J Anderson to Dhoni , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Dhoni gets behind the line and pushes it towards cover-point 40.1 J Anderson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , back of a length and on Jadeja 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single James Anderson [ 6.0-1-10-0 ] is back into the attack India made 23/2 in the batting PP. We are into the final 10 overs now. . 39.6 Finn to Dhoni , no run , on a length and around middle , Dhoni shuffles across and defends it 39.5 Finn to Dhoni , FOUR , did the ball carry to Bell ? It would have been a stunning catch had he taken it , might have just about carried , but the ball was dying on him. This was short and wide from Finn , Dhoni went hard on the cut , gets a thick bottom edge and to the right of Bell. He dived across , but could n't get his hands behind it , the ball races away to the fence in a jiffy 39.4 Finn to Dhoni , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Dhoni shuffles across and defends it towards the off-side 39.3 Finn to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , short of a length and on Jadeja 's pads , he looks to flick and gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side Ravindra Jadeja , left handed bat , comes to the crease 39.2 Finn to Binny , out Caught by Bell ! ! That 's a stunner from Bell at 1st slip. Excellent bowling from Finn , this was pitched up and in that channel outside off , lures Binny into the drive , he obliges and goes hard on the shot , gets a thick edge and to the right of Bell. The ball was travelling , Bell dives across and goes with both hands , ends up taking it with his right hand. Not much of a celebration though , India fall further behind. Binny c Bell b Finn 7 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] Finn to Binny , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 39.1 Finn to Binny , no run , on a good length and in that corridor around off , Binny gets half forward and defends it towards the off-side 38.6 Broad to Dhoni , FOUR , that 's easy pickings for Dhoni , short and wide from Broad , Dhoni had the room to free his arms , he gets on top of the bounce and lashes it over backward point , no chance for the fielder at third man 38.5 Broad to Dhoni , no run , much fuller and on the off-stump channel , Dhoni stays behind the line , plays with an open face and guides it towards the point region 38.4 Broad to Dhoni , FOUR , lovely shot , width on offer from Broad , the length was there as well , Dhoni throws his hands at the ball , finds the gap past cover-point , no one in the deep and the ball races away to the fence 38.3 Broad to Dhoni , no run , full and on Dhoni 's pads , he prods across and turns it towards the on-side 38.2 Broad to Dhoni , no run , Broad keeps it short and just outside off , Dhoni backs away and was looking to cut it over backward point , beaten by the bounce on that ball 38.1 Broad to Binny , 1 run , Broad drifts one onto Binny 's pads , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single Stuart Broad [ 7.0-1-39-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Finn to Dhoni , no run , Finn is getting some extra bounce from the back of the length deliveries , once again Dhoni hops across to counter the bounce , pushes it towards the off-side , looked awkward in doing so , but this technique works for Dhoni 37.5 Finn to Dhoni , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Dhoni rides with the bounce and dabs it towards the off-side , the ball went high off the bat as it rolled away towards short cover 37.4 Finn to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Dhoni leans half-forward and pushes it towards short mid-wicket 37.3 Finn to Dhoni , no run , Dhoni gets lucky ! The ball lobbed over the fielder at short mid-wicket and falls well in front of the man rushing in from mid-on. This was the slower ball from Finn , Dhoni was way too early on the drive , ends up spooning it in the air 37.2 Finn to Dhoni , no run , short of a length and just outside off , no room for Dhoni to free his arms , ends up chopping it in front of mid-off 37.1 Finn to Binny , 1 run , too straight from Finn , ends up drifting onto Binny 's pads , flicked away towards fine leg for a single 36.6 Woakes to Binny , 1 run , Woakes bangs this one short , but he does n't have the pace to trouble Binny , he gets inside the line , rolls his wrists and pulls it away towards long leg for a single 36.5 Woakes to Binny , no run , tad fuller and angling back into Binny , he shuffles across and defends it towards short mid-wicket 36.4 Woakes to Binny , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Binny stays back as he defends it towards the off-side 36.3 Woakes to Binny , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Binny , full-toss on his pads , he prods half-forward and leans into the on-drive , gets it past mid-on and the ball races away to the fence , a handy boundary to get off the mark 36.2 Woakes to Binny , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Binny rides with the bounce and pushes it towards the off-side 36.1 Woakes to Dhoni , 1 run , short and on Dhoni 's hips , he shuffles across , gets inside the line and helps it along towards fine leg Chris Woakes [ 7.0-1-27-1 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Finn to Binny , no run , steep bounce for Finn , shortens his length by a fraction and gets this one to bounce across the right-hander , Binny was clearly late in getting forward as the ball whizzed past the outside edge 35.5 Finn to Binny , no run , tad fuller and on the off-stump channel , Binny gets a good stride forward and defends it with an open face 35.4 Finn to Binny , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Binny presses across and defends it towards the bowler Stuart Binny , right handed bat , comes to the crease 35.3 Finn to Rahane , out Caught by Buttler ! ! India are falling apart here ! This was the slower ball from Finn , he rolled his fingers across the seam , gets some extra bounce , Rahane was looking to dab it down towards third man , plays with an open face and edges it to the right of the keeper. Buttler dives across and holds onto the chance. Rahane falls after a gritty knock , India have lost half their side now. Rahane c Buttler b Finn 73 ( 101 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] Finn to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 35.2 Finn to Dhoni , 1 run , that 's nicely played by Dhoni , this was short and just outside off , Dhoni hops across , rolls his wrists and pulls it past square leg for a single 35.1 Finn to Rahane , 1 run , short and wide from Finn , Rahane waits on it , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and runs it down towards third man , goes to the fielder on the bounce Steven Finn [ 6.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting PP. India need these two to bat for a long period of time , the run-rate has hardly crossed 4 RPO 34.6 Broad to Dhoni , no run , once again in that channel outside off , Broad is getting steep bounce here , Dhoni rides with the bounce , plays with soft hands and keeps it down 34.5 Broad to Dhoni , no run , Broad shortens the length now , gets some extra bounce as well , Dhoni hops across on the defensive push , gets hit high on his gloves 34.4 Broad to Dhoni , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhoni plays with an open face and defends it to the left of backward point 34.3 Broad to Dhoni , no run , tad fuller and on off , Dhoni shuffles across and defends it back towards the bowler 34.2 Broad to Dhoni , no run , Broad goes full and wide outside off , was bowled with a cross seam position , Dhoni is happy to let it go A slip is in place for Dhoni MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.1 Broad to Rayudu , out Caught by Buttler ! ! Edged and caught ! One flash too many from Rayudu , this was short and just outside off , not much room for the cut , Rayudu was cramped on the shot , gets a thick audible nick through to the keeper. India continue to lose wickets , Broad has one now. Once again Rayudu gets a start and throws it away , not great signs going into the World Cup. Rayudu c Buttler b Broad 12 ( 17 ) [ 4s-1 ] Broad to Rayudu , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 33.6 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , flatter and on off , some extra bounce for Moeen , Rahane stays back and punches it back towards the bowler 33.5 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , Moeen drifts one onto Rahane 's pads , turned towards the on-side 33.4 Moeen Ali to Rayudu , 1 run , tossed up and on the off-stump channel , driven down towards long-on for a single 33.3 Moeen Ali to Rayudu , no run , a little shimmy by Rayudu , comes down the track and drives it towards cover 33.2 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , Moeen drifts one on off , worked towards long-on for an easy single 33.1 Moeen Ali to Rayudu , 1 run , flighted and just outside off , worked behind square on the on-side for a single Once again , it 's time for drinks. India are dawdling along. But having said that , credit to England for not drifting away from their gameplan. They have rarely bowled a loose ball and Moeen Ali has been outstanding once again. It has n't helped India 's cause that Kohli and Raina perished to ill-advised lofted strokes. Rahane is battling along and is the key to India getting a defendable total on a not-so-easy batting wicket . 32.6 Broad to Rahane , SIX , caught by an Indian wearing an Australian tee in the crowd ! This time Rahane sees the short delivery and is in position to hook. Gets a top-edge and beats fine leg 's chase back. Caught with two hands by a gentleman in the crowd , who sports a big smile after grabbing that 32.5 Broad to Rahane , no run , dug in short at 138kph , Rahane wanted to pull , then saw it was too far of off , lets it go 32.4 Broad to Rayudu , 1 run , that was an easy two , but Rayudu sends Rahane back after playing a drive to deep extra cover , Rayudu was slow in turning back for the second 32.3 Broad to Rayudu , FOUR , pre-meditated but effective ! Sees the short delivery outside off and flat-bats in the air , wide of mid-on , beats the chasing fielder 's dive 32.2 Broad to Rayudu , no run , short of length outside off , dabbed to point , straight to the fielder 32.1 Broad to Rayudu , no run , well fielded by Broad in his followthrough , driven hard and straight , and Broad tumbled quickly to stop 31.6 Moeen Ali to Rayudu , 1 run , takes a step out and wrists it to long-on , for a single 31.5 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , now Rahane does the same , tapping a single to long-on 31.4 Moeen Ali to Rayudu , 1 run , uses his feet and drives to long-on 31.3 Moeen Ali to Rayudu , no run , punched off the back foot to short mid-wicket 31.2 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane loses his balance after sweeping it to fine leg 31.1 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , skips out and turns it to short mid-wicket 30.6 Broad to Rayudu , no run , tight delivery on the stumps , Rayudu defends to the right of Broad 30.5 Broad to Rayudu , no run , another cross-seam delivery , again bounces and Rayudu looks to dab to third man , before belatedly pulling his bat out of the way 30.4 Broad to Rayudu , no run , cross-seam delivery from Broad , bounces extra and beats Rayudu 's lavish drive outside off A slip has been placed for Broad against Rayudu 30.3 Broad to Rayudu , no run , pitched up outside off , little shape away , left alone 30.2 Broad to Rahane , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and glides it to third man 30.1 Broad to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane charges Broad and gets a boundary , wide of mid-off , not hit off the middle , off the top of the bat , but wide of the fielder inside the ring and that 's enough Stuart Broad [ 4.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , whipped off the back foot to the right of mid-wicket , quick single taken and it needed a dive from Rahane to get there , even as the throw was a bit wide 29.5 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , tapped to the right of the bowler after coming down 29.4 Moeen Ali to Rayudu , 3 runs , driven past a diving cover and it 's into the gap at deep extra cover , for three 29.3 Moeen Ali to Rayudu , no run , turned to leg , Rayudu took a step out , Rahane sent him back and Rayudu had to dive full length to save his wicket. A direct hit would 've seen the end of him. Confusion between the duo , but all is safe in the end What has happened there ? Third ump called for a run-out check. Rayudu seems to have gotten back , with a dive. A full length dive and the bat is over the line as Buttler breaks the stumps Ambati Rayudu , right handed bat , comes to the crease 29.2 Moeen Ali to Raina , out Caught by Woakes ! ! Now Raina perishes. Moeen Ali loves bowling against India and has another. Raina came down the track for the big hit , was n't to the pitch of it , wanted to go over cover , since he was n't to the pitch , the thick outside edge was found and a dolly to backward point. Raina c Woakes b Moeen Ali 1 ( 5 ) Moeen Ali to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 29.1 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane comes down the track and eases it to long-on 28.6 Finn to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane punches and gets a thick outside edge , no slip and a good sliding stop at third man , keeps it to a single 28.5 Finn to Rahane , no run , nips back in and raps Rahane on the pads , caught Rahane out on the shuffle , loud shout for lbw by Finn , but bounce saved Rahane there. Finn asks Erasmus whether that was the case , gets a yes and then walks back to his mark. Good to see 28.4 Finn to Rahane , no run , gets forward and opens the face of the bat to play it to point 28.3 Finn to Rahane , no run , Rahane wants to get on with it , but he ca n't get the big shot going , charges Finn and flat-bats without any timing to mid-on As soon as I said - something 's got ta give , next ball Kohli holed out. Commie 's curse striking again ! 28.2 Finn to Rahane , no run , defended to the left of backward point , no chance of a quick single as Bell is there 28.1 Finn to Rahane , no run , Rahane is too early into the pull , gets hit on the body and the ball is stopped by Buttler diving to his right 27.6 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , goes right back and dabs it to short third man , easy single 27.5 Moeen Ali to Raina , 1 run , Raina loses his footing after playing the sweep to backward square leg , was a risky shot too as he took it right from off and middle , if he had missed , he would 've been a dead duck 27.4 Moeen Ali to Raina , no run , gets forward and eases a drive straight to the fielder at short cover 27.3 Moeen Ali to Raina , no run , skids on flat from round the wicket , Raina went for the cut and bottom-edged by the side of the pitch 27.2 Moeen Ali to Raina , no run , pushed back to the bowler Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 27.1 Moeen Ali to Kohli , out Caught by J Root ! ! And Kohli has holed out ! Used his feet and got to the pitch , wanted to hit a lot straighter , but timed the loft to Root at long-off , who moved to his right to snaffle. Kohli practices the straight lofted hit while walking back. Kohli c J Root b Moeen Ali 8 ( 19 ) Moeen Ali to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! England are doing well not to let the Indians get away. They are bowling a wicket-to-wicket line and Moeen Ali is rushing through his overs from one end. The pressure is getting to Rahane. Something 's got ta give ! 26.6 Finn to Rahane , no run , back of a length on off , Rahane turns it with soft hands to backward square leg 26.5 Finn to Rahane , no run , tight delivery on off , defended to point and Rahane is n't happy that he did n't get that in the gap 26.4 Finn to Rahane , 2 runs , down leg , neatly glanced to fine leg , they come back for two as Moeen Ali gets across 26.3 Finn to Rahane , no run , Rahane swings wildly and misses. It was on a short of length outside off , Rahane was beaten by the extra bounce as he aimed an awkward swipe , Finn smiles and has a word of advice for the Mumbaikar 26.2 Finn to Rahane , no run , Rahane used his feet and was looking for the big hit , but checked his shot and defended it to the left of Finn 26.1 Finn to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli taps softly wide of mid-on and takes the single Steven Finn [ 4.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , uses his feet and finds Morgan at mid-wicket with a clip 25.5 Moeen Ali to Kohli , 1 run , the 100 is up as Kohli nurdles a single to backward square leg 25.4 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , full toss , forced down to long-on 25.3 Moeen Ali to Kohli , 1 run , another chip down the wicket , another single to long-on 25.2 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane comes out and is n't to the pitch of it , yet he taps it to long-on 25.1 Moeen Ali to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli skips out and eases it to long-on 24.6 Woakes to Kohli , 1 run , defended to the left of backward point 24.5 Woakes to Kohli , no run , leans forward and pushes it firmly off the front foot to short cover 24.4 Woakes to Rahane , 1 run , 8th ODI fifty for Rahane as he shuffles across and glances it to fine leg , off the hips. Raises his bat , has a word with Kohli and is ready to get on with it 24.3 Woakes to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man The players take a drink as the physio comes out. Looks like Woakes is ready to bowl again. Good news for England Woakes is still in pain. He is feeling the right-wrist. Slight holdup in play. Woakes is trying to hold the ball and see whether he can get a firm grip. Finn and a couple of others surround him as the physio is called out 24.2 Woakes to Kohli , no run , Kohli plays a firm bottom-handed drive into the ground , Woakes tumbles and gets hit below the right-wrist. Has a look at that part and gets up , ready to bowl again 24.1 Woakes to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane is on the front foot and taps it to the right of mid-on , easy single 23.6 Moeen Ali to Kohli , no run , good diving stop by Morgan at mid-wicket after Kohli flicks firmly 23.5 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , gets forward and pushes it to long-on 23.4 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , turned to short mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 23.3 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , pushed to the left of Moeen Ali now 23.2 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , Rahane now skips out and gets a soft leading edge back to the bowler , all along the ground 23.1 Moeen Ali to Kohli , 1 run , Moeen Ali sees Kohli come down and drags it short , punched to long-on 22.6 Woakes to Rahane , no run , Rahane gets forward to push to cover , gets a thick inside edge to Taylor at backward square leg , Rahane was searching for the ball after he played the shot 22.5 Woakes to Rahane , no run , Kohli sends Rahane back as the ball is defended straight to the fielder at short cover 22.4 Woakes to Rahane , no run , pushed off the front foot to point 22.3 Woakes to Rahane , no run , gets forward and defends to the left of the bowler , who follows through and forces Rahane to retreat 22.3 Woakes to Rahane , wide , down leg and Rahane ca n't connect with the glance , wide called 22.2 Woakes to Rahane , 2 runs , full on off , Rahane flicks and gets it wide of James Taylor , diving at backward square leg , two taken 22.1 Woakes to Rahane , no run , pitched up outside off , Rahane gets forward and opens the face of the bat to stab to point 21.6 Moeen Ali to Kohli , no run , tapped wide of leg slip who goes to his left , dives and stops the thoughts of a quick single 21.5 Moeen Ali to Kohli , no run , tossed up outside off , drilled hard and straight back to the bowler. A bottom-handed shot that from Kohli 21.4 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , low full toss down leg , Rahane paddled it and nearly holed out to deep backward square leg , on the bounce to Woakes 21.3 Moeen Ali to Kohli , 1 run , wristed wide of short mid-wicket and Kohli is off the mark 21.2 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , goes on the back foot and wrists it to deep backward square leg 21.1 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , turned to short mid-wicket 20.6 Woakes to Kohli , no run , right forward and solidly defended to mid-off 20.5 Woakes to Kohli , no run , bit of extra bounce for Woakes , Kohli looks to turn it to leg and gets a thick leading edge to point. Closed the face too early there 20.4 Woakes to Kohli , no run , short and dug in , Kohli ducks and watches it go over his left shoulder 20.3 Woakes to Kohli , no run , short of length on off , Kohli goes back and across before defending towards point 20.2 Woakes to Kohli , no run , 140kph short delivery , dug in outside off and Kohli rises onto his toes to keep it down , rode the bounce well and did n't fend at it. Good first delivery to the new batsman Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 20.1 Woakes to Dhawan , out Caught by Buttler ! ! Dhawan walks ! Woakes strikes with his first ball of his new spell. Short and wide outside off , was there for the cut , but the ball kept a bit low and found the cue end of the bat , good low grab to his left by Buttler. Dhawan fails to capitalise on the start. Dhawan c Buttler b Woakes 38 ( 65 ) [ 4s-4 ] Woakes to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Chris Woakes [ 4.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , Dhawan sends Rahane back after the latter turns to the right of short mid-wicket 19.5 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , Rahane skips out and Moeen Ali sees that , fires it into middle and leg , chipped in front of short mid-wicket 19.4 Moeen Ali to Rahane , FOUR , tossed up outside off , Rahane went for a cover drive , but got a thick outside edge , ran away and beat Finn 's chase who did n't dive 19.3 Moeen Ali to Dhawan , 1 run , low full toss , bunted to long-on , off the front foot 19.2 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , goes on the back foot and wrists it to the right of mid-wicket A feature of this partnership has been the running between the wickets. No chance has been lost to pinch a run. The fielders inside the ring and close-in are left helpless by this pair 's running 19.1 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 2 runs , Moeen Ali drags the length back as he sees Rahane charge him , turned to deep square leg , once again they take two 18.6 Finn to Rahane , 1 run , nudges it in the vacant area at short mid-wicket , single taken 18.5 Finn to Dhawan , 1 run , cut to the left of Bell at point , it was in the air , but well in front of Bell who parried it down , the batsmen thought about two , but decided against it 18.4 Finn to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane gets forward and takes it from off and middle , to flick to deep mid-wicket 18.3 Finn to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan stays back and cuts square of the wicket 18.2 Finn to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane rolls his wrists and gets the short ball down to deep backward square leg 18.1 Finn to Dhawan , 1 run , turned to deep mid-wicket 17.6 Moeen Ali to Dhawan , leg byes , 1 run , fired down leg , Dhawan misses the flick but they take a quick leg bye as the English appeal in vain , that would 've missed leg 17.5 Moeen Ali to Dhawan , no run , skids onto Dhawan , who was looking to pull , but then played a flat-batted shot back to the bowler Now round the wicket to Dhawan 17.4 Moeen Ali to Rahane , 1 run , full on the stumps , flicked to deep mid-wicket , for a single 17.3 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , gets forward and wrists it to short mid-wicket 17.2 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , Rahane comes down the track and pushes it back to the bowler Moeen Ali has a leg slip in place 17.1 Moeen Ali to Rahane , no run , bit of extra bounce for Moeen Ali , but Rahane goes right back and taps it softly to the right of the bowler Moeen Ali , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. India have done well to ride the tough period and move to 67/0. This is n't an easy pitch to bat on. Uneven bounce on offer and both Dhawan and Rahane have had their fair share of luck. Dhawan should 've been run out in the opening over of Woakes , while Rahane has played the lofted shots and got it in the vacant areas . 16.6 Finn to Dhawan , no run , defended to the right of short cover , Rahane sends Dhawan back 16.5 Finn to Rahane , 1 run , short ball on the stumps , Rahane rolls his wrists and plays it down to fine leg 16.4 Finn to Rahane , no run , Rahane did n't know where the ball went after he inside-edged the drive onto the boot , the ball rolls to square leg 16.3 Finn to Dhawan , 1 run , driven on-the-up to deep extra cover , only a single 16.2 Finn to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan stays beside the line of the ball and dabs it to backward point , played that with soft hands 16.1 Finn to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on off , Dhawan drives and finds Finn 15.6 Broad to Dhawan , 1 run , no timing on the pull as the ball rolls to backward square leg , the short ball cramped Dhawan for room there 15.5 Broad to Dhawan , no run , Erasmus from square leg calls that one short ball of the over. That definitely looked well over Dhawan 's head. Buttler leapt high to make a one-handed grab. That should 've been wided 15.4 Broad to Dhawan , no run , defended onto the pad and the ball rolls back to the left of the bowler 15.3 Broad to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane gets his front foot across and tucks it to deep mid-wicket , for a single 15.2 Broad to Dhawan , 1 run , inside-edged onto the pads , the ball falls near his feet , Rahane calls Dhawan through this time , great running between the wickets 15.1 Broad to Rahane , 1 run , defended to the right of Broad , Rahane goes back as he is sent back , but Broad throws wide of the keeper and that allows the single to be taken eventually This is India 's highest opening stand of the series. The previous best was 56 in the Test series. That 56 came in the first innings of the Brisbane Test 14.6 Finn to Dhawan , 2 runs , another nice drive , a square drive to the right of Anderson at sweeper cover and they take a couple 14.5 Finn to Dhawan , no run , now gets forward and pushes it off the middle of the bat to mid-off , the feet moved very nicely there 14.4 Finn to Dhawan , FOUR , half-volley and Dhawan has timed the cover drive superbly , off the middle of the bat and wide of cover , that raced away. Emphatic hit that 14.3 Finn to Dhawan , no run , Finn has his hands on his head after that lbw appeal was turned down by Erasmus. That must have pitched outside leg and yes it did. Kept a bit low and rapped Dhawan on the pads , but once it pitches outside leg , nothing else matters 14.2 Finn to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan was aiming through cover there , but the bat turned and the inside edge rolls to mid-on 14.1 Finn to Rahane , 1 run , low full toss , wristed to deep mid-wicket 13.6 Broad to Dhawan , FOUR , no problems there. Short and wide outside off , Dhawan cuts and cuts in the air , wide of point and Woakes running to his left at third man had no chance 13.5 Broad to Dhawan , no run , no timing as Dhawan drives to mid-off. The bat turned in his hand as he went too hard at it 13.4 Broad to Rahane , 1 run , the 50-run stand is up as Rahane drives a tad uppishly , but in the gap at cover-point , mild cheers from the Indian contingent at Perth 13.3 Broad to Rahane , no run , driven back at Broad , who fields and back-hands a flick to the keeper Just the lone slip for Broad 13.2 Broad to Dhawan , 1 run , pitched up outside off , driven forcefully to deep extra cover , for a single 13.1 Broad to Dhawan , no run , that did n't bounce as Dhawan went for the cut , the ball went under the bat 12.6 Finn to Rahane , no run , pushed to the right of Finn , no chance of a run there 12.5 Finn to Rahane , 2 runs , Dhawan gives the thumbs up to Rahane after the duo complete a couple , turned into the vacant mid-wicket area and they make the two as the fielder running in from the deep ca n't prevent the second being taken 12.4 Finn to Dhawan , 1 run , good running as Dhawan defends near the vacant short leg area , looks at Rahane and then completes the single with ease 12.3 Finn to Dhawan , no run , pitched up outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover , another well-timed stroke for no runs 12.2 Finn to Dhawan , no run , driven on-the-up , but Bell is very sharp at point , fields and throws at Rahane 's end , keeping the batsman at his end 12.1 Finn to Rahane , 1 run , full on middle and leg , flicked to fine leg Finn , Anderson and Morgan have a mini conference as the lanky Middlesex bowler is brought onto bowl. He got a five-for against India in the last game. Here he comes in Steven Finn , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Broad to Dhawan , no run , short of length on the stumps , defended to short cover 11.5 Broad to Dhawan , no run , driven well , but straight to the fielder at cover 11.4 Broad to Dhawan , FOUR , now Dhawan gets an inside edge and gets lucky. It nipped back in and Dhawan 's defensive shot found an inside nick that missed the stumps , beating the keeper to his right 11.3 Broad to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane looks for a big drive down the ground , gets a thick inside edge onto the pads , sees that mid-on is back and calls Dhawan through for a quick single 11.2 Broad to Rahane , 2 runs , good running from Rahane and Dhawan even though the former slipped after playing the wrist to leg. It was into the gap at mid-wicket , expertly placed for two as Woakes and the man running in from deep mid-wicket ca n't do anything about it 11.1 Broad to Dhawan , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man After a cloudy morning , the sun peeks out at Perth as Broad runs in 10.6 J Anderson to Dhawan , 1 run , 138kph short of length delivery on middle and leg , turned into the vacant area in front of mid-on 10.5 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , on the middle and leg stump line , Dhawan gets forward and wrists it straight to the fielder at mid-on 10.4 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , 136kph short delivery outside off , Dhawan arches back and lets it go 10.3 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan stays back and pushes it to short cover 10.2 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , full on off , Dhawan presses it to short cover 10.1 J Anderson to Rahane , 1 run , that rose from a short of length and reared up on Rahane , hit on the glove and the ball rolls to the left of backward point , they scamper across for a single 9.6 Broad to Rahane , 1 run , 'two , two ' was the call as Rahane turned it wide of square leg , but Jordan did well to race across and prevented any thoughts of the batsmen taking a second 9.5 Broad to Rahane , no run , Rahane closed the face of the bat slightly there , to a full delivery on the stumps , but the ball rushes off the bat back to the bowler , all along the ground 9.4 Broad to Rahane , no run , defended to short cover 9.3 Broad to Rahane , no run , drives it back at Broad , the bowler leaps and gets a hand , takes the pace of the ball as it 's fielded at mid-off 9.2 Broad to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane has timed that well ! Width as Broad bowls short and wide outside off , Rahane stays back and cuts into the gap at point. The ball raced away. Timing was spot on that time 9.1 Broad to Rahane , no run , Rahane was taking a step out to play the big shot , but it was on a back of a length on off , defended to point in the end Stuart Broad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 8.6 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , pitches outside leg and moves past the flick of Dhawan , to rap the batsman on the pad. No appeal from any of the Englishmen 8.5 J Anderson to Rahane , 1 run , a soft outside edge as Rahane looks to defend off the front foot , but all along the ground to third man 8.4 J Anderson to Rahane , 2 runs , third time in a row Rahane has miscued one and got lucky. A sliced drive over cover as the bat turns in his hand , he gets a couple and has a wry smile on his face at the end. He knows that he is n't hitting them right 8.3 J Anderson to Rahane , no run , nips back in sharply and tucks Rahane for room , the Mumbaikar was looking for the cut , in the end he can only chop it to the right of the keeper 8.2 J Anderson to Rahane , 2 runs , once again Rahane looks for the release shot , chips it over Finn at mid-on , lands in the vacant areas and they take a couple 8.1 J Anderson to Rahane , no run , rising delivery into the ribs , Rahane fends awkwardly to short mid-wicket , looks for a quick single , sent back by Dhawan 7.6 Woakes to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane gets lucky as he aims to go over cover , a thick outside edge loops over point and Finn runs in from third man to keep it to a single 7.5 Woakes to Dhawan , 1 run , pitched up on the stumps , Dhawan 's drive has no timing and it runs off a thick outer half , but wide of mid-off 7.4 Woakes to Dhawan , no run , driven on the up , but mid-off gets to his left to field 7.3 Woakes to Rahane , 1 run , pitched up outside off , Rahane went too hard at that and completely lost his shape while playing the stroke , the ball bobbles wide of mid-off , they take an easy single 7.2 Woakes to Dhawan , 1 run , a sort of a thick outside edge as Dhawan looks to defend , but the ball rolls wide of point 7.1 Woakes to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan wanted to flick that through mid-wicket , closed the face a bit too early , a thick leading edge to mid-on 6.6 J Anderson to Dhawan , 1 run , on the pads , flicked to the left of backward square leg , where Bopara gives chase and keeps it down to a single 6.5 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , short of length on the stumps , Dhawan defends to the left of Anderson 6.4 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan watches that carefully and then shoulders arms to one outside off 6.3 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , on the pads , flicked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 6.2 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , tight delivery on off stump , defended stoutly to short cover 6.1 J Anderson to Rahane , leg byes , 1 run , down leg and Rahane ca n't connect with the flick , off the pad and they take a leg bye as Buttler fields Surprisingly , the square cut was Dhawan 's first boundary of the tournament. His previous scores before today were - 2 , 1 and 8 5.6 Woakes to Rahane , 1 run , good length outside off , Rahane opens the face of the bat and guides it down to third man 5.5 Woakes to Dhawan , 1 run , drives to the right of mid-off and takes an easy single 5.4 Woakes to Dhawan , FOUR , cracking square cut ! Width on offer and Dhawan cuts hard and to the right of point , gives third man no chance 5.3 Woakes to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane did well to ride the bounce on the short delivery outside off and run it down to third man , did n't fend at it - that was the important part 5.2 Woakes to Rahane , no run , good length on middle , Rahane leans forward and flicks it firmly towards square leg , good stop by the fielder 5.1 Woakes to Rahane , 2 runs , lovely shot but he does not get the distance , steps out of the crease , makes room and lofts it to deep extra cover , the ball falls in the no-man 's land 4.6 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , fuller and closer to the off-stump , Dhawan gets forward and lets it go through. A maiden over from Anderson 4.5 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , length delivery on off , Dhawan stays back and cuts it towards point , good fielding by Morgan , who dives across to his right and makes a fine stop 4.4 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , good length and moving away a touch , Dhawan bunts it towards cover-point 4.3 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , back of a length on middle , Dhawan takes his bottom hand off and fends it towards point 4.2 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and angled across the left-hander , Dhawan presses forward and shoulders arms 4.1 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , in that channel outside off , Dhawan lifts his bat and lets it go 3.6 Woakes to Rahane , no run , back of a length on off , Rahane defends it to the right of the bowler 3.5 Woakes to Dhawan , 1 run , continues with the shorter length , Dhawan defends it off the back foot in front of point , scampers through for a quick single straightaway , good response from Rahane , he was almost halfway down the pitch , the Indians have been running between the wickets quite well 3.4 Woakes to Rahane , 1 run , steps out slightly to this short of length ball and knocks it towards third man 3.3 Woakes to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish again , Dhawan rides the bounce and drops it in front of cover , taking his bottom hand off the handle , good running between the wickets 3.2 Woakes to Rahane , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Rahane runs it down to third man 3.1 Woakes to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish on leg , good bounce there , Dhawan fends it into the leg-side , good fielding by Taylor , who dives forward and fires a direct hit at the striker 's end but Rahane is well in 2.6 J Anderson to Rahane , no run , comfortably defends it down the track off the back foot 2.5 J Anderson to Rahane , no run , back of a length and moving away a touch , Rahane pushes his bat at it and is beaten 2.4 J Anderson to Dhawan , 1 run , stays back and bunts it in front of cover for a brisk run , good response from Rahane to complete the single , he was very alert 2.3 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , in that channel outside off again , Dhawan continues to let that go through 2.2 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , full and closer to the off-stump line this time than the previous one , Dhawan presses forward and leaves it alone 2.1 J Anderson to Dhawan , no run , fuller and wide , does not interest Dhawan into playing at it 1.6 Woakes to Rahane , no run , fuller delivery outside off , Rahane pokes at it away from the body and is beaten 1.5 Woakes to Dhawan , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Dhawan dabs it to third man to get off the mark 1.4 Woakes to Dhawan , no run , direct hit and Dhawan was a goner ! Stays back to this back of a length delivery and defends it down the track , he wants a quick single and comes halfway down the track , the bowler runs forward , picks up the ball and fires a throw at the striker 's end but misses. Had that hit directly , Dhawan would have been in trouble 1.3 Woakes to Dhawan , no run , in the channel outside off , Dhawan shoulders arms to it 1.2 Woakes to Dhawan , no run , shortish on the stumps , Dhawan is surprised by the bounce , the ball goes off the leading edge as he looks to fend and is in the air for a while but falls well short of the point fielder Two slips in place for him as well 1.1 Woakes to Rahane , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Rahane guides it to third man Chris Woakes , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Chris Woakes to share the new ball duties with Anderson 0.6 J Anderson to Rahane , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Rahane runs it down with an open bat face towards third man and gets off the mark 0.5 J Anderson to Rahane , no run , steps out slightly and fends this away going delivery behind point off the glove by taking his bottom hand off the bat 0.4 J Anderson to Rahane , no run , shortish and moving away , a lot of bounce on that one , Rahane gets back and looks to punch it into the off-side , beaten comprehensively 0.3 J Anderson to Rahane , no run , on a length around off , Rahane defends it with an angled bat into the off-side this time 0.2 J Anderson to Rahane , no run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman this time , Rahane defends it off the back foot towards the leg-side , Anderson moves to his right and fields it 0.1 J Anderson to Rahane , no run , some swing in the air for Anderson straightaway. It was a good length delivery that shapes away a touch from the right-hander , left alone Rahane and Dhawan are at the crease. Rahane is on strike. J Anderson will open the attack The England players are taking their positions. Indian openers Shikhar Dhawan and Ajinkya Rahane have walked out to the middle. James Anderson with the new ball. Two slips to assist him . Teams : India ( Playing XI ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Ajinkya Rahane , Ambati Rayudu , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Stuart Binny , Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel , Mohammed Shami , Mohit Sharma England ( Playing XI ) : Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , James Anderson , Steven Finn MS Dhoni : " Yes , we would have bowled first as well. The wicket looks soft and it will get better with time. It is uncontrollable and it is not in our hands ( when asked about the game against Australia that was washed out ) . We have to make the best of what we have got. Overall the guys are looking good. We have got good net practice. I think the guys are tired. It is a lot to ask for. The Test series has been very demanding. Rohit is not fit yet. We do n't want to push him. Ishant is not fit either and Mohit Sharma will come in his place. " Eoin Morgan : " We will bowl first. The wicket is probably softer than what we expected and the pitch will get better. We took a lot of confidence from the previous game against India. We have put in lot of hard work in the last 12 months. We want to rectify the mistakes we made in Hobart. The guys have started to gel together well. We will have to makes changes as and when we see fit. Perth has been very hospitable to us. " England have won the toss and have opted to field England have just tweeted that they will be playing an unchanged side . Pitch Report : " The conditions are overcast. The pitch looks very very hard. There is a good grass covering on it. There will be a lot of bounce on this deck. There will be sideways movement with the new ball. It is a kind of wicket that bowlers will like. Lots of runs will probably not be scored on this pitch. It is a pitch for the bowlers and not the batsmen , " reckon Sunil Gavaskar and Wasim Akram . Meanwhile , England are slowly ticking off a few boxes of their own. The opening pair looks settled with Ian Bell and Moeen Ali scoring runs , the former going onto score a ton against Australia. Joe Root looked good in the previous game and even Eoin Morgan has a hundred to his name in the series. The bowling looks sharp with the back-to-form Steven Finn and James Anderson leading the attack. The only concerns are the No.3 slot occupied by James Taylor and the form of Stuart Broad going into the World Cup. Will they shuffle around with the team ? Hello and welcome to the sixth game of the tri-series. Stay tuned as toss and team updates are not far away.. . The move to bat Kohli at No.4 has already come under the scanner. MS Dhoni defended the move once again and stressed that inexperience in the ranks of the lower middle order has forced Kohli to bat one step down in the order. The bowling will be boosted with the return of Ishant and Jadeja , who were named in the XI for the previous game. Interestingly , they opted for two left-arm spinners , over Ashwin , we will have to see whether they will go in with the same combination or bring back the offie . After the previous game between Australia and India was abandoned , this match becomes a virtual semi-final. India are yet to win a game on the tour and if they win this , they will be playing Australia on Sunday in the final. However , there are a few things that are worrying the Indian team management. The woes of the top-order continue , Dhawan ca n't seem to score a run and Rahane has thrown it away after getting a couple of starts. With Rohit being injured , Rayudu gets a longer run to prove his credentials in the side . Preview by Prateek Srivastava An out-of-form India were lucky to get away with two points after the washout against Australia on Monday , because that has given them a big opportunity to beat England at Perth on Friday and reach the final of the Carlton Mid One-day International Tri-Series . England have five points from three matches , while India have two , and the winners of Friday 's encounter will play Australia in the final on Sunday , again at Perth . However , as straightforward as it may sound , the job of beating the English team wo n't be easy for MS Dhoni 's men who are yet to register a win in the tournament. They continue to be uncertain over Rohit Sharma 's fitness. The batsman has n't played since scoring 138 in the team 's opening match against Australia , on account of a hamstring injury. He had a hard training session on Wednesday , but with an eye on the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup , it 's highly unlikely India will risk playing him . With scores of 2 , 1 and 8 , opener Shikhar Dhawan 's form has hit rock bottom and that has made matters worse. The left-hander can hope to get yet another opportunity to get some form ahead of quadrennial tournament. Some runs off his bat will make Dhoni 's life easier as regards the composition of the eleven . England , on the other hand , have no such grave worries. They beat India with a bonus point and lost twice to Australia , but they are improving with every match. When they played India at Brisbane , medium pacer Steven Finn had bounced out Dhoni and co. with a career-best 5 for 33. Since the WACA pitch has the reputation as being the most quick and bouncy in Australia , England 's fast bowlers will back themselves again . In the batting department too , Eoin Morgan 's team holds the edge. Ian Bell , after scoring 0 in the tournament opener against Australia , made 88 * and a career-best 141 in the following games. Joe Root , James Taylor and Morgan himself have been among the runs. " I think it is important to win this game given the lack of success we 've had before this tour. We 've built a confidence in our preparation , in the game in Brisbane and in performances leading into the start of this series. So as momentum and confidence goes I think it 's quite a big game , " Morgan said ahead of the match . The odds are heavily stacked in England 's favour when one looks at the way India have played so far , but there is no doubt that Dhoni ' s team has a big chance on Friday to put things right to some extent . Teams : India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Ajinkya Rahane , Ambati Rayudu , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( c/w ) , Stuart Binny , Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel , Mohammed Shami , Ishant Sharma , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohit Sharma , Umesh Yadav , Dhawal Kulkarni England ( From ) : Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steven Finn , James Anderson , Chris Jordan , Alex Hales , James Tredwell Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
