Graphs That 's all we have from this game. We enjoyed bringing the coverage to all you folks. Hope , you did as well. There is just one more ODI - New Zealand versus Pakistan before the World Cup warm-ups start. Do join us for that game on February 3. Until then , take care and Cya ! England may have lost the final , but they have gone from strength to strength in the series. All their batters got one good innings under their belt , except Bopara , who might be replaced with Gary Ballance. Apart from that , their batting unit looks solid. The bowling too , looks strong with the four in form fast bowlers , Anderson , Woakes , Finn and Broad. One positive from this game , is the return to form of Broad , he picked up three wickets and looked like his old self. They still have Chris Jordan and James Tredwell , if they need to get some variety in the team. In the two games that they won against India , England seemed like contenders going into the big tournament . Australia have been outstanding in the entire series. They are gathering steam ahead of the World Cup. Warner and Smith got tons , Finch , Maxwell and Mitchell Marsh spent some quality time in the middle. Michael Clarke scored a few runs in a domestic game. The only concern with the bat is the form of Bailey , who might have to make way once Clarke returns. The bowling was already looking strong , but with the return of Johnson , it just got bolstered. Starc was superb with the new ball , Cummins bowled with a lot of pace and Hazlewood was tight in his line and lengths. Maxwell and Doherty provide the spin options. All-in-all Australia look the side to beat in the World Cup . Bailey : " Yeah , absolutely and it is really promising. Is n't it ? ( after turning it around from 60/4 to 278/8 ) Maxi ( Maxwell ) and Mitchell Marsh reined in their natural games a little bit and got themselves into a position from where we could launch the attack. Always lovely to have Johnson in the team , backing up some wonderful fast bowling throughout the series from Cummins , Starc and Hazlewood. So , we have nice little quartet at the moment. No , I do n't ( news about the Faulkner injury ) , but he has always been a bit dramatic , Jim ( James Faulkner ) . So , we will just wait and see. Hopefully , he is alright. Absolutely , which is a great problem to have and we just want to continue to have as many guys in form as possible ( when asked about selection dilemma with the World Cup squad ) . " Morgan : " I think we could have kept them to a bit less. I think we had the best of the batting surface and so 278 was certainly within our grasp. We did n't help ourselves with some of the decisions we made with the shots we played. I think our batting let us down today. I think we need to keep grafting and learning as we go along. The guys have put in a lot of effort in this series. And for the 3-4 weeks we have been here so far , we have made huge strides as to where we were before that and a lot of credit goes to the guys ' individual performance that they have been putting in. To earn a place in the final , we have played some good cricket. Although , today will be hard to take , but the test will be how we come back from it. We play Pakistan and West Indies at Sydney which again will be a great opportunity to get some time under our belt , competition time and adapting more to the conditions. " Starc : " I have been working hard with Craig McDermott. The whole bowling unit has learned a lot over the series , which makes it exciting with the World Cup coming up. We have bowled well as a unit throughout the series. It is important to use that new ball and that swing , I am not going to drop any pace to try and swing it. Me and Mitch ( Johnson ) upfront , try and bowl as fast and quick to get a bit of swing and to try and take some wickets , it 's exciting. We have a couple of warm-up games , it could be interesting over those two games ( when asked if he 'll be selected for their World Cup opener ) . Look , we have a great squad and a great bowling unit. " Mitchell Starc is the Man of the Series for picking up 12 wickets in the series Maxwell : " It was nice to obviously do that role ( on fulfilling the all-rounder 's role ) . I have screwed it up a few times for us. So , it was nice to get through to the 40th over and get us a good platform to launch. James Faulkner showed his class and ability to finish off the innings for us. I am well aware of that ( on not scoring an ODI hundred ) and I was made well aware of that when I was back as well , so do n't worry about that. Yeah , I just have to get past that three figure mark. It is not something that I am thinking about too much , but it will be nice to get there. It is nice to be entering the World Cup in form with both the bat and ball. Hopefully , this is the sign of things to come and we can hit the ground running when it comes to World Cup time. " Glenn Maxwell is the Man of the Match for his 95 and bowling figures of 4/46 . The Australian bowlers were exceptional. Although Starc had an off-day , the rest of his mates stepped up. Hazlewood was outstanding with the new ball , bowling tight line and lengths , Johnson was at his fearsome best and Maxwell too varied his pace to pick up his career-best figures. The fielding too was terrific as they pulled off some stunners in the field. Overall , it was an all-round performance from the hosts. Stay tuned for the presentation.. . Root and Bopara tried to resurrect the innings , but Faulkner struck with his first delivery to trap Root in front. After that it was the Maxwell show , he picked up Buttler and Woakes off consecutive deliveries. He also scalped the wicket of Broad , who was softened up by Johnson. Bopara and Finn denied the inevitable for a while , but not for long as Maxwell struck again to pick up his fourth wicket of the game and Hazlewood finished things off . It is an emphatic victory for Australia. They gather around in a huddle before everyone starts congratulating each other. The two English batsmen also shake hands with the Aussies. A commendable effort by the hosts as they did n't allow England to build any kind of partnerships. Hazlewood sent back Bell with a peach , then Johnson on his return , was there to bring back the horrors of the last Ashes Down Under for the English batsmen. The fast bowler picked up Taylor , Moeen Ali and Morgan in quick succession . 39.1 Hazlewood to Finn , out Bowled ! ! Australia clinch the title ! It was full and right on the stumps , Finn , who was defending until Bopara was there , tries to back away and slam it over mid-off , ca n't connect and the ball crashes into middle-stump. Finn b Hazlewood 6 ( 36 ) Hazlewood to Finn , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 38.6 Maxwell to J Anderson , FOUR , Anderson is trying to have some fun. Maxwell can see the lighter side of it as he laughs. Tossed up on off and middle , Anderson kneels down and reverse sweeps it in the air over short third man 38.5 Maxwell to Finn , 1 run , carrom ball from Maxwell , Finn picks it off the turf and punches it to long-on 38.4 Maxwell to Finn , no run , floated up around off , Finn pushes it to cover without much purpose 38.3 Maxwell to J Anderson , 1 run , Maxi goes round the wicket and throws it up for Anderson , who goes on his knee to sweep , the ball takes the top-edge and balloons towards long leg James Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 38.2 Maxwell to Bopara , out Caught by Bailey ! ! Bopara 's vigilance comes to an end. Bailey is delighted after taking the catch , he points to someone in the crowd or maybe in the dressing room. This is Maxwell 's fourth wicket. It was tossed up close to off , Bopara shimmies down the wicket , does n't get to the pitch but still goes through with the loft , ends up spooning it to extra cover. Bopara c Bailey b Maxwell 33 ( 59 ) [ 4s-1 ] Maxwell to Bopara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 38.1 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , drops it short and just outside off , Bopara backs away and cuts it to point 38.1 Maxwell to Bopara , wide , turns it down leg , Bopara does not bother with it 37.6 Hazlewood to Finn , no run , another lifter on the stumps , Finn ducks and eludes it comfortably 37.5 Hazlewood to Finn , no run , shortens the length close to off , Finn goes on his toes and pushes it to mid-off 37.4 Hazlewood to Finn , no run , back of a length on off , Finn punches and finds Bailey at silly mid-on A silly mid-on and short mid-wicket in place 37.3 Hazlewood to Finn , no run , bouncer on the stumps , Finn sinks under it and allows it to thud into Haddin 's mitts 37.2 Hazlewood to Finn , no run , picks this up from an off-stump line and turns it to short mid-wicket 37.1 Hazlewood to Bopara , 1 run , short of length on off , Bopara shuffles across and tucks it to square leg Josh Hazlewood [ 5.0-2-12-1 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Maxwell to Finn , no run , slower and around off , Finn comes forward and defends solidly 36.5 Maxwell to Bopara , 1 run , eases it to cover-point and picks up another easy single 36.4 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , flighted on off , Bopara kneels down and sweeps , picks out the fielder at mid-wicket 36.3 Maxwell to Bopara , 2 runs , gives the charge to Maxwell , looks to go big , the ball takes the outside edge and goes on the bounce to short third man , Johnson throws at the non-striker 's end , where no one was backing up. Maxwell is not happy with that 36.2 Maxwell to Finn , 1 run , Finn looks to go inside out , the ball goes straight on , takes the outer half and drops wide of the point fielder 36.1 Maxwell to Bopara , 1 run , drops it in front of cover-point and crosses over for a single 36.1 Maxwell to Bopara , wide , darts it down leg , Bopara backs away and lets it go , this time umpire Erasmus calls it a wide 35.6 M Marsh to Finn , no run , fuller and shapes back in , Finn presses forward to defend , the ball squirts off the inside edge to short mid-wicket A silly mid-on comes in now 35.5 M Marsh to Finn , no run , short of length on off , Finn knocks it to mid-on 35.5 M Marsh to Finn , wide , splays it down leg , Finn ca n't connect with the glance , wided by the umpire 35.4 M Marsh to Finn , no run , on a length close to off , Finn goes hard on the drive , gets it high on the bat and the ball rolls to mid-on 35.3 M Marsh to Finn , no run , back of a length on off , Finn mistimes the punch to mid-on 35.2 M Marsh to Finn , no run , Marsh goes up for an lbw appeal , but umpire Fry is not interested. Nip-backer from short of length , Finn stays rooted to the crease and misses the defence , the ball strikes him on the back pad , but the impact was outside off 35.1 M Marsh to Bopara , 1 run , too straight , on middle and leg , Bopara nudges it to deep mid-wicket Time for the batting powerplay ! 34.6 Maxwell to Finn , no run , bit of extra bounce on that occasion , Finn looks to steer it to third man , ca n't lay bat on ball 34.5 Maxwell to Finn , no run , slower and on off , Finn dead-bats it down the wicket 34.4 Maxwell to Bopara , 1 run , floated up on off , Bopara drives it along the ground to long-off 34.3 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , Bopara moves around in the crease , Maxwell fires it down the leg-side , Bopara lets it go and umpire Erasmus does not call it a wide. The batsman is not happy with the decision , but the ump says he moved in the crease 34.2 Maxwell to Bopara , 2 runs , tossed up outside off , Bopara presses forward and drives it wide of long-off for a couple 34.1 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , flighted on leg-stump , Bopara makes room and drives it to cover. The crowd got excited thinking it was a wicket as it was a bump catch Glenn Maxwell [ 6.0-0-30-3 ] is back into the attack 33.6 M Marsh to Bopara , 1 run , yorker on off and middle , Bopara squeezes it out to long-on 33.5 M Marsh to Finn , 1 run , hint of shape into the batsman , Finn ekes out an inside edge onto the pad , the ball dribbles in front of square on the leg-side , Bopara calls his partner through for a quick single 33.4 M Marsh to Finn , no run , good length ball on off , Finn moves across and drives it to mid-on 33.3 M Marsh to Finn , no run , short of length close to off , Finn stands up and punches it to mid-off , the ball hit high on the bat , hence no timing 33.2 M Marsh to Finn , no run , tad shorter around off , Finn stays back and bunts it towards the bowler 33.1 M Marsh to Bopara , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Bopara forces it off the back foot , no timing on that as it rolls to sweeper cover 32.6 Starc to Finn , no run , too full and just outside off , Finn tries to dig it out and the ball goes past the outside edge 32.5 Starc to Finn , no run , fuller and holds its line , Finn prods forward and looks to defend , the ball straightens enough to beat the outside edge 32.5 Starc to Finn , wide , banged in halfway down the wicket and down leg , Finn stays inside the line and fails to glance it away , wide signalled 32.4 Starc to Finn , no run , comes to round the wicket , searches for the yorker , ends up gifting a full toss which Finn hits straight to cover 32.3 Starc to Bopara , 1 run , fraction short and just outside off , Bopara cuts it to third man 32.2 Starc to Bopara , leg byes , FOUR , reverse swing there for Starc , but the line is on leg-stump , even though Bopara did n't get bat , the ball clipped the pad and ran away to the fine leg fence 32.1 Starc to Bopara , no run , snorter from Starc to start off , lifter aimed at the batsman 's nose , Bopara was trying to fend it by jumping up , but misses it completely as the ball fizzes past the outside edge Drinks are on the field now. There is no doubt about who will be the winner today. Australia have continued their domination and have completely floored the English batsmen here. England are currently reducing the margin of defeat. Let 's see how Bopara and Finn fare after the drinks break . 31.6 M Marsh to Bopara , 1 run , fullish delivery around off , Bopara backs away and drives hard to mid-off , who slides to his left and stops the ball 31.5 M Marsh to Finn , 1 run , tucked to mid-wicket from the crease 31.4 M Marsh to Bopara , 1 run , dropped by Johnson ! It was slightly short and on the stumps , Bopara gives the charge and mistimes the pull completely towards mid-on , where the ball bursts through Johnson 's hand , it was an easy catch as such , but Bopara survives for now , the batsmen also take a single as the ball rolls away towards long-on 31.3 M Marsh to Finn , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Finn mistimes the punch in front of mid-off and sets off for a single 31.2 M Marsh to Finn , no run , angling in on off and middle , Finn turns it to mid-wicket 31.1 M Marsh to Finn , no run , back of a length delivery just around off , Finn defends off the back foot Mitchell Marsh [ 4.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack Marsh comes back now. He replaces Johnson . 30.6 Starc to Finn , 1 run , angling in on middle stump line , Finn moves across a touch and works it to fine leg for a single , he will keep the strike 30.5 Starc to Bopara , 1 run , back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Bopara dabs it towards third man after opening the face of the bat 30.4 Starc to Bopara , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Bopara chops it towards backward point 30.3 Starc to Finn , 1 run , leg byes , angling in on middle and leg , Finn ca n't help it on its way towards fine leg , the ball clips the pads and rolls away behind square and Finn gets to the other end Now , Starc comes round the wicket to Finn. There are 2 slips in place . 30.2 Starc to Bopara , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Bopara tucks it away to square leg for a single 30.1 Starc to Bopara , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Bopara defends it back over the track off the back foot Mitchell Starc [ 5.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Johnson to Finn , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Finn toe-ends the drive and the ball rolls away behind the stumps , he easily could have chopped one on , but for now , Finn survives 29.5 Johnson to Finn , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Finn gets right behind the line and blocks it with a straight bat 29.4 Johnson to Finn , no run , slower one on a good length and just outside off , Finn leans forward and across , opens the face of the bat and defends Comes round the wicket now to Finn 29.3 Johnson to Finn , no run , another short one around off , Finn jumps in the crease and defends 29.2 Johnson to Finn , no run , back of a length just outside off , Finn lifts his bat and lets it go 29.1 Johnson to Finn , no run , short delivery angling away outside off , Finn pokes at it away from his body , the ball goes past the outside edge , but Johnson there thought that there was something on that , he appealed , but the umpire was unmoved Steven Finn , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.6 Maxwell to Broad , out Caught by ( sub ) P Cummins ! ! Broad perishes now and Maxwell gets his third of the match. It was floated up on the stumps , Broad had hoick across the line , but ca n't middle it and he ends up skying it high , Cummins runs to his right at deep mid-wicket and takes a good catch. Broad c ( sub ) P Cummins b Maxwell 24 ( 20 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] Maxwell to Broad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 28.5 Maxwell to Broad , no run , flighted delivery from Maxwell , Broad backs away and looks to go hard , fails to connect and Haddin takes the bails off in flash , Broad had dragged his foot outside , but the moment the bails were taken off , there was a little part of his foot behind the crease The third umpire has been called in to check a stumping call. Stuart Broad is the man in question. The third umpire rules it not out 28.4 Maxwell to Bopara , 1 run , shortish outside off , Bopara cuts it and Cummins at backward point dives to his left and saves three runs for his team 28.3 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , floated up on off and middle , Bopara drives it to cover off the front foot 28.2 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , comes down the track and defends this slowish ball back to the bowler 28.1 Maxwell to Broad , 1 run , flatter outside off , Broad goes deep in the crease and cuts it to sweeper cover 27.6 Johnson to Bopara , no run , full just outside off , Bopara leans forward and pushes it to mid-off 27.6 Johnson to Bopara , wide , poor delivery from Johnson , short and way down the leg-side , wided by the umpire 27.5 Johnson to Broad , 1 run , full delivery around off , Broad backs away and drives uppishly , Johnson puts his hand up trying to catch the ball , the ball brushes his fingers on the way to mid-off , Broad was charging to the other end for the single , the fielder fires in the throw and Broad had to put in the dive to get in 27.4 Johnson to Broad , no run , backs away once again and mistimes the slog to mid-wicket 27.3 Johnson to Broad , no run , slower length delivery pitched on leg , Broad backs away and has a swipe at it , fails to connect and the ball goes past the leg stump and through to the keeper 27.2 Johnson to Broad , SIX , that 's a great shot from Broad , it was shortish and outside off , Broad waits on the back foot and cuts it after opening the face of the bat , the ball flies over the slip cordon and it carries the distance 27.1 Johnson to Broad , FOUR , full outside off , Broad drills the drive down the ground and the ball runs away to the long-off fence 26.6 Maxwell to Broad , 1 run , Broad survives again , it was tossed up outside off , Broad slices the drive and the ball drops right in front of the fielder running in from sweeper cover , Broad is living dangerously here 26.5 Maxwell to Broad , SIX , finally , Broad gets hold of this one , it was shortish from the bowler , Broad hangs back and muscles the pull over the deep mid-wicket fence for a maximum 26.4 Maxwell to Broad , no run , floated up on middle stump line , Broad whips it to mid-wicket 26.3 Maxwell to Broad , leg byes , 2 runs , on the pads , Broad fails to tickle it fine , the ball runs away fine off the pads and the batsmen take two leg byes 26.2 Maxwell to Broad , no run , tossed this one on leg , Broad goes down on one knee and goes for a slog sweep , he does n't connect at all and I do n't know how that missed the leg stump , good ball from Maxwell 26.1 Maxwell to Bopara , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Bopara eases it down to long-off and the batsmen cross over 25.6 Johnson to Broad , no run , good bouncer to end the over , Broad is happy to duck under it 25.5 Johnson to Broad , no run , on a good length and outside off , Broad drives and drives uppishly , but the ball bounces in front of cover 25.4 Johnson to Broad , no run , full outside off , Broad looks to drive , gets a thickish inside edge and the ball rolls away towards mid-on , he was nowhere near the pitch of the ball there 25.3 Johnson to Bopara , 1 run , short of a good length and on the pads , Bopara waits in the crease and nudges it behind square for a single 25.2 Johnson to Bopara , no run , touch fuller this time and outside off , Bopara opens the face of the bat and drives it towards backward point 25.1 Johnson to Bopara , no run , short of length delivery angled across off , Bopara jumps in the crease and defends it to point Mitchell Johnson [ 4.0-1-14-3 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Maxwell to Broad , FOUR , floated around leg this time , Broad goes down on one knee and sweeps it to the fine leg fence , there was no fielder in the deep and Broad gets four 24.6 Maxwell to Bopara , 2 wides , bowls this one down leg , Haddin ca n't collect it cleanly as well and the batsmen take a bye in addition to the wide 24.5 Maxwell to Broad , 1 run , tossed up around off , Broad was looking to work it through the on-side , he closes the bat face a little too early and gets a leading edge. Finch from cover runs back towards the vacant mid-off region , but the ball bounces in front of him 24.4 Maxwell to Broad , no run , flighted delivery on off , Broad defends off the front foot 24.3 Maxwell to Broad , no run , floated up outside off , Broad leaves this one alone Hat-trick ball coming up second time in this innings. Can Maxwell do it ? Stuart Broad , left handed bat , comes to the crease 24.2 Maxwell to Woakes , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Woakes goes first ball now. It was floated up on off , Woakes drives uppishly back towards the bowler and Maxwell takes one of the easiest catches off his own bowling. Apparently , Haddin had said that he will get out first ball and Woakes did exactly that. The Australians are delighted as they inch closer to victory. Maxwell is on a hat-trick now. Woakes c and b Maxwell 0 ( 1 ) Maxwell to Woakes , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! Chris Woakes , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.1 Maxwell to Buttler , out Caught by ( sub ) P Cummins ! ! Maxwell takes his first wicket and the dangerman Buttler is gone. It was floated up just outside off , Buttler employs the reverse sweep and hits it uppishly , substitute Cummins dives forward at short third man and takes a smart catch. It 's time for the English bowlers to come out and bat now. Australia are marching along. The umpires check whether that was a clean catch and indeed it was. Buttler c ( sub ) P Cummins b Maxwell 17 ( 22 ) [ 4s-3 ] Maxwell to Buttler , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Glenn Maxwell [ 3.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack Pat Cummins is on for Faulkner 23.6 Finch to Buttler , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , Buttler drives uppishly past the non-striker , 'catch it ' was the call , but there was no way anyone was catching that , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away to long-on 23.5 Finch to Bopara , 1 run , gives the charge and takes it on the full , he eases it down to long-on for another run 23.4 Finch to Buttler , 1 run , floated up on off , Buttler drives it to long-off Aaron Finch , comes into the attack What has happened here ? Faulkner is off after bowling just three balls in this over. After bowling the last ball , he was holding his back. He takes his cap and goes off for now. Finch will bowl the last three balls of the over 23.3 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , short of a good length and around off , Buttler jumps in the crease and defends 23.2 Faulkner to Bopara , 1 run , fuller on middle stump line , Bopara clips it past mid-wicket for a single 23.1 Faulkner to Bopara , FOUR , length delivery from Faulkner and Bopara gives the charge to convert it into a fuller length ball , he drills the drive straight down the ground and the fielders can only watch the ball crash into the boundary 22.6 Starc to Buttler , FOUR , slightly short and wide outside off , Buttler waits on the back foot and cuts it uppishly towards the square third man fence , the fielder at third man had no chance of cutting that off as the ball runs away to the fence 22.5 Starc to Buttler , no run , length delivery on off and middle , Buttler bunts it to mid-off 22.4 Starc to Buttler , no run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Buttler fails to tuck it away and the ball lobs up into the off-side off his pad 22.3 Starc to Buttler , no run , short delivery outside off , Buttler waits inside the crease and looks to cut it late and over the keeper , he fails to connect though and the keeper gloves it 22.2 Starc to Buttler , no run , on middle and leg stump line , Buttler flicks it to mid-wicket 22.1 Starc to Bopara , 1 run , fuller outside off , Bopara moves across and pushes it past the non-striker , the batsmen pinch a quick single as the ball rolls away towards the mid-off region 21.6 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , length delivery angled across the batsman , Buttler comes on the front foot and knocks it to mid-off 21.5 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Buttler opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards the point region , he was looking for a single there , but the fielder was quickly onto the ball and he decides against it 21.4 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , another one on the pads , Buttler fails to nurdle it fine and wears it on his pad 21.3 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , on middle stump line , Buttler looks to work it into the leg-side , he closes the bat face a little too early and gets a leading edge that dribbles away into the off-side 21.2 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Buttler defends it into the off-side in an awkward manner 21.1 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , on a good length and on middle stump line , Buttler bunts it towards mid-on 20.6 Starc to Bopara , no run , fuller in length and just outside off , the ball stops on Bopara , who was looking to drive , but ends up checking his shot. He chips it towards Johnson at mid-off and fortunately for England , the ball bounces just short of him 20.5 Starc to Buttler , leg byes , 1 run , straying on the pads , Buttler fails to work it into the on-side , the ball rolls away behind square after clipping the pad and the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 20.4 Starc to Buttler , no run , bumper this time from Starc , Buttler ducks under it 20.3 Starc to Buttler , FOUR , that 's a great shot from Buttler , it was fullish and angled across off , Buttler transfers his weight onto the front foot and drives it wide of mid-off , the ball runs away to the fence in no time 20.2 Starc to Buttler , 2 runs , just short of a good length and on the pads , Buttler works it through mid-wicket and gets back for the second run easily 20.1 Starc to Bopara , 1 run , bit straighter in line , Bopara tucks it away to mid-wicket and gets to the other end Mitchell Starc [ 3.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Faulkner to Bopara , 1 run , on a length and just outside off , nudged in front of mid-off for a quick single Bopara backs away at the last instant. Faulkner has to re-bowl. . 19.5 Faulkner to Bopara , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Bopara presses across and defends it 19.4 Faulkner to Buttler , 1 run , on a good length and on the stumps , Buttler works it to the right of mid-on and calls for a quick single , the throw is at the striker 's end , but Bopara was well home 19.3 Faulkner to Buttler , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Buttler presses across and defends it 19.2 Faulkner to Buttler , FOUR , cracking shot , Faulkner goes for another yorker , ends up offering a half-volley , Buttler leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and punches it past mid-off for a boundary Jos Buttler , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.1 Faulkner to J Root , out Lbw ! ! Faulkner strikes with his 1st ball ! This is also his 50th ODI wicket. A yorker to start off , Root was shuffling across on the flick , ends up having to get his bat across his pads , misses it completely and is struck low on the pads. The impact was around middle and leg , it would have crashed into leg-stump. Easy call for umpire Simon Fry. England have lost half their side now. J Root lbw b Faulkner 25 ( 37 ) [ 4s-2 ] Faulkner to J Root , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! James Faulkner , comes into the attack 18.6 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , Maxwell tosses one well outside off , driven back towards the bowler 18.5 Maxwell to J Root , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , punched down towards long-on for a single 18.4 Maxwell to J Root , no run , pushed through by Maxwell , Root goes back and turns it towards the on-side 18.3 Maxwell to J Root , no run , Maxwell tosses one well outside off , Root went for the big heave and missed , Haddin is quick to whip the bails off , but Root was well in 18.2 Maxwell to Bopara , 1 run , Maxwell drifts one onto Bopara 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 18.1 Maxwell to J Root , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 17.6 M Marsh to Bopara , 2 runs , aggression from Bopara , comes down the track , Marsh drops it short , pulled away behind square on the on-side. The timing was n't great , just a couple for Bopara 17.5 M Marsh to Bopara , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bopara plays with an open face and defends it 17.4 M Marsh to J Root , 1 run , Marsh bangs one short and on the stumps , Root swivels across and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a single 17.3 M Marsh to J Root , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Root presses across in defence 17.2 M Marsh to J Root , no run , short of a length and just outside off , chopped towards cover-point 17.1 M Marsh to J Root , no run , short and on the stumps , Root swivels across on the pull and gets an inside edge onto the pads 16.6 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , flighted and on the stumps , driven towards mid-wicket 16.5 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , that could have been the end of Bopara , huge misunderstanding with his partner , was almost sold down the river. Warner could n't gather the ball cleanly and that allowed him to get back. He worked one to the left of square leg and set off. Warner was quick to get across , Root saw it and asked Ravi to go back. Had Warner picked up the ball , it was curtains for Bopara 16.4 Maxwell to J Root , 1 run , pushed through by Maxwell , tucked past mid-wicket for a single 16.3 Maxwell to Bopara , 1 run , Bopara comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and eases it down towards long-on for a single Maxwell is bowling over the wicket in this over 16.2 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , flighted and on off , defended back towards the bowler 16.1 Maxwell to J Root , 1 run , flatter and wider from Maxwell , Root cuts it towards deep point for a single Drinks are on the field now. It 's all Australia so far. England have once again suffered at the hands of Johnson. Root is looking solid but he needs some support from the other end 15.6 M Marsh to Bopara , no run , the off-cutter from Marsh , Bopara watches it all along and turns it towards the on-side 15.5 M Marsh to Bopara , no run , Marsh keeps it full and outside off , Bopara leans forward and drives it to the right of Warner at mid-off , he dives and saves a certain boundary 15.4 M Marsh to Bopara , no run , nicely bowled by Marsh , in that channel outside off and straightening at the last moment , Bopara was lured into pushing at that , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 15.3 M Marsh to J Root , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Root swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it away behind square on the on-side for a single 15.2 M Marsh to J Root , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Root gets a good stride forward and defends it towards cover-point 15.1 M Marsh to J Root , no run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed towards the off-side 14.6 Maxwell to Bopara , no run , Maxwell tosses one outside off , Bopara presses forward and blocks 14.5 Maxwell to J Root , 1 run , flatter and on Root 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 14.4 Maxwell to J Root , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Root , leans into a well flighted delivery , opens the face of the bat and steers it square on the off-side , beats the fielder at point and races away across the fast outfield 14.3 Maxwell to J Root , no run , tossed up and well outside off , Root drives it to the right of point and sets off , the fielder is quick onto the ball and that forces Bopara to send Root back 14.2 Maxwell to J Root , no run , Maxwell floats this one across the right-hander , driven straight to the fielder at point 14.1 Maxwell to J Root , 2 runs , tossed up and well outside leg , worked away past square leg for a couple of runs Glenn Maxwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 13.6 M Marsh to J Root , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards deep cover for a single 13.5 M Marsh to J Root , no run , Marsh keeps it full and just outside off , Root stays back and defends it with an open face towards point 13.4 M Marsh to J Root , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , worked towards mid-wicket 13.3 M Marsh to J Root , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards mid-off 13.2 M Marsh to J Root , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Root stays back and punches it towards cover 13.1 M Marsh to J Root , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Root drives it back towards the bowler 12.6 Johnson to Bopara , no run , well directed bouncer from Johnson , Bopara drops his wrists and sways away from the line 12.5 Johnson to Bopara , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Bopara hops across and pushes it towards the off-side 12.4 Johnson to J Root , 3 runs , too full and too straight from Mitch , ends up drifting onto Root 's pads , clipped away past mid-on. Faulkner gives chase and hauls the ball back in , the batsmen are back for the third run 12.3 Johnson to J Root , no run , Johnson shortens his length and gets this one to angle back into Root , defended towards the off-side , off the back-foot 12.2 Johnson to J Root , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Root rides with the bounce and defends it 12.1 Johnson to J Root , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from off , left alone 11.6 M Marsh to Bopara , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Bopara defends it with soft hands 11.5 M Marsh to Bopara , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Bopara prods across and defends it 11.4 M Marsh to J Root , 1 run , Marsh strays once again onto Root 's pads , flicked away behind square on the on-side for a single 11.3 M Marsh to Bopara , 1 run , too straight from Marsh , drifts onto Bopara 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 11.2 M Marsh to Bopara , no run , fuller length delivery and on the off-stump channel , punched towards mid-off 11.1 M Marsh to J Root , 1 run , appeal for LBW , Root was struck on his pads as he shuffled across on the flick , the angle was taking it down leg , the umpire reckons there was some bat there 11.1 M Marsh to J Root , wide , full and slanting down leg-side , Root looks to flick and misses , wide called Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Johnson to Bopara , no run , fuller length delivery and on Bopara 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball brushed the thigh pad on the way to the keeper 10.5 Johnson to Bopara , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Bopara covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go Ravi Bopara , right handed bat , comes to the crease Hat-trick ball 10.4 Johnson to Eoin Morgan , out Bowled ! ! Knocked him over , Mitch is on a hat-trick ! Strange leave from Morgan , this was pitched up in that off-stump channel and held its line. Morgan was in two minds there , thought about letting it go , then realised that it was too big a risk , he attempted to bring the bat down , too late though , the ball crashes into the off-stump. Celebrations in the Australian camp. Johnson is all over England. Eoin Morgan b Johnson 0 ( 1 ) Johnson to Eoin Morgan , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Eoin Morgan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 10.3 Johnson to Moeen Ali , out Caught by Finch ! ! That 's nasty from Mitch ! England will have nightmares about the 2013-14 Ashes series if they are watching the replays. This was banged in short and rears onto Moeen , he was n't in any position as he looked to fend it away , the ball lobs off the glove and it 's a simple catch to Finch at 1st slip. England are in some trouble now. Moeen Ali c Finch b Johnson 26 ( 30 ) [ 4s-5 ] Johnson to Moeen Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 10.2 Johnson to Moeen Ali , no run , the bumper from Johnson , Moeen ducks underneath and lets it go 10.1 Johnson to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Moeen prods across and pushes it towards the off-side 9.6 Hazlewood to J Root , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Root presses forward and drives it to the right of mid-off , good diving stop there 9.5 Hazlewood to J Root , FOUR , too short from Hazlewood , Root rocks back , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of mid-wicket , no chance for the man chasing , Root gets going with a boundary 9.4 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , 1 run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Moeen steers it down towards third man A leg-slip in place now , a normal 1st slip as well 9.3 Hazlewood to J Root , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , chopped away towards third man for a single 9.2 Hazlewood to J Root , no run , on a good length and around off , Root prods across and nudges it towards the on-side 9.1 Hazlewood to J Root , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Root stays beside the line and defends it with an angled bat towards backward point 8.6 Johnson to Moeen Ali , FOUR , Moeen is looking in excellent touch , this was pitched up and wider outside off , Moeen presses forward and drills it through extra cover for a boundary , no need to run for those 8.5 Johnson to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Moeen plays with an open face and defends it towards point 8.4 Johnson to Moeen Ali , no run , tad fuller and angling back into the left-hander , Moeen shuffles across and defends it 8.3 Johnson to Moeen Ali , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Moeen rides with the bounce and defends it towards the off-side 8.2 Johnson to J Root , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Root rides with the bounce and works it square on the off-side , gets it to the left of point for a single Joe Root , right handed bat , comes to the crease 8.1 Johnson to James Taylor , out Caught by Maxwell ! ! That 's an excellent catch from Maxwell at backward point ! This was full and angled across the right-hander , Taylor went for the drive , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up slicing it to the left of Maxwell , he dives across , gets both hands underneath and takes a safe catch. The umpire wants to check for the no-ball , that 's very close to being one , but the third umpire reckons that Johnson had something behind the popping crease. Taylor is given his marching orders. James Taylor c Maxwell b Johnson 4 ( 18 ) Johnson to James Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.6 Hazlewood to James Taylor , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , Taylor gets a bottom edge on the pull , just a single as the ball rolls away backward of square on the on-side 7.5 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 7.4 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Taylor cracks it straight to the fielder at point 7.3 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven crisply but straight to the fielder at mid-off 7.2 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and angling into Taylor , he shuffles across on the flick and is struck high on the thigh pad 7.1 Hazlewood to James Taylor , 2 runs , Hazlewood shortens his length as Taylor came down the track , muscled pull past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 6.6 Johnson to Moeen Ali , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Moeen stays behind the line and blocks 6.5 Johnson to Moeen Ali , FOUR , gorgeous shot from Moeen , length delivery and just about enough width as well , Moeen leans forward , plays it on the up and caresses it through extra cover for a boundary 6.4 Johnson to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , left alone 6.3 Johnson to James Taylor , 1 run , too straight from Johnson , ends up drifting onto Taylor 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 6.2 Johnson to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Taylor shuffles across and nudges it towards the on-side 6.1 Johnson to Moeen Ali , 1 run , that 's a gentle start from Johnson , full and on Moeen 's pads , whipped away towards long leg for a single Mitchell Johnson , comes into the attack Mitchell Johnson comes for his first ball in the tri-series. He 's playing his first match since the MCG Test 5.6 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , Taylor is n't getting his timing right , once again looks to force a well pitched up ball towards the on-side , ends up dragging it towards mid-wicket 5.5 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Taylor goes hard on the drive and mistimes it towards mid-off 5.4 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , fuller and on the stumps , Taylor shuffles across and defends it towards mid-on 5.3 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and angling back into Taylor , he pressed forward on the drive and gets an inside edge towards mid-on 5.2 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Taylor prods forward and blocks 5.1 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , Hazlewood digs one short and on the stumps , Taylor gets inside the line on the pull , misses by a long way 4.6 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , Starc shortens his length around off , Moeen was looking to nudge it towards the on-side , closes the face of the bat a tad too early , gets a soft leading edge that rolls away towards the off-side 4.5 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , the bumper now , Moeen watches it all along and ducks underneath it 4.4 Starc to Moeen Ali , FOUR , too full from Starc , ends up drifting onto Moeen 's pads , whipped away past the square leg umpire for a boundary 4.3 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , Moeen throws his bat at that and misses 4.2 Starc to Moeen Ali , FOUR , on a good length and angling back into the left-hander , Moeen gets his wrists into play as he flicks it in front of square , beats the fielder at mid-wicket and races away to the fence 4.1 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Moeen gets half-forward and drives it towards mid-off 3.6 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Taylor defends it with a straight bat. Hazlewood has a shy at the batsman on his followthrough , Taylor blocks it with a straight bat once again 3.5 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor presses forward and defends it towards the off-side On replays , Haddin timed his dive well and took it with his right webbing , right into the middle of the big glove 3.4 Hazlewood to James Taylor , no run , full and slanting onto Taylor 's pads , he shuffles across on the flick and is struck on the pads James Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.3 Hazlewood to Bell , out Caught by Haddin ! ! That 's a cracker from Hazlewood and an even better catch from Haddin. This was pitched in that corridor around off , draws Bell forward before nipping away off the deck , Bell has to play at that , gets opened up as he looked to defend. The outside edge is found , it was dying down and in front of Haddin. He goes one handed , gets underneath the ball and pouches it safely. Early strike for Australia , the in-form batsman has been dismissed. Bell c Haddin b Hazlewood 8 ( 9 ) [ 4s-2 ] Hazlewood to Bell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.2 Hazlewood to Bell , no run , Hazlewood keeps it on a length and around the off-stump channel , Bell presses across and defends it towards the off-side 3.1 Hazlewood to Bell , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Bell stays behind the line and defends it 2.6 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , this has been a pacy over from Starc , now he reserved his best for the last , 149 kmph inswinging yorker , Moeen does extremely well to get his bat down and jams it back towards the bowler 2.5 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , excellent pace and bounce for Starc , Haddin had to pouch it well over his head , fuller length delivery and just outside off , at 148 kmph , Moeen went for the drive and missed 2.5 Starc to Moeen Ali , wide , the bumper from Starc , but this one 's too short and too high , wide called 2.4 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , pitched up and just outside off , this one 's faster , at 150 kmph , driven towards mid-off 2.3 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , pacy from Starc , he bowled this one at 149 kmph , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Moeen went hard on the flash and missed 2.2 Starc to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's not the line to be bowling to Moeen , full and on the stumps , Moeen shuffles across and flicks it past square leg , the man in the deep is very square , first boundary for Moeen 2.1 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape away from off , defended towards cover-point 2.1 Starc to Moeen Ali , wide , wrong line from Starc , sprays this one well down leg-side , wide called 1.6 Hazlewood to Bell , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Bell lifts his bat and lets it go 1.5 Hazlewood to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Bell shuffles across and defends it with a straight bat 1.4 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , 3 runs , tad too full and just outside off , Moeen presses forward , gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it past cover , two fielders give chase and haul the ball back in , saves a run for the team 1.3 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Moeen gets behind the line and defends it 1.2 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , no run , tad fuller and nipping away from outside off , easy leave for the batsman 1.1 Hazlewood to Moeen Ali , no run , full and swinging back into Moeen 's pads , he shuffles across and drives it towards mid-on Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Starc to Bell , FOUR , another half-volley from Starc , he 's searching for some swing , ends up bowling full and wide outside off , Bell leans into the drive and caresses it past cover for consecutive boundaries 0.5 Starc to Bell , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Bell , inswinging half-volley from Starc , ends up in the zone for Bell , he gets forward , plays with an open face and drives it through cover for a boundary 0.4 Starc to Bell , no run , Starc goes full and just outside off , Bell bends down on the drive and finds the fielder at mid-off 0.3 Starc to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Bell covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 0.2 Starc to Moeen Ali , 1 run , back of a length and in that corridor outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 0.1 Starc to Moeen Ali , no run , short of a length and in that channel just outside off , Moeen presses across and defends it Moeen Ali and Bell are at the crease. Moeen Ali is on strike. Starc will open the attack Starc starts with two slips in place. . Welcome back.. England failed to seize the advantage and let the Australian middle-order run amok. That has left their batsmen to score 279 runs for a title triumph. Can they chase it down or will Johnson , Starc and Co. roll them over ? During the last Ashes , England seemed to be in a trance like state facing Johnson. Has anything changed from then ? The pressure of chasing in a final will be playing on England 's mind too. Can they handle it ? We 'll find out soon. Back soon after a short break . Maxwell was all unorthodoxy , while Marsh supported him well , choosing the right ball to hit. Maxwell once again missed out on a hundred and a moment of madness from Haddin ran Marsh out. England were right back in it and harboured hopes of restricting Australia to around 255-260. But Faulkner showed why he is such a feared hitter as he finished off the innings with a brilliant late hitting show. Faulkner 's innings also once again demonstrated Australia 's depth with the bat. 278 on this WACA track wo n't be easy to chase down against Johnson , Starc and Co . That late blitz from Faulkner might well prove to be the difference once the second innings is done. A few downbeat Englishmen as they go back to the dressing room. England started so well , taking three wickets and putting the pressure on Smith to make a big score. Smith looked set to do just that , but he was outsmarted by Moeen Ali. At that stage , it looked a tough ask for Australia to reach 250. But Maxwell and Marsh put on a fine stand of over 100 which brought the innings back on track . 49.6 Finn to Faulkner , SIX , Faulkner finishes in style and gets to a fifty too in the process. Finn went for length once more , Faulkner sets himself up and pulls way over deep square leg , into the grass banks once more. Faulkner and Starc run off and that will be the end of the innings Excellent final over from Finn so far. Just the five off it 49.5 Finn to Faulkner , no run , length delivery on the stumps , bounces over Faulkner 's swipe 49.5 Finn to Faulkner , wide , square leg calls a wide for height as Finn goes short , beats Faulkner 's pull. Marginal call that ! 49.4 Finn to Faulkner , 2 runs , flat-batted pull , wide of long-on , two it is Mitchell Starc , left handed bat , comes to the crease 49.3 Finn to Johnson , out Caught by Eoin Morgan ! ! Johnson finds cover. Backs away and skies the lofted hit , very high it went and when it came down Morgan was under it after going back from cover. Johnson c Eoin Morgan b Finn 3 ( 10 ) Finn to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 49.2 Finn to Faulkner , 1 run , into the pull too early and it lobs off the toe-end , but falls in no-man 's land at mid-off 49.1 Finn to Johnson , 1 run , Johnson makes room and tries to biff that over long-off , miscued , but a single he gets , brings Faulkner back on strike Steven Finn [ 9.0-0-42-0 ] is back into the attack 24 came off that Woakes over . 48.6 Woakes to Faulkner , SIX , another six ! That is a stunning hit. More of a forehand slap. When Faulkner hit that , I felt he had found long-on , but it kept sailing. Another short ball , of the back of the hand variety , Faulkner stood tall and hit it flat. A tennis smash , which Pete Sampras would 've been proud of. What power behind that ! 48.5 Woakes to Faulkner , SIX , that 's into the grass banks at deep mid-wicket , full toss on the stumps , swung away emphatically over mid-wicket. Clean striking from Faulkner 48.4 Woakes to Faulkner , FOUR , now a thick outside edge beats Buttler and races away. Faulkner throwing his bat at it and gets lucky. Buttler dived , but did n't even get a glove on the flying ball 48.3 Woakes to Faulkner , SIX , Faulkner has nailed that ! Picks the back of the hand slower delivery and pulls over the man at deep mid-wicket. The fielder was there , but it was always going over his head 48.2 Woakes to Johnson , 1 run , back of the hand slower delivery , heaved away without any timing to deep mid-wicket Another discussion about the field. Woakes too comes round the wicket to Johnson 48.1 Woakes to Faulkner , 1 run , good yorker , Faulkner can only get it down to long-on Chris Woakes [ 9.0-0-65-0 ] is back into the attack 47.6 J Anderson to Johnson , no run , Anderson and Johnson see the funny side of that ! These two have had quite a history , but good to see smiling faces out there. Johnson pre-meditates a paddle and top-edges it onto the helmet , Anderson ran forward for the caught and bowled chance , but it fell in front , a word or two exchanged too , but in good humor 47.5 J Anderson to Faulkner , leg byes , 1 run , good inswinging yorker , Faulkner is hit on the right boot , would 've missed leg , Johnson called Faulkner through. The batsman was n't sure where the ball was , Anderson thought about a run out , but did n't run forward 47.4 J Anderson to Faulkner , no run , dug in short , Faulkner sits under it and lets it go 47.3 J Anderson to Faulkner , FOUR , Faulkner has hit that expertly into the gap at deep mid-wicket , one bounce over the ropes. Slower short ball and Faulkner pulled it hard and into the gap , there were two men , but he split them to perfection 47.2 J Anderson to Faulkner , 2 runs , slower delivery on the stumps , Faulkner waits for it and hits it straight down the ground , easy two 47.1 J Anderson to Faulkner , FOUR , bad bowling from Anderson , down leg-side , Faulkner sits down and sweeps to the deep backward square boundary , one bounce over the ropes 46.6 Broad to Faulkner , 1 run , softly tapped to sweeper cover , to keep the strike 46.5 Broad to Johnson , 1 run , turns the strike over with a single to mid-off 46.4 Broad to Johnson , no run , Johnson is all at sea as he closes the face of the bat to a delivery angled in , misses it completely , it was n't far from hitting off Broad , Anderson , Morgan and Bopara involved in a discussion about the field. Mid-off coming in as Broad goes round the wicket to Johnson 46.3 Broad to Faulkner , leg byes , 1 run , Broad hits Faulkner on the thigh pad , but they take a quick leg bye 46.2 Broad to Faulkner , FOUR , a boundary ! Backs away and crashes the drive , beating a diving cover to his left , Woakes at sweeper too had no chance 46.1 Broad to Faulkner , no run , Faulkner charges Broad and is hit on the body as he swung and missed 45.6 J Anderson to Johnson , no run , cautiously defended to cover 45.5 J Anderson to Johnson , no run , beaten ! Angled in and then seamed away appreciably to leave Johnson 's outside edge. The batsman shuffled across to cover the line , but the movement did him in 45.4 J Anderson to Johnson , no run , defended to point 45.3 J Anderson to Johnson , no run , angled in from round the wicket , Johnson shoulders arms as he knew it was n't coming back in enough to hit off Anderson round the wicket to Johnson. Mid-off in 45.2 J Anderson to Faulkner , 1 run , turned to the right of short mid-wicket , for a single 45.1 J Anderson to Faulkner , no run , pushed off the front foot to short mid-wicket where Moeen dives to his left to cut off the single James Anderson [ 8.0-2-27-2 ] is back into the attack Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 44.6 Broad to Haddin , out Caught by James Taylor ! ! Now Haddin is gone. The slower short ball , rolled his fingers over the side of the ball , it bounced a bit extra and Haddin finds mid-wicket with a pull , he fetched it from outside off and that foiled all the timing. Simple take for Taylor. Broad points at someone after taking the wicket. England fighting back well. Haddin c James Taylor b Broad 9 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] Broad to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.5 Broad to Faulkner , 1 run , cut to sweeper cover 44.4 Broad to Faulkner , no run , defended to short mid-wicket 44.3 Broad to Haddin , 1 run , Broad follows Haddin as the batsman made room , pushed to long-on 44.2 Broad to Faulkner , 1 run , tails back in late , Faulkner gets the legs out of the way and pushes it to long-on 44.1 Broad to Faulkner , no run , gets forward and defends to cover Marsh did n't want the second , it was Haddin who pushed him. Good thinking from Finn too , as he cleared the way for Buttler to take aim and hit. Could still turn out to be a pivotal moment in the game 43.6 Finn to Haddin , FOUR , mid-off was in and Haddin has driven that wide of him. He is a beautiful driver and that is a fine off-drive , as Finn went full , the ball went all along the carpet 43.5 Finn to Haddin , no run , shuffles across a tad and defends to the right of the bowler 43.4 Finn to Haddin , no run , Haddin gets right behind the line of that and defends 43.3 Finn to Haddin , no run , bounces a bit extra and that forces Haddin to adjust , pushed to point 43.2 Finn to Haddin , no run , tries to punch and mistimes it , in front of point James Faulkner , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.1 Finn to Haddin , out M Marsh Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. What have the batsmen done here ? It was run down to third man , Anderson was the fielder , they wanted to take him on and paid the price. A relay throw to Buttler , who took aim and found Marsh short with a direct hit. It was a risky second and Marsh was very slow in going back. That is a huge wicket , for Marsh could 've caused havoc at the end. M Marsh run out ( J Anderson/Buttler ) 60 ( 68 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] Finn to Haddin , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Marsh has been run out Third time in his career that Maxwell has got out in the nineties Steven Finn [ 8.0-0-37-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Broad to Haddin , 1 run , Broad followed Haddin as he backed away , it bounces a bit extra and goes wide of square leg as Haddin looked for the big hit 42.5 Broad to M Marsh , 1 run , nudged to short fine leg 42.4 Broad to M Marsh , FOUR , Marsh is turning it on now. Broad just stands with the double-teapot pose , hands on hips , short once more and Marsh this time , cracks it through cover 42.3 Broad to M Marsh , FOUR , despite one hand coming off the bat handle , that has gone for a boundary. Shows the power of Marsh. Dug in short and it 's been pulled wide of deep mid-wicket 42.2 Broad to Haddin , 1 run , arches back and dabs it softly to short third man , for a single 42.1 Broad to M Marsh , 1 run , pitched up on off , driven hard and straight to long-off 41.6 Moeen Ali to Haddin , no run , dragged down short , Haddin swivelled to pull and missed , it hit him high on the pads , would 've gone over 41.5 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , Marsh gets to a fifty with a single to long-on. His home crowd give him a generous applause 41.4 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , pushed back to the bowler once again 41.3 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , Moeen Ali dives to his right and cuts off the push 41.2 Moeen Ali to Haddin , 1 run , tossed up outside off , driven to long-off 41.1 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-on , past the right of Moeen Ali Moeen Ali [ 9.0-0-36-1 ] is back into the attack Brad Haddin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.6 Broad to Maxwell , out Caught by Buttler ! ! Maxwell misses out on a ton once more. He seems to like getting out in the nineties - I 'm just kidding. No batsman likes getting out. Goes to leg and wants to get to his hundred with a six , but top-edges the pull high up in the air , Buttler goes back and takes it easily. Maxwell shakes his head as he walks back , he is a disappointed man. Maxwell c Buttler b Broad 95 ( 98 ) [ 4s-15 ] Broad to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 40.5 Broad to M Marsh , 1 run , Broad gets the yorker right now , outside off , dug out to long-off 40.4 Broad to M Marsh , FOUR , drilled ! Broad not getting the yorker right and Marsh with a high backlift powered it straight down the ground , no chance for long-on 40.3 Broad to M Marsh , no run , dug in short and outside off , Marsh pulls and misses , went too hard at it and the extra bounce beat him 40.2 Broad to M Marsh , no run , a big swing and a miss , as Marsh went for it , it did n't miss leg by much 46 came off the batting powerplay 40.1 Broad to M Marsh , FOUR , now Marsh gets into the act. It was a pitched up delivery outside off , Marsh just stood there and belted it over mid-off , a flat hit Stuart Broad [ 6.0-1-25-1 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Woakes to Maxwell , FOUR , third boundary in a row and what does Maxwell do. He goes to leg and scythes the length delivery through point , no-one moved as the ball rocketed away. Incredible batting by the Big Show ! 39.5 Woakes to Maxwell , FOUR , now the reverse hit. Shuffles across and then reverses it over short third , running back , one bounce over the ropes , picked the back of the hand slower delivery and put it away. Woakes under pressure here 39.4 Woakes to Maxwell , FOUR , Maxwell is manipulating the field pretty well , makes room and even though it 's a low full toss , he lifts it over the leaping mid-off fielder , hit it well to clear the fielder 39.4 Woakes to Maxwell , wide , down leg and called a wide 39.3 Woakes to Maxwell , FOUR , Marsh was ducking for cover as Maxwell thumped it over his head , beats mid-on inside the ring. Woakes was n't happy with that effort by the fielder , he wanted him to dive 39.2 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , backs away and Woakes follows him with a pacy back of a length delivery , Maxwell swings and misses 39.1 Woakes to M Marsh , 1 run , slower delivery down leg , edged onto the pad and they take a single as the ball goes to the left of Buttler 38.6 J Anderson to Maxwell , FOUR , that is a superb shot. Full outside off , Maxwell got under that and carved it over cover , a couple of bounces and into the ropes. Bottom hand came into play and plenty of power packed behind that stroke 38.5 J Anderson to Maxwell , no run , backs away and looks to swat that over cover , but is beaten by the slowness of the delivery. Maxwell shakes his head and has a wry smile on his face. He swung his body around like a dancer while playing the shot 38.4 J Anderson to M Marsh , 1 run , slower delivery on the stumps , driven hard to long-on 38.3 J Anderson to Maxwell , leg byes , 1 run , how did that miss the leg stump ? Anderson went for a big inswinging yorker , it reverse swung past the big hit of Maxwell and went right between his legs , missing leg , Buttler ca n't stop cleanly and they take a leg bye 38.2 J Anderson to M Marsh , 1 run , works this into the vacant mid-wicket area for a single 38.1 J Anderson to M Marsh , 2 runs , punched straight down the ground , long-on comes around and slides to prevent the boundary 37.6 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , well bowled ! Woakes comes back with a yorker on the stumps , Maxwell crouches low and keeps it out , preventing it from hitting his toes 37.5 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , now makes room and tries to repeat the stroke , but the length is much fuller and it beats him on the drive , the ball goes over the flashing blade 37.4 Woakes to Maxwell , FOUR , sees the back of the hand slower delivery and backs away to slap it between cover and mid-off , beating them both inside the circle 37.3 Woakes to M Marsh , 1 run , dug in short , hurries onto Marsh and cramps him for room , a mistimed pull to fine leg 37.2 Woakes to M Marsh , no run , back of the hand slower delivery , Marsh sees that and defends to the right of Woakes 37.1 Woakes to M Marsh , no run , tries to punch on-the-up , but the ball nips back in and takes the inside edge , to short mid-wicket 36.6 J Anderson to Maxwell , no run , slower delivery from Anderson and Maxwell had already decided to reverse hit him , the ball comes on slowly and beats the shot. Anderson stares at Maxwell 36.5 J Anderson to M Marsh , 1 run , defended softly in front of square leg and they take a quick single 36.4 J Anderson to M Marsh , no run , very tough chance , but will go down as a dropped catch ! Marsh checked his shot as the ball stopped on him , Bopara dived forward from cover and just about failed to clutch the ball , it was dying on him and he could n't grasp it cleanly 36.3 J Anderson to Maxwell , 1 run , picks the slower short ball and then pulls to deep mid-wicket , on the bounce to the fielder 36.2 J Anderson to Maxwell , 2 runs , high in the air , but lands at wide long-on , in the vacant area , charges Anderson and slaps it over mid-wicket , more height than distance on that one 36.1 J Anderson to Maxwell , FOUR , poor start from Anderson , slips it down leg , Maxwell helps it down to fine leg , beating the fielder who was very square. Anderson knew he had bowled a bad ball and just went back quickly to his mark James Anderson [ 6.0-2-11-2 ] is back into the attack 35.6 Woakes to M Marsh , no run , pitched up on the stumps , driven back to Woakes 35.5 Woakes to M Marsh , no run , slower delivery outside off , Marsh gets forward and presses it to cover 35.4 Woakes to M Marsh , no run , the cross-seam delivery , short and bounced too , Marsh adjusts and chops it to point 35.3 Woakes to M Marsh , SIX , into the grass banks at deep backward square leg. Short and down leg , Marsh though liked that and unleashed a massive pull 35.2 Woakes to M Marsh , no run , pitched up on the stumps , wristed firmly , but straight to the fielder at mid-on , who had to get across quickly to cut off any runs being taken 35.1 Woakes to M Marsh , no run , shuffles across and nudges it to short mid-wicket Chris Woakes [ 6.0-0-36-0 ] is back into the attack The second drinks break has been taken now. These two have put on a 86-run stand to bring their side back into it after four quick wickets had gone down. Maxwell has been the aggressor while Marsh has supported him well. England need to break this stand as Maxwell can be very dangerous in the powerplay. He is well-set too. Exciting phase of play coming up as the batting powerplay will now be on by default . 34.6 Finn to M Marsh , 1 run , once again short from Finn and Marsh pulls from outside off to deep mid-wicket , settles for just a single 34.5 Finn to M Marsh , FOUR , was in the air , but beats a leaping short mid-wicket , well over the fielder as Marsh flicks firmly and gets a boundary. Wrong line from Finn as he drifted onto middle and leg 34.4 Finn to M Marsh , no run , a bottom-handed on-drive , but well fielded at mid-on , where Taylor makes a diving stop to his left 34.3 Finn to M Marsh , no run , pushed to short mid-wicket 34.2 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , shuffles across and works it to deep mid-wicket , wants two , but it is n't there 34.1 Finn to M Marsh , 1 run , short from Finn , Marsh aimed for another big pull , but can only find deep mid-wicket 33.6 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , flicked wide of short mid-wicket 33.5 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , winds up for the big sweep and finds deep backward square leg 33.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , flicked straight to the fielder at short mid-wicket 33.3 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 2 runs , now pre-meditates a paddle , and gets it down to fine leg , for a couple 33.2 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , once again a reverse sweep , but straight to the fielder at short third this time 33.1 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , FOUR , the reverse sweep gets him a boundary , beats the dive from short third man inside the circle. Pre-meditated , but came off well 32.6 Finn to Maxwell , leg byes , 1 run , nips back in and goes off the thigh pad , they take a leg bye 32.5 Finn to Maxwell , no run , very nearly a strange dismissal ! Maxwell went hard at the drive , inside-edged it onto the pad and as the ball was in the air , it deflected off the bat - which was high up - and came down off the arm , bounced in front of the stumps and spun away to miss off. Maxwell did n't know where the ball went , but was relieved to see it miss the stumps. Nervy times for Maxwell 32.4 Finn to Maxwell , no run , nearly chopped on ! Too close to dab and Maxwell just does that , it nipped back in and cramped him for room , he gets it over the stumps as the ball bounces into the ground 32.3 Finn to M Marsh , 1 run , down leg , nudged to square leg 32.2 Finn to M Marsh , FOUR , it 's a slap masquerading as a pull says Harsha Bhogle on air - ca n't describe it any better. Dug in short on the stumps , but Marsh was in position very quickly and pulls it brutally through mid-wicket , beat the man in the deep. Finn just grimaces and walks back Moeen Ali is seen signing some autographs near the boundary 32.1 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and carves it to third man , one hand came off the bat handle as he played that 31.6 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , yorker length on the stumps , dug out to cover 31.5 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , Maxwell comes down the track and beats Morgan 's dive to get a single 31.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , pushed to short mid-wicket 31.3 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , gets forward and eases it to long-on 31.2 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , flicked firmly but Morgan goes to his left at short mid-wicket to stop 31.1 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , comes down the track and pushes it back to Moeen Ali 30.6 Finn to Maxwell , no run , a loud shout for caught behind as Finn bowls a ripper. Simon Fry did n't see anything there to agree with the bowler. It nipped back in and beat Maxwell on the inside edge , as the batsman was trying to run it down , bit of extra bounce too. Need a replay to see where the sound - if there was any - came from 30.5 Finn to Maxwell , no run , homing in on off and middle , Maxwell cautiously defends to cover 30.4 Finn to Maxwell , no run , tight stuff from Finn , keeps it on the stumps , Maxwell is back and across to defend 30.3 Finn to M Marsh , 1 run , shuffles across and tucks this to fine leg A slip in place for Marsh 30.2 Finn to M Marsh , no run , length delivery outside off , Marsh is forward and defending to point 30.1 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , short of length outside off , Maxwell opens the face of the bat and punches to third man Steven Finn [ 5.0-0-22-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , pushed off the back foot to short mid-wicket 29.5 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , almost lobs a catch as he attempts a reverse paddle once more , it took the top edge and goes over Buttler , lands in no-man 's land at short third. Maxwell very lucky to get away 29.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , finds Morgan once more at short mid-wicket 29.3 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , FOUR , 1000 ODI runs and fifty for Maxwell. This time gets the reverse paddle going , takes it on the full and gets it down to third man. Raises his bat and acknowledges the cheers from the 10,000 plus crowd at the WACA 29.2 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , pushes it to short mid-wicket 29.1 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , Maxwell missed out there , full toss outside off , reverse swept hard but Taylor at backward point , made a fine stop , saved runs 28.6 Woakes to M Marsh , no run , back of a length outside off , Marsh stands tall and defends in front of point 28.5 Woakes to Maxwell , 1 run , down leg , clipped to fine leg 28.4 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , turned to short mid-wicket 28.3 Woakes to Maxwell , 2 runs , opens the face of the bat and carves it wide of Bell , Moeen Ali runs around from third man , to keep it to a couple 28.2 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , Maxwell lets out a huge grunt of pain after getting struck on the left thigh , missed the clip and the ball bounced to hit him on the fleshy part. That must have hurt and Maxwell certainly felt it 28.1 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , nips back in and has Maxwell in trouble , the ball misses the inside edge and hits Maxwell high above the pads 27.6 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , Maxwell wanted two after flicking to deep square leg , but he slipped while turning back for the second , is on the floor as the throw comes at his end 27.5 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , forward and defended with an open face to point 27.4 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , tossed up outside off , driven to long-off 27.3 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , defended to cover. Three dots in a row 27.2 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , now Bell dives to his left to cut off the single 27.1 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , punched to Bell at silly mid-on 26.6 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , hops back and defends to the left of Bell at point , a loud shout of 'no ' from Maxwell to Marsh 26.5 Woakes to M Marsh , 1 run , punched wide of Bopara at cover , and they take a quick single 26.4 Woakes to Maxwell , 1 run , one hand comes off the bat handle as Maxwell runs it down to third man 26.3 Woakes to Maxwell , 2 runs , turned to deep backward square leg , they ran hard and came back for the second 26.2 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , fullish on off , Maxwell pushes it off the middle of the bat to mid-off 26.1 Woakes to Maxwell , no run , stands tall , but does n't get any timing on the punch , the ball rolls to cover Chris Woakes [ 4.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , back and across , and punched to short mid-wicket 25.5 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , flicked to deep mid-wicket 25.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , pushed past the right-foot of Moeen Ali , but Bell is there to stop the single 25.3 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , driven hard to long-off Now a straightish short cover is in place 25.2 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , takes it on the full and whips it to Bell at silly mid-on 25.1 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , gets forward and eases it to long-on 24.6 Broad to Maxwell , 1 run , opens the face of the bat on the length delivery outside off and runs it down to third man. Broad is n't a happy man 24.5 Broad to M Marsh , 1 run , back and across before defending into the gap at cover 24.4 Broad to Maxwell , 1 run , gets forward and eases a length ball to sweeper cover 24.3 Broad to Maxwell , no run , driven straight to the fielder at cover 24.2 Broad to Maxwell , FOUR , the 100 is up with an airy fairy drive. Maxwell sliced the cover drive and it went to the left and wide of Bell at point - who did n't dive , Moeen Ali had too much ground to cover from third man and despite his slide , did n't even touch the ball 24.1 Broad to Maxwell , no run , gets forward and drives with an open face , but straight to the fielder at point 23.6 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , Marsh defends that cautiously as the ball seemed to have done something after it landed , Marsh did n't go hard at the defensive push 23.5 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , pushed to silly mid-on 23.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , gets forward and drives to long-on 23.3 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , rocks on the back foot and whips this delivery on the pads to deep square leg Leg slip has moved to a slip now 23.2 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , FOUR , fraction short outside off , Marsh is quick to latch onto it , rocks back and punches wide of point , Finn gave chase , but the ball beat him to the rope 23.1 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , Maxwell calmly clips to deep mid-wicket , to take a single 22.6 Broad to M Marsh , no run , pitched up outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 22.5 Broad to M Marsh , no run , Marsh stands tall and defends solidly towards mid-off , but cover is there to field 22.4 Broad to Maxwell , 1 run , Broad draws another outside edge , but a single accrues to Maxwell , as he gets it down to third man 22.3 Broad to Maxwell , no run , opens the face of the bat a tad and defends the length delivery to point 22.2 Broad to Maxwell , no run , gets forward and plays a sweet on-drive , but straight to the fielder at mid-on 22.1 Broad to Maxwell , FOUR , Maxwell is dealing in boundaries , but this is a thick outside edge as he went for a big drive outside off , no slip and it raced away , third man came across , put in the slide , but the ball beat him Stuart Broad [ 4.0-1-13-1 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , flighted delivery from Moeen Ali and Marsh defends it back to him 21.5 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , back and across , before punching to Bell at silly mid-on 21.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , gets forward and pushes it to long-on 21.3 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , gets forward and eases the drive to long-off 21.2 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , tossed up outside off , Marsh presses it to short cover 21.1 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , pushed firmly to silly mid-on 20.6 Finn to Maxwell , no run , cut without any timing to point 20.5 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , second boundary of the over and Finn pays the price for drifting down leg. Maxwell got the leg glance going , edged it onto the thigh pad , but managed to beat Buttler down the leg-side 20.4 Finn to Maxwell , no run , Finn drags the length back and Maxwell is back and across to defend 20.3 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , fabulous shot from Maxwell. It was n't a half-volley , but Maxwell drove it on the rise and had Finn down too. No chance for either the bowler or the fielder at mid-off , as the ball scooted away 20.2 Finn to Maxwell , no run , punches it towards mid-off , cover goes across to field 20.1 Finn to Maxwell , 2 runs , swivels on the pull and kept it down to deep backward square leg , for an easy couple 19.6 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , takes it from outside off and wrists it to deep backward square leg , for an easy single 19.5 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , shortish and tucked away to deep mid-wicket A silly mid-on in now for Marsh 19.4 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , tapped in front of short mid-wicket , Morgan comes in and fires a wild throw , hits Marsh on the leg with that throw 19.3 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , defended to the right of Moeen Ali 19.2 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , no run , turned to short mid-wicket , slight hesitation between Maxwell and Marsh , but they decide against the single 19.1 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , 1 run , gets forward and eases it to long-on 18.6 Finn to Maxwell , no run , Maxwell into the drive too early , was in the air , but well in front of mid-off. The ball seemed to have stopped on him , may have been the cross-seam delivery from Finn 18.5 Finn to Maxwell , no run , now Bell makes a fine stop at point after Maxwell punches hard into the ground , Bell dives to his right to cut off any runs 18.4 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , too straight from Finn and too full , Maxwell wo n't miss out and flicks firmly , wide of mid-on. Intentionally played in the air , and he hit the gap too Smith was very lazy after getting beaten , he seemed to give up way too easily. Even as he tried to get back it was too late. Plonked his bat in , instead of diving back. Caught inches short as Buttler whipped the bails off 18.3 Finn to Maxwell , no run , tight delivery on off , Maxwell plays a copybook forward defensive , back to the bowler 18.2 Finn to Maxwell , no run , on middle , pushed firmly off the front foot to mid-on 18.1 Finn to Maxwell , FOUR , cracking drive that from Maxwell. Saw the width outside off and then allowed his hands to do the rest. Hit on-the-up and beats a diving cover 17.6 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , right forward and pressed to cover 17.5 Moeen Ali to M Marsh , no run , tossed up outside off , Marsh gets forward and defends Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.4 Moeen Ali to S Smith , out Stumped ! ! What a wicket that is for England. Moeen Ali has done it once more. This may yet turn out to be the most important scalp of his , if his side go onto win the game later today. It straightened past the attempted whip of Smith , who was on the walk , he missed the shot and Buttler after fumbling first time , recovered well to effect the stumping. Smith could 've dived back , but assumed that Buttler would n't miss the first time. He had time to get back , but did n't. S Smith st Buttler b Moeen Ali 40 ( 50 ) [ 4s-5 ] Moeen Ali to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! Has Buttler got Smith out stumped ? Buttler fumbled with the take first time , he lost it and then recovered to remove the bails. Smith is gone ! 17.3 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , takes it from outside off and wrists it wide of short mid-wicket 17.2 Moeen Ali to S Smith , 1 run , Smith uses his feet and drives it to long-on Leg slip the only man in close in for Moeen Ali 17.1 Moeen Ali to Maxwell , 1 run , full toss from Moeen Ali to start and that 's slapped right back at him , he lets it go through his hands , to give away the single Moeen Ali , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 16.6 Finn to S Smith , no run , Smith is shuffling across too much , but that 's how he plays , all three stumps were visible that time , but he managed to bunt it to mid-on 16.5 Finn to S Smith , no run , defended with an open face to point 16.4 Finn to S Smith , no run , Finn has his hands on his head after Smith flicked one uppishly , it was in the air , but falls well short of square leg 16.3 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , nips back in and cramps Maxwell for room , one hand comes off the bat handle as he awkwardly nudges it to the vacant short mid-wicket area 16.2 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , shuffles across and defends this to the short mid-wicket area , easy single that time 16.1 Finn to S Smith , no run , opens the face of the bat and defends to the left of Bell at point , 'wait , wait ' was the call from Smith as he wanted the ball to go past Bell It 's time for drinks at the WACA. England have started brilliantly to have Australia three down at the first drinks break. Anderson set the tone with the wickets of the openers and then Broad and Finn have come in , to continue the good work. Bailey struggled and after getting off the mark , off his 16th delivery , got out to the next one. It 's once again up to Smith to take his side to a defendable total. He is batting superbly , but this will be a real test for him and for the rest of his mates as England are giving nothing away . 15.6 Broad to Maxwell , no run , pitched up outside off , Maxwell once again ca n't time it , plays a tame drive to cover 15.5 Broad to Maxwell , no run , short of length outside off , punched to Bopara at cover 15.4 Broad to Maxwell , no run , back now and defending to cover. Broad is bowling a tight line and length 15.3 Broad to Maxwell , no run , gets forward and defends to cover 15.2 Broad to Maxwell , no run , bounce for Broad , dug in short outside off , Maxwell arched back and tried to ramp that , but did n't make contact. Very close to taking the edge 15.1 Broad to Maxwell , no run , turned to James Taylor at short leg who hopes to catch Smith out by feigning a throw , but Smith was going nowhere 14.6 Finn to Maxwell , 1 run , arches back a little and dabs that down to third man , for a single 14.5 Finn to Maxwell , no run , once again he gets right behind the line to defend to short cover 14.4 Finn to Maxwell , no run , solid forward defensive as Maxwell plays that to cover 14.3 Finn to Maxwell , no run , Maxwell punches without any timing to point , one hand came off the bat handle as he played that , foiling his timing 14.2 Finn to Maxwell , no run , back of a length on off , Maxwell plays a solid back foot defensive stroke 14.1 Finn to Maxwell , no run , pitched up and Maxwell drives straight to Finn who fields 13.6 Broad to S Smith , FOUR , that 's a Smith special ! What wristwork from Smith as he whips that off stump delivery wide of mid-on. It was full and that allowed Smith to bring his wrists into play. No-one moved as the ball raced away. Delightful stuff from the Aussie 13.5 Broad to S Smith , no run , way outside off , but just inside the tramline , so Broad gets away even as Erasmus had a good long , hard look at that delivery 13.4 Broad to Maxwell , 1 run , dug in short on the stumps , Maxwell swivelled and pulled it to deep mid-wicket , that ball hurried onto him and he looked awkward playing the shot 13.3 Broad to Maxwell , no run , gets forward and solidly defends the length ball into the cover region where Bopara fields 13.2 Broad to S Smith , 1 run , rides the bounce on the short delivery and turns the wrists to work it to the vacant square leg area 13.2 Broad to S Smith , wide , way outside off and that 's wide 13.1 Broad to S Smith , no run , nice line and length outside off , probing away is Broad , Smith lets it go 12.6 Finn to Maxwell , no run , back of a length outside off , nice bounce for Finn as Maxwell shoulders arms 12.5 Finn to S Smith , 1 run , overpitched on off and middle , flicked firmly , but straight to the fielder at deep mid-wicket 12.4 Finn to S Smith , no run , gets across and pats it softly to mid-on 12.3 Finn to S Smith , no run , punches to point , where a diving stop is made 12.2 Finn to S Smith , no run , shuffles across and defends it back to Finn Coming back to the wicket , Bailey took his eyes off the ball and that 's what caused the fending off. It was n't directed at his face , more around the stomach area 12.1 Finn to S Smith , no run , pitched up outside off , driven without any timing to mid-off Steven Finn , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 11.6 Broad to Bailey , out Caught by James Taylor ! ! That is a fine short ball and Bailey is gone. Directed right near his stomach area , he fended out awkwardly and popped a simple catch to short leg. Broad is all smiles as he celebrates. The plan of bowling short at Bailey has come off. Australia are three down and in trouble. Bailey c James Taylor b Broad 2 ( 17 ) Broad to Bailey , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.5 Broad to Bailey , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off , Bailey cuts it to square third man , Finn runs along the rope to his right and makes a fine stop. Bailey is off the mark finally , off his 16th ball 11.4 Broad to Bailey , no run , on a good length and outside off , Bailey presses on the front foot and shoulders arms to it 11.3 Broad to Bailey , no run , touch back of a length around off , Bailey hops back and defends it towards the bowler 11.2 Broad to Bailey , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Bailey leans forward and turns it towards mid-on 11.1 Broad to S Smith , 1 run , short of length and wide of off , Smith slaps it to square third man for a comfortable single 10.6 J Anderson to S Smith , 1 run , pitches this one up outside off , Smith presses forward and drives it to sweeper cover 10.5 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , short of length and outside off , Smith stays on the back foot and punches it to backward point 10.4 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , Smith is not interested in playing those 10.3 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , shuffles across to this outside off delivery and bunts it in front of point 10.2 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , back of a length and outside off , Smith reaches out and slaps it towards point 10.1 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , short of length and outside off , Smith covers the stumps and leaves it alone 9.6 Broad to Bailey , no run , fuller and outside off , Bailey presses forward and shoulders arms to it A second slip comes in 9.5 Broad to S Smith , 1 run , around off , Smith moves across and wristily tucks it to deep backward square leg 9.4 Broad to S Smith , no run , short of a good length and outside off , Smith covers the sticks and lets it go 9.3 Broad to S Smith , 2 runs , short of length on off , Smith shuffles across and tucks it through backward square leg 9.2 Broad to S Smith , no run , back of a length outside off , Smith stays back and punches it towards cover 9.1 Broad to S Smith , no run , very full on off , Smith gets forward and pushes it back to the bowler Stuart Broad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Broad will replace Woakes. Just a slip in place.. . 8.6 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , length delivery just outside off , Bailey lunges forward and defends it to cover 8.5 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , fullish on off , Bailey gets forward and taps it to cover 8.4 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , back of a length on middle , Bailey gets back and mistimes the pull towards short mid-wicket 8.3 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , in the corridor of uncertainty , Bailey is not interested to playing at those 8.2 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , fuller around off , Bailey gets forward and drives , the ball goes over a leaping Anderson , who has moved to his left , does not get a hand to it and the ball rolls towards mid-off 8.1 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , back of a length on off , Bailey defends it into the off-side 7.6 Woakes to S Smith , 2 runs , full on middle and off , Smith leans forward after shuffling across and clips it to deep mid-wicket 7.5 Woakes to S Smith , no run , goes on the back foot and blocks it with a straight bat to the left of the bowler 7.4 Woakes to S Smith , no run , Smith gets forward and defends it to mid-off 7.3 Woakes to S Smith , no run , length delivery outside off , Smith shuffles across , covers his sticks and pads it into the off-side. A muted appeal for lbw from the English players as Smith was not offering a shot , but the ball was not shaping in enough to hit the off-stump 7.2 Woakes to S Smith , no run , back of a length and swinging in , Smith punches it off the back foot in front of point 7.1 Woakes to S Smith , FOUR , fuller length delivery on off , Smith gets forward and punch-drives it to the long-off fence. That is his fourth boundary so far 6.6 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , back of a length and coming back in a touch , Bailey defends it back to the bowler off the back foot 6.5 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , a bouncer from Anderson , Bailey sways from the line and lets it go 6.4 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Bailey defends it back 6.3 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , in the channel outside off , left alone 6.2 J Anderson to Bailey , no run , on a length on middle , Bailey turns it to the right of the bowler George Bailey , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.1 J Anderson to Warner , out Caught by James Taylor ! ! Warner departs , he is outdone by the pace and extra bounce ! It was a short of length delivery from Anderson outside off , Warner is pushed back in the crease and looks to fend it into the off-side , taking his bottom hand off the bat , the ball hits high on the bat and a simple catch to the man at backward point. Warner c James Taylor b J Anderson 12 ( 18 ) [ 4s-2 ] J Anderson to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.6 Woakes to S Smith , no run , shortish around leg , Smith shuffles across and looks to put this away , the ball goes over the leg stump and travels into the keeper 's gloves 5.5 Woakes to S Smith , no run , a better line from Woakes this time ! Fuller and just outside off , Smith covers the stumps and lets it go through 5.4 Woakes to S Smith , no run , turns it into the leg-side 5.3 Woakes to S Smith , FOUR , the second boundary of the over and wonderfully played by Smith ! Woakes bowls this back of a length delivery on the off stump line but Smith is quick to move across and flicks it to the deep mid-wicket fence 5.2 Woakes to S Smith , no run , shuffles across and turns it towards mid-wicket 5.1 Woakes to S Smith , FOUR , handsomely driven by Smith ! Woakes pitches this one up on middle and off , Smith gets forward and drills it powerfully to the long-on fence 4.6 J Anderson to Warner , no run , slightly back of a length on middle , Warner blocks it back with a straight bat 4.5 J Anderson to S Smith , 1 run , gets forward and wristily turns this length delivery to mid-on for a comfortable single 4.4 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , on a length and coming back in , Smith presses forward and looks to defend into the off-side , gets an inside edge onto the pads and the ball rolls in front of square on the on-side 4.3 J Anderson to S Smith , no run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Smith defends it off the back foot towards mid-on 4.2 J Anderson to Warner , 1 run , Warner stays inside the line and works it wide of mid-on for a quick single 4.1 J Anderson to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length on middle and off , Smith moves across and tucks it to deep backward square leg 3.6 Woakes to Warner , no run , almost a yorker length ball on middle and off from Woakes , Warner manages to dig it back to the bowler 3.5 Woakes to Warner , no run , short of a good length and around off , Warner punches it into the off-side again 3.4 Woakes to Warner , no run , stays on the back foot to this back of a length delivery outside off and punches it towards cover 3.3 Woakes to Warner , FOUR , cracking shot from Warner ! It was a good length delivery around off , Warner presses forward and creams the drive to the long-off fence , that came right off the middle of the bat ! 3.2 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Smith stays back and works it to mid-on 3.1 Woakes to S Smith , FOUR , width on offer and Smith has put it away , stands tall in the crease and cuts it to the deep backward point fence 2.6 J Anderson to Warner , no run , in that channel outside off , Warner shoulders arms to it 2.5 J Anderson to Warner , FOUR , swinging in on middle and leg , Warner moves across and tucks it to the fine leg fence 2.4 J Anderson to Warner , no run , full and outside off , left alone 2.3 J Anderson to Warner , no run , ohh that was uppish ! Falls short of the fielder at cover. Warner comes forward and drives , goes on the bounce to the fielder 2.2 J Anderson to Warner , 2 runs , Warner comes on the front foot and drives this full delivery off the outside half of the bat square of the wicket 2.1 J Anderson to Warner , no run , stays back and defends 1.6 Woakes to S Smith , 4 runs , full on off , Smith just shuffles across , slightly leans forward and deftly flicks it to deep mid-wicket , Stuart Broad slides near the rope and drags the ball back in , the umpires are having a look at the replays as they are not sure whether Broad fielded it cleanly but the batsmen have run four anyway 1.5 Woakes to S Smith , no run , short of length and moving away a touch , Smith defends it in front of point 1.4 Woakes to Warner , 1 run , stays back and looks to defend , the ball moves away taking the outside edge of his bat and runs down to third man , the fielder gives it a chase and keeps the batsman down to a single 1.3 Woakes to Warner , no run , another back of a length delivery , some bounce on that one , Warner jumps back and blocks it taking his bottom hand off the handle 1.2 Woakes to Warner , no run , back of a length and straighter in line , Warner hops back and defends 1.1 Woakes to S Smith , 1 run , on a good length and outside off , Smith presses forward and pushes it to cover-point , a slight misfield allows the batsmen to take a quick single Chris Woakes , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Woakes from the other end. Two slips in place 0.6 J Anderson to Warner , no run , back of a length on middle and off , Warner works it towards mid-on 0.5 J Anderson to Warner , no run , continues to keep the length short , Warner gets forward and turns it into the leg-side 0.4 J Anderson to S Smith , 1 run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Smith shuffles across and tucks it through backward square leg Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.3 J Anderson to Finch , out Caught by J Root ! ! Brilliant bowling from Anderson ! Finch was flirting with those deliveries and has finally nicked it. Hangs his bat away from the body to this short of length delivery , gets a thick outside edge as the ball jags away a touch , offering a simple catch to Root at first slip. England are ecstatic ! That is a fantastic start ! Finch c J Root b J Anderson 0 ( 3 ) J Anderson to Finch , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 0.2 J Anderson to Finch , no run , stays inside the line and defends it into the leg-side 0.1 J Anderson to Finch , no run , movement straightaway for Anderson ! The ball shapes away a touch from back of a length and just beats the outside edge of Finch 's bat as he looks to defend off the back foot Finch and Warner are at the crease. Finch is on strike. J Anderson will open the attack The national anthems are done. English players are taking the field. Aaron Finch and David Warner have walked out to the middle. Anderson with the new ball . Teams : Australia ( Playing XI ) : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Steven Smith , George Bailey ( c ) , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , James Faulkner , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood England ( Playing XI ) : Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steven Finn , James Anderson George Bailey : " Not sure what we would have done either. Hopefully , the wicket will quicken in the afternoon and the quicks will make use of it. It looks like an interesting wicket. Shane Watson is still not fit but he is getting close to being fully fit. It is more of a precautionary measure. Mitchell Johnson is back in the side and absolutely happy about it. David Warner is doing well too. " Eoin Morgan : " We will bowl first. We are unsure what the wicket is going to do. Hopefully we can do what we did the other day. It got better as the day went on. Our side is doing well. It is a strong squad. We are unchanged. The opportunity to play the final against Australia is good. We have guys who have proved themselves earlier on the tour. Great venue to play the final at. " England have won the toss and have opted to field England have named an unchanged side . England Cricket have tweeted : Overcast morning in Perth & hopefully we see no further rain ! The boys getting ready for # triseries final # AusvEng England have defeated Australia in five out of seven games at Perth , a stat , the visitors will take confidence from. Can they uphold the tradition before the mega tournament kick-starts ? Only time will tell. We will bring you the toss and team updates shortly. Do n't go anywhere.. . Meanwhile , Australia have not put a foot wrong so far. They are the only team to have remained unbeaten in the tournament and delivered consistently. The icing on the cake today would be Mitchell Johnson 's return to the side , his first game of the series. The bouncy WACA wicket will play the perfect host to re-launch a fit and thoroughly rested Johnson , something the English would be undeniably wary of. Despite the absence of Michael Clarke , the team looks dangerous and settled. Mitchell Starc has come of age and given the hosts enviable starts in the competition. Steve Smith and David Warner have been ruthless with the bat. Shane Watson , who is nursing a slight hamstring niggle , will continue to sit out. For the hosts , it is just a matter of settling on a perfect combination . For England , this series has been a realization of sorts. The new year brought them a new captain , under whose leadership they have begun to get back on track. Against India , they put up a brilliant bowling display , trouncing the sub-continent team with ease. Steve Finn , James Anderson and Chris Woakes form an intimidating attack , their only worry being Stuart Broad 's lack of form. Moeen Ali has provided them with breakthroughs at crucial junctures. On the other hand , their batting looks solid and composed. James Taylor has proved himself with mature knocks and performed admirably so far. Bell , Morgan , Buttler , all have chipped in with valuable runs and backed their bowlers . After two weeks of intense cricket , arch-rivals Australia and England will be battling each other in what might be called as a dress rehearsal of their opening game in the 2015 World Cup. A win here will be a significant confidence booster for both teams. Although Australia defeated England twice in the preliminary stage of the competition , the latter have shown a great deal of fight. The first game of the tri-series was one-sided , as Australia won with a bonus point. In comparison , their second game was a much closer affair , with the hosts crossing the line with only one ball to spare . Preview by Siddharth Vishwanathan Before heading into the tri-series in Australia , England were staring down the barrel when it came to ODIs. They had lost four out of five ODI series in 2014 and the string of poor results had resulted in Alastair Cook getting sacked as ODI skipper. There was uncertainty heading into the tri-series and there were issues regarding the team 's composition and confidence. However , England are turning the corner under Eoin Morgan 's leadership. Although they struggled against Australia , their performance against India has been wonderful , with wins in Brisbane and Perth. England will be aiming to go one step better and win the tournament in order to gain significant confidence ahead of the World Cup . Australia will be getting a chance to tick all the right boxes and finalise their combination. The team would have looked at the Perth wicket during the India - England clash and smiled. After playing on docile pitches for close to three months , they have a chance to bowl on a wicket that has pace and variable bounce . Team news Australia The bowling will be the main focus in the final. Mitchell Johnson , who missed the Sydney Test due to a sore hamstring and was rested for the first four ODIs , is refreshed after a break and it will be interesting to see whether he can repeat the heroics against England in 2013/14. " It 's a big match to come into , but I 'm as prepared as I can be , " Johnson was quoted. Mitchell Starc has been in fabulous form in this series and his record at the venue , with 12 wickets in three games at an average of 8.50 , makes him a difficult proposition. Coach Darren Lehmann has confirmed that Shane Watson will be out due to injury and Mitchell Marsh will feature in the final . Probable XI 1 David Warner , 2 Aaron Finch , 3 Steven Smith , 4 George Bailey ( c ) , 5 Mitchell Marsh , 6 Glenn Maxwell , 7 Brad Haddin ( wk ) , 8 James Faulkner , 9 Mitchell Johnson , 10 Mitchell Starc , 11 Josh Hazlewood England James Taylor has enhanced his reputation immensely in this tournament. With 143 runs , with two fifties and at an average of 47.66 , Taylor has provided stability to the middle order. His knock of 82 against India in Perth came when England were 66/5 and his 125-run stand with Jos Buttler helped England ease into the final. Ian Bell , Morgan and Buttler have all contributed with the bat in this series but will aim consistency. Steven Finn , whose career was at the crossroads after being sent back from Australia in 2013/14 due to poor form , has redeemed himself with 10 wickets at an average of 18.2. His hostile pace and bounce will be vital on a lively surface . Probable XI 1 Ian Bell , 2 Moeen Ali , 3 James Taylor , 4 Joe Root , 5 Eoin Morgan ( c ) , 6 Ravi Bopara , 7 Jos Buttler ( wk ) , 8 Chris Woakes , 9 Stuart Broad , 10 James Anderson , 11 Steven Finn Stats In the last 12 ODIs between Australia and England , Australia have won eight and lost two , with two matches ending in no-results . In the last seven ODIs played by England in Perth , they have won five matches and lost two . Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
