Graphs So that ends game one of the 2014-15 Big Bash League. Join us back tomorrow as the Sixers take on the Renegades at SCG. Until then , take care , goodbye ! Ludeman : " It was nice to go out there and have a good start. All credit goes to the bowlers. 149 was n't a great target on that wicket. We got pounced last year and it 's good to give them back this time. I think it 's massive to get some momentum early on. " Tim Ludeman is the Man of the Match Wow ! What a run chase. Both Ludeman and Simmons made 149 look like 49. The former went very hard at the top. Once they stole 23 runs off Rose 's first over , the third over the innings , the Strikers were unstoppable. Even though Simmons perished , Ludeman carried on and registered the fastest fifty in BBL history , off just 18 balls. Head combined well with him and the duo kept the scoreboard ticking. Eventually , the Strikers went on to win the match with 45 balls to spare . 12.3 Hastings to Hodge , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Hodge cuts it through cover-point and the Strikers open their account with a thumping win Brad Hodge , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.2 Hastings to Head , out Caught by Pietersen ! ! A short slower ball and it 's been cut straight to KP at backward point. Head ca n't believe he 's picked out the fielder. Anyway , end of a fine , aggressive knock. Head c Pietersen b Hastings 22 ( 15 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Hastings to Head , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.1 Hastings to Head , no run , slower delivery outside off stump , Head tries to upper-cut the ball but misses John Hastings [ 2.0-0-30-1 ] is back into the attack 11.6 Faulkner to Ludeman , 2 runs , full delivery outside off stump , Ludeman drives it along the ground to wide long-off and the scores are level 11.5 Faulkner to Ludeman , no run , tries to play a fancy little scoop shot , but he misses and this short of length delivery goes straight to the keeper 11.4 Faulkner to Ludeman , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ludeman defends it to cover 11.3 Faulkner to Head , byes , 1 run , back of the hand slower delivery outside off stump , Head swings and misses. The keeper fumbles 11.2 Faulkner to Ludeman , 1 run , easily worked away again to deep mid-wicket 11.1 Faulkner to Ludeman , 2 runs , slower delivery just outside off stump , Ludeman whips it to deep mid-wicket and races back James Faulkner [ 1.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack Ludeman ( 87 ) has registered the highest individual score for the Strikers . 10.6 Clive Rose to Ludeman , 1 run , advances and drives it down to long-on 10.5 Clive Rose to Ludeman , FOUR , that 's gone right through Jackson Bird at deep mid-wicket. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Ludeman slog-sweeps it hard , the fielder got to the ball but he fumbled 10.4 Clive Rose to Head , 1 run , pulled away to backward square leg 10.3 Clive Rose to Head , no run , advances but Rose keeps him calm by cramping him for room 10.2 Clive Rose to Ludeman , 1 run , spinning away outside off stump , tapped to cover 10.1 Clive Rose to Ludeman , SIX , oh my word ! It 's a top edge and it 's sailed over deep backward square leg. Luck has n't changed for Rose. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Ludeman goes for the slog-sweep and he gets a maximum Clive Andrew Rose [ 1.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Hastings to Head , no run , slower delivery just outside off stump , Head cuts and picks out point 9.5 Hastings to Head , SIX , why were the Stars struggling so much with the bat ? Short delivery on the leg stump , Head rocks back and absolutely smashes it flat over deep mid-wicket. That was pulled with immense power 9.4 Hastings to Head , FOUR , full and on the leg stump , Head slogs it to deep mid-wicket , the man in the deep ran to his right to stop the ball , but he could n't get there 9.3 Hastings to Ludeman , 1 run , Hastings follows Ludeman as he makes room but Ludeman manages to tap this short of length delivery square of the wicket on the off-side 9.2 Hastings to Ludeman , FOUR , slower delivery on the leg stump , Ludeman slogs it powerfully and it races away to the deep mid-wicket boundary 9.1 Hastings to Ludeman , 2 runs , short ball outside off stump , Ludeman cuts it hard past point and the man in the deep does really well to make a diving save John Hastings [ 1.0-0-13-1 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Mike Beer to Ludeman , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Ludeman tries to dab but under-edges it past the keeper 8.5 Mike Beer to Head , 1 run , steps out and flicks the flighted delivery to mid-wicket 8.4 Mike Beer to Head , FOUR , this time Head goes inside-out through extra-cover. The Strikers are high on confidence and they are going for the kill 8.3 Mike Beer to Ludeman , 1 run , flatter delivery on the off stump , Ludeman guides it to short third man 8.2 Mike Beer to Ludeman , FOUR , seventh four for Ludeman and he 's just unstoppable. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Ludeman advances and lofts it inside-out , long-off tried his best but the ball escaped 8.1 Mike Beer to Ludeman , no run , tossed up outside off stump , Ludeman tries to sweep but gets an inside edge onto pad 7.6 Maxwell to Ludeman , 1 run , flighted delivery from Maxwell , Ludeman sweeps it to deep mid-wicket 7.5 Maxwell to Head , 1 run , 100 up in just 47 balls. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Head advances and pushes it to long-off 7.4 Maxwell to Ludeman , 1 run , pushed away to cover-point 7.3 Maxwell to Ludeman , no run , flighted delivery from Maxwell , Ludeman looks to sweep but gets hit in the pad 7.2 Maxwell to Ludeman , 2 runs , a direct-hit would have been curtains for Head ! Ludeman nudges the flighted delivery to mid-wicket , they go back for a risky second and escape 7.1 Maxwell to Ludeman , FOUR , flighted delivery outside off stump , Ludeman lofts it over extra-cover Glenn Maxwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 6.6 Mike Beer to Head , no run , flighted delivery from Beer , defended 6.5 Mike Beer to Head , 2 runs , down the leg-side again , worked away to fine leg 6.4 Mike Beer to Head , no run , gently flicks it to square leg 6.3 Mike Beer to Ludeman , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Ludeman sweeps it to deep mid-wicket 6.2 Mike Beer to Head , 3 runs , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Head glances it to fine leg and they race back for the third 6.1 Mike Beer to Ludeman , 1 run , pushed away to sweeper cover Michael Beer [ 1.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Hastings to Ludeman , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery from Hastings , Ludeman pulls and misses. Hit high on the pad 5.6 Hastings to Ludeman , wide , sprays this down the leg-side 5.5 Hastings to Ludeman , no run , slower delivery outside off stump , Ludeman drives it to mid-off 5.4 Hastings to Ludeman , no run , full outside off stump , driven to cover Travis Head , left handed bat , comes to the crease 5.3 Hastings to Simmons , out Caught by L Wright ! ! Oh the fielders almost collided and made a mess of it. That ends a terrific 83-run opening stand. Slower ball from Hastings , Simmons tries to adjust and dab but he chips it in the air , cover-point runs to his right and grabs the ball with his right-hand. The fielder at point was going for the catch as well. Simmons c L Wright b Hastings 30 ( 15 ) [ 4s-3 6s-2 ] Hastings to Simmons , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.2 Hastings to Simmons , SIX , and more. The Stars are absolutely rattled. Fullish delivery on the leg stump , Simmons slogs it handsomely over wide long-on 5.1 Hastings to Simmons , SIX , Hastings , Faulkner , Bird , Rose , who 've you got ? Bring them on ! Gee ! This is some power-hitting from both the openers. Full delivery outside off stump , Simmons smashes it high over long-on John Hastings , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 4.6 Faulkner to Ludeman , SIX , he 's got a fifty off just 18 balls - the fastest in BBL history. Short and on the stumps , Ludeman rocks back and muscles the pull flat over deep mid-wicket , he raises his bat and acknowledges the cheer 4.5 Faulkner to Ludeman , 2 runs , top edgeeee , but it 's safe ! Short delivery on the stumps , Ludeman pulls and gets a thick edge , the ball clears the man at short fine leg 4.4 Faulkner to Ludeman , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Ludeman pulls it to mid-wicket 4.3 Faulkner to Ludeman , FOUR , even better ! Full and in the slot outside off stump , Ludeman drives hard and extra-cover had no chance 4.2 Faulkner to Ludeman , FOUR , full delivery on the leg stump , Ludeman whips it powerfully to the deep mid-wicket fence 4.1 Faulkner to Simmons , leg byes , 1 run , full from Faulkner , Simmons misses the flick and they sneak a leg bye James Faulkner , comes into the attack 3.6 Bird to Ludeman , FOUR , deft touch ! Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Ludeman opens the face of the bat at the last moment and sends it fine past the keeper 3.5 Bird to Ludeman , 2 runs , short delivery on the stumps , Ludeman pulls it to deep mid-wicket and the fifty comes up off just 23 balls 3.4 Bird to Ludeman , SIX , wow ! Full and on the leg stump , Ludeman picks it up and smashes it over backward square leg. That went flat over the boundary 3.3 Bird to Simmons , 3 runs , in the airrrr and Faulkner fluffs it. That was in the air for a while , there is a strong breeze blowing across the ground and Faulkner could n't judge it to perfection. Short of a length delivery on the stumps , Simmons swung hard and got a thick top edge , short fine leg moved to his right to get to the ball , he thought he had it under control , but the ball evaded him 3.2 Bird to Simmons , FOUR , lucky runs ! Full delivery outside off stump , Simmons reaches out to drive , but gets an inside edge that just escapes the sticks 3.1 Bird to Ludeman , 1 run , advances and guides the short of length delivery to third man 2.6 Clive Rose to Simmons , 2 runs , Simmons goes aerial but the man at long-on tidies up. Wow ! 23 runs off that over. What a start for the Strikers 2.5 Clive Rose to Simmons , FOUR , this is a very costly over for the Stars. Flighted delivery down the leg-side , Simmons sweeps it fine and splits short fine leg and backward square leg to perfection 2.4 Clive Rose to Ludeman , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Ludeman glances it to short fine leg 2.3 Clive Rose to Ludeman , SIX , six more ! That 's almost gone into the second tier. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Ludeman gets down one knee and slog-sweeps it flat over deep mid-wicket. Already 16 off the over 2.2 Clive Rose to Ludeman , FOUR , not the best of starts for Rose ! Flighted delivery outside off stump , Ludeman steps out and drives the ball inside-out to deep extra-cover 2.1 Clive Rose to Ludeman , SIX , oh he 's hit that into the orbit ! Gee ! That went a long way up in the air , Ludeman advances and muscles the flighted delivery high over long-on Clive Andrew Rose , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 1.6 Bird to Simmons , no run , fullish outside off stump , defended to cover 1.5 Bird to Simmons , no run , short delivery on the stumps , Simmons pulls and misses. The ball sneaks past the inside edge 1.4 Bird to Simmons , no run , short of length delivery swinging back in , Simmons misses the flick and is hit on the pad 1.3 Bird to Simmons , no run , full and outside off stump , Simmons drives and misses 1.2 Bird to Simmons , FOUR , nice shot ! Full and outside off stump , Simmons leans down on one knee and lofts it easily over mid-off 1.1 Bird to Ludeman , 1 run , full delivery from Bird , Ludeman flicks it to deep square leg Jackson Bird , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Mike Beer to Ludeman , 1 run , flighted and on middle , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 0.5 Mike Beer to Ludeman , no run , Ludeman comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and gets an inside edge onto the pads 0.4 Mike Beer to Ludeman , no run , pushed through by Beer , Ludeman looks to work it towards the on-side and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads 0.3 Mike Beer to Ludeman , FOUR , this was tossed up and wider outside off , Ludeman leans intgo the drive and gets it past cover for a boundary 0.2 Mike Beer to Simmons , 1 run , flighted and on Simmons ' pads , nudged in front of square on the on-side for a single 0.1 Mike Beer to Simmons , no run , tossed up and on Simmons ' pads , he looks to sweep and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads , the umpire signals it as a wide before changing his call Simmons and Ludeman are at the crease. Simmons is on strike. Mike Beer will open the attack The Stars have got a decent score on a two-paced wicket. Kevin Pietersen was the star for them and he made a well compiled fifty. Luke Wright batted positively up front but could n't bat long. Kane Richardson and Ben Laughlin bagged two wickets each for the Strikers. Take a break and join us back for the second innings . 19.6 Kane Richardson to Triffitt , FOUR , Triffitt signs off in style. Full and outside off stump , Triffitt sliced the slog and it went past mid-off John Hastings , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.5 Kane Richardson to Triffitt , out Clive Rose Run Out ! ! Clive Rose is out without facing a ball. Full from Richardson , Triffitt drives it back to the bowler , Rose was backing up too much and the bowler decided to run back and disturb the stumps. Clive Rose run out ( Kane Richardson ) 0 ( 0 ) Kane Richardson to Triffitt , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Clive Andrew Rose , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.4 Kane Richardson to Pietersen , out Caught by J Botha ! ! Good catch at deep mid-wicket. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Pietersen goes back and pulls , does n't get hold of it and deep mid-wicket ran to his left and completed a fine catch. End of a fine knock from KP. Pietersen c J Botha b Kane Richardson 66 ( 46 ) [ 4s-2 6s-4 ] Kane Richardson to Pietersen , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.3 Kane Richardson to Triffitt , 1 run , full outside off stump , driven down to long-off 19.2 Kane Richardson to Triffitt , no run , oh that almost shaved the leg-stump. Triffitt went right across the stumps to help it away , but missed it and it was so close to the leg stump Tom Triffitt , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.1 Kane Richardson to Faulkner , out Bowled ! ! Full and straight , baaangg ! The ball crashes into the top of off stump. It was a full ball in the slot from Richardson , but Faulkner goes across the line trying to slog hard and missed it completely. Faulkner b Kane Richardson 6 ( 7 ) Kane Richardson to Faulkner , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 19.1 Kane Richardson to Faulkner , wide , sprays this full delivery down the leg-side Kane Richardson [ 2.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 B Laughlin to Pietersen , FOUR , slower delivery outside off stump , Pietersen opts for the reverse sweep again , but he gets an under edge that runs away past short third man 18.5 B Laughlin to Faulkner , 1 run , full from Laughlin , Faulkner drills it down to long-on 18.5 B Laughlin to Faulkner , wide , oh that 's just inside the line and Laughlin gets away with a very wide ball 18.4 B Laughlin to Pietersen , 1 run , a whippy pull shot from Pietersen. Short and outside off stump , KP picks out the man at deep mid-wicket this time 18.3 B Laughlin to Pietersen , SIX , that 's some hit ! Strong bottom hand grip and he 's muscled that. Full and outside off stump , Pietersen goes across the stumps and whip/slogs it over mid-wicket and clears the fielder the in the deep 18.2 B Laughlin to Pietersen , 2 runs , full and outside off stump , Pietersen drives it along the ground to sweeper cover 18.1 B Laughlin to Faulkner , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Faulkner drills it to long-on 17.6 Zampa to Faulkner , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Faulkner punches it to cover 17.5 Zampa to Pietersen , 1 run , Pietersen tries to reverse sweep the ball , but gets an inside edge to short third man 17.4 Zampa to Pietersen , 2 runs , KP dances down the track and takes the flighted delivery on the full , mistimes it back over the bowler 's end and it 's only good enough for two 17.3 Zampa to Faulkner , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , driven to long-off 17.2 Zampa to Pietersen , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , punched to extra-cover and that 's KP 's fifty 17.1 Zampa to Faulkner , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off stump , cut to sweeper cover 16.6 B Laughlin to Faulkner , 1 run , full delivery outside off stump , Faulkner drives it to long-off 16.5 B Laughlin to Pietersen , 1 run , very full from Laughlin , Pietersen drills it down to long-off 16.4 B Laughlin to Pietersen , no run , full delivery outside off stump , Pietersen digs it out James Faulkner , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.3 B Laughlin to David Hussey , out Caught by ( sub ) Hamish Kingston ! ! In the airrr and that 's a good catch at long-off. Full delivery outside off stump , Hussey smashes it hard , but he hits it flat , the fielder runs forward and completes a fine low catch. David Hussey c ( sub ) Hamish Kingston b B Laughlin 8 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 ] B Laughlin to David Hussey , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.2 B Laughlin to David Hussey , FOUR , super shot from Hussey. Full and wide outside off stump , Hussey reaches out and crashes the drive through extra-cover and sweeper cover had no chance 16.1 B Laughlin to David Hussey , no run , low full toss outside off stump , Hussey squeezes it out to point 15.6 Zampa to Pietersen , 2 runs , on the off stump , turned to long-on and they steal the second run 15.5 Zampa to Pietersen , 2 runs , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Pietersen slogs it in the air between mid-wicket and mid-on 15.4 Zampa to David Hussey , 1 run , short and outside off stump , Hussey cuts it to sweeper cover 15.3 Zampa to Pietersen , 1 run , KP wanted to slog this flighted delivery very hard , but gets an inside edge that rolls to short fine leg 15.2 Zampa to David Hussey , 1 run , goes deep in the crease and cuts the flatter delivery to backward point for a sharp run 15.1 Zampa to Pietersen , 1 run , KP plays the switch-hit , times it well but the man at sweeper runs to his left and makes a fine save 14.6 B Laughlin to Pietersen , 1 run , fullish outside off stump , Pietersen drives it down to long-on 14.5 B Laughlin to David Hussey , 1 run , full outside off stump , Hussey drills it to sweeper cover 14.4 B Laughlin to David Hussey , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Hussey cuts it to point 14.3 B Laughlin to Pietersen , 1 run , Pietersen walks across the stumps and under-edges the full ball to square leg , while trying to scoop the ball 14.2 B Laughlin to Pietersen , no run , a fine yorker outside off stump , dug out to point 14.1 B Laughlin to Pietersen , no run , fullish outside off stump , Pietersen slices it to point Ben Laughlin [ 1.0-0-9-1 ] is back into the attack Oopsy ! While walking off the field , Maxwell smashed the advertisement hoarding near the boundary line with his bat . 13.6 Zampa to Pietersen , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Pietersen chops the cut to cover 13.5 Zampa to David Hussey , 1 run , shortish just outside off stump , Hussey pulls it to long-on David Hussey , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.4 Zampa to Maxwell , out Caught by Ludeman ! ! Huge shout for caught behind and given. Maxi suggests that the ball just brushed the pad. He 's gutted. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Maxwell goes for the reverse sweep again , lack of pace did him in and he missed the ball. It was a confident appeal from the keeper and the umpire obliged. Maxwell c Ludeman b Zampa 7 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 ] Zampa to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.3 Zampa to Maxwell , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Maxwell swings hard and misses , the keeper whipped the bails off in a flash Stumping check sent upstairs , but Maxi had his back foot grounded . 13.2 Zampa to Maxwell , no run , Maxwell tries the fancy reverse sweep again , but Zampa beat him by bowling it slower through the air 13.1 Zampa to Maxwell , no run , Maxwell has simply let this flatter ball go through to the keeper Adam Zampa [ 1.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Tait to Maxwell , 1 run , full delivery on the leg stump , Maxwell flicks it to mid-wicket 12.5 Tait to Pietersen , 1 run , that 's a pacy full ball from Tait , it was down the leg-side as well , Pietersen walks across the stumps and tries to help it away , but the ball runs away off the inside edge 12.4 Tait to Pietersen , FOUR , no one at long-off and that 's a safe shot ! Full and outside off stump , Pietersen goes deep in the crease and lofts it handsomely over the infield and that 's his first boundary today 12.3 Tait to Pietersen , no run , KP wanted to launch this over the top , but drilled this full ball straight to mid-wicket 12.2 Tait to Pietersen , 2 runs , sharp running ! Pietersen gets across the stumps and turns the good length delivery to mid-wicket , no one there and they put pressure on the fielder in the deep 12.1 Tait to Maxwell , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Maxwell reaches out and slices the ball to third man. It was in the air for a while , but it went well past the man at fly slip Shaun Tait [ 2.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 11.6 J Botha to Pietersen , no run , steps out and taps the flighted delivery to the right of the bowler 11.5 J Botha to Maxwell , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Maxwell drives it down to long-on 11.4 J Botha to Maxwell , FOUR , wow ! Maxi plays a reverse sweep first ball and gets four. This was very full from Botha and Maxwell hit that past backward point 11.3 J Botha to Pietersen , 3 runs , flighted delivery outside off stump , Pietersen reverse sweeps it very fine to third man Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease It 's time for the Big Show ! 11.2 J Botha to L Wright , out Caught by A Ross ! ! In the airrr , oh the fielder juggles the ball but manages to hold on. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Wright slogs and holes out to the man at deep mid-wicket. End of a fine knock from Wright. L Wright c A Ross b J Botha 45 ( 37 ) [ 4s-7 ] J Botha to L Wright , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.1 J Botha to L Wright , no run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Wright taps it to the right of the bowler Johan Botha [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Pollard to Pietersen , SIX , shortish from Pollard again and Pietersen smashes it over the man at deep square leg. 16 came off that over , just what the Stars wanted 10.5 Pollard to Pietersen , SIX , that 's muscled ! Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , Pietersen rocks back and pulls it high over backward square leg Drama ! KP was lining up for the switch-hit , but Pollard stopped in his delivery stride . 10.4 Pollard to L Wright , 1 run , softly pulled along the ground to mid-wicket 10.3 Pollard to Pietersen , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , Pietersen guides it to short third man 10.2 Pollard to L Wright , 1 run , Pollard takes pace off the ball again , Wright taps it to cover-point 10.1 Pollard to Pietersen , 1 run , slower delivery down the leg-side , Pietersen flicks it to deep square leg Kieron Pollard [ 1.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Zampa to L Wright , 2 runs , Zampa is bowling very short here. He goes on the back foot and pulls this through mid-wicket 9.5 Zampa to L Wright , no run , short from Zampa , Wright punches very hard , but picks out the fielder again 9.4 Zampa to Pietersen , 1 run , short and outside off stump , Pietersen punches it to sweeper cover 9.3 Zampa to Pietersen , no run , fullish outside off stump , Pietersen pushes it into the off-side 9.2 Zampa to L Wright , 1 run , Wright softly taps this short ball to mid-wicket and looks for the second , but the fielder moved very swiftly 9.1 Zampa to L Wright , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Wright goes deep in the crease and cuts this to point Adam Zampa , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 8.6 Tait to L Wright , 1 run , fullish from Tait , Wright launched it to long-on 8.5 Tait to Pietersen , leg byes , 1 run , oopsy ! Tait pings Pietersen on the thigh pad , Pietersen tries to pull the short of length delivery , but fails to make contact 8.5 Tait to Pietersen , wide , sprays this down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire 8.4 Tait to L Wright , 1 run , a slower ball from Tait , Wright works it wide of long-on 8.3 Tait to L Wright , FOUR , Wright goes aerial again , but he did n't get it from the middle of the bat ! Fullish outside off stump , Wright lofts the drive over the bowler 's head for four more 8.2 Tait to Pietersen , 1 run , fast and full outside off stump , Pietersen taps it to mid-off 8.1 Tait to Pietersen , no run , full delivery outside off stump , Pietersen drives it straight to cover 7.6 J Botha to Pietersen , 1 run , Botha goes slower through the air , Pietersen looks to flick but the ball goes off the outside edge to cover-point 7.5 J Botha to Pietersen , no run , flatter delivery on the off stump , turned into the on-side 7.4 J Botha to Pietersen , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , blocked 7.3 J Botha to L Wright , 1 run , bit of extra bounce on this flighted delivery but Wright manages to punch to long-on 7.2 J Botha to Pietersen , 1 run , gets across the stumps and flicks the flighted delivery to deep mid-wicket 7.1 J Botha to Pietersen , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Pietersen turns it into the on-side Johan Botha , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 6.6 Tait to L Wright , FOUR , poor ball ! Wright was sitting on the back foot to smash one and Tait delivers a rank long hop. It was halfway down the pitch and Wright pulled it hard over mid-wicket 6.5 Tait to Pietersen , 1 run , full delivery outside off stump , Pietersen drives it square of the wicket on the off-side 6.4 Tait to L Wright , 1 run , a big grnt from Tait as he delivers this short of length delivery oos tump , Wright toe-ends the pull to mid-wicket 6.3 Tait to L Wright , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Wright mistimes the drive towards mid-off 6.2 Tait to Pietersen , 1 run , outside edge , but it falls safe ! Oh ! There could be run-out but Wright escapes. Pietersen pokes at this short of length delivery and edges it to the right of fly slip , who makes a brilliant stop to his right , Laughlin was the fielder. He has a shy at the striker 's end but misses 6.1 Tait to Pietersen , no run , wow ! Tait starts off with a 150kph ball and KP was beaten for pace. Short and wide outside off stump , Pietersen looks to pull but was too late Shaun Tait , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 5.6 Simmons to L Wright , FOUR , safe shot ! Simmons fires it full and flat , Wright launches it over mid-on and that 's boundary number five for him 5.5 Simmons to Pietersen , 1 run , punched in the air but just wide of the diving Simmons and it rolls to mid-off 5.5 Simmons to Pietersen , wide , sprays the flighted delivery down the leg-side 5.4 Simmons to L Wright , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Wright punches it to cover 5.3 Simmons to Pietersen , 1 run , KP steps out and takes the flighted delivery on the full , flicks it wide of mid-on and gets off strike 5.2 Simmons to L Wright , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Wright drives it down to long-off 5.1 Simmons to L Wright , no run , oh , Simmons has escaped with a friendly full toss , Wright crashed that very hard but cover-point intervened 4.6 B Laughlin to Pietersen , SIX , top edge and that 's gone all the way ! Short ball from Laughlin , Pietersen gets inside the line of the ball and pulls , he gets lucky with the edge as there was a man deep at fine leg 4.5 B Laughlin to L Wright , 1 run , slower delivery outside off stump , Wright pulls it to deep square leg 4.4 B Laughlin to Pietersen , 1 run , Pietersen just gets across the stumps to meet this good length delivery on the off stump , the ball swung back in a bit , but manages to flick it to mid-wicket. He 's off the mark straightaway KP is on strike now . 4.3 B Laughlin to L Wright , 1 run , another slower delivery on the leg stump , Wright turns it to short fine leg 4.2 B Laughlin to L Wright , no run , back of the hand slower ball outside off stump , Wright pushes it to point Kevin Pietersen , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.1 B Laughlin to Cameron White , out Caught by Hodge ! ! First ball and he gets a wicket ! Excellent catch from young Hodge at mid-off. Full delivery outside off , White swings very hard but mistimes it high in the air , Hodge runs back and completes a great catch. That gets the home crowd going. Cameron White c Hodge b B Laughlin 6 ( 10 ) [ 4s-1 ] B Laughlin to Cameron White , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Ben Laughlin , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 3.6 Simmons to Cameron White , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , White drives it down to long-off 3.5 Simmons to Cameron White , no run , again , White prefers the sweep shot , he fails to connect and is hit just outside the line of off stump 3.4 Simmons to Cameron White , no run , White makes room but Simmons keeps him calm by bowling a flatter ball 3.3 Simmons to Cameron White , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , White tries to fetch the sweep but misses 3.2 Simmons to Cameron White , FOUR , in the airrrr and just over Tait at short fine leg. White gets inside the line and tries to help this away , he hits the flighted delivery uppishly but just manages to clear the man 3.1 Simmons to Cameron White , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , White defends it to cover Craig Simmons , comes into the attack 2.6 Kane Richardson to L Wright , no run , full and wide outside off stump , Wright steers well but picks out the man at short third man 2.5 Kane Richardson to L Wright , no run , Wright mistimes the lofted off-drive , the ball hit the bottom of the bat , hence , did n't travel well 2.4 Kane Richardson to L Wright , FOUR , muscled. You ca n't afford to miss your length against this man. Short of a length from Kane Richardson , Wright gives the charge to the bowler and pulls it fiercely over mid-wicket 2.3 Kane Richardson to L Wright , no run , Craig Simmons makes a stunning save to his right at short mid-wicket. Short of a length delivery on the off stump , Wright flicks but the fielder denies him a few 2.2 Kane Richardson to L Wright , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Wright punches it into the off-side 2.1 Kane Richardson to L Wright , FOUR , that 's juicy and right in the slot. Wright reaches out and lofts the full ball hard over extra-cover. Third boundary for Wright in 10 balls. He 's looking great ! 1.6 Pollard to L Wright , 1 run , short of length delivery from Pollard , Wright punches down to long-on 1.5 Pollard to L Wright , no run , excellent attempt from Pollard in his followthrough , he dives full length to his right and puts the batsman off. Wright was looking for the single after pushing this towards mid-on , but the bowler denied him the run with the dive 1.4 Pollard to L Wright , 2 runs , friendly delivery on the pads , tucked away to deep backward square leg 1.3 Pollard to L Wright , FOUR , poor ball ! A rank long hop , the attempted slower ball goes horribly wrong and Wright pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 1.2 Pollard to L Wright , no run , well , normally people will be looking to swing the new ball around , but Pollard opts to take pace off the ball. Another slower ball outside off stump , Wright swings and misses 1.1 Pollard to L Wright , no run , very full slower delivery outside off stump , Wright drives it to mid-off Kieron Pollard , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Big surprise , Pollard shares the new ball. The keeper 's up to the stumps . 0.6 Kane Richardson to L Wright , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Wright tucks it to backward square leg and keeps strike 0.5 Kane Richardson to L Wright , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Wright defends off the back foot 0.4 Kane Richardson to L Wright , FOUR , wow ! Great start for Wright. No sighters needed. First ball , short and wide outside off stump , Wright rocks back and cuts it fiercely in front of point 0.3 Kane Richardson to Cameron White , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , White walks right across the stumps and pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket for the first runs of the tournament 0.2 Kane Richardson to Cameron White , no run , short of length delivery nips back in a long way , there was extra bounce as well , White hops to defend and the ball hits the spilce of the bat 0.1 Kane Richardson to Cameron White , no run , full delivery on the off stump , White defends and gets a thickish outside edge that rolls to point Cameron White and L Wright are at the crease. Cameron White is on strike. Kane Richardson will open the attack One slip in place . We are all set for the action to begin . Teams : Melbourne Stars ( Playing XI ) : Cameron White ( c ) , Luke Wright , Kevin Pietersen , David Hussey , Glenn Maxwell , James Faulkner , Tom Triffitt ( w ) , John Hastings , Clive Andrew Rose , Jackson Bird , Michael Beer Adelaide Strikers ( Playing XI ) : Craig Simmons , Tim Ludeman ( w ) , Travis Head , Brad Hodge , Kieron Pollard , Johan Botha ( c ) , Alex Ross , Kane Richardson , Adam Zampa , Ben Laughlin , Shaun Tait Melbourne Stars have won the toss and have opted to bat Meanwhile , Kieron Pollard is fresh from a victorious campaign in the recently concluded domestic T20 competition in South Africa and the Strikers will be looking forward to some positive energy from him to kick-start the season. They also have Brad Hodge and Craig Simmons in their ranks and it 's going to be a great contest today. Toss and teams coming up in a very short while.. . Hello and a warm welcome to the 2014-15 Big Bash League. The Adelaide Strikers are hosting the Melbourne Stars in the season opener. The Strikers had a poor 2013-14 Big Bash League and will be keen to better their record and start the season on a positive note. However , they are up against a star-studded line-up today. Cameron White , Luke Wright , Kevin Pietersen , Glenn Maxwell , David Hussey , James Faulkner , John Hastings - wow , some really big names there for the Stars . Teams : Melbourne Stars ( From ) : Cameron White ( c ) , Luke Wright , Kevin Pietersen , Glenn Maxwell , David Hussey , James Faulkner , Clive Andrew Rose , John Hastings , Michael Beer , Jackson Bird , Daniel Worrall , Scott Boland , Tom Triffitt ( w ) Adelaide Strikers ( From ) : Craig Simmons , Tim Ludeman ( w ) , Travis Head , Brad Hodge , Alex Ross , Kieron Pollard , Hamish Kingston , Johan Botha ( c ) , Ben Laughlin , Adam Zampa , Jon Holland , Kane Richardson , Trent Lawford Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
