Graphs That concludes an incredible game of cricket. Join us back tomorrow as the Strikers host the Scorchers at the Adelaide Oval. Adios ! The Stars decided to send Faulkner and Wright for the Super Over and the former batted exceptionally well to collect two crucial sixes. The Stars managed to score 19 runs and the pressure was immense on Maddinson and Lumb - the first two batsmen for the Sixers. Hastings used his experience and did not offer any freebies and bowled his side to victory . Faulkner : " What a game of cricket ! Any time you see a Super Over , it 's obviously a great challenge. They bowled well in the last few overs to restrict us , but it 's good to win. We played well in the last two games. We knew that if we play good cricket we would win games. Sir Viv is full of energy. It 's an exciting win. We 've had a few tough patches in the last few years , we 've got to the final and lost games. Hopefully we would change that this time around. " James Faulkner is the Man of the Match Phew ! What a game of cricket. Chasing 151 , the Stars lost Wright very early , but Pietersen and White steadied the ship with a fine 70-run stand for the second wicket. Maxwell then joined Pietersen and batted aggressively. Pietersen completed his fifty and it looked like the Stars would easily go past the line but the Sixers fought back by removing both in quick succession. Faulkner and Triffitt batted well and it was down to 28 needed off the last two overs. Triffitt got the boundaries going and in the end , the equation came down to three runs needed off the last ball. Triffitt could n't make proper contact and he could only manage to get two runs , which forced the Super Over. O'Keefe bowled really well and strangled the batsmen , while Dwarshuis got the key wickets of White and Maxwell . The Stars are absolutely thrilled and why not ! They held their nerve at the fag end of the game and edged the Sixers. Both teams shake hands now. The Stars have registered their second straight win of the season , having lost their first three , while this is the second loss for the Sixers , who have already won three games . So the Sixers could manage to score just 9 runs in the Super Over . Ball 6 : Hastings to Lumb , FOUR , that 's it ! The Stars have won. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Lumb lofts it over mid-on Wessels is the new man in. This is great over from Hastings , just 5 runs and 2 wickets in it . Ball 5 : Hastings to Henriques , OUT , good length delivery outside off stump , Henriques takes his front leg out of the way and looks to slog , but gets it on the bottom of the bat , mid-off calls for it , Keath is the fielder there and he takes a fine catch Two legitimate deliveries will take the Stars home. 15 runs needed off 2 . Ball 4 : Hastings to Henriques , 2 runs , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Henriques swings hard but mistimes it to backward square leg It 's 17 needed off 3 balls now ! Ball 3 : Hastings to Lumb , byes , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Lumb steps out , swings hard but misses , Henriques rushes to take strike and steals a run Ball 2 : Hastings to Maddinson , OUT ! That 's a lucky escape for KP , he dropped the ball but skipper White was right next to him to grab the ball. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Maddinson and tries to slap , but slices it in the air , KP runs to his left from point , gets both hands to it , but it pops out , White was very close at cover and he held onto the ricochet Ball 1 : Hastings to Maddinson , 2 runs , advances and mistimes the drive to long-on , races back for the second and makes his ground before the throw arrives at the keeper 's end So who will stride out for the Sixers ? Is it going to be Hastings with the ball for the Stars ? Yes ! It is Hastings with the ball. Maddinson and Lumb to bat first . So the target for the Sixers is 20. The first half of the over was very good for Lee , but he lost it in the second half looking to bowl some yorkers ! Ball 6 : Lee to Faulkner , SIX , in the airrrrr and it 's a flat six ! Take a bow James Faulkner ! What hitting from the all-rounder , the extra ball has cost the Sixers and Lee badly. Full and outside off stump , Faulkner waits for the ball , swings very hard and beats the man at long-off Ball 5 : Lee to Faulkner , 2 runs , full and wide outside off stump , Faulkner drills it hard to long-on and Wright races back for the second Ball 5 : Lee to Faulkner , wide , Lee tries the yorker but sprays this down the leg-side Ball 4 : Lee to Faulkner , SIX , whattaaa hit James Faulkner. That 's gone 103 meters ! That is some hit. Full and in the slot , front leg out of the way and banggggg , that ball went way back over long-on Ball 3 : Lee to Wright , 1 run , clever slower ball from Lee , he bangs this really short , Wright goes early into the upper cut and slices it in front of Bollinger at point. Lee is unhappy with the fielder that he did n't go for the catch Ball 2 : Lee to Wright , 2 runs , slower ball outside off stump , Wright mistimes the drive to mid-on , Faulkner rushes back for the second , the throw goes to the keeper 's end but the batsman was home It is interesting to know that the bowlers will operate with a new ball ! Ball 1 : Lee to Faulkner , 1 run , outswinging full delivery outside off stump , Faulkner reaches out and drives it to sweeper cover So who 's going to bowl the over for the Sixers ? Faulkner and Wright to bat first. Lee to bowl the over . Pietersen : " This is the first I am going to be involved in a Super Over. I think it 's going to be Maxwell , Luke Wright and Faulkner stands a good chance as well. I 've got my pads on. Faulkner is ready. " Both teams are having a conference . The Stars will bat first. Unlike the normal T20 rules , more than 2 batsmen can bat. So it is about playing all 6 balls , irrespective of the number of wickets lost . This has been a super game of cricket. The Stars were ahead when KP and White were going but the Sixers pulled things back nicely. The Stars then threatened to steal the match but the Sixers held their nerve . 19.6 B Lee to Triffitt , 2 runs , it 's a Super Over folks ! Widish full ball outside off stump , Triffitt drills it down to long-on and they ca n't take the third run 19.5 B Lee to Triffitt , FOUR , it 's in the gap and it 's four ! Binga misses the yorker , bowls a low full toss , Triffitt goes leg-side and drives it past mid-off for four 19.4 B Lee to Triffitt , FOUR , edgedddd and that 'll do for the Stars. Full and wide outside off stump , Triffitt tries to squeeze it out but the ball goes off the toe-end of the bat and beats third man 19.3 B Lee to Triffitt , no run , is that a wide ? No , the height is okay and it 's a dot ball ! Well done Binga ! Oh no , the replay suggests it was over Triffitt 's head. The crowd is not happy , Lee foxed Triffitt with a slower ball bouncer on that occasion 19.2 B Lee to Faulkner , 1 run , that was in the slot , but Faulkner only manages to drill this full ball to long-on 19.1 B Lee to Faulkner , FOUR , oh that 's a great start to the over ! Binga bowls a juicy shortish slower ball , fine leg was inside the ring and Faulkner easily pulls it away past the fielder for four. Pressure on the bowler early in the over It 's going to be Binga with the ball. The Stars need 16 runs off 6 balls. Can finisher Faulkner do it for them ? 18.6 Bollinger to Faulkner , 1 run , that was slogged very , very hard but it goes straight to the man stationed at deep mid-wicket 18.5 Bollinger to Triffitt , 1 run , full delivery outside off stump , Triffitt drives it to mid-off 18.4 Bollinger to Faulkner , 1 run , low full toss , drilled very hard , but straight to long-off 18.3 Bollinger to Triffitt , 1 run , almost a yorker outside off stump , Triffitt mistimes the drive straight down the ground 18.2 Bollinger to Triffitt , 2 runs , very full , slogged away to mid-wicket and they sneak back for the second 18.1 Bollinger to Triffitt , SIX , what a shot ! He 's hit this all the way with one hand. How did it clear that long boundary ? Short of a length delivery on the off stump , Triffitt goes early into the shot , loses his bottom hand grip , yet manages to time it well enough Doug Bollinger [ 3.0-0-20-1 ] is back into the attack The last two overs have been very good for the Sixers , just 13 runs , when the asking rate is well over 10 . 17.6 B Lee to Triffitt , 1 run , goes back and across , Lee bowls this full and outside off stump , Triffitt smashes it hard and it goes on the bounce to long-on 17.5 B Lee to Faulkner , 1 run , full toss wide outside off stump , Faulkner slices it to sweeper cover 17.4 B Lee to Faulkner , no run , perfect inswinging yorker from Binga ! Faulkner could do nothing with it and he only managed to dig it out 17.4 B Lee to Faulkner , wide , another slower ball bumper attempted but this one goes well over Faulkner 17.3 B Lee to Triffitt , 1 run , slower ball bumper , Triffitt goes early into the pull shot and toe-ends it to long-on 17.2 B Lee to Faulkner , 1 run , that 's full and wide outside off stump , Faulkner mistimes the drive towards extra-cover 17.1 B Lee to Faulkner , 2 runs , Faulkner advances and smashes the slower ball , but deep mid-wicket runs to his right and tidies up Brett Lee [ 2.0-0-9-1 ] is back into the attack Excellent over from O'Keefe , just 6 runs in it and it 's down 35 needed off 18 now . 16.6 O'Keefe to Faulkner , 1 run , on the off stump , turned away to short mid-wicket 16.5 O'Keefe to Triffitt , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Triffitt flat-bats it to long-off 16.4 O'Keefe to Triffitt , no run , missed stumping but it was a tough chance as the ball bounced extra. Triffitt was down the wicket to slog this flighted delivery but missed it 16.3 O'Keefe to Faulkner , 1 run , flatter delivery on the off stump , Faulkner pulls it to mid-wicket 16.2 O'Keefe to Faulkner , 2 runs , a punchy-pull shot from Faulkner. It was shortish , Faulkner placed that wide of long-on , Triffitt wanted two and he made his ground with a full length dive in the end 16.1 O'Keefe to Triffitt , 1 run , flatter delivery on the stumps , Triffitt flicks it to mid-wicket , the bowler runs around and quickly tidies up to prevent the second Steve O'Keefe [ 3.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Ben Dwarshuis to Faulkner , no run , slower delivery outside off stump , Faulkner flashes and misses 15.5 Ben Dwarshuis to Triffitt , 1 run , just a hint of shape away from the right-hander , punched off the back foot past cover 15.4 Ben Dwarshuis to Faulkner , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Faulkner guides it down to square third man Tom Triffitt , right handed bat , comes to the crease 15.3 Ben Dwarshuis to Maxwell , out Caught by Henriques ! ! Excellent thinking from Dwarshuis to bowl the off-cutter to Maxwell , who was always going for the shots on the leg-side. This time Maxwell tries to pull this through mid-wicket , because the ball moved away after pitching , he sliced it straight up in the air and mid-on ran forward to complete an easy catch. Maxwell c Henriques b Ben Dwarshuis 23 ( 15 ) [ 4s-3 ] Ben Dwarshuis to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.2 Ben Dwarshuis to Maxwell , FOUR , now that was from the middle of bat ! Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , looked like it was the slower ball , Maxwell waited for it to come and slogged it handsomely , the ball bounces just in front of boundary 15.1 Ben Dwarshuis to Maxwell , 2 runs , full delivery on the leg stump , Maxwell slogs it to deep mid-wicket , did n't time it properly though Ben Dwarshuis [ 3.0-0-23-1 ] is back into the attack 14.6 Abbott to Maxwell , 1 run , slower delivery on the off stump , Maxwell flicks it past mid-wicket 14.5 Abbott to Maxwell , 2 runs , Maxwell gets across the stumps and helps the short of length delivery to fine leg and races back for the second 14.4 Abbott to Maxwell , no run , big swing from Maxi but he misses. He dances down the track and tries to smash this short of length delivery over the off-side but does n't make contact 14.3 Abbott to Faulkner , 1 run , bit of extra bounce on this short of length delivery but Faulkner manages to run it down to third man 14.3 Abbott to Faulkner , wide , Abbott has to rebowl that , sprays this down the leg-side 14.2 Abbott to Faulkner , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Faulkner defends it to point 14.1 Abbott to Faulkner , no run , good length delivery on the leg stump , Faulkner flicks it to mid-wicket Sean Abbott [ 2.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Bollinger to Maxwell , 2 runs , short of length delivery wide outside off stump , guided away to third man and Maxwell rockets back for the second James Faulkner , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.5 Bollinger to Pietersen , out Caught by Carters ! ! Oh the partnership is broken and the Sixers are still in it ! Short delivery on the off stump , Pietersen goes on the back foot and looks to pull , gets a thick top edge , keeper runs forward , comes to square leg and takes a very good catch. End of a fine knock from KP ! Pietersen c Carters b Bollinger 54 ( 43 ) [ 4s-8 6s-1 ] Bollinger to Pietersen , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.4 Bollinger to Maxwell , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Maxwell misses the flick , the ball rolls off the thigh pad 13.4 Bollinger to Maxwell , wide , short ball down the leg-side , Maxwell goes across the stumps and tries to help it away but misses 13.3 Bollinger to Pietersen , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Pietersen guides it down to third man 13.2 Bollinger to Maxwell , 1 run , oh a biggggg mix-up but the fielder fumbles ! Maxwell taps this short of length delivery to point , KP takes off for a run , Maxwell says no , but as the fielder spills the ball , he races to the bowler 's end , the throw was soft as well and Maxi escapes 13.1 Bollinger to Pietersen , 1 run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Pietersen taps it to point and takes off Doug Bollinger [ 2.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 12.6 O'Keefe to Maxwell , FOUR , the conventional sweep this time. Friendly delivery down the leg-side , Maxwell helps it away past short fine leg and gets the scoreboard moving 12.5 O'Keefe to Maxwell , FOUR , and the switch hit from Maxi ! Flighted delivery from O'Keefe , Maxwell changes the grip and smashes it over cover-point and it almost goes all the way 12.4 O'Keefe to Pietersen , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Pietersen drives it to long-off 12.3 O'Keefe to Maxwell , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , punched down to mid-on 12.2 O'Keefe to Pietersen , 1 run , could be a run-out oh the fielder fumbles at cover , Pietersen tapped this straight to Henriques and set off , Maxwell would have been in trouble at the keeper 's end but he escapes 12.1 O'Keefe to Maxwell , leg byes , 1 run , flighted delivery down the leg-side , Maxwell misses the flick and the ball rolls off the thigh pad 11.6 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Pietersen defends with soft hands 11.5 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , FOUR , that 's a fierce cut shot and that 's fifty for KP ! Shortish and just outside off stump , Pietersen goes deep in the crease and smashes it to the left of backward point 11.4 Ben Dwarshuis to Maxwell , 1 run , short of length delivery from Dwarshuis , Maxwell gets an inside edge onto thigh pad , KP calls for a quick single and makes his ground 11.3 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , 1 run , KP goes back and across , pulls the short of length delivery , mid-on dives to his right and saves three 11.2 Ben Dwarshuis to Maxwell , 1 run , stroked beautifully ! Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Maxwell punches it square of the wicket on the off-side Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease It 's time for the Big Show ! 11.1 Ben Dwarshuis to Cameron White , out Bowled ! ! One slog too many and the Stars skipper goes ! Nothing but a good length delivery on the off stump , White plays right across the line and misses , the ball hits the top of off stump. That ends a fine 70-run stand ! Cameron White b Ben Dwarshuis 24 ( 31 ) [ 4s-2 ] Ben Dwarshuis to Cameron White , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 10.6 O'Keefe to Pietersen , no run , again Pietersen wants to go aerial but O'Keefe keeps him calm with a flighted delivery 10.5 O'Keefe to Pietersen , no run , appeal for LBW but the impact was well outside off. Pietersen looks to defend the flighted delivery off the front foot but the ball kisses the pad before making contact with the bat 10.4 O'Keefe to Pietersen , no run , clever bowling from O'Keefe ! Saw Pietersen advancing and fired it down the leg-side , Pietersen just manages to keep it out 10.3 O'Keefe to Cameron White , 1 run , steps out and tucks the flighted delivery to mid-wicket 10.2 O'Keefe to Pietersen , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Pietersen drives it along the ground to sweeper cover 10.1 O'Keefe to Pietersen , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Pietersen defends Steve O'Keefe [ 1.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Ben Dwarshuis to Cameron White , no run , a wild swing across the line , but the short of length delivery crashes onto the boot after taking the inside edge 9.5 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , 1 run , this time KP slogs the short of length delivery to deep mid-wicket 9.4 Ben Dwarshuis to Cameron White , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , White slogs it to deep mid-wicket 9.3 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , 1 run , that 's a fine little dab but third man is very fine 9.2 Ben Dwarshuis to Cameron White , 1 run , tucks this short of length delivery to square leg 9.1 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , 1 run , shortish and outside off stump , Pietersen rocks back and cuts it to sweeper cover Ben Dwarshuis [ 1.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Henriques to Pietersen , 1 run , short and wide outside off stump , Pietersen fetches the pull and sends it to deep backward square leg 8.5 Henriques to Cameron White , 1 run , walks across the stumps and tucks the short of length delivery to backward square leg 8.4 Henriques to Pietersen , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Pietersen guides it down to third man 8.3 Henriques to Cameron White , 1 run , deftly done , opens the bat face and steers it down to third man 8.2 Henriques to Pietersen , 1 run , shortish and on off , Pietersen swivels and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 8.1 Henriques to Cameron White , 1 run , back of a length on off , White shuffles across and helps it on the way to fine leg Moises Henriques , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Abbott to Pietersen , no run , drags the length back , Pietersen drops it in front of point and shouts " no " for the single 7.5 Abbott to Pietersen , FOUR , KP is on fire ! He is connecting with the pull quite nicely. Dug in mid-way down the wicket , Pietersen stands up and pulls it in front of square , beats the man on the rope comfortably 7.4 Abbott to Cameron White , 1 run , back of a length around off , White plays the short-arm pull down to long-on 7.3 Abbott to Cameron White , 2 runs , shortish and just outside off , White swats it across the line wide of long-on , Bollinger dives and fields the ball 7.2 Abbott to Cameron White , no run , fuller and outside off , White shuffles across and wrists it to mid-wicket 7.1 Abbott to Cameron White , no run , back of a length around off , White eases it straight to backward point 6.6 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , FOUR , after a deft shot comes one with raw power , banged in halfway down the wicket , Pietersen transfers his weight onto the back foot and pulls it in front of square , no one protecting the mid-wicket fence 6.5 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , FOUR , how good was the timing on that shot ? Even KP was surprised , as he called for two but the ball raced to the fence. Short and just outside off , Pietersen plays a controlled cut behind point , the timing takes it to the fence beating the third man fielder 6.4 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , no run , slower ball close to off , Pietersen taps it to point , he wanted the run but White sends him back rightly 6.3 Ben Dwarshuis to Cameron White , 1 run , again , fraction short and outside off , White cuts it square of the wicket , Abbott does well to keep them down to one 6.2 Ben Dwarshuis to Pietersen , 1 run , shortens the length just outside off , Pietersen slaps it to sweeper cover 6.1 Ben Dwarshuis to Cameron White , 1 run , good length ball around off , White drops it in front of point and takes for a quick single , good response from KP as well Ben Dwarshuis , comes into the attack 5.6 Abbott to Pietersen , no run , shortish and outside off , Pietersen chops the cut to backward point , he should have put that away 5.5 Abbott to Pietersen , FOUR , excellent shot ! Abbott is feeling the heat , short of length just outside off , KP stands tall and punches it through cover , unlike the previous shots , the emphasis was on timing rather than power 5.5 Abbott to Pietersen , wide , splays it way down leg , no chance of KP reaching that , wided by the ump 5.4 Abbott to Pietersen , SIX , fabulous hit ! Charges down the wicket , converts it into a length ball , is not to the pitch still but goes through with the loft , gets plenty of willow on that and is sails over the long-on fence 5.3 Abbott to Pietersen , no run , good length ball that holds its line , Pietersen looks to work it to the on-side , gets a soft leading edge back down the wicket 5.2 Abbott to Cameron White , 1 run , follows the batsman who was backing away , White drops it to the left of the bowler and sets off for a brisk single , Abbott fires a throw at the striker 's end but KP had made it in 5.1 Abbott to Cameron White , no run , back of a length with some extra bounce , White was surprised , but does well to drop it with loose hands to the off-side Sean Abbott , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 4.6 B Lee to Pietersen , no run , fuller and outside off , Pietersen has a swish at it and only connects with thin air 4.5 B Lee to Pietersen , no run , pitched up just outside off , Pietersen push-drives it to cover-point 4.4 B Lee to Pietersen , FOUR , short and on leg-stump , Pietersen helps it on the way to the boundary. He stood his ground , rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square leg , the fielder had no chance of stopping that 4.3 B Lee to Pietersen , no run , another off-speed delivery around off , Pietersen hangs back and knocks it to point 4.2 B Lee to Pietersen , no run , slower ball bouncer outside off , Pietersen was deceived by the lack of pace , he was into the shot way too early , the ball did n't bounce as well 4.1 B Lee to Cameron White , 1 run , slower delivery on leg-stump , White nurdles it wide of short fine leg Brett Lee [ 1.0-0-4-1 ] is back into the attack 3.6 Bollinger to Pietersen , FOUR , ca n't bowl there to anyone , let alone this guy. Half volley on off , Pietersen clears his front leg and drills the drive past White at the non-striker 's end , the ball whistled along the ground to the fence 3.5 Bollinger to Pietersen , FOUR , that should make him feel better , banged in mid-way down the wicket , KP rocks back and pulls it past a diving square leg , the fielder from deep mid-wicket tries to dive and stop , but in vain 3.4 Bollinger to Pietersen , no run , back of a length on off , Pietersen walks across and punches it to short cover 3.3 Bollinger to Pietersen , no run , fuller and close to off , Pietersen defends off the outer half of the bat to point 3.2 Bollinger to Pietersen , no run , shortish and just outside off , Pietersen goes for the pull and fails to make contact 3.1 Bollinger to Pietersen , no run , huge shout for caught behind , Bollinger thought he had his man , but not the umpire. Nip-backer from short of length , Pietersen looks to whip it through the on-side , is cut into half as the ball goes to the left of the keeper , there was some sound , might have come off the shirt 2.6 O'Keefe to Cameron White , no run , White is not happy with that decision from the umpire , fired down the leg-side , White fails to connect with the reverse sweep. That is a good call by the umpire 2.5 O'Keefe to Cameron White , no run , skips out of the crease , gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball dribbles to cover 2.4 O'Keefe to Cameron White , no run , quicker and on the stumps , White makes room and drives it to the left of the bowler , O'Keefe dives and makes a fine stop 2.3 O'Keefe to Cameron White , no run , flighted on off , White comes down the track and blocks it back to the bowler 2.2 O'Keefe to Cameron White , FOUR , does it with utter ease , tossed up around off , White shuffles across , kneels down and scoops it over backward square. He had so much time to pick his gap 2.1 O'Keefe to Pietersen , 1 run , flighted on middle , Pietersen comes down the track and nudges it wide of mid-wicket Steve O'Keefe , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 1.6 Bollinger to Cameron White , FOUR , the Stars needed that , its their first boundary. Tad overpitched and in the slot , White moves to the leg-side and lofts it straight back over the bowlers head , ball goes on the bounce to the boundary 1.5 Bollinger to Cameron White , no run , shortish and just outside off , White makes room and slaps it to extra cover 1.4 Bollinger to Cameron White , no run , pitched up outside off , White drives through the line , picks out the short cover fielder 1.3 Bollinger to Pietersen , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Pietersen push-drives it to short cover and sets off immediately 1.2 Bollinger to Cameron White , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , White pulls it to deep square leg , did n't middle it and the ball goes on the bounce to the fielder 1.1 Bollinger to Cameron White , no run , angled across the right-hander , White pokes at it and is beaten Doug Bollinger , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 B Lee to Cameron White , 1 run , good length ball on off , White prods forward , drops it in front of mid-on and sets off for a sharp run 0.5 B Lee to Cameron White , no run , nice shape for Lee , fuller and moving away outside off , White lifts his bat and lets it go 0.5 B Lee to Cameron White , wide , bouncer down leg , White gets inside the line and lets it pass , easy call for the ump 0.4 B Lee to Pietersen , 1 run , fuller and on the fourth stump , Pietersen pushes it wide of mid-off and takes a quick single Kevin Pietersen , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.3 B Lee to L Wright , out Bowled ! ! Dragged on ! Luke Wright is gone for a golden duck. It was short of length and on off , Wright was cramped for room , he looks to run it down to third man , but the extra bit bounce takes the inside part and goes back onto the stumps. L Wright b B Lee 0 ( 1 ) B Lee to L Wright , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 0.2 B Lee to Cameron White , 1 run , back of a length around off , White backs away and flays at it , the ball flies off the outside edge to third man 0.1 B Lee to Cameron White , no run , straightaway on the mark , good length ball just outside off , White covers the line and lets it go Cameron White and L Wright are at the crease. Cameron White is on strike. B Lee will open the attack Welcome back.. Brett Lee to start off proceedings. He has a couple of slips to assist him. White on strike. . A good comeback from the Stars. Sixers looked good for a big score after a quick start , but Scott Boland and Mike Beer rattled through some excellent overs in the middle phase of the innings. The required momentum never came even though Jordon Silk threw his bat around in the final over. Lumb made 80 but the Stars will be delighted to have restricted the visitors to just 150. Join us in a while for the resumption. . 19.6 Hastings to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and on Silk 's pads , clipped away behind square for a brace. Sixers finish with 150 19.5 Hastings to Jordan Silk , SIX , Silk has his first six in Big Bash history , this was banged in short and on the stumps , Silk made room and pulled it over backward square leg , Wright was just a spectator there 19.4 Hastings to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , short and on Silk 's body , pulled away behind square where there 's a fumble , allows the batsmen to get back for the second run 19.3 Hastings to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , another top-edge as Silk made room for the slog , does n't carry to the man running in from long on , drops well in front , another brace for Silk 19.2 Hastings to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , that 's a run-out chance missed , awkward bounce for Triffitt , he ca n't gather the throw cleanly. Silk was gone for all money , he had made room to a length ball and slugged it towards mid-wicket. Maxwell 's return was good , but it bounced just in front of the keeper Steve O'Keefe , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.1 Hastings to Abbott , out Caught by Maxwell ! ! The Sixers are losing their way completely at the MCG. This was short and on the stumps , Abbott came down the track , made room and hacked it over mid-wicket , he struck it cleanly , but hits it straight to Maxwell in the deep. He does n't drop those. Abbott c Maxwell b Hastings 3 ( 4 ) Hastings to Abbott , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! John Hastings [ 3.0-0-23-1 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Faulkner to Abbott , 1 run , another slower ball from Faulkner , pulled away behind square on the on-side for a single 18.5 Faulkner to Abbott , 2 runs , the slower ball from Faulkner , Abbott makes room and slaps it square on the off-side , takes on the fielder and comes back for the second run 18.4 Faulkner to Abbott , no run , on a good length and just outside off , blocked back towards the bowler Sean Abbott , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.3 Faulkner to Carters , out Bowled ! ! The Stars are finishing on a good note. This was another back of the hand slower ball from Faulkner , Carters made room for the slog over mid-wicket , ends up getting a thick bottom edge , the ball rolls back and disturbs the off-stump. Carters b Faulkner 7 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 ] Faulkner to Carters , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 18.2 Faulkner to Carters , no run , back of a length slower ball from Faulkner , bowled from his back of the hand , Carters looks to help it on its way and misses. Triffitt does well to dive across and saves runs 18.1 Faulkner to Jordan Silk , 1 run , slower ball from Faulkner , swung away behind square on the on-side for a single James Faulkner [ 1.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Mike Beer to Carters , FOUR , that 's a freebie from Beer , ruins his over , full toss on Carters ' pads , lofted away towards the widish long-on boundary , one bounce and over the ropes 17.5 Mike Beer to Carters , 2 runs , full and on Carters ' pads , worked wide of long-on for an easy couple of runs 17.4 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , 1 run , flighted delivery and well outside off , Silk comes down the track and drives it to deep cover for a single 17.3 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , no run , tossed up and on off , Silk comes down the track and drives it back at the bowler 17.2 Mike Beer to Carters , leg byes , 1 run , Beer drifts one onto Carters ' pads , he looks to nudge it towards the on-side , the ball rolls away behind square 17.1 Mike Beer to Carters , no run , slower and spinning away from off , defended towards the off-side 16.6 Boland to Carters , 1 run , Boland follows Carters as he backed away , eased down towards long on for a single 16.5 Boland to Carters , no run , nearly another one ! Carters was completely beaten by the slower ball , chacks his drive and chips it in the air , the ball falls just in front of mid-off 16.4 Boland to Jordan Silk , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , worked in front of long-on for a single Ryan Carters , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.3 Boland to Lumb , out Caught by Cameron White ! ! Lumb falls , that 's a big blow for the Sixers. Excellent bowling from Boland , slips in the slower ball again , Lumb made room for the mighty slog , gets it right off the bottom of the bat , goes high and White was waiting for it at extra cover. Lumb c Cameron White b Boland 80 ( 61 ) [ 4s-6 6s-3 ] Boland to Lumb , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 16.2 Boland to Lumb , no run , nice change of pace from Boland , slips in the slower ball as Lumb came down the track , he swung and missed 16.1 Boland to Lumb , 2 runs , just short of Keith at sweeper cover , Lumb made room and cut this short ball over cover , the fielder rushes forward , but the ball drops well in front of him Scott Boland [ 3.0-0-15-1 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Mike Beer to Lumb , 1 run , flighted delivery and on the stumps , worked past mid-wicket for a single 15.5 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , 1 run , Beer fires one on Silk 's pads as he came down the track , clipped away behind square for a single 15.4 Mike Beer to Lumb , 1 run , top-edge and safe ! Lumb went for the fine sweep , gets a top edge but the ball goes right behind the keeper 15.4 Mike Beer to Lumb , wide , flighted delivery and well outside leg , Lumb goes for the sweep and missed , wide called 15.3 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , 1 run , full and on Silk 's pads , nudged past square leg for a single 15.2 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , slower and on off , Silk comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch and slices it towards long off. KP gets across but does n't go for the catch , the MCG crowd are n't one bit pleased 15.1 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Silk comes down the track and drills it back at the bowler 14.6 Hastings to Lumb , 2 runs , that 's a chance and Faulkner has shelled it , Hastings followed Lumb as he backed away , he clipped it in the air and to the left of Faulkner , he got both hands on the dive but the ball slipped out 14.5 Hastings to Lumb , FOUR , that 's a handy boundary for Lumb , Hastings goes full and wide as Lumb backed away , he reaches out and slices it over short third man for a boundary 14.4 Hastings to Lumb , 2 runs , Hastings follows Lumb as he backed away , clipped away towards deep mid-wicket for a brace 14.3 Hastings to Jordan Silk , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , Silk works it towards deep mid-wicket for a single 14.2 Hastings to Jordan Silk , no run , full and on off , pushed towards mid-off , he wants a single but is sent back 14.1 Hastings to Lumb , 1 run , full and on Lumb 's pads , tucked in front of mid-wicket for a single John Hastings [ 2.0-0-13-1 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Mike Beer to Lumb , 1 run , pushed through by Beer , clipped in front of square on the on-side for a single 13.5 Mike Beer to Lumb , 2 runs , tossed up and wider outside off , Lumb gets well forward and drives it past extra cover for a couple of runs 13.4 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , 1 run , very full from Beer , Silk digs it out past White at mid-off for a brace 13.3 Mike Beer to Lumb , leg byes , 1 run , tossed up and well outside leg , Lumb looks to sweep and misses , the ball rolls away towards short fine 13.2 Mike Beer to Lumb , 2 runs , Beer gives this one more air , Lumb comes down the track and lofts it wide of sweeper cover for a brace 13.1 Mike Beer to Lumb , no run , full and just outside off , Lumb digs it out towards mid-on 12.6 Boland to Lumb , 1 run , on a good length and shaping away , Lumb was looking to go over extra cover , gets a thick outside edge that drops well in front of the fielder at deep cover 12.5 Boland to Lumb , no run , another slower ball from Boland , defended towards cover 12.4 Boland to Jordan Silk , 1 run , the off-cutter from Boland , worked past square leg for a single 12.3 Boland to Jordan Silk , no run , on a good length and around off , Silk checks his drive and pushes it towards short extra cover 12.2 Boland to Lumb , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , driven down towards sweeper cover for a single 12.1 Boland to Lumb , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and just outside of , driven to the right of long off for a couple of runs Scott Boland [ 2.0-0-10-1 ] is back into the attack 11.6 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , no run , Beer drifts one on off , Silk makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at backward point 11.5 Mike Beer to Lumb , 1 run , full and on Lumb 's pads , clipped away past square leg for a single 11.4 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Silk comes down the track and drives it towards long on 11.3 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , no run , the quicker slider from Beer , Silk makes room and gets his bat down in time 11.2 Mike Beer to Lumb , 1 run , Lumb comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and eases it down towards long on for a run 11.1 Mike Beer to Jordan Silk , 1 run , pushed through by Beer , Silk makes room and eases it square on the off-side for a single Michael Beer , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 10.6 Hastings to Lumb , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , defended back towards the bowler 10.5 Hastings to Lumb , no run , on a good length and just outside off , pushed towards mid-off , Jordan Silk set off for a quick single , sent back by Lumb 10.4 Hastings to Lumb , no run , fuller and on off , defended back towards the bowler 10.3 Hastings to Lumb , 2 runs , Lumb comes down the track , makes room as he does so and goes over extra cover for a brace 10.2 Hastings to Jordan Silk , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , chopped away towards third man for a single 10.1 Hastings to Lumb , 1 run , short and on Lumb 's pads , pulled away towards long leg for a single John Hastings [ 1.0-0-9-1 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Bird to Lumb , 1 run , good length delivery on the stumps , Lumb tucks it to mid-wicket 9.5 Bird to Jordan Silk , 1 run , another sharp run ! Silk taps this short of length delivery to the left of backward point and takes , the fielder got to the ball very quickly but could n't pick it up cleanly 9.4 Bird to Lumb , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Lumb guides it down to third man 9.3 Bird to Jordan Silk , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Silk defends it to backward point and takes off , the fielder tries to under-arm the ball onto the stumps but misses 9.2 Bird to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , good length delivery on the leg stump , Silk nudges it through backward square leg 9.1 Bird to Lumb , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Lumb drives it to long-on Jackson Bird [ 2.0-0-12-1 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Boland to Jordan Silk , no run , Silk looks for a drop-and-run single , but the fielder at point gets to the ball very quickly 8.5 Boland to Lumb , 1 run , fifty for Lumb. Fullish delivery outside off stump , Lumb drives and gets a thickish edge that flies past backward point 8.4 Boland to Lumb , FOUR , edged and there 's no one at slip ! Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Lumb pushes at it away from the body and gets away with the edge 8.3 Boland to Lumb , no run , on a length and just outside off stump , Lumb defends it towards cover 8.2 Boland to Jordan Silk , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Silk guides it down to square third man 8.1 Boland to Jordan Silk , no run , fullish delivery on the off stump , Silk defends 7.6 Maxwell to Jordan Silk , 1 run , shortish and outside off stump , Silk punches it to deep backward point 7.5 Maxwell to Lumb , 1 run , shortish outside off stump , cut away to deep backward point 7.4 Maxwell to Lumb , FOUR , that 's a fine hit ! Very full from Maxwell , Lumb gets down on one knee and sweeps it to deep mid-wicket , there was a man in the deep but he had no chance 7.4 Maxwell to Lumb , wide , sprays this down the leg-side 7.3 Maxwell to Jordan Silk , 1 run , on the pads , nudged past square leg 7.2 Maxwell to Lumb , 1 run , tossed up just outside off stump , Lumb drives it down to long-off 7.1 Maxwell to Lumb , FOUR , that 's a fine cut shot from Lumb ! Faster slider outside off stump , Lumb rocks back and meets the ball very late , sends it between backward point and short third man 6.6 Boland to Lumb , 1 run , good length delivery on the leg stump , pushed down to long-on 6.5 Boland to Lumb , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , Lumb punches it to short cover 6.4 Boland to Jordan Silk , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Silk tucks it to mid-wicket 6.3 Boland to Jordan Silk , no run , fullish delivery on the off stump , driven back to the bowler 6.2 Boland to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , good length delivery on the off stump , Silk tucks it to deep backward square leg Jordan Silk , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.1 Boland to Henriques , out Caught by Triffitt ! ! That 's an ugly swing from Henriques. Maybe he was trying to attack the new bowler straightaway. Nothing but a good length delivery outside off stump , Henriques slogs across the line and nicks off. The Sixers are in a spot of bother ! Henriques c Triffitt b Boland 7 ( 4 ) Boland to Henriques , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Scott Boland , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 5.6 Maxwell to Lumb , no run , ends the over with an arm-ball , Lumb defends 5.5 Maxwell to Henriques , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Henriques drives it down to mid-off for a quick single 5.4 Maxwell to Lumb , 1 run , on the leg stump , tucked to backward square leg 5.3 Maxwell to Lumb , no run , slider on the stumps , Lumb defends 5.2 Maxwell to Henriques , 3 runs , excellent work by Wright ! Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Henriques flicks it to deep backward square leg , Wright gives chase , slides in the deep and saves one 5.1 Maxwell to Lumb , 1 run , starts off from round the wicket , full and outside off stump , Lumb drives it to cover , who makes a fine save sliding to his left Glenn Maxwell [ 1.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack 4.6 Hastings to Lumb , leg byes , 1 run , fullish and down the leg-side , Lumb misses the flick and is hit on the pad 4.5 Hastings to Lumb , 2 runs , good length delivery on the leg stump , Lumb flicks it to deep mid-wicket 4.4 Hastings to Lumb , FOUR , you just can not afford to miss your length to this man ! Full and juicy outside off stump , Lumb transfers his weight forward and drives it along the ground past mid-off 4.3 Hastings to Lumb , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Lumb defends 4.2 Hastings to Henriques , 3 runs , Henriques leans forward , allows the good length delivery to come and drives with an angled bat to deep point Moises Henriques , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.1 Hastings to Wessels , out Caught by Maxwell ! ! Edged and taken ! That is a great bowling change by White. Full and outside off stump , just a hint of outswing on that , Wessels goes for a booming drive but gets a thick edge which goes straight to the man at first slip. Wessels c Maxwell b Hastings 6 ( 6 ) [ 4s-1 ] Hastings to Wessels , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! John Hastings , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 3.6 Bird to Lumb , FOUR , he 's batting beautifully ! Short of a length delivery on the off stump , the bounce is very true on this pitch , Lumb waits for the ball to arrive and pulls it to deep backward square leg 3.5 Bird to Wessels , 1 run , good length delivery from Bird , Wessels defends it to mid-on 3.4 Bird to Wessels , FOUR , Wessels gives the charge to the bowler and slaps this length ball hard through cover , he went leg-side and gave himself some room and timed the ball sweetly 3.3 Bird to Lumb , 1 run , just a hint of inswing on this good length delivery , Lumb gently works it to the left of mid-on 3.2 Bird to Wessels , 1 run , back of a length outside off stump , Wessels guides it down to third man 3.1 Bird to Wessels , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Wessels defends off the back foot 2.6 Faulkner to Lumb , SIX , and again , this is some onslaught from Lumb. 20 runs off the over. Another overpitched ball from Faulkner and he disappears. Full and in the slot , Lumb puts the dancing shoes on and smokes it straight down the ground 2.5 Faulkner to Lumb , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , punched off the back foot to cover 2.4 Faulkner to Lumb , SIX , that 's a top edge but it 's gone all the way. Short ball from Faulkner , Lumb pulls and gets away with the edge 2.3 Faulkner to Lumb , 2 runs , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Lumb pulls it to deep backward square leg 2.2 Faulkner to Lumb , SIX , that 's a muscular hit from Lumb ! Full delivery from Faulkner , Lumb advances and lofts it straight back over the bowler 's head and it lands on the sightscreen 2.1 Faulkner to Lumb , no run , nice shape straightaway , bit too full and swings away outside off , Lumb drives and is beaten James Faulkner , comes into the attack 1.6 Bird to Wessels , no run , fuller and on off , Wessels hangs back and dabs it in front of backward point 1.5 Bird to Lumb , 1 run , shortens the length close to off , Lumb is opened up as he gets a thickish outside edge wide of point 1.4 Bird to Lumb , no run , good length ball around off , Lumb stays in the crease and knocks it to cover 1.3 Bird to Lumb , no run , short of length on off , little extra bounce this time , Lumb jabs at it and drops it to the off-side , he takes his bottom hand of the bat as he played that 1.2 Bird to Lumb , no run , back of a length on the fourth stump line , Lumb pokes at it and is beaten. Just a hint of away movement Riki Wessels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.1 Bird to Maddinson , out Caught&Bowled ! ! Bird strikes with his first ball ! He has got the in-form Maddinson. It was a harmless short of length delivery on middle , Maddinson goes for the pull and ends up top-edging it straight up , Bird calls for it , runs forward and takes a good catch. Maddinson c and b Bird 5 ( 3 ) [ 4s-1 ] Bird to Maddinson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught&Bowled ! ! Jackson Bird , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Maxwell to Lumb , no run , quicker and on leg-stump , Lumb kneels down and misses the sweep , is struck on the pad but the ball was snaking down leg 0.5 Maxwell to Lumb , no run , throws this up close to off , Lumb pushes it to cover-point 0.4 Maxwell to Lumb , no run , sliding on middle and leg , Lumb knocks it in front of short mid-wicket 0.3 Maxwell to Lumb , no run , floated up around off , Lumb drives it to the right of the bowler , Maxwell dives and stops the ball 0.2 Maxwell to Maddinson , 1 run , flighted just outside off , Maddinson eases the drive to long-off , there was two but a slight miscommunication does n't allow them to take that 0.1 Maxwell to Maddinson , FOUR , nice way to get off the mark , gently tossed up delivery outside off , Maddinson leans forward and square drives it through cover-point , the fielder dives but ca n't stop the ball Maddinson and Lumb are at the crease. Maddinson is on strike. Maxwell will open the attack The openers , Lumb and Maddinson make their way out to the middle. The Stars follow them closely. Maxwell to open the attack.. . Teams : Sydney Sixers ( Playing XI ) : Michael Lumb , Nic Maddinson , Riki Wessels , Moises Henriques ( c ) , Jordan Silk , Ryan Carters ( w ) , Sean Abbott , Steve O'Keefe , Ben Dwarshuis , Brett Lee , Doug Bollinger Melbourne Stars ( Playing XI ) : Cameron White ( c ) , Luke Wright , Kevin Pietersen , James Faulkner , Glenn Maxwell , Alex Keath , Tom Triffitt ( w ) , John Hastings , Scott Boland , Jackson Bird , Michael Beer Melbourne Stars have won the toss and have opted to field After going down to Strikers , Hurricanes and Heat , the star-studded Stars finally managed to register a win a couple of nights ago in the Melbourne derby. It was a record-breaking win as they won by a whopping 112 runs - the biggest victory ever in Big Bash League history. The confidence will be very high in the dressing room and with home support , they would want to win today as well. However , they are up against a formidable Sixers line-up which has lost just one game out of four thus far. It will be interesting to see the team combinations of both the sides. Toss and more coming up very shortly.. . Teams : Sydney Sixers ( From ) : Michael Lumb , Nic Maddinson , Riki Wessels , Moises Henriques ( c ) , Jordan Silk , Ryan Carters ( k ) , Sean Abbott , Mitchell Starc , Luke Doran , Doug Bollinger , Brett Lee , Ed Cowan , Simon Keen Melbourne Stars ( From ) : Cameron White ( c ) , Luke Wright , Kevin Pietersen , David Hussey , James Faulkner , Glenn Maxwell , Tom Triffitt ( k ) , John Hastings , Scott Boland , Jackson Bird , Michael Beer , Rob Quiney , Clint McKay , Alex Keath Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
