Graphs So all games in the league stage have been completed. First semifinal will be played between the Strikers and the Sixers , while the Scorchers take on the Stars in the second. Looking forward to your company for the first match to be played at the Adelaide Oval on Saturday. Until then , take care , goodbye ! When the scoreboard read 75/5 in the 14th over , it looked like it was all over for the Sixers , but Silk made good use of the life he got - Tremain dropped him on 17 - and stunned the Thunder with his power-hitting towards the end. When 56 were needed off the last three overs , Silk went 6 , 6 , 4 , 6 , 2 , 1 to turn the tables. Tremain bowled a good penultimate over in the context of the game and pushed the equation to 23 runs needed off the last over. Silk then hit a couple of lusty blows on the side and with 8 needed off the last two balls , his partner O'Keefe scored two fours to steal the game from the Thunder . Lee : " I 've lost my voice , what a game of cricket ! Silky was outstanding , great crowd. My hands are shaking. I take the opportunity to thank the crowd for turning up tonight and making it a grand event. " Both teams give Brett Lee a guard of honour . Silk : " I did n't think we 'd get there to be honest. Good little cameo from Abbott and to get 8 off two was phenomenal from O'Keefe. I wanted to target the short boundary on the leg-side , I got lucky a few times but it paid off. It turned out to be a big miss ( talking about his lucky escape on 17 , when Tremain dropped him at the deep backward square leg boundary ) . I wanted to make it 7-0 for the Sixers. I think it 's been so great to have Brett Lee in our side and to win the final game here is pretty special. " Jordan Silk is the Man of the Match Brett Lee is all smiles and the Sixers run onto the field to congratulate their heroes. Remember , this is the last match for Lee at the SCG and his team have given him a grand farewell. Meanwhile , the Thunder ca n't believe that they 've lost the match . 19.6 Lalor to O'Keefe , FOUR , take a bow Steve O'Keefe ! What a super game of cricket. It 's so near yet so far for the Thunder. They had never beaten the Sixers , they were well on course to make history tonight but Jordan Silk and O'Keefe have denied them. Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , O'Keefe pulls behind square on the on-side , deep square leg runs to his right and tries to stop the ball but loses the race Four to win , three for a Super Over . 19.5 Lalor to O'Keefe , FOUR , this is a widish yorker from Lalor , O'Keefe reaches out and somehow manages to get a thick outside edge on it , the ball flies towards short third man , the fielder jumps high but the ball escapes to the boundary after taking the fingertips 19.4 Lalor to Jordan Silk , 1 run , oh Lalor is very lucky that this ball went straight to short fine leg. Yorker from Lalor , Silk flicks but picks out the fielder 19.3 Lalor to Jordan Silk , SIX , it 's sixxxx more and it 's a humongous hit ! What clean striking from Silk ! Lalor wants to bowl wide outside off stump , but Silk gets the better of him again. It looked like the slower ball as well , but Silk slogged it so well that it went into the top tier over deep square leg 19.2 Lalor to Jordan Silk , SIX , it 's in the airrr and it 's gone all the way ! Gee ! Again Lalor tries to go wide outside off stump , but this time Silk gets down on one knee and slogs it handsomely over deep mid-wicket 19.1 Lalor to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , Lalor goes full and wide outside off stump , Silk goes across the stumps and slogs it to deep mid-wicket , the throw comes to the keeper 's end but Silk makes his ground Josh Lalor [ 3.0-1-6-4 ] is back into the attack 23 runs needed off the last over. Can the Sixers do it ? 18.6 Tremain to Jordan Silk , 1 run , a fine low toss on the middle stump , Silk flicks it to backward square leg and keeps strike 18.5 Tremain to O'Keefe , 1 run , low full toss again from Tremain , O'Keefe swings hard but smashes it on the bounce to long-on 18.4 Tremain to Jordan Silk , 1 run , low full toss from Tremain , Silk can only manage to drill it to long-on Steve O'Keefe , right handed bat , comes to the crease The Sixers need 26 off 9 . 18.3 Tremain to Abbott , out Caught by Hughes ! ! In the airrrr and long-off takes it easily. Full and in the slot , Abbott goes for the loft but does n't have enough power behind the shot. Long-off runs to his left and takes it with both hands. Abbott c Hughes b Tremain 21 ( 18 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Tremain to Abbott , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.2 Tremain to Abbott , FOUR , that 's a timely blow from Abbott. Tremain takes pace off the ball , but Abbott gets across the line and just helps it away fine to the right of short fine leg 18.1 Tremain to Jordan Silk , 1 run , Tremain follows Silk with a fuller length delivery as he backs away , the batsman flicks it behind square but he can only get one run Chris Tremain [ 3.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack With 25 runs off the last over , the equation is down to 31 off 12 . 17.6 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 1 run , oh almost dragged on ! Flighted delivery outside off stump , Silk goes for the sweep but gets an inside edge onto boot , the ball rolls to short third man 17.5 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , in the airrrr , shouts of catch it but it falls safely. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Silk slices the inside-out drive and gets lucky as it does n't carry to sweeper cover. Fifty for Silk and he 's keeping the Sixers in the game Back to round the wicket now 17.4 Beadle to Jordan Silk , SIX , this is not over folks ! Beadle tries to fire it in but Silk gets down on one knee , he got into a very good position to slog and it went from the middle of the bat over deep mid-wicket Beadle to come over the wicket now . 17.3 Beadle to Jordan Silk , FOUR , he 's hit this in the gap. Fast and full from Beadle , Silk goes deep in the crease again and drives it very hard past the fielder at extra-cover 17.2 Beadle to Jordan Silk , SIX , into the stands again ! Is there a twist in the tale ? Flighted delivery from Beadle , Silk gets down on one knee and slogs it high over deep square leg 50 needed off 17 balls now . 17.1 Beadle to Jordan Silk , SIX , too short from Beadle and Silk muscles it over deep backward square leg. Silk went deep in the crease and pulled it very hard Ahilen Beadle [ 3.0-0-14-1 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Hauritz to Jordan Silk , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Silk drives it down to long-on 16.5 Hauritz to Abbott , 1 run , advances and flicks the flighted delivery to deep backward square leg 16.4 Hauritz to Jordan Silk , 1 run , advances and drives the flighted delivery along the ground to long-off 16.3 Hauritz to Abbott , 1 run , on the leg stump again , Abbott flicks it to short mid-wicket 16.2 Hauritz to Jordan Silk , 1 run , advances and drives the flighted delivery along the ground to long-off 16.1 Hauritz to Abbott , 1 run , gets across the stumps and flicks the flighted delivery to short mid-wicket Nathan Hauritz [ 3.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Tremain to Abbott , 1 run , full and way outside off stump , Abbott digs it out to point 15.5 Tremain to Jordan Silk , 1 run , slogged very hard , but the ball goes straight to Green at deep mid-wicket 15.4 Tremain to Abbott , 1 run , back of the hand slower ball outside off stump , cut square of the wicket on the off-side 15.3 Tremain to Abbott , 2 runs , cut away square of the wicket on the off-side 15.2 Tremain to Abbott , SIX , that 's a strong bottom-handed shot. Low full toss on the off stump , Abbott walks across and just flicks it away over backward square leg. Gee , he hit that so well ! 15.2 Tremain to Abbott , wide , way outside off stump , easy call for the umpire 15.1 Tremain to Abbott , no run , fuller length delivery outside off stump , Abbott swings and misses Chris Tremain [ 2.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack Chris Green , who bowled a tight line , ends his spell , 4-0-14-0 . 14.6 Chris Green to Abbott , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , bunted to long-off 14.5 Chris Green to Abbott , no run , on the off stump , blocked 14.4 Chris Green to Abbott , no run , flatter from Green , Abbott defends 14.3 Chris Green to Abbott , no run , floated up outside off stump , Abbott flicks it to backward square leg 14.2 Chris Green to Jordan Silk , 1 run , on the off stump , Silk flicks it to mid-wicket 14.1 Chris Green to Jordan Silk , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Silk drives it back to the bowler 13.6 Lalor to Jordan Silk , 1 run , low full toss swinging away outside off stump , Silk taps it towards mid-off , extra-cover tries to grab the ball diving to his right but does n't pick it up cleanly 13.5 Lalor to Abbott , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , sliced to third man 13.4 Lalor to Abbott , no run , slower delivery slanted across the right-hander , Abbott slashes and misses 13.3 Lalor to Abbott , 2 runs , short of length delivery outside off stump , Abbott guides it down to third man 13.2 Lalor to Abbott , no run , slower delivery just outside off stump , Abbott defends Sean Abbott , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.1 Lalor to Carters , out Bowled ! ! Gee , 2.1-1-2-4 in a T20 match ! Take a bow Josh Lalor ! A fine toe-crusher from Lalor , Carters does n't get behind the line , tries to dig it out but misses and the ball hits the base of middle and off. Carters b Lalor 2 ( 3 ) Lalor to Carters , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Josh Lalor [ 2.0-1-2-3 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Chris Green to Jordan Silk , no run , shout for caught behind , but the umpire is not interested. Slider outside off stump , Silk cuts and misses 12.5 Chris Green to Carters , 1 run , short ball on the stumps , Carters pulls it just wide of the man at mid-wicket 12.4 Chris Green to Jordan Silk , 1 run , on the off stump , Silk flicks it to mid-wicket 12.3 Chris Green to Jordan Silk , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Silk drives and picks out cover 12.2 Chris Green to Carters , 1 run , flatter delivery down the leg-side , Carters flicks it to backward square leg 12.1 Chris Green to Jordan Silk , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Silk flicks it to mid-wicket Chris Green [ 2.0-0-8-0 ] is back into the attack Ryan Carters , right handed bat , comes to the crease 11.6 Beadle to Wessels , out Bowled ! ! Wessels gives the charge to the bowler , does n't get to the pitch of the ball , yet goes for the slog and eventually misses. The ball hits the top of off stump. It 's 71/4 now. Wessels b Beadle 30 ( 31 ) [ 4s-3 ] Beadle to Wessels , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 11.5 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 1 run , flatter from Beadle , flicked away to mid-wicket 11.4 Beadle to Wessels , 1 run , driven away to deep extra-cover 11.3 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 1 run , in the airrr and ohhh he 's dropped it. That was a dolly , Tremain was the fielder. High full toss , Silk loses one hand while swinging across the line , he mistimed it completely , deep backward square leg ran to his left and got it covered , tried to reverse-cup but it popped out 11.2 Beadle to Jordan Silk , no run , flatter and on the off stump , Silk cuts it to backward point 11.1 Beadle to Wessels , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Wessels drives it along the ground to cover 10.6 Hauritz to Wessels , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , punched to mid-off 10.5 Hauritz to Wessels , no run , goes early into the sweep shot and this flighted delivery sneaks past the under edge of the bat 10.4 Hauritz to Wessels , no run , tries to help this flighted delivery away very fine but gets hit on the pad 10.3 Hauritz to Jordan Silk , 1 run , pushed through outside off stump , Silk flicks it to mid-wicket 10.2 Hauritz to Wessels , 1 run , on the stumps , Wessels leans forward and flicks it to mid-wicket 10.1 Hauritz to Wessels , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump from round the wicket , Wessels drives and misses Nathan Hauritz [ 2.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Beadle to Wessels , 1 run , gets across the stumps and paddle-sweeps this flighted delivery to fine leg 9.5 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , flicked to backward square leg 9.4 Beadle to Wessels , leg byes , 1 run , flighted delivery down the leg-side , Wessels misses the flick and it goes past the keeper off the thigh pad 9.3 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 1 run , flighted delivery from Beadle , Silk drives it down to long-on 9.2 Beadle to Wessels , 1 run , driven to the left of the bowler 9.1 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 1 run , flatter delivery on the off stump , Silk punches it square of the wicket on the off-side Kallis : " I Woke up this morning with a bit of a stiff back and it got worse when I was batting. " 8.6 Tremain to Jordan Silk , 1 run , full and on the off stump , Silk drives it along the ground to long-on 8.5 Tremain to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , takes his front leg out of the way and slogs the slower ball to deep backward square leg Free-hit 8.5 Tremain to Jordan Silk , no ball , 2 runs , no-ball called but it was a tough call. I do n't think Tremain fully overstepped the line. Short of a length from Tremain , Silk pulls it towards deep backward square leg 8.4 Tremain to Wessels , 1 run , short of length delivery from Tremain , Wessels flicks it to deep square leg 8.3 Tremain to Wessels , FOUR , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Wessels rocks back and pulls well , fine leg and deep mid-wicket were converging but the ball split them to perfection 8.2 Tremain to Jordan Silk , 1 run , full delivery on the off stump , Silk flicks it to deep mid-wicket 8.1 Tremain to Jordan Silk , no run , full delivery just outside off stump , Silk drives it to mid-off Chris Tremain [ 1.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 7.6 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 1 run , pushed to cover again but Delport fires an overthrow to give them a run 7.5 Beadle to Wessels , 1 run , the slider this time from Beadle , Wessels punches it to the left of the man at cover 7.4 Beadle to Wessels , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Wessels bunts it to extra-cover 7.3 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 1 run , on the leg stump , Silk flicks it along the ground to backward square leg 7.2 Beadle to Wessels , 1 run , short enough to hang back and cut to sweeper cover 7.1 Beadle to Jordan Silk , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Silk punches it off the back foot to sweeper cover Ahilen Beadle , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 6.6 Chris Green to Jordan Silk , 1 run , sprays this down the leg-side again , flicked away to fine leg 6.5 Chris Green to Jordan Silk , 2 runs , outside edge but there is no one at slip. Very full from Green , Silk looks to drive but gets a thick edge that rolls to third man 6.4 Chris Green to Jordan Silk , no run , waits for the ball to spin back in and flicks it gently into the on-side 6.3 Chris Green to Wessels , 1 run , on the leg stump again , Wessels flicks it to square leg 6.2 Chris Green to Wessels , leg byes , FOUR , down the leg-side , Wessels misses the flick and the ball rolls off the thigh pad to the fine leg boundary 6.1 Chris Green to Wessels , 2 runs , flatter from Green , Wessels works it away to deep square leg Chris Green [ 1.0-0-2-0 ] is back into the attack 5.6 Lalor to Jordan Silk , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Silk defends Jordan Silk , right handed bat , comes to the crease 5.5 Lalor to Ed Cowan , out Caught by Hauritz ! ! In the airrrrr , who wants it ? Hauritz swallows it easily at backward square leg. Are the Thunder going to beat the Sixers for the first time in BBL history ? SSurprise short ball from Lalor , Cowan looks to pull but gets a top edge , the ball does n't travel and Hauritz takes an easy catch. Ed Cowan c Hauritz b Lalor 0 ( 3 ) Lalor to Ed Cowan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.4 Lalor to Ed Cowan , no run , drives it towards point , but picks out the fielder 5.3 Lalor to Ed Cowan , no run , short of length delivery nips away and beats Cowan 's poke outside off stump Ed Cowan , left handed bat , comes to the crease A short leg in a T20 match ? Gee , that 's interesting ! 5.2 Lalor to Maddinson , out Bowled ! ! Bowled him ! It 's Lalor , who gives the Thunder a breakthrough again and he 's got the big man. Nothing but a short of length delivery on the stumps , Maddinson steps out and misses the slog , the ball hits the top of middle stump. So the Sixers are under pressure , with both their openers dismissed cheaply. Good bowling change by Mr. Cricket. Maddinson b Lalor 15 ( 14 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Lalor to Maddinson , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 5.1 Lalor to Wessels , leg byes , 1 run , Wessels gives the charge to the bowler and looks to flick this good length delivery , but late inswing beats him and it rolls off the thigh pad towards backward square leg Josh Lalor [ 1.0-0-2-1 ] is back into the attack Looks like Wessels has injured his right thumb while diving , but he seems fine to carry on . 4.6 Hauritz to Maddinson , no run , Wessels has been sent back and he puts in a full length dive to make his ground. Nicely tossed up on the leg stump , Maddinson tucks it to short fine leg , Wessels takes off but Maddinson says no and rightly so 4.5 Hauritz to Maddinson , SIX , now that 's from the middle of the bat ! Flighted delivery on the off stump , Maddinson advances , gets close to the pitch of the ball and easily lofts it over long-on 4.4 Hauritz to Maddinson , FOUR , that 's a slog right across the line , does n't get it from the middle of the bat , but manages to drag it wide of mid-wicket and it goes all the way 4.3 Hauritz to Maddinson , no run , Maddinson steps out but Hauritz keeps him calm by dragging his length back 4.2 Hauritz to Wessels , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Wessels flicks it to square leg 4.1 Hauritz to Wessels , no run , Wessels attempts a fancy little switch hit but only manages to get hit on the body Nathan Hauritz [ 1.0-0-4-0 ] is back into the attack 3.6 Tremain to Maddinson , no run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Maddinson defends off the back foot 3.5 Tremain to Wessels , 3 runs , it 's in the air again but it 's gone over the keeper this time. Shortish delivery outside off stump , Wessels pulls and gets a top edge , the man at fine leg puts in the dive and flicks it back. Was his hand touching the rope ? The third umpire has a long look and he reckons it was not a boundary 3.4 Tremain to Wessels , FOUR , edgedddd and just over the man at slip. Good length delivery outside off stump , Wessels slogs and gets a thick edge , the fielder at first slip jumps high and tries to grab it with his right hand but it escapes 3.3 Tremain to Wessels , no run , 'yes , no , yes , no, ' but no harm done though. Good length delivery just outside off stump , Wessels dabs it to point and looks for a run , Maddinson initially says no but takes off for the run , by then Wessels was already making his way back to his crease. The ball did n't go quickly enough for the fielder to effect a run-out at the bowler 's end 3.2 Tremain to Wessels , FOUR , easy pickings and Wessels is a good player ! Full and juicy outside off stump , Wessels waits for the ball and simply lofts it over cover for four 3.1 Tremain to Wessels , no run , starts off with a fuller length delivery on the leg stump , Wessels defends it to mid-on Chris Tremain , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack The Thunder have done well so far with the ball. They 've conceded just 8 runs in 18 balls. The key to their success has been that they did not offer any width to the batsmen . 2.6 Chris Green to Maddinson , no run , flatter delivery on the stumps , pushed into the on-side 2.5 Chris Green to Maddinson , no run , Maddinson takes off blindly but Wessels sends him back. Maddinson misses the sweep , the ball rolls off the thigh pad to short fine leg 2.4 Chris Green to Wessels , 1 run , down the leg-side , Wessels tucks it to mid-wicket 2.3 Chris Green to Wessels , no run , flighted delivery on the stumps , defended straight back to the bowler 2.2 Chris Green to Maddinson , 1 run , flatter from Green , punched to cover 2.1 Chris Green to Maddinson , no run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Maddinson drags his back foot out of the crease and misses the slog , the keeper takes a while to disturb the bails and that gave Maddinson enough time to make his ground Third umpire has been called for a stumping check , but I think Maddinson is fine. Yes he is ! Chris Green , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 1.6 Lalor to Maddinson , 1 run , bit of inswing on this short of length delivery , Maddinson tucks it behind square on the on-side 1.5 Lalor to Maddinson , no run , this good length delivery hurries Maddinson , but he manages to fend it to mid-wicket 1.4 Lalor to Maddinson , no run , full and on the leg stump , Maddinson looks to flick , but the ball hits the outside half of the bat and rolls to mid-on 1.3 Lalor to Wessels , 1 run , defends this good length delivery wide of backward point , the fielder fumbles and allows the run. Wessels opens his account 1.2 Lalor to Wessels , no run , oh almost dragged on ! Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Wessels attempts a lazy little dab but gets an inside edge that goes very close to the off stump Riki Wessels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.1 Lalor to Lumb , out Lbw ! ! Howzaattttt is the cry and up goes the finger. Short of a length delivery pitching around middle , Lumb goes on the back foot to flick , but the ball keeps low and strikes him in line with leg stump. The umpire thought for a while , the appeal was strong and Lalor got his man. What a start for Lalor. Lumb would feel a bit unlucky as the ball did n't bounce much. Lumb lbw b Lalor 1 ( 6 ) Lalor to Lumb , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Josh Lalor , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack One slip in place . That 's a good first over from Hauritz . 0.6 Hauritz to Lumb , 1 run , gets across the stumps and flicks the flighted delivery along the ground to deep square leg 0.5 Hauritz to Lumb , no run , floated up on the off stump , Lumb defends well off the front foot 0.4 Hauritz to Lumb , no run , on the leg stump , gently tucked into the on-side , Lumb looks for a run but Maddinson sends him back 0.3 Hauritz to Lumb , no run , slower through the air this time , Lumb gets behind the line of the ball and defends 0.2 Hauritz to Lumb , no run , flatter delivery from Hauritz , pushed from the crease 0.1 Hauritz to Maddinson , 3 runs , oh that 's a poor start for the Thunder ! Short and spinning away outside off stump , Maddinson cuts it straight to backward point , who fumbles the ball and they run three Maddinson and Lumb are at the crease. Maddinson is on strike. Hauritz will open the attack One slip in place . Welcome back for the run chase. We are hearing that Jacques Kallis will not take the field. He struggled with his lower back while batting . Brett Lee gets a pat on his back from his teammates as he walks off. This was his final innings at the SCG. Coming back to the game , the Thunder have managed to put up an average total on the board. They started off well with both Delport and Kallis hitting some wonderful shots. The latter also managed to make a fifty but the Sixers pulled things back a bit in the middle overs. Lyon was the pick of the bowlers , scalping three. Blizzard hung on and made sure the Thunder crossed the 150-mark. The Sixers should back themselves to chase this down. They have the firepower in their batting line-up. Join us in a while for their reply.. . 19.6 B Lee to Hughes , 1 run , makes room and punches it to mid-off for a quick single , chance of a run-out as the throw comes in at the non-striker 's end but Hughes is safe Brett Lee 's last ball at SCG. The crowd are cheering him on . 19.5 B Lee to Blizzard , 1 run , backs away and punches this back of a length delivery to cover 19.4 B Lee to Blizzard , 2 runs , slower one from Lee , Blizzard works it to deep mid-wicket and gets his second fifty of the tournament 19.3 B Lee to Blizzard , no run , yorker length delivery around off , Blizzard looks to smash it into the on-side , gets beaten 19.2 B Lee to Blizzard , 2 runs , fuller and slower on middle , Blizzard leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket 19.1 B Lee to Blizzard , FOUR , powerful shot ! It was a back of a length delivery around off , Blizzard gets deep inside the crease and guides it to extra cover 18.6 Lyon to Blizzard , 1 run , touch short , Blizzard backs away and punches it to deep point Daniel Hughes , left handed bat , comes to the crease 18.5 Lyon to M Hussey , out Caught by Bollinger ! ! Third wicket for Lyon ! Hussey uses his feet and lofts , he has not middled that , Bollinger back-pedals from long-off and holds onto a good tumbling catch. M Hussey c Bollinger b Lyon 9 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 ] Lyon to M Hussey , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.4 Lyon to Blizzard , 1 run , shimmies down the track and lofts it to long-off 18.3 Lyon to Blizzard , no run , gets down on one knee and looks to slog sweep , misses and is hit on the back thigh 18.2 Lyon to Blizzard , 2 runs , makes room and cuts it hard square of the wicket , straight to the fielder 18.1 Lyon to M Hussey , 1 run , floated around off , Hussey punch-drives it to deep extra cover Nathan Lyon [ 3.0-0-14-2 ] is back into the attack Good over for Sydney Thunder , 13 came off it ! 17.6 B Lee to Blizzard , FOUR , short on leg , Blizzard goes on the back foot and muscles the pull along the ground to the fine leg fence 17.5 B Lee to Blizzard , 2 runs , back of a length on leg , Blizzard nurdles it to deep square leg for a couple 17.4 B Lee to Blizzard , 2 runs , backs away to this fullish ball on middle and off and slices it to deep backward point 17.3 B Lee to M Hussey , 1 run , very full around off , Hussey squeezes it to point for a brisk single 17.2 B Lee to M Hussey , FOUR , bouncer this time , Hussey does well to pick that up , pulls it through backward square leg 17.1 B Lee to M Hussey , no run , slower ball from Lee ! Hussey comes down the track and looks to whip , is beaten by the lack of pace on it Brett Lee [ 2.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Abbott to Blizzard , 2 runs , full toss around off , Blizzard flat-bats it past the bowler to long-on for a brace 16.5 Abbott to Blizzard , no run , another wide one , Blizzard throws his bat at it but is beaten as the ball moves away and goes through to the keeper 16.4 Abbott to Blizzard , no run , compensates and overpitches it outside off , Blizzard drives it hard , straight to extra cover 16.3 Abbott to Blizzard , FOUR , lovely shot from Blizzard ! It was back of a length delivery around off , Blizzard slaps it powerfully to extra cover 16.2 Abbott to M Hussey , 1 run , short on middle , Hussey pulls it off the back foot to deep backward square leg , did not quite time it well 16.1 Abbott to Blizzard , 1 run , wide of off , Blizzard reaches out and mistimes the drive it to deep point 15.6 Bollinger to Blizzard , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Blizzard pushes at it , the ball takes the thick outside edge and flies towards cover , it was in the air for a while but falls short of the fielder there 15.5 Bollinger to M Hussey , 1 run , length delivery around off , Hussey punches it to extra cover for a quick single 15.4 Bollinger to Blizzard , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Blizzard helps it to third man with an open bat face 15.3 Bollinger to Blizzard , FOUR , banged in short on the stumps , Blizzard rocks on the back foot and pulls it along the ground to the deep backward square leg 15.2 Bollinger to M Hussey , 1 run , full and outside off , draws Hussey on the front foot and drives it square of the wicket to get off the mark 15.1 Bollinger to Blizzard , 1 run , short of length onto the pads , Blizzard hops back and clips it to square leg Doug Bollinger [ 3.0-0-26-0 ] is back into the attack Michael Hussey , left handed bat , comes to the crease 14.6 Abbott to Chris Green , out Caught by Jordan Silk ! ! Brilliant catch by Silk. Green goes on the back foot and pulls , mistimes it , the ball flies off the top-edge , Silk comes running in from deep mid-wicket , dives forward and holds onto a good low catch. The umpires check the replays but that was a clean catch. Chris Green c Jordan Silk b Abbott 3 ( 5 ) Abbott to Chris Green , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.5 Abbott to Chris Green , no run , shorter and slower from Abbott , Green shapes up for the pull , gets his bat out of the way at the last moment and lets that go through 14.4 Abbott to Blizzard , 1 run , backs away and looks to cut this short of length ball , the ball goes off the bottom of the bat towards backward point 14.3 Abbott to Blizzard , FOUR , straying onto the pads , Blizzard rolls his wrists and whips it to the backward square leg fence 14.2 Abbott to Blizzard , no run , short of length and wide of off , Blizzard cuts it straight to backward point 14.1 Abbott to Chris Green , 1 run , length delivery around off , Green punches it to deep extra cover Sean Abbott [ 2.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 O'Keefe to Blizzard , no run , backs away and punches it to point 13.5 O'Keefe to Chris Green , 1 run , steps out of the crease to loft , the ball takes the inside edge and rolls to deep backward square leg 13.4 O'Keefe to Blizzard , 1 run , uses his feet and clips it through backward square leg 13.3 O'Keefe to Chris Green , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to cover 13.2 O'Keefe to Blizzard , 1 run , turns it towards deep mid-wicket 13.1 O'Keefe to Blizzard , 2 runs , tossed up on leg , Blizzard flicks it to fine leg Chris Green , right handed bat , comes to the crease 12.6 Lyon to Kallis , out Caught by Bollinger ! ! Kallis was playing well and he has thrown it away , he looks in a bit of pain as well. Looks like he has hurt his back. It was a flighted one from Lyon , Kallis looks to go big on the off-side but slices it , the ball goes off the bottom of the bat and straight down the throat of backward point. Kallis c Bollinger b Lyon 56 ( 43 ) [ 4s-5 6s-2 ] Lyon to Kallis , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 12.5 Lyon to Blizzard , 1 run , on the leg-stump line , Blizzard leans in front and nudges it through backward square leg 12.4 Lyon to Kallis , 1 run , backs away and punches it to deep backward point 12.3 Lyon to Blizzard , 1 run , hops back into the crease and punches it to deep extra cover 12.2 Lyon to Kallis , 1 run , floated around off , Kallis moves across and works it to long-on 12.1 Lyon to Blizzard , 1 run , flighted on leg , Blizzard leans forward and clips it to short mid-wicket Nathan Lyon [ 2.0-0-9-1 ] is back into the attack 11.6 O'Keefe to Blizzard , 1 run , drifts it in on middle and leg , Blizzard gently turns it to mid-wicket 11.6 O'Keefe to Blizzard , wide , tossed up outside off , too wide for the batsman to play 11.5 O'Keefe to Kallis , 1 run , stays on the back foot and flat-bats it to long-on Kallis looks like he is in trouble , maybe a muscle spasm. He is taking deep breaths , trying to stretch a bit. Ok , looks good to go now 11.4 O'Keefe to Kallis , 2 runs , touch wide , Kallis makes room and punches it to deep point 11.3 O'Keefe to Blizzard , 1 run , rocks on the back foot and swipes across the line to deep mid-wicket 11.2 O'Keefe to Kallis , 1 run , goes inside the line and mistimes the pull towards long-on 11.1 O'Keefe to Kallis , no run , touch short and wide , Kallis gets back and slaps it to cover 10.6 Bollinger to Kallis , 1 run , on middle and leg , Kallis leans forward and clips it to short mid-wicket to get to his fifty , the fielder fires a throw at the non-striker 's end but misses , had that been a direct hit , Kallis would have been in trouble 10.5 Bollinger to Blizzard , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Blizzard punches it to cover-point and sets off for a quick single 10.4 Bollinger to Kallis , 1 run , short of length on middle and leg , Kallis stays back and short-arm jabs it to mid-wicket 10.3 Bollinger to Kallis , no run , back of a length and outside off , Kallis gets back and knocks it to backward point , straight to the fielder 10.2 Bollinger to Kallis , no run , good length ball around off , Kallis gets forward and taps it into the off-side towards cover 10.1 Bollinger to Kallis , FOUR , length delivery just outside off , Kallis comes on the front foot and caresses the drive to the deep extra cover fence Doug Bollinger [ 2.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 O'Keefe to Kallis , 1 run , gets back and punches it to short cover for a brisk single 9.5 O'Keefe to Blizzard , 1 run , drifts it on leg , Blizzard tucks it off his pads to deep square leg 9.4 O'Keefe to Blizzard , no run , gets back and punches it back to O'Keefe 9.3 O'Keefe to Kallis , 1 run , goes on the back foot and slaps this shortish ball to sweeper cover 9.2 O'Keefe to Kallis , no run , stays back and defends it back to the bowler 9.1 O'Keefe to Kallis , no run , around off , Kallis gets forward and bunts it to mid-off with a flattish bat Steve O'Keefe [ 1.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Lyon to Kallis , 1 run , widish ball , Kallis gets back and runs it down to short third man for a quick single Aiden Blizzard , left handed bat , comes to the crease 8.5 Lyon to Delport , out Caught by Wessels ! ! Delport departs ! He charges down the track to this shortish ball , does not get to the pitch of the ball but slogs it anyway , mistimes it and ends up playing straight into the hands of Wessels at deep mid-wicket. Delport c Wessels b Lyon 30 ( 29 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Lyon to Delport , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 8.4 Lyon to Delport , no run , gets forward and pushes it in front of point 8.3 Lyon to Delport , no run , defends it into the off-side 8.2 Lyon to Delport , no run , gets back and cuts it to backward point 8.1 Lyon to Delport , 2 runs , looks to pull and top-edges it over the keeper towards fine leg 7.6 Abbott to Delport , 1 run , short of length and angled onto the hips , Delport tucks it through backward square leg 7.6 Abbott to Delport , wide , shortish and sliding down leg , Delport gets back but is not able to connect with it 7.5 Abbott to Delport , no run , makes room to this back of a length delivery and knocks it into the off-side , by taking his bottom hand off the bat 7.4 Abbott to Delport , no run , gets forward and pushes this length delivery back to the bowler 7.3 Abbott to Delport , no run , Delport gives himself some room and looks to whack , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and rolls into the on-side Another free hit coming up as Abbott oversteps again ! 7.3 Abbott to Kallis , no ball , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Kallis punches it off the back foot behind point 7.2 Abbott to Kallis , 2 runs , very full and around off , Kallis gets forward and slices it towards deep backward point , it is fielded near the rope Free hit coming up ! 7.2 Abbott to Delport , no ball , 1 run , short of length and angling on the pads , Delport tucks it to square leg , Abbott has also overstepped ! 7.1 Abbott to Kallis , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Kallis bunts it with an open bat face towards third man Sean Abbott [ 1.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack Slight delay as there are some problems with the sightscreen. They are taking a long time to sort it out. The umpires are conversing. Meanwhile , the players are having a drink. Brett Lee is signing autographs near the fence. Kallis and Lyon seem to be in some sort of conversation as they sip drinks. OK , they have finally got the sightscreen moving and we are good to go . 6.6 Lyon to Delport , no run , floated around off , Delport drives it off the outside half of the bat towards cover 6.5 Lyon to Kallis , 1 run , full on off , Kallis leans forward and drives it to long-on 6.4 Lyon to Kallis , 2 runs , drifts it around leg , Kallis clips it to deep square leg for a quick brace 6.3 Lyon to Kallis , no run , flighted around off , Kallis gets forward and pushes it back to Lyon 6.2 Lyon to Delport , 1 run , full around off , Delport drives it softly to long-off 6.1 Lyon to Delport , 2 runs , moves inside the crease and cuts this widish delivery to deep backward point Nathan Lyon , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 5.6 Bollinger to Delport , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Delport punches it towards cover for a quick single 5.5 Bollinger to Delport , no run , stays inside the line and works it to the left of the bowler 5.4 Bollinger to Kallis , 1 run , stays on the back foot and works it to square leg , good fielding 5.3 Bollinger to Kallis , no run , good comeback from Bollinger ! It was a short of length ball from him this time , Kallis pokes at with no feet movement , the ball swings away and beats the outside edge 5.2 Bollinger to Kallis , SIX , shortish but does not bounce as much as Kallis expected , he takes his eyes off it and pulls , gets a top-edge and the ball just clears the backward square leg fence 5.1 Bollinger to Kallis , FOUR , streaky boundary for Kallis ! It was a fullish one from Bollinger just outside off , Kallis looks to drive , he gets a thick outside edge and the ball runs away to the third man fence Doug Bollinger [ 1.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack 4.6 Abbott to Delport , no run , short of length around off , Delport gets back inside the line and bunts it behind point 4.5 Abbott to Delport , FOUR , short on middle and leg , Delport does well to get back and pull it through the backward square leg fence , anything short and Delport is going to take full advantage of it 4.4 Abbott to Delport , no run , back of a length and outside off , Delport goes on the back foot and punches it with an open bat face behind point 4.3 Abbott to Delport , no run , fullish and shaping away , Delport gets forward and drives , is beaten comprehensively 4.2 Abbott to Delport , 2 runs , short of length and outside off , Delport cuts it to third man for a brace 4.1 Abbott to Delport , SIX , short and punished ! Delport swivels on the back foot and pulls it to the deep square leg fence for a maximum Sean Abbott , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 3.6 O'Keefe to Delport , 1 run , leans forward and turns it to mid-wicket for a quick single 3.5 O'Keefe to Kallis , 1 run , gets forward and taps it to mid-off , sets off for a quick single after an overthrow 3.4 O'Keefe to Kallis , SIX , good use of the feet by Kallis , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it inside out over the extra cover fence 3.3 O'Keefe to Delport , 1 run , gets down on one knee and paddle sweeps it to deep mid-wicket 3.2 O'Keefe to Kallis , 1 run , floated on off , Kallis gets forward and pushes at it , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat and rolls to short mid-wicket 3.1 O'Keefe to Delport , 1 run , flighted on middle and leg , Delport clips it to square leg Steve O'Keefe , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 2.6 B Lee to Kallis , FOUR , short and outside off , Kallis stands tall inside the crease and slaps it uppishly , the point fielder gives the ball a chase but ca n't reach it , the ball bounces just before the rope and clears it 2.5 B Lee to Kallis , no run , touch back of a length and outside off , Kallis swishes at it and is beaten neck and crop 2.4 B Lee to Kallis , no run , on a good length and shaping away , Kallis looks to drive it with laden feet , the ball just about beats the outside edge of his bat 2.3 B Lee to Kallis , no run , length ball around off , Kallis comes forward and taps it towards cover 2.2 B Lee to Kallis , FOUR , shortish and well outside off again , Kallis reaches out and cuts it tad uppishly , the ball flies just over the fielder at cover , who is a bit late in jumping and races away to the deep extra cover fence 2.1 B Lee to Kallis , no run , short of length and well outside off , Kallis looks to slap at it , misses and the ball goes through to the keeper , there was some good bounce on that delivery 1.6 Bollinger to Delport , 2 runs , length delivery around off , Delport gets forward and lofts , he is not got hold of that one , mistimes it to long-off 1.5 Bollinger to Delport , FOUR , short on the stumps , Delport has enough time to rock back and muscle the pull to the deep backward square leg fence 1.4 Bollinger to Delport , no run , touch fullish and coming back in on middle , Delport looks to turn it into the on-side , the ball goes off the inside half of the bat and rolls back to the bowler 1.3 Bollinger to Kallis , 1 run , length delivery angling across from the right-hander , Kallis steers it to third man 1.2 Bollinger to Kallis , no run , short of length and moving away from the batsman , Kallis stays on the back foot and pushes at it , beaten again 1.1 Bollinger to Kallis , no run , on a good length and a bit of shape on that one , Kallis pokes at it with laden feet and the ball beats the outside edge of his bat Bollinger from the other end. Two slips for him.. . Doug Bollinger , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 B Lee to Delport , no run , short of length and around off , Delport stays back and looks to whack it into the on-side , misses and the ball goes through to the keeper 0.5 B Lee to Kallis , 1 run , back of a length and in the channel outside off , Kallis reaches out and guides it towards deep backward point 0.4 B Lee to Kallis , FOUR , fuller length delivery outside off , Kallis presses on the front foot and creams the drive to deep extra cover fence , it was a nice juicy half volley from Lee and Kallis ' eyes lit up as soon as he saw that 0.3 B Lee to Delport , 1 run , fullish and just outside off , Delport gets forward and drives it towards mid-off 0.2 B Lee to Kallis , 1 run , straying onto the pads this time , Kallis leans forward and clips it to fine leg to get off the mark 0.1 B Lee to Kallis , no run , good length ball outside off to start off , Kallis leaves it alone Kallis and Delport are at the crease. Kallis is on strike. B Lee will open the attack Teams : Sydney Thunder ( Playing XI ) : Michael Hussey ( c ) , Jacques Kallis , Cameron Delport , Aiden Blizzard , Daniel Hughes , Ahilen Beadle , Jake Doran ( w ) , Nathan Hauritz , Josh Lalor , Chris Green , Chris Tremain Sydney Sixers ( Playing XI ) : Nic Maddinson ( c ) , Michael Lumb , Riki Wessels , Jordan Silk , Ed Cowan , Ryan Carters ( w ) , Sean Abbott , Steve O'Keefe , Nathan Lyon , Brett Lee , Doug Bollinger Sydney Sixers have won the toss and have opted to field Hello and welcome to match 32 , the last league game of the season before the play-offs. This will be Brett Lee 's farewell match at the SCG. It could well be Michael Hussey 's last game on Australian soil as well. The Sixers have made one change - Ed Cowan comes in place of Moises Henriques. Jake Doran will be keeping wickets for the Thunder today . Teams : Sydney Thunder ( From ) : Cameron Delport , Jacques Kallis , Michael Hussey ( c ) , Aiden Blizzard , Daniel Hughes , Chris Hartley ( w ) , Ahilen Beadle , Nathan Hauritz , Josh Lalor , Jake Doran , Chris Tremain , Chris Green , Scott Henry , Tim Ley Sydney Sixers ( From ) : Nic Maddinson , Michael Lumb , Riki Wessels , Moises Henriques ( c ) , Jordan Silk , Ryan Carters ( w ) , Sean Abbott , Steve O'Keefe , Nathan Lyon , Brett Lee , Doug Bollinger , Ed Cowan , Simon Keen Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
