Graphs So , once again , Zimbabwe have succumbed to spin and have gifted the hosts their first win of 2014. Will they be able to fight back in the next one ? The second ODI being played at Chittagong itself on Sunday , November 23 will start an hour earlier at 12 : 30 local time. Do join us then. For now , it 's goodbye from here ! Shakib Al Hasan : " Of course , I am happy. We lost quick wickets and it was important for me to stick around. Mushy and I did well to build a good partnership. I would love to contribute in every match for the team but that is not possible. I knew today was my day. We have n't played ODIs for a long time so some players were a bit rusty but hopefully , we will be able to do well in future. It is a big relief ( when asked about this being their first ODI win of 2014 ) . " Shakib Al Hasan is the Man of the Match for scoring 101 and picking up 4/41 . Mashrafe Mortaza : " Congratulations to Shakib and Mushy , they did excellently. We lost three wickets early but these two guys batted well. Mushy 's catch was spectacular. Even I am doing well with the ball now. Lots of matches are coming up and we are looking forward to them. " Elton Chigumbura : " Shakib and Mushfiqur did well with the bat for them. I think we started off well too but then we kept losing wickets regularly. The major difference between Bangladesh and us was that we could not build a partnership. It was a good decision to bowl first. It was a chaseable score but we were unsuccessful. Hopefully , we will do well next time. " Presentation time ! Shakib was the pick of the bowlers , scalping 4/41 in his 10 overs. He was ably supported by Mortaza , Sunny and Mahmudullah , who picked up two each. It was only a matter of time before Zimbabwe crumbled under pressure to hand Bangladesh their first win of this calendar year . What an incredible performance by the hosts ! They go 1-0 up in the five-match ODI series. It was a complete team performance. After being put in to bat , the hosts rode on Shakib 's 6th ODI ton , Mushfiqur 's solid 65 and Sabbir Rahman 's quick-fire cameo to go past 280. In reply , Zimbabwe got off to a flying start with both openers Raza and Masakadza hitting some wonderful shots. Shakib provided a double breakthrough in the 8th over to peg back the visitors. Mahmudullah then struck to remove Masakadza a few overs later. Brendan Taylor fought back with a fine fifty but was undone by Mortaza. Wickets kept falling at regular intervals and that took Zimbabwe further away from the game . 42.1 A Sunny to Chatara , out Bowled ! ! Bangladesh win their first ODI in 2014 in 14 matches ! Sunny gets his second ! Chatara is forced back in the crease on this arm-ball that skids in , it keeps low as well. The batsman looks to defend it off the back foot , misses and is castled. Chatara b A Sunny 10 ( 20 ) [ 4s-1 ] A Sunny to Chatara , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 41.6 Shakib to Kamungozi , FOUR , short and wide , punished again ! Kamungozi does well to use the depth of the crease and cracks it to the sweeper cover fence 41.5 Shakib to Kamungozi , FOUR , bowls this one short and outside off , Kamungozi makes room and punches it to the deep extra cover fence for his second consecutive boundary 41.4 Shakib to Kamungozi , FOUR , 'catch it ' is the call but the fielder is not able to reach it. It was a tossed up delivery from Shakib , Kamungozi comes on the front foot and lofts it to the long-off fence 41.3 Shakib to Kamungozi , no run , flighted around off , Kamungozi gets forward and looks to drive , gets a thick outside edge that flies wide of the silly point fielder on his left Two slips , a silly point , a leg slip and FSL in place 41.2 Shakib to Kamungozi , no run , goes on the back foot and slaps it straight to the man at short cover 41.1 Shakib to Kamungozi , no run , leans forward and turns it softly into the leg-side 40.6 A Sunny to Chatara , 2 runs , pushed slower through the air and just outside off , Chatara opens the face of the bat and runs it down towards deep backward point , good running between the wickets 40.5 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , full just outside off , Chatara taps it towards mid-off 40.4 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , full around off , Chatara blocks it off the front foot 40.3 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , gets forward and turns it to square leg , the keeper moves to his left and fields the ball 40.2 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , flighted on middle , Chatara leans on the front foot and pushes it to the right of the bowler , who moves across and fields it 40.1 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , right in the blockhole from Sunny , Chatara digs it into the on-side 39.6 Shakib to Kamungozi , no run , fullish on off , Kamungozi blocks it to the off-side A slip , gully , leg gully , silly point and a short leg in place now 39.5 Shakib to Kamungozi , no run , quicker delivery on off , Kamungozi drills the drive straight to covers Tafadzwa Kamungozi , right handed bat , comes to the crease Shakib becomes the 12th player in the history to score a hundred and take four or more wickets in the same ODI 39.4 Shakib to John Nyumbu , out Caught by Mahmudullah ! ! 4-fer for Shakib ! This was a flighted delivery around off , Nyumbu leans forward and drives it away from the body , gets a thickish outside edge which is snaffled up by Mahmudullah at first slip. John Nyumbu c Mahmudullah b Shakib 4 ( 9 ) Shakib to John Nyumbu , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 39.3 Shakib to John Nyumbu , no run , turn and bounce on this one ! Nyumbu was foxed by the turn as it goes past the outside edge off the bat 39.2 Shakib to Chatara , 1 run , short delivery outside off , Chatara goes back and chops it to cover-point 39.1 Shakib to Chatara , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Chatara comes forward and defends it 38.6 A Sunny to John Nyumbu , no run , flighted delivery on off , Nyumbu looks to drive , gets an inside edge to the on-side 38.5 A Sunny to Chatara , 3 runs , touch short and wide of off , Chatara opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 38.4 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , tossed up on off , Chatara blocks it off the front foot 38.3 A Sunny to John Nyumbu , 1 run , leans forward and pushes it to long-off 38.2 A Sunny to John Nyumbu , no run , comes forward and looks to block and beaten again 38.1 A Sunny to John Nyumbu , no run , that turned sharply there. This was a tossed up delivery on off which turns away , Nyumbu was completely squared up there 37.6 Shakib to Chatara , no run , tossed up on off , Chatara blocks it 37.5 Shakib to Chatara , FOUR , length delivery on off , Chatara smashes it over the mid-off fielder for a boundary 37.4 Shakib to Chatara , no run , tossed up delivery on off , Chatara comes forward and is beaten for turn 37.3 Shakib to Chatara , no run , looks to slog sweep across the line and misses as the ball turns away 37.2 Shakib to Chatara , no run , another huge shout for LBW , umpire unmoved. This was a skidder on the leg stump-line , Chatara misses the defense and is rapped on the pads , the ball was going down the leg-side 37.1 Shakib to John Nyumbu , 1 run , fullish on off , Nyumbu leans forward and drives it to long-off 36.6 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , flighted delivery on middle , Chatara leans forward and blocks it 36.5 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , another arm-ball which skids outside off , Chatara looks to cut , beats the outside edge , the ball goes through to the keeper 36.4 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , comes forward and pushes it to cover 36.3 A Sunny to Chatara , no run , a muted shout for LBW by Rahim , not given by the umpire. This was another arm-ball on the pads , Chatara comes forward and gets hit on the pads , the ball might have been sliding down leg there Tendai Chatara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 36.2 A Sunny to Panyangara , out Bowled ! ! Another one bites the dust. This was the arm-ball , which skids on after pitching , Panyangara comes forward , gets down on one knee and looks to sweep it across the line and is castled. The ball hits low on off-stump. Panyangara b A Sunny 7 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 ] A Sunny to Panyangara , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 36.1 A Sunny to Panyangara , no run , fullish on off , Panyangara goes back and defends it back to the bowler Arafat Sunny [ 6.0-1-16-0 ] is back into the attack FYI , batting powerplay is underway 35.6 Shakib to John Nyumbu , no run , comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side 35.5 Shakib to John Nyumbu , 2 runs , flighted delivery on leg , Nyumbu leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket for a brace John Nyumbu , right handed bat , comes to the crease A slip and a FSL in place. . Second time that Shakib has scored a 100 and taken 3 wickets in the same ODI 35.4 Shakib to Solomon Mire , out Bowled ! ! Third wicket for Shakib. This was a tossed up delivery on middle and off which turns away , Mire leans forward and looks to slog sweep across the line , misses it completely. The ball hits middle stump and Bangladesh are just 3 wickets away from winning their first ODI of 2014. Solomon Mire b Shakib 11 ( 18 ) [ 6s-1 ] Shakib to Solomon Mire , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 35.3 Shakib to Solomon Mire , no run , quicker delivery on middle , Mire leans forward and defends it back to the bowler 35.2 Shakib to Solomon Mire , no run , flatter on off , Mire comes forward and blocks it back to the bowler 35.1 Shakib to Solomon Mire , no run , leans forward and bunts it to point Shakib Al Hasan [ 6.0-0-21-2 ] is back into the attack 34.6 Mahmudullah to Solomon Mire , 1 run , leans forward and gets on one knee and slog sweeps it to deep square leg for a single 34.5 Mahmudullah to Panyangara , 1 run , short and sliding down , Panyangara goes back and pulls it to deep backward square leg 34.4 Mahmudullah to Panyangara , no run , a huge shout for LBW , not given by the umpire. This was a flighted delivery on middle and leg , Panyangara leans forward and looks to defend but misses , the ball hits him on the pads in line with leg-stump. The umpire thinks that was sliding down leg and is unmoved 34.3 Mahmudullah to Panyangara , FOUR , friendly full toss outside off , Panyangara comes forward and drives it to the deep extra cover fence where Rubel makes a mess of it and the ball goes past the boundary ropes 34.2 Mahmudullah to Solomon Mire , 1 run , goes back to this shortish delivery and cuts it to sweeper cover for another run 34.1 Mahmudullah to Panyangara , 1 run , tossed up delivery outside off , Panyangara gets down on one knee and top-edges the sweep to deep backward square leg for a single 33.6 Mortaza to Solomon Mire , no run , slower off-cutter outside off , Mire looks to run it down to third man and misses , the ball goes through to the keeper 33.5 Mortaza to Solomon Mire , SIX , hammered ! A back of a length delivery just outside off , Mire goes back and pulls it handsomely over the deep mid-wicket fielder for a maximum 33.4 Mortaza to Panyangara , 1 run , short delivery on middle , Panyangara goes back and mistimes the pull along the ground to deep backward square leg 33.3 Mortaza to Panyangara , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Panyangara goes back and cuts it straight to point 33.2 Mortaza to Panyangara , no run , good length delivery on off , Panyangara comes on the front foot and blocks it to the left of the bowler Tinashe Panyangara , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 33.1 Mortaza to Chigumbura , out Caught by S Rahman ! ! A slower delivery by Mortaza. He takes the pace off it and Chigumbura perishes to it ! The batsman comes on the front foot and looks to drive , mistimes the shot and ends up chipping it straight into the hands of Rahman at short cover. Chigumbura c S Rahman b Mortaza 15 ( 28 ) Mortaza to Chigumbura , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 32.6 Mahmudullah to Solomon Mire , no run , waits for it from inside the crease and punches it to the right of the bowler 32.5 Mahmudullah to Solomon Mire , no run , fullish around off , Mire gets forward and drives it into the off-side 32.4 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , 1 run , moves inside the crease and tucks it to deep mid-wicket 32.3 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , no run , gets forward and pushes it to the right of the bowler 32.2 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , no run , Chigumbura comes on the front foot and looks to drive , he was playing for the spin but that one went straight with the arm and through to the keeper , Chigumbura should consider himself lucky not to have edged that 32.1 Mahmudullah to Solomon Mire , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Mire punches it off the back foot to sweeper cover 31.6 Mortaza to Solomon Mire , 1 run , stays back , opens the bat face and guides it to deep backward point 31.5 Mortaza to Solomon Mire , no run , good length ball angled in on middle , Mire looks to work it across the line but the ball rolls behind point off the leading edge 31.4 Mortaza to Chigumbura , 1 run , gets forward and taps it to long-on 31.3 Mortaza to Chigumbura , no run , stays inside the crease , opens the face of the bat and cuts it late towards backward point , wants a single but stays put as the fielder gets the ball 31.2 Mortaza to Chigumbura , no run , almost dragged that back on ! It was a back of a length delivery outside off , Chigumbura looks to flay it into the off-side , gets a thick inside edge and the ball flies over the stumps towards the keeper. That was quite close ! 31.1 Mortaza to Chigumbura , no run , good length delivery angled in , Chigumbura knocks it towards point 30.6 Mahmudullah to Solomon Mire , no run , fullish on middle and off , Mire presses forward and drives it to the left of the bowler 30.5 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , 1 run , round the wicket now , Chigumbura stays back and guides it to point 30.4 Mahmudullah to Solomon Mire , 1 run , drifts it in , Mire gets inside the line and pushes at it with a straight bat to long-on 30.3 Mahmudullah to Solomon Mire , no run , stays inside the crease and punches it softly towards cover 30.2 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , 1 run , goes on the back foot and whips it towards long-on 30.1 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , no run , arm-ball by Mahmudullah , just beats the outside edge of Chigumbura 's bat as he comes on the front foot and pokes at it 29.6 Mortaza to Solomon Mire , no run , good length ball outside off , Mire gets forward and drives it straight to mid-off 29.5 Mortaza to Solomon Mire , no run , legnth delivery outside off , Mire comes on the front foot and push-drives it towards cover Solomon Mire , right handed bat , comes to the crease 29.4 Mortaza to Brendan Taylor , out Caught by Rahim ! ! Stunning catch from Mushfiqur Rahim to send the in-form batsman back ! It was a short of length delivery outside off , Taylor just stays inside the crease , opens the face of his bat and looks to dab it towards third man , the keeper dives full length to his right and snaffles it with one hand. Rahim is congratulated by his teammates. Zimbabwe have now lost half their side. Catch no.99 for Mushfiqur Rahim as a keeper ! Brendan Taylor c Rahim b Mortaza 54 ( 72 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Mortaza to Brendan Taylor , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 29.3 Mortaza to Chigumbura , 1 run , back of a length around off , Chigumbura stays back and punches it to long-on 29.2 Mortaza to Chigumbura , no run , good length ball shaping back in , Chigumbura jams it down the track 29.1 Mortaza to Chigumbura , no run , fullish on middle and off , Chigumbura pushes it to the left of the bowler Mashrafe Mortaza [ 3.0-1-23-0 ] is back into the attack 28.6 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 2 runs , gets inside the line and turns it to wide long-on for a brace 28.5 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , 1 run , works it to to long-on for a comfortable single 28.4 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , no run , turns it back in sharply , Chigumbura is forced inside the crease as he looks to tuck , gets a thick inside edge that rolls behind square , he almost dragged that back onto the stumps 28.3 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , no run , stays inside the crease and tucks it to mid-wicket 28.2 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , dropped at deep backward square leg by Arafat Sunny. Taylor gets down on one knee and top-edges the sweep behind square , the fielder dives to his left , gets his hands to the ball but is unable to hold on as he hits the ground 28.1 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , flatter on off , Taylor gets forward and turns it into the leg-side 27.6 S Rahman to Chigumbura , no run , stays inside the crease and punches it back to the bowler 27.5 S Rahman to Chigumbura , 2 runs , quicker and flatter , Chigumbura gets back and cuts it to deepish point 27.4 S Rahman to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , low full toss on middle and off , Taylor pushes it to long-on 27.3 S Rahman to Chigumbura , 1 run , pushes it to mid-off and sets off for a quick single , the fielder fires a direct hit at the striker 's end but Taylor was well in , the on-field umpire calls for the third umpire , who has an easy decision to make 27.2 S Rahman to Chigumbura , no run , drifts it on middle and leg , Chigumbura tucks it off the pads behind square , Brendan Taylor was almost halfway down the track but Chigumbura was just ball-watching and not looking at his partner , Brendan Taylor turns back and hurries into the crease as the throw comes in 27.1 S Rahman to Chigumbura , 2 runs , makes a bit of room and looks to cut , the ball takes the thickish outside edge and races towards third man Debutant Sabbir Rahman coming in to bowl for the first time in ODIs. He is having a long discussion with the captain here . Sabbir Rahman , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 26.6 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , full toss on middle and leg , Taylor leans in front foot and works it to short mid-wicket 26.5 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , drifts it down leg , Taylor bends down and sweeps it very fine to get to his 30th ODI fifty 26.4 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , bowls around the leg-stump line again , Taylor clips it behind square and finds the fielder again 26.3 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , continues to come round the wicket , flighted ball around leg , Taylor tucks it behind square 26.2 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to long-on 26.1 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , slides it down leg , Taylor paddles , gets a feather onto it and the ball runs past the keeper to short fine leg 25.6 Shakib to Chigumbura , no run , gets forward and gently drives it towards the bowler 25.5 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , touch short and widish , Taylor dabs it softly to point , scampers through for a quick single , the fielder there fires a wayward throw at the striker 's end. Shakib is not happy with him. That could have been close ! 25.4 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , no run , loopy delivery on middle , Taylor defends it off the front foot 25.3 Shakib to Chigumbura , 1 run , skips forward and turns it to mid-wicket 25.2 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , drifts it in on leg , Taylor leans forward and works it to long-on 25.1 Shakib to Chigumbura , 1 run , flighted on leg , Chigumbura shuffles across and works it to long-on Shakib Al Hasan [ 5.0-0-17-2 ] is back into the attack 24.6 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , 1 run , stays inside the crease and whips it to long-on to get off the mark 24.5 Mahmudullah to Chigumbura , no run , shortish and keeping low , Chigumbura stays back and punches it to the right of the bowler , who dives across and stops the ball Elton Chigumbura , right handed bat , comes to the crease 24.4 Mahmudullah to Chakabva , out Bowled ! ! Chakabva was outfoxed on the previous ball and survived , but is not so lucky on this delivery. This time the flighted ball turns into him as he looks to play across the line , misses and the ball goes on to crash into the middle stump. Chakabva b Mahmudullah 9 ( 17 ) Mahmudullah to Chakabva , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 24.3 Mahmudullah to Chakabva , no run , that was a beauty by Mahmudullah. This was going on with the arm , hurries onto the batsman , who is forced inside the crease and manages to keep it out 24.2 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , comes round the wicket and bowls this one on middle , Taylor lunges on one knee and sweeps it through backward square leg 24.1 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , shuffles across and tucks it off his pads towards short mid-wicket 23.6 A Sunny to Chakabva , no run , full on middle and off , Chakabva blocks solidly 23.5 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , the ball keeps a touch low this time , Taylor taps it to sweeper cover for a comfortable single 23.4 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , drifts it down leg , Taylor looks to tuck , misses and is rapped on the pads. Loud shout by the bowler for lbw but that was going down anyway 23.3 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it to mid-off 23.2 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , shortish and outside off , Taylor punches it towards point 23.1 A Sunny to Chakabva , 1 run , on the pads , Chakabva clips it to square leg for a brisk single 22.6 Mahmudullah to Chakabva , 1 run , gets forward on this full ball and works it to long-on 22.5 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , leg byes , 1 run , spins back in , Taylor lunges on the front foot and looks to turn it into the leg-side , misses and the ball goes off the pads behind square. Loud appeal for lbw by the bowler but it is turned down by the ump. The ball was probably sliding down leg 22.4 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , gets forward and works it in front of square 22.3 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , comes over the wicket now , the ball grips and turns sharply past leg , Taylor misses the glance 22.2 Mahmudullah to Chakabva , 1 run , full on off , Chakabva gets forward and chips it towards the bowler on one-bounce , bursts through his outstreched fingers and rolls to mid-on 22.1 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , continues from round the wicket and bowls this one on the pads , Taylor tucks it to deep mid-wicket 21.6 A Sunny to Chakabva , no run , touch shortish and outside off , Chakabva punches it off the back foot , the ball falls just short of the fielder at short cover , who dives forward 21.5 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , good use of the feet once again , smothers the spin and turns it to mid-wicket for a streaky single 21.4 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , full around off , Taylor defends it with an angled bat to the left of the bowler , who moves across and stops it 21.3 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans forward and pushes it towards cover-point 21.2 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , Taylor is looking to turn on the heat here ! Skips down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it towards long-on fence for a boundary 21.1 A Sunny to Chakabva , 1 run , flighted on off , Chakabva gets forward and drives it past the diving short cover fielder towards extra cover Arafat Sunny [ 4.0-1-8-0 ] is back into the attack 20.6 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , Taylor does not quite get hold of that one but the ball has managed to run down to the third man fence. He gets down on one knee and reverse sweeps it towards the rope 20.5 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , shuffles across and clips it off his pads into the leg-side 20.4 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , full on off , Taylor leans forward and works it to mid-on 20.3 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , drifts it on leg from round the wicket , Taylor tucks it behind square 20.2 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , full on off , Taylor leans forward , rolls his wrists and turns it towards short mid-wicket 20.1 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , flighted on middle , Taylor presses on the front foot and pushes it back to the bowler 19.6 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , touch fuller and outside off , Taylor drives it to sweeper cover 19.6 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , wide , straying down leg , another wayward delivery this , Taylor misses the glance 19.5 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Taylor mistimes it to the right of the bowler 19.4 Rubel to Chakabva , 1 run , shortish and outside off , Chakabva stays inside the crease and runs it down to third man 19.4 Rubel to Chakabva , wide , banged short and going way over the batsman , wided by the umpire 19.3 Rubel to Chakabva , no run , short of a good length on leg , Chakabva leans forward and turns it in front of square 19.2 Rubel to Chakabva , no run , length delivery outside off , Chakabva gets forward and punches it to short cover 19.1 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Taylor opens the face of the bat and dabs it to point , scampers through for a brisk single 18.6 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , drifts it on leg , Taylor lunges forward and nudges it to deep square leg 18.5 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans on the front foot and defends it into the leg-side 18.4 Mahmudullah to Chakabva , 1 run , stays inside the crease and tucks it through backward square leg 18.3 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , full on middle and off , Taylor shuffles across and clips it to deep square leg 18.2 Mahmudullah to Chakabva , 1 run , flighted around off , Chakabva drives it to sweeper cover 18.1 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flighted on leg , Taylor glances it to short fine leg 17.6 Rubel to Chakabva , no run , short of length on the hips , Chakabva tucks it in front of square 17.5 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , back of a length and shaping back in , Taylor just plays it down with soft hands towards point , sets off for a quick single 17.4 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , no run , good length delivery around off , Taylor defends it towards cover 17.3 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , no run , length delivery on off , Taylor gets forward and defends it with an angled bat 17.2 Rubel to Chakabva , 1 run , back of a length on leg , Chakabva works it to deep mid-wicket 17.1 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , length delivery shaping back in a touch , Taylor turns it to square leg for a quick single Rubel Hossain [ 1.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , drifts it on the pads , Taylor tucks it through backward square leg 16.5 Mahmudullah to Chakabva , 1 run , full on middle , Chakabva gets forward and works it past the diving fielder towards mid-wicket 16.4 Mahmudullah to Chakabva , no run , flighted on middle and off , Chakabva turns it into the leg-side Regis Chakabva , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now 16.3 Mahmudullah to H Masakadza , out Lbw ! ! Mahmudullah has struck in his first over. This was a slider on middle , Masakadza leans forward and looks to defend and misses , the ball hits him low on the pads in front of middle. A very good decision by the umpire. Masakadza 's aggressive innings comes to an end. Hawk-Eye shows that the ball would have gone on to hit the middle of middle stump. H Masakadza lbw b Mahmudullah 42 ( 48 ) [ 4s-7 ] Mahmudullah to H Masakadza , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! Round the wicket now 16.2 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , turns this flatter delivery on the pads to sqaure leg for a single 16.1 Mahmudullah to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans forward and turns it to mid-wicket Mahmudullah , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 15.6 Mortaza to H Masakadza , FOUR , short of length delivery outside off , Masakadza goes back and drills it down the ground for a magnificent boundary 15.5 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , length delivery on the stumps , Masakadza drives it back to the bowler 15.4 Mortaza to H Masakadza , 2 runs , back of a length delivery just outside off , Masakadza goes back and punches it off the back foot to deep extra cover for a brace 15.3 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Masakadza comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-on 15.2 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Masakadza goes back and defends it to point 15.1 Mortaza to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , length delivery on the pads , Taylor tucks it to square leg for a single Mashrafe Mortaza [ 2.0-1-16-0 ] is back into the attack 14.6 Rubel to H Masakadza , no run , short delivery outside off , Masakadza slaps it straight to cover 14.5 Rubel to H Masakadza , no run , good length delivery coming in a touch , Masakadza blocks it to the off-side 14.4 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , 5 runs , good length delivery around off , Taylor leans forward and pushes it with soft hands to cover-point and sets off for a single , the fielder has a shy at the bowler 's end and the ball deflects off Taylor 's bat and goes past the mid-on fielder to reach the boundary 14.3 Rubel to Brendan Taylor , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Taylor comes on the front foot and blocks it to point 14.2 Rubel to H Masakadza , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Masakadza goes back and punches it to sweeper cover for a single 14.1 Rubel to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Masakadza blocks it to mid-on Rubel Hossain , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 13.6 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , no run , goes back and blocks a flatter delivery back to the bowler 13.5 Shakib to H Masakadza , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , Masakadza eases it to long-off 13.4 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , comes on the front foot and drives it along the ground to long-off 13.3 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , no run , lunges forward and defends it to the off-side 13.2 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans forward and turns it to mid-wicket 13.1 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans forward and defends it to the off-side 12.6 Mominul to H Masakadza , no run, 12.5 Mominul to H Masakadza , 2 runs , leans forward and gets an outside edge past the slip fielder for a brace 12.4 Mominul to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery on middle , Taylor tucks it to mid-wicket 12.3 Mominul to Brendan Taylor , SIX , full toss on the stumps , Taylor gets down on one knee and sweeps it handsomely over the deep mid-wicket fielder for a maximum 12.2 Mominul to H Masakadza , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Masakadza drives it back to the bowler , who fumbles , the ball rolls to mid-on and the batsmen steal a brisk single 12.1 Mominul to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flatter delivery on the off , Taylor comes forward and drives it to sweeper cover Mominul Haque , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 11.6 Shakib to H Masakadza , FOUR , a bit short and wide of off , Masakadza camps on the back foot and cuts it nicely past the backward point fielder for a boundary 11.5 Shakib to H Masakadza , no run , goes back to this arm-ball and misses the whip 11.4 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , gets forward and drives it to the left of the long-off fielder for a single 11.3 Shakib to H Masakadza , 1 run , leans forward and flicks it to to mid-on 11.2 Shakib to H Masakadza , no run , flighted delivery turning away outside off , Masakadza looks to go over cover and misses 11.1 Shakib to H Masakadza , no run , goes back and defends it to the off-side 10.6 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans forward and blocks it to the off-side 10.5 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , a ball which grips and turns form the off-stump line , Taylor comes forward and is comfortably beaten 10.4 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , skips down the track and defends it back to the bowler 10.3 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , gets forward and dead bats it to the off-side 10.2 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , comes on the front foot and works it to mid-wicket 10.1 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans forward and blocks it to cover 9.6 Shakib to H Masakadza , no run, 9.5 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , flighted delivery outside off , Taylor pushes it to covers 9.4 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , no run, 9.3 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , no run , huge appeal for an LBW not given by the umpire. This was an arm-ball on middle , Taylor leans forward and looks to defend but misses , the ball hits him just outside off , hence he survives 9.2 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , FOUR , comes on the front foot , gets down on one knee and sweeps this full ball to the deep backward square leg fence , where Rubel overruns and misses the ball completely 9.1 Shakib to Brendan Taylor , no run , flighted delivery turning away outside off , Taylor leaves it alone 8.6 A Sunny to H Masakadza , no run , leans forward and defends it to cover 8.5 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , 1 run , comes on the front foot to this full ball and drives it to long-off 8.4 A Sunny to Brendan Taylor , no run , leans forward and blocks it back to the bowler 8.3 A Sunny to H Masakadza , leg byes , 1 run , misses the glance , the ball rolls off the pads to backward square leg 8.2 A Sunny to H Masakadza , FOUR , touch shorter and Masakadza was quick to pick up , he goes back and cuts it to the deep backward point fence for a boundary 8.1 A Sunny to H Masakadza , no run , goes deep in the crease and defends it to covers 7.6 Shakib to H Masakadza , 1 run , leans forward and drives it to long-off Brendan Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.5 Shakib to Sibanda , out Caught by Rubel ! ! Two wickets in the over for Shakib. This was tossed up on middle and off , Sibanda leans forward , gets down on one knee and top-edges the sweep to Rubel at short fine leg , who snaffles an easy take running to his left. Shakib on fire here ! Sibanda c Rubel b Shakib 0 ( 2 ) Shakib to Sibanda , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 7.4 Shakib to Sibanda , no run , gets forward and drives it back to the bowler Vusi Sibanda , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.3 Shakib to S Raza , out Stumped ! ! Shakib gets the first breakthrough. This was a tossed up delivery on off and turning away , Raza skips down the track and looks to go for a big one , misses it completely , Rahim is quick to collect the ball and whips the bails with ease. S Raza st Rahim b Shakib 15 ( 22 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shakib to S Raza , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 7.2 Shakib to S Raza , no run , fullish on middle , Raza comes on the front foot and blocks it to covers 7.1 Shakib to H Masakadza , 1 run , leans forward and drives it to long-off 6.6 A Sunny to S Raza , no run , goes back to this flighted delivery around off and blocks it to point 6.5 A Sunny to S Raza , no run , gets forward and defends it to covers 6.4 A Sunny to S Raza , no run , leans forward and blocks it back to the bowler 6.3 A Sunny to S Raza , no run , arm-ball which keeps a bit low , Raza goes on the back foot and defends it off the toe-end off the bat to covers 6.2 A Sunny to S Raza , no run , skips down the track and drives it to mid-on 6.1 A Sunny to H Masakadza , 1 run , flatter and shorter on off , Masakadza goes back and punches it to long-off 5.6 Shakib to S Raza , no run , goes inside the crease and cuts it to backward point 5.5 Shakib to S Raza , no run , arm-ball on off , Raza leans forward and looks to defend but misses , the ball hits him outside the line of off-stump 5.4 Shakib to S Raza , no run , gets back and dabs it to point 5.3 Shakib to H Masakadza , 1 run , gets forward and drives it along the ground to long-off 5.2 Shakib to H Masakadza , no run , loopy delivery just outside off and turning away , Masakadza comes forward to defend and misses 5.1 Shakib to S Raza , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Raza leans forward and drives it to long-off Shakib Al Hasan , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 4.6 A Sunny to S Raza , 1 run , to long off , leans forward and drives it to long-off for another single 4.5 A Sunny to S Raza , no run , gets forward and tucks it to short fine leg 4.4 A Sunny to H Masakadza , 1 run , comes forward and drives it to long-off 4.3 A Sunny to H Masakadza , no run , leans forward and blocks it down the track 4.2 A Sunny to H Masakadza , no run , comes forward and looks to turn it into the on-side , gets a thick leading edge to point 4.1 A Sunny to H Masakadza , no run , loud shout for LBW not given. This was an arm-ball from Sunny , Masakadza leans forward in defense and misses , the ball hit him low on the pads , but that was sliding down leg , hence the umpire was unmoved Arafat Sunny , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 3.6 A Hossain to H Masakadza , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Masakadza runs it down to third man for a single 3.5 A Hossain to H Masakadza , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Masakadza goes back and cuts it beautifully past the backward point fielder for another boundary 3.4 A Hossain to H Masakadza , no run , good length delivery outside off , Masakadza lifts his bat and lets it go 3.3 A Hossain to H Masakadza , leg byes , FOUR , good length delivery down the leg-side , Masakadza misses the glance and the ball rolls off his pads to the fine leg fence 3.2 A Hossain to H Masakadza , no run , huge shout for LBW , not given by the umpire. This was a good length delivery coming into the right-hander , Masakadza leans forward and looks to defend but misses , the ball hits him just outside the off-stump on the pads , hence the umpire says no 3.1 A Hossain to S Raza , 3 runs , short of length delivery outside off , Raza goes inside the crease and punches it off the back foot through the covers region runs hard to comeback for three 2.6 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , length delivery on off , Masakadza defends it off the front foot. 16 runs came off that over ! 2.5 Mortaza to H Masakadza , FOUR , slower delivery this time by Mortaza , Masakadza does well to smash it to the long-off fence for yet another boundary 2.4 Mortaza to H Masakadza , FOUR , short of length delivery outside off , Masakadza gets forward and hammers it to the deep extra cover fence 2.3 Mortaza to H Masakadza , FOUR , short of length delivery wide outside off , Masakadza cuts it powerfully off the back foot to the deep backward point fence to get off the mark 2.3 Mortaza to H Masakadza , wide , straying down the leg-side , wide called 2.2 Mortaza to S Raza , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Raza was stuck in the crease and opens the face of the bat , guides the ball to square third man for a single 2.1 Mortaza to S Raza , 2 runs , good length delivery straying on the pas , Raza clips it off his pads to deep backward square leg , where Mominul misfields and the batsmen complete an easy two 1.6 A Hossain to S Raza , 1 run , short of length around off , Raza punches it to mid-off for a quick single. After a quiet first over , Zimbabwe have scored 13 off this one 1.5 A Hossain to S Raza , FOUR , banged shortish on middle , Raza swivels back in the crease and mistimes the pull through the backward square leg fence 1.4 A Hossain to S Raza , 2 runs , short and wide , Raza stands tall in the crease and looks to ramp , gets a thick top-edge and the ball falls just short of the fielder at third man 1.3 A Hossain to S Raza , no run , length delivery nipping back in a touch , Raza goes on the back foot and punches it towards cover 1.2 A Hossain to S Raza , no run , short of length ball around off , Raza looks to cut , but he is cramped for room and ends up chopping back to the bowler 1.1 A Hossain to S Raza , no run , tucks it off his hips into the leg-side 1.1 A Hossain to S Raza , wide , short and splaying down leg again , Raza rocks back and looks to pull but misses it , the keeper moves across and stops the ball from going any further 1.1 A Hossain to S Raza , 5 wides , strays it down the leg-side , Raza looks to glance and then lets it go through as that was well down , the keeper dives to his left but is unable to collect it as the ball runs away to the fine leg fence Al-Amin will start from the other end. Two slips to assist him as well Al-Amin Hossain , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , back of a length and outside off , Masakadza stays back and punches it towards mid-off , where the fielder dives and stops the ball. A maiden to start the innings 0.5 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , good length ball angled in , Masakadza punches it off the back foot back to the bowler 0.4 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , fantastic delivery from Mortaza ! It was a good length delivery that draws Masakadza on the front foot , it shapes away late and misses the outside edge of Masakadza 's bat as he looks to poke 0.3 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , fullish and in the channel outside off , left alone 0.2 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , full around off , Masakadza gets forward and mistimes the drive towards extra cover 0.1 Mortaza to H Masakadza , no run , on the pads , Masakadza leans forward a touch and turns it towards short mid-wicket H Masakadza and S Raza are at the crease. H Masakadza is on strike. Mortaza will open the attack Openers Raza and Hamilton Masakadza have walked out to the middle. Mortaza will start off for Bangladesh. Two slips in place for him.. . Bangladesh have fought back really well to post a strong total on the board. Zimbabwean bowlers were all over the Bangladeshi batsmen in the first 20 overs. The hosts were struggling at 70/4 when Shakib and Rahim stitched together a record 138-run 5th wicket partnership to rescue them. Shakib went on to register his 6th ODI hundred , while Rahim rode his luck and registered yet another fifty. Zimbabwe 's fielding was very poor as they dropped few easy catches. Their bowling was also not up to the mark as they bowled 17 wides. Chatara bowled well and got 2 wickets for 48 from his 10. Debutant Sabbir Rahman scored a quick-fire 44 off just 25 balls to get Bangladesh past the 280 mark. Can Taylor and Co. chase this target down ? Join us in a short while to find out.. . This is Bangladesh 's highest total ever in Chittagong ! 49.6 Panyangara to S Rahman , SIX , brilliant end to the innings ! Insane hitting by Rahman to get Bangladesh past 280 ! It was a full delivery around off , Rahman hammers it over the extra cover fence this time , 18 runs came off the last over 49.5 Panyangara to S Rahman , SIX , fantastic hitting by the debutant ! It was a slower delivery on middle , Rahman does well to heave it over the mid-wicket fence for his second maximum 49.4 Panyangara to S Rahman , FOUR , nicely done by Rahman ! It was a full toss on middle and off , Rahman gets across , bends down and scoops it gently past the jumping short fine leg fielder towards the fence 49.3 Panyangara to A Sunny , 1 run , full toss around off , Sunny mistimes it towards cover to get S Rahman on strike Arafat Sunny , left handed bat , comes to the crease 49.2 Panyangara to Mortaza , out Bowled ! ! Another yorker and this time Panyangara is rewarded with a wicket ! It is his third scalp today ! Mortaza misreads this yorker length ball , right in the blockhole as he makes room and looks to dab it down to the third man , misses and the ball goes onto crash into the off and middle stump. Mortaza b Panyangara 1 ( 6 ) Panyangara to Mortaza , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 49.1 Panyangara to S Rahman , 1 run , yorker length , right in the blockhole , Rahman digs it out to cover point 48.6 Chatara to Mortaza , no run , slower on middle and leg , Mortaza swings wildly and misses 48.5 Chatara to S Rahman , leg byes , 1 run , slower delivery from Chatara again , Rahman gets it off the pads behind square 48.4 Chatara to S Rahman , SIX , comes down the track to this length delivery on middle and hammers it between mid-wicket and mid-on for a maximum 48.3 Chatara to Mortaza , 1 run , slower delivery on off , Mortaza goes back and drags the pull to deep square leg 48.2 Chatara to Mortaza , no run , banged in short aiming at the batsman 's head , Mortaza backs away and looks to swat it but misses 48.1 Chatara to S Rahman , 1 run , shortish on middle and leg , Rahman rocks back and pulls it to deep square leg 48.1 Chatara to S Rahman , 3 wides , that was a full toss sliding down leg , Rahman misses on that one as he swipes at it , the ball runs to fine leg 47.6 Panyangara to Mortaza , no run , slower delivery on off , Mortaza gets back in the crease and looks to whip it across the line , gets an inside edge that rolls towards the keeper 47.5 Panyangara to Mortaza , no run , slower delivery outside off , Mortaza looks to defend it off the back foot and is beaten 47.4 Panyangara to S Rahman , 1 run , goes on the back foot and hoicks it across the line , the ball does not come off the middle of the bat , falls just short of Raza at deep square leg , who tumbles forward and stops it 47.3 Panyangara to S Rahman , FOUR , fullish and just outside off , Rahman gets forward and drives it uppishly to the deep extra cover fence , fantastic shot Mashrafe Mortaza , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.2 Panyangara to Rahim , out Caught by Solomon Mire ! ! Rahim 's luck finally runs out ! But he has done well to take Bangladesh to a strong total ! Misreads this slower delivery around off from Panyangara and plays the lofted drive , mistimes it straight to long-off. The debutant Mire does well to hang onto a good low take. Rahim c Solomon Mire b Panyangara 65 ( 72 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] Panyangara to Rahim , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.1 Panyangara to Rahim , FOUR , beautifully played by Rahim ! Short and wide by Panyangara , Rahim dances down the wicket and upper cuts it to the third man fence 46.6 Chatara to S Rahman , no run , slower length delivery outside off , Rahman swings wildly across the line and misses 46.5 Chatara to S Rahman , no run , comes down the track and looks to slog , completely misses 46.4 Chatara to S Rahman , no run , slower on middle , Rahman looks to slog , misses and the ball hits him in the mid-riff 46.3 Chatara to Rahim , 1 run , dropped by Taylor at point ! It was a short and wide delivery from Chatara , Rahim rocks on the back foot and cuts it hard , the ball was travelling and Taylor shells an easy take , he had got his hands to it but closes them early and the ball bursts through his fingers 46.2 Chatara to S Rahman , 1 run , slower delivery outside off , Rahman opens the face of the bat and steers it to short third man 46.1 Chatara to Rahim , 1 run , yorker length on middle , Rahim leans forward and turns it to mid-wicket. Rahim becomes the fourth Bangladeshi player to bring up 3000 ODI runs Tendai Chatara [ 8.0-1-34-2 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Panyangara to Rahim , 1 run , length ball outside off , Rahim reaches out and slaps it towards long-off 45.6 Panyangara to Rahim , wide , well outside off , Rahim looks to reach out and misses , the ball was too far. 14th wide of the innings 45.5 Panyangara to S Rahman , 1 run , full on off , Rahman gets forward and drives it to long-off 45.4 Panyangara to S Rahman , FOUR , attempted yorker goes awry , bowls a half volley on middle , Rahman gets his front leg out of the way and drills it straight down the ground to the long-off fence 45.3 Panyangara to S Rahman , no run , fullish and straight , Rahman gets forward and pushes it back to the bowler 45.2 Panyangara to S Rahman , 2 runs , full toss around off , Rahman mistimes the lofted drive past mid-off for a brace 45.1 Panyangara to Rahim , 1 run , shortish on off , Rahim rocks back and pulls it to deep square leg Tinashe Panyangara [ 7.0-1-29-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Chigumbura to S Rahman , no run , slower delivery outside off , Rahman guides it to short third man 44.5 Chigumbura to S Rahman , 2 runs , fuller length delivery wide outside off , Rahman leans forward gets down on one knee and drives it uppishly over covers for a brace 44.4 Chigumbura to S Rahman , 2 runs , whips a straighter ball to deep mid-wicket 44.3 Chigumbura to S Rahman , 2 runs , pulls a short of a length delivery to deep square leg 44.2 Chigumbura to S Rahman , no run , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Rahman blocks it 44.2 Chigumbura to S Rahman , wide , sliding down the leg-side again , wide called by the ump 44.1 Chigumbura to Rahim , 1 run , short of length delivery on leg , Rahim pulls it to backward square leg for a single Free-hit coming up ! 44.1 Chigumbura to Rahim , no ball , fuller length delivery on off , Rahim slogs it across the line and hits it straight to the deep mid-wicket fielder where Mire takes a comfortable catch , but the umpire has asked Rahim to stay back to check for a no-ball and Chigumbura has overstepped , hence Rahim survives . Rahim has been caught in the deep but the bowler has overstepped 43.6 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , gets forward and works it to short mid-wicket for a single 43.5 Kamungozi to S Rahman , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it to deep backward square leg to get off the mark 43.4 Kamungozi to S Rahman , no run , flighted delivery which turns away , Rahman comes forward and misses the defense 43.3 Kamungozi to S Rahman , no run , stays back and chops it to point Sabbir Rahman , right handed bat , comes to the crease 43.2 Kamungozi to Shakib , out Caught by Panyangara ! ! Shakib is gone ! This was fullish on off , Shakib skips down the track and looks to go big over long-on , ends up hitting straight to Panyangara who does n't have to move much and takes a comfortable catch. A wonderful innings from Shakib comes to an end. Shakib c Panyangara b Kamungozi 101 ( 99 ) [ 4s-10 ] Kamungozi to Shakib , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Shakib has been caught on the boundary 43.1 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , comes forward and dabs it to backward point 42.6 Chigumbura to Shakib , no run , length delivery outside off , Shakib skips down the track and goes for a huge heave across the line and misses 42.5 Chigumbura to Shakib , no run , fullish outside off , Shakib backs away and crashes hard to mid-off , ca n't get past the fielder 42.4 Chigumbura to Rahim , 1 run , short delivery on middle , Rahim pulls it to deep mid-wicket 42.3 Chigumbura to Shakib , 1 run , fuller length delivery on the middle , Shakib shuffles across and ramps it to short fine leg for a single 42.2 Chigumbura to Rahim , 1 run , skips down the track and slaps it to long-off for a single 42.1 Chigumbura to Shakib , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Shakib comes forward , opens the face of the bat and guides it to deep backward point to get to his 6th ODI hundred. He took off his helmet and addresses the dressing room in joy. A fantastic hundred from a fantastic cricketer Shakib on 99. . 41.6 Kamungozi to Rahim , 2 runs , goes inside out over extra cover to his full ball and runs back for a brace 41.5 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , comes on the front foot and eases it to long-on 41.4 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , skips down the track and drives it to long-on to get to his 17th ODI fifty 41.3 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , comes down the track and drives it to long-on 41.2 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , skips down the track and eases it to the left of the bowler to long-off 41.1 Kamungozi to Rahim , no run , fuller and wide outside off , Rahim drives it to covers Tafadzwa Kamungozi [ 6.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Chigumbura to Shakib , no run , short and wide outside off , Shakib goes back and misses the cut , the ball goes through to the keeper 40.6 Chigumbura to Shakib , wide , sliding down the leg-side , Shakib misses the glance 40.5 Chigumbura to Shakib , no run , fullish on off , Shakib creams the drive on the front foot to covers , who dives to his right and stops it 40.4 Chigumbura to Shakib , no run , fuller length delivery wide outside off , Shakib opens the face of the bat and guides it to short third man 40.3 Chigumbura to Rahim , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Rahim drives it to long-on 40.2 Chigumbura to Shakib , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Shakib goes back and cuts it to backward point for a single Shakib on 96.. One hit away from yet another hundred 40.1 Chigumbura to Rahim , 1 run , low full toss on middle , Rahim tucks it to deep square leg Elton Chigumbura [ 5.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack Bangladesh have scored 48/0 in the batting powerplay 39.6 Chatara to Rahim , 1 run , good length delivery on the stumps , Rahim shuffles across and tucks it to deep square leg 39.5 Chatara to Shakib , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle , Shakib pulls it to deep backward square leg 39.4 Chatara to Shakib , FOUR , short and deserved the treatment. This was a short delivery very wide outside off , Shakib chases at it and slaps the cut in front of square for yet another boundary 39.3 Chatara to Shakib , no run, 39.2 Chatara to Rahim , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Rahim comes on the front foot opens the face of the bat and guides it to point for a quick single 39.1 Chatara to Shakib , 1 run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Shakib waits for it and taps it to cover for a single 38.6 Panyangara to Shakib , 1 run , short of length delivery on off , Shakib pulls it straight to the man at deep square leg Sibanda hurt his knee during the process of saving the boundary , some magic spray from the physio helps him to get up and running 38.5 Panyangara to Shakib , FOUR , back of a length delivery outside off , Shakib goes back and opens the face of the bat and guides it to the deep backward point fence , Sibanda chases from point and tumbles forward to save but ca n't stop the ball from reaching the boundary 38.4 Panyangara to Shakib , no run, 38.3 Panyangara to Shakib , FOUR , short delivery wide outside off , Shakib skips down and upper cuts it over the keeper 's head for another boundary. This is now Bangladesh 's highest 5th wicket partnership 38.2 Panyangara to Rahim , 1 run , fuller length delivery on off , Rahim comes forward and whips it to mid-on 38.2 Panyangara to Rahim , wide , slower delivery sliding down the leg-side , wided by the ump 38.1 Panyangara to Shakib , 1 run , short delivery on middle and off , Shakib pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a run Tinashe Panyangara [ 6.0-1-17-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Chatara to Rahim , no run , good length delivery on middle , Rahim guides it to point 37.6 Chatara to Rahim , wide , sliding down the leg-side , wide called 37.5 Chatara to Shakib , 1 run , short delivery which hurries onto Shakib , he mistimes the pull which goes in the air and falls safely to the left of the mid-wicket fielder 37.4 Chatara to Rahim , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Rahim leans forward and flicks it to deep mid-wicket 37.3 Chatara to Shakib , 1 run , slower bouncer on the leg -stump line , Shakib pulls it along the ground to deep backward square leg 37.2 Chatara to Rahim , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Rahim opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 37.1 Chatara to Shakib , 1 run , short delivery on middle and off , Shakib goes back and pulls it to deep square leg for a single Tendai Chatara [ 6.0-1-20-2 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , comes down the track and drives this flighted delivery to long-off 36.5 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , to long on , fuller delivery on the stumps , Rahim drills it long-on 36.4 Kamungozi to Rahim , SIX , full and on middle , Rahim leans forward and slog sweeps it over the deep mid-wicket fence for another maximum. It also brings up the 100-run stand between these two 36.4 Kamungozi to Rahim , no ball , short and just wide outside off , Rahim cuts it to bakcward point , Kamungozi flicked the stumps with his boot when he bowled that ball , hence the umpire signalled it as a no-ball 36.3 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , leans forward and drives it to long off 36.2 Kamungozi to Shakib , FOUR , full and on middle , Shakib comes forward and flicks it uppishly past the diving mid-wicket fielder for another boundary 36.1 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , shorter delivery outside off , Rahim goes back and punches it to wide long-off 35.6 Panyangara to Shakib , FOUR , good length delivery down the leg-side , Shakib comes down the track and glances it very fine to the fine leg fence for a boundary Round the wicket now 35.5 Panyangara to Rahim , 1 run , length delivery on the pads , Rahim clips it off the front foot to deep square leg 35.4 Panyangara to Rahim , no run , good length delivery around off , Rahim blocks it to mid-on 35.3 Panyangara to Rahim , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off , Rahim opens the face of the bat and guides it to third man 35.2 Panyangara to Rahim , no run , short and wide outside off , Rahim looks to play the cut shot without moving his feet and is beaten 35.1 Panyangara to Rahim , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Mushfiqur goes back and punches it point Tinashe Panyangara [ 5.0-1-10-1 ] is back into the attack Time for Batting Powerplay ! 34.6 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , stays inside the line to this one and pushes it softly towards cover point for a quick single 34.5 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , skips forward , makes room and drives it a touch uppishly to long-off 34.4 Kamungozi to Shakib , no run , gets forward and turns it to short mid-wicket 34.3 Kamungozi to Shakib , no run , looks to give the charge and smash it into the off-side , checks his shot at the last instant and jams it back to the bowler 34.2 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , full on off , Rahim gets forward and drives it inside out to long-off 34.1 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , flatter on middle and off , Shakib punches it to long-off 33.6 S Raza to Rahim , SIX , Rahim gets into the action this time , he is quick to get down on one knee and slog-sweeps this full ball between mid-wicket and mid-on for a maximum 33.5 S Raza to Shakib , 1 run , short this time and Shakib stays back and pulls it to deep square leg 33.4 S Raza to Shakib , FOUR , full toss and put away by Shakib , he gets forward and easily lofts it to the long-on fence 33.3 S Raza to Shakib , no run , arm-ball right in the blockhole , looks to turn it , mistimes it back to the bowler 33.2 S Raza to Rahim , 1 run , uses his feet once again and turns it to square leg 33.1 S Raza to Shakib , 1 run , skips forward , reaches out and drives it to long-off 32.6 Kamungozi to Rahim , no run , drifting on the pads , Rahim tucks it to short mid-wicket 32.5 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , skips down the track to his full ball on middle and drives it to long-off 32.4 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , widish one , Rahim stays back , opens the face of his bat and guides it to backward point 32.3 Kamungozi to Rahim , no run , gets down on one knee and reverse sweeps , misses and the ball goes through to the keeper 32.2 Kamungozi to Rahim , no run , flatter around off , Rahim gets forward and punches it to mid-off , Raza runs across , dives and makes a good stop 32.1 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , flighted around off , Shakib drives it softly towards long-off Drinks are on the field now 31.6 S Raza to Rahim , no run , full around off , Rahim presses forward and defends it into the off-side 31.5 S Raza to Shakib , 1 run , full on middle and off , Shakib leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket 31.4 S Raza to Shakib , 2 runs , employs the paddle yet again , this time hits it a touch finer but the fine leg fielder moves across a touch and easily picks up the ball before it touches the rope 31.3 S Raza to Shakib , 2 runs , shuffles across and paddles it to fine leg , the fielder chases and stops the ball near the rope 31.2 S Raza to Shakib , no run , shortish on middle , Shakib gets inside the line and defends 31.1 S Raza to Rahim , 1 run , drifts it on leg , Rahim gently tucks it to square leg Sikandar Raza , right-arm off-break , comes into the attack 30.6 Kamungozi to Shakib , 2 runs , skips down the track , reaches out and drives it to long-off for a brace 30.5 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , drifts it on middle and leg , Rahim gets forward and clips it to deep square leg 30.4 Kamungozi to Rahim , no run , stays inside the crease as the ball slides on leg and tucks it to square leg 30.3 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , widish ball , Shakib punches it to long-off for a comfortable single to get to his 27th ODI fifty , it is also his 7th against Zimbabwe 30.2 Kamungozi to Shakib , no run , drifts it on leg , Shakib leans forward and tucks it to short mid-wicket 30.1 Kamungozi to Shakib , no run , flighted on off , Shakib gently defends it back 29.6 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , gets forward and works it to long-on to get to 49 29.5 John Nyumbu to Shakib , FOUR , excellent shot ! Lovely piece of timing from Shakib. He comes on the front foot to this full ball and drills it hard to the long-off fence , the fielder there dived to his left , got a hand to it but is unsuccessful in stopping the ball 29.4 John Nyumbu to Rahim , 1 run , tucks it off the pads to square leg 29.4 John Nyumbu to Rahim , wide , sliding down leg , Rahim misses it 29.3 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , gets forward and pushes it to mid-on 29.2 John Nyumbu to Rahim , 1 run , dropped by Chigumbura at cover. It was a full delivery outside off , Rahim gets forward and mistimes the lofted drive , does not get the elevation as the ball flies to cover , Chigumbura jumps , gets his fingers to it but is not able to hold on , the ball then rolls to extra cover 29.1 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , short and wide , Shakib backs away and cuts it to deep extra cover 28.6 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , full on middle and off , Shakib gets forward and drives it to long-on 28.5 Kamungozi to Shakib , no run , stays inside the crease and looks to cut , the ball keeps a touch low , he misses and it goes through to the keeper , who appeals loudly but the umpire is not interested 28.4 Kamungozi to Shakib , no run , watches Shakib come down the track and drags the length back , Shakib pushes it into the off-side 28.3 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , comes down the track to this full ball that drifts in a touch and drives it uppishly between extra cover and mid-off 28.2 Kamungozi to Rahim , no run , leans forward and nudges it in front of square 28.1 Kamungozi to Rahim , no run , full on middle and off , Rahim blocks it down the track 27.6 John Nyumbu to Rahim , 1 run , shortish and width on offer , Rahim makes room and cracks it to deep backward point 27.5 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , presses on the front foot and turns it through backward square leg 27.4 John Nyumbu to Shakib , no run , gets solidly behind this one and pushes it into the off-side 27.3 John Nyumbu to Shakib , no run , full around off , Shakib skips forward and defends , the ball takes the outside edge and rolls behind point 27.2 John Nyumbu to Rahim , 1 run , flighted on leg , Rahim nudges it to square leg 27.1 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , shortish and wide , Shakib reaches out and slaps it to deep extra cover 26.6 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , skips forward to this full ball on midle and punches it to long-off 26.5 Kamungozi to Rahim , 1 run , flatter on leg , Rahim clips it gently through backward square leg 26.4 Kamungozi to Rahim , no run , presses forward and turns it to the right of the bowler , who moves across and gets to the ball 26.3 Kamungozi to Shakib , 1 run , gets inside the crease and tucks it off the pads through backward square leg 26.2 Kamungozi to Shakib , no run , gets forward and pushes it into the off-side 26.1 Kamungozi to Shakib , no run , a shout for lbw straightaway ! It was a flighted ball just pitching outside leg , Shakib looks to turn it across the line , misses and is hit on the pads Tafadzwa Kamungozi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 25.6 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , lunges forward and works it to mid-on for a quick single 25.5 John Nyumbu to Rahim , 1 run , shortish on off , Rahim swivels on the back foot and pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 25.4 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , full on leg , Shakib gently tucks it through backward square leg 25.3 John Nyumbu to Rahim , 1 run , gets down on one knee this time and drags the sweep to deep mid-wicket , finds the fielder there 25.2 John Nyumbu to Rahim , FOUR , good use of the feet by Rahim ! He skips down the track and drives this inside out between extra cover and mid-off for a boundary 25.2 John Nyumbu to Rahim , wide , sliding down leg , Rahim misses the glance 25.1 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , clears his front leg and drives it towards mid-on , the fielder dives , gets his hands to the ball and slows it down as it rolls towards long-on 24.6 H Masakadza to Rahim , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rahim stays inside the crease and punches it towards cover 24.5 H Masakadza to Shakib , 1 run , straying on the pads , Shakib gets forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket 24.4 H Masakadza to Rahim , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Rahim gets back and cuts it to sweeper cover 24.3 H Masakadza to Shakib , 1 run , length delivery on middle , Shakib gets forward and works it to long-on The keeper is upto the stumps 24.2 H Masakadza to Shakib , FOUR , short on off , Shakib does well to pull it to the deep mid-wicket fence , poor delivery , deserved to be punished. The crowd has come alive suddenly 24.1 H Masakadza to Rahim , 1 run , back of a length on the hips , Rahim neatly tucks it to fine leg Hamilton Masakadza , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 23.6 John Nyumbu to Shakib , FOUR , beautiful shot ! Shakib has time to get back in the crease to this shortish ball , he cuts it hard to the deep extra cover fence , Taylor slides forward in an attempt to stop it but the ball ends up crossing the fence 23.5 John Nyumbu to Rahim , 1 run , full and around off , Rahim drives it to cover , a slight misfield allows the batsmen to run the single 23.5 John Nyumbu to Rahim , wide , sliding down leg , Rahim misses the glance 23.4 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , leans forward and turns it to mid-wicket 23.3 John Nyumbu to Shakib , no run , gets back and chops it to backward point 23.2 John Nyumbu to Rahim , 1 run , gets down on one knee and slog-sweeps , the ball is in the air , shouts of 'catch it ' all around but the ball falls well short of Taylor at deep mid-wicket 23.1 John Nyumbu to Rahim , no run , flighted on leg , Rahim turns it behind square , straight to the fielder 22.6 Solomon Mire to Shakib , no run , short of length on middle , Shakib gets back and mistimes the pull towards mid-on. Bangladesh have been trying hard but unable to pierce the gap 22.5 Solomon Mire to Shakib , no run , fullish around off , Shakib gets forward and drives it straight to mid-off 22.5 Solomon Mire to Shakib , wide , well outside off , left alone 22.4 Solomon Mire to Shakib , 2 runs , shortish on middle and leg , Shakib gets back and pulls it to deep square leg , Kamungozi does well to slide near the rope and drag the ball away from the fence , good work Third umpire is pressed into the service to look at fielding at the fence . 22.3 Solomon Mire to Shakib , 2 runs , good length ball on leg , Shakib tucks it through backward square leg , an overthrow from there allows the batsmen to take the second run 22.2 Solomon Mire to Shakib , no run , takes his bottom hand off the bat and mistimes it towards mid-off 22.2 Solomon Mire to Shakib , wide , fullish and well outside off , Shakib is not going to throw his bat at those 22.1 Solomon Mire to Shakib , no run , full on off , Shakib gets forward and mistimes the drive to mid-off 21.6 John Nyumbu to Rahim , no run , flighted one from Nyumbu again. Rahim comes on the front foot and looks to play it across the line , misses and is rapped on the pads. Loud appeal by the bowler and the keeper but the umpire is not interested. That was sliding down leg 21.5 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Shakib stays back and cracks it to deep extra cover 21.4 John Nyumbu to Shakib , no run , full around off , Shakib comes forward and pushes it into the off-side 21.3 John Nyumbu to Rahim , 1 run , gets forward and glances it to deep square leg for a comfortable single 21.2 John Nyumbu to Rahim , no run , gets down on one knee and slog-sweeps it along the ground towards short mid-wicket again , Raza fields 21.1 John Nyumbu to Rahim , no run , tossed up on middle , Rahim leans in front and clips it to short mid-wicket , where Raza slides and stops the ball 20.6 Solomon Mire to Rahim , 1 run , length delivery on the pads , Rahim flicks it neatly to deep mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 20.5 Solomon Mire to Rahim , no run , back of a length on leg , Rahim leans forward and tucks it off his pads towards the on-side 20.4 Solomon Mire to Rahim , no run , full and outside off , Rahim gets forward to push it into the off-side , gets an inside edge onto the pads 20.3 Solomon Mire to Shakib , 1 run , gets inside the crease to this slower ball on middle and turns it towards mid-wicket 20.2 Solomon Mire to Shakib , no run , full and outside off , Shakib brings his bat down quickly on the ground , the ball rolls towards the keeper 20.1 Solomon Mire to Shakib , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Shakib punches it off the back foot towards mid-off Solomon Mire [ 2.0-0-14-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 John Nyumbu to Rahim , no run , forces Rahim inside the line with a bit of turn , the batsman clips it behind square 19.5 John Nyumbu to Rahim , no run , on the pads , Rahim stays back and tucks it to short mid-wicket Mushfiqur Rahim , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.4 John Nyumbu to Mominul , out Bowled ! ! What a silly shot to play when you are already three down ! Mominul shuffles across and looks to scoop this flighted delivery over the keeper 's head , misses it completely and the ball goes on to peg back the off-stump. Nyumbu breaks into an impromptu jig and celebrates the wicket ! Mominul b John Nyumbu 31 ( 46 ) [ 4s-2 ] John Nyumbu to Mominul , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 19.3 John Nyumbu to Mominul , no run , flighted and turning in a touch , Mominul turns it towards the left of the bowler 19.2 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , stays on the back foot and punches this widish delivery to sweeper cover 19.1 John Nyumbu to Shakib , no run , bowls this wide of off , Shakib reaches out to it and drives it in front of point 18.6 Chigumbura to Shakib , 1 run , shortish and wide of off , Shakib stays inside the line and guides it past the backward point fielder but there is protection near the third man fence 18.5 Chigumbura to Shakib , no run , short of length and outside off , Shakib goes on the back foot and cuts it hard , the fielder at point dives to his right and makes a fantastic stop 18.4 Chigumbura to Mominul , 1 run , shortish on middle and off , Mominul stays back and mistimes the pull to deep mid-wicket for a single 18.3 Chigumbura to Mominul , 2 runs , good length delivery outside off , Mominul comes on the front foot and push-drives it to deep extra cover , Mire stops the ball near the rope while the batsmen run a couple 18.2 Chigumbura to Mominul , no run , beaten ! It was a short of length delivery from Chigumbura , shaping away from the batsman , Mominul plays inside the line and misses 18.1 Chigumbura to Shakib , 1 run , on a length and on off , Shakib skips forward and works it to deep square leg 17.6 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , uses the depth of the crease yet again and punches it to long-on 17.5 John Nyumbu to Shakib , no run , stays inside the crease and whips it towards short mid-wicket , the fielder slides and makes a fine stop , not allowing the batsmen to scamper through for a single 17.4 John Nyumbu to Mominul , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it comfortably through backward square leg 17.3 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , keeps the length short , Shakib stays inside the crease and dabs it gently towards short third man 17.2 John Nyumbu to Mominul , 1 run , coming round the wicket , it was shortish and turning away , Mominul slaps it to cover 17.1 John Nyumbu to Shakib , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Shakib makes a bit of room and crunches it to sweeper cover John Nyumbu , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 16.6 Chigumbura to Shakib , 1 run , shortish on middle and leg , Shakib is out of his crease on this occasion , watches the ball pitch short , swivels back and pulls it towards fine leg 16.5 Chigumbura to Mominul , 1 run , half volley on middle , Mominul leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 16.4 Chigumbura to Mominul , no run , back of a length and in the corrior outside off , Mominul swings at it wildly and is beaten 16.3 Chigumbura to Mominul , no run , comes on the front foot to this length ball on middle and off and turns it off the inside half of the bat towards mid-on 16.2 Chigumbura to Shakib , 1 run , slower ball outside off , Shakib punches it over the short cover fielder , who jumps but is not able to get his hands to the ball , it rolls towards to mid-off 16.1 Chigumbura to Mominul , 1 run , back of a length and dipping in on off and middle , Mominul rolls his wrists and works it towards deep mid-wicket 15.6 Solomon Mire to Mominul , 1 run , slower ball on middle , Mominul clips it to deep mid-wicket 15.5 Solomon Mire to Mominul , no run , slower off-cutter this time , Mominul drives it down the track towards mid-on 15.4 Solomon Mire to Mominul , FOUR , another boundary that should have been stopped. It was a short of length delivery outside off , Mominul makes room and looks to cut , gets a bottom edge and the ball flies past the left hand of the keeper to the third man fence 15.3 Solomon Mire to Shakib , 1 run , gets inside the line and tucks this back of a length ball on the hips to short mid-wicket 15.3 Solomon Mire to Shakib , wide , Mire has absolutely lost control of the ball , bowls it way outside off , wided by the umpire 15.2 Solomon Mire to Shakib , FOUR , bonus runs for Shakib ! He stays inside the crease and looks to flay this into the off-side , gets a thick outside edge that runs square of the wicket , Nyumbu at the rope ends up dragging the ball past the fence 15.1 Solomon Mire to Shakib , no run , back of a length and shaping away a touch , keeps low as well , Shakib stays inside the crease and looks to push it through the off-side and is beaten Drinks are on the field now 14.6 Chigumbura to Shakib , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Shakib glances it to fine leg 14.5 Chigumbura to Mominul , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Mominul leans forward and drives it along the ground to sweeper cover for a single 14.4 Chigumbura to Shakib , 1 run , good length delivery outside off , Shakib comes on the front foot and cuts it to sweeper cover 14.3 Chigumbura to Shakib , no run , good length delivery around off , Shakib punches it to point 14.2 Chigumbura to Mominul , 1 run , short of length delivery on middle and off , Mominul pushes it with soft hands to mid-wicket and completes a quick single 14.1 Chigumbura to Mominul , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Mominul goes back and looks to cut but misses 13.6 Solomon Mire to Mominul , 1 run , another short of length delivery around off , Mominul skips forward and pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket to retain the strike 13.5 Solomon Mire to Mominul , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Mominul cuts it off the back foot to point 13.4 Solomon Mire to Mominul , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Mominul goes back and cuts it to backward point , who dives to his left and saves 13.3 Solomon Mire to Mominul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Mominul skips down the track and drives it to mid-off 13.2 Solomon Mire to Shakib , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off , Shakib opens the face of the bat and dabs it with an angled bat to third man 13.1 Solomon Mire to Mominul , 1 run , fullish outside off , Mominul flicks it off the front foot to deep mid-wicket Solomon Mire , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 12.6 Chigumbura to Mominul , 1 run , short of length delivery arounf off , Mominul pulls it off the back foot to deep backward square leg 12.6 Chigumbura to Mominul , wide , length delivery very wide outside off , Mominul comes forward and flays at it and misses , wided by the umpire 12.5 Chigumbura to Mominul , no run , good length delivery outside off , Mominul shoulders arms 12.4 Chigumbura to Mominul , 2 runs , short of length delivery just outside off , Mominul drags the pull to deep backward square leg , where the fielder slides to his right and parries it the fielder backing up , good team work there 12.3 Chigumbura to Mominul , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Mominul goes back and punches it to covers 12.2 Chigumbura to Mominul , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Mominul comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-on 12.1 Chigumbura to Mominul , no run , good length delivery around middle , Mominul turns it to mid-on 11.6 Chatara to Mominul , 1 run , good length delivery on the pads , Mominul tucks it to deep backward square leg 11.5 Chatara to Shakib , 1 run , back of a length delivery on leg , Shakib pulls it off the back foot to deep backward square leg to get off the mark Shakib Al Hasan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 11.4 Chatara to Mahmudullah , out Caught by Kamungozi ! ! Bangladesh in a spot of bother here. This was short delivery around off , Mahmudullah goes back and mistimes the pull straight to Kamungozi at mid-on , who did not have to move an inch. Second wicket for Chatara. The ball went off the bottom of Mahmudullah 's willow. Mahmudullah c Kamungozi b Chatara 1 ( 9 ) Chatara to Mahmudullah , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.4 Chatara to Mahmudullah , wide , bouncer on the stumps , Mahmudullah ducks under it , the umpire thought the ball was way over Mahmudullah 's head hence wide signalled 11.3 Chatara to Mahmudullah , no run , short and wide outside off , Mahmudullah chases at it and is beaten. No need to play those as they are already two down 11.2 Chatara to Mahmudullah , no run , good length delivery on off , Mahmudullah leans forward and flicks it to mid-wicket 11.1 Chatara to Mahmudullah , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Mahmudullah comes forward and defends it to the off-side 10.6 Chigumbura to Mahmudullah , 1 run , good length delivery straying on the pads , Mahmudullah comes forward and gets an inside edge which runs to fine leg for a run 10.5 Chigumbura to Mahmudullah , no run , good length delivery around off , Mahmudullah comes on the front foot and blocks it to the off-side 10.4 Chigumbura to Mahmudullah , no run , good length delivery on middle , Mahmudullah gets forward and defends it to the on-side , the ball kept a bit low there 10.3 Chigumbura to Mahmudullah , no run , length delivery which straightens on middle , Mahmudullah comes forward and blocks it back to the bowler 10.2 Chigumbura to Mahmudullah , no run , good length delivery outside off , Mahmudullah leans forward and drives it to mid-off 10.1 Chigumbura to Mominul , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Mominul turns it to mid-on and completes a quick single 10.1 Chigumbura to Mominul , wide , starts off with a very wide delivery outside off , wide signalled by the ump Elton Chigumbura , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Chatara to Mominul , 1 run , length delivery straying on the pads , Mominul works it off his hips to deep square leg for a single Mahmudullah , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.5 Chatara to Anamul , out Caught by Chigumbura ! ! Chatara gets the second breakthrough for Zimbabwe. This was a back of a length delivery outside off , Anamul shimmies down the track , looks to go inside out over cover , ends up slicing it to Chigumbura who runs in from mid-off and takes a skier. Bangladesh openers are back in the hut. Anamul c Chigumbura b Chatara 12 ( 29 ) [ 6s-1 ] Chatara to Anamul , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 9.4 Chatara to Anamul , no run , good length delivery around off , Anamul leans forward and blocks it to mid-on 9.3 Chatara to Anamul , no run , fuller length delivery on off , Anamul comes on the front foot and drives it to mid-off 9.2 Chatara to Mominul , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Mominul leans forward and cuts it to third man 9.1 Chatara to Mominul , 2 runs , length delivery around off , Mominul flicks it off the front foot to the deep square leg region for a brace 8.6 Panyangara to Mominul , 1 run , length delivery on middle and leg , Mominul clips it off his pads to deep backward square leg 8.5 Panyangara to Anamul , 1 run , good length delivery on middle and off , Anamul turns it off the front foot to mid-wicket for a run 8.4 Panyangara to Anamul , no run , length delivery around off , Anamul leans forward and drives it to mid-off 8.3 Panyangara to Mominul , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Mominul mistimes the pull to to deep mid-wicket 8.2 Panyangara to Mominul , no run , fullish on middle and leg , Mominul drives it off the front foot to mid-on 8.1 Panyangara to Anamul , 1 run , fuller length delivery on middle , Anamul flicks it to deep mid-wicket 7.6 Chatara to Mominul , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Mominul blocks it 7.5 Chatara to Anamul , 1 run , dropped ! This was a back of a length delivery down the leg-side , Anamul glances it to Nyumbu at short fine leg , who dives to his left , gets a hand to it , the ball rolls to backward square leg region for a single 7.4 Chatara to Anamul , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Anamul comes forward and defends it to the off-side 7.3 Chatara to Anamul , no run , good length delivery outside off , Anamul pushes it to the off-side 7.2 Chatara to Anamul , no run , slower full toss on middle , Anamul gets forward and blocks it back to the bowler 7.1 Chatara to Anamul , SIX , what a shot ! This was a length delivery on off , Anamul skips down the track and smashes it way over the long-on boundary for a maximum 6.6 Panyangara to Mominul , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Mominul skips down the track and looks to steer it but misses 6.5 Panyangara to Mominul , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Mominul leans forward and blocks it to the off-side Round the wicket now. . 6.4 Panyangara to Mominul , no run , another length ball wide outside off , Mominul goes back and cuts it hard to gully , where Hamilton dives to his right and saves a single 6.3 Panyangara to Mominul , no run , on a length on middle , Mominul gets forward and turns it to mid-on 6.2 Panyangara to Mominul , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Mominul lifts his bat and lets it go 6.1 Panyangara to Mominul , FOUR , length delivery wide outside off , Mominul leans forward and cuts it superbly along the ground to the deep backward point fence to get off the mark in style 5.6 Chatara to Anamul , no run , fuller length delivery on middle and off , Anamul leans forward and drives it to mid-on 5.5 Chatara to Anamul , no run , good length delivery outside off , Anamul shoulders arms 5.4 Chatara to Anamul , no run , short of length delivery around off , Anamul comes forward and looks to defend , gets an inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls to the off-side 5.3 Chatara to Anamul , no run , length delivery on off , Anamul gets forward and taps it towards cover 5.2 Chatara to Anamul , no run , beautiful delivery by Chatara , that one ! It was a length delivery that straightens a touch , just beating the outside edge of Anamul 's bat 5.1 Chatara to Anamul , no run, 4.6 Panyangara to Mominul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Mominul leans forward and drives it to covers , where the fielder dives to his right and saves a boundary. Wicket maiden for Panyangara 4.5 Panyangara to Mominul , no run , fuller length delivery on middle , Mominul turns it to mid-wicket 4.4 Panyangara to Mominul , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Mominul comes forward and lets the ball go through to the keeper Mominul Haque , left handed bat , comes to the crease 4.3 Panyangara to Tamim , out Bowled ! ! Played on. Panyangara has struck early. This was a back of a length delivery just outside off , Tamim goes back and looks to cut , gets an inside edge , the ball crashes into the middle stump. Tamim b Panyangara 5 ( 15 ) [ 4s-1 ] Panyangara to Tamim , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 4.2 Panyangara to Tamim , no run , on a length just outside off , Tamim leans forward and pushes it to mid-off 4.1 Panyangara to Tamim , no run , good length delivery outside off , Tamim gets forward and blocks it to the off-side 3.6 Chatara to Anamul , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Anamul shoulders arms 3.5 Chatara to Anamul , 2 runs , short of length delivery on the hips , Anamul clips it of the back foot to backward square leg for a brace 3.4 Chatara to Anamul , no run , good length delivery around off , Anamul comes forward and blocks it to point 3.3 Chatara to Anamul , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Anamul skips down the track and looks to slog across the line and misses it completely 3.2 Chatara to Anamul , no run , fuller length delivery outside off , Anamul leans forward and watches the ball go through to the keeper 3.1 Chatara to Anamul , no run , short of length delivery outside off , Anamul shoulders arms to it 2.6 Panyangara to Tamim , no run , good length delivery on off , Tamim leans forward and defends it to mid-off 2.5 Panyangara to Tamim , no run , back of a length delivery on middle and leg , Tamim goes back and defends it to the on-side 2.4 Panyangara to Tamim , no run , fuller length delivery going away with the angle , Tamim leans forward , looks to drive and misses 2.3 Panyangara to Anamul , 1 run , good length delivery on middle , Anamul comes forward and works it to the right of mid-on to get off the mark 2.2 Panyangara to Anamul , no run , good length delivery outside off , Anamul lifts his bat and lets it go to the keeper 2.1 Panyangara to Anamul , no run , short of length delivery shaping away outside off , Anamul shoulders arms 1.6 Chatara to Tamim , FOUR , short and wide outside off , Tamim goes deep inside the crease and slaps the cut to the deep backward point fence for the first boundary of the day 1.5 Chatara to Tamim , no run , good length delivery angling away from the right-hander , Tamim comes on the front foot and defends it to mid-off Two slips in place for Chatara 1.4 Chatara to Tamim , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Tamim blocks it to the off-side 1.3 Chatara to Tamim , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Tamim comes forward and defends it to covers 1.2 Chatara to Tamim , no run , short of length delivery on the hips , Tamim fends it awkwardly to square leg 1.1 Chatara to Tamim , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Tamim turns it off the back foot to mid-wicket Tendai Chatara , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Panyangara to Anamul , no run , short of length delivery around off , Anamul blocks it to the off-side 0.5 Panyangara to Anamul , no run , good length delivery just outside off , Anamul comes on the front foot and defends it to covers 0.4 Panyangara to Anamul , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Anamul lifts his bat and lets it go 0.3 Panyangara to Tamim , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Tamim goes back and cuts it hard to square third man for a single 0.2 Panyangara to Tamim , no run , short of length and shaping away a touch , Tamim plays inside the line and is beaten as the ball moves away from him and goes through to the keeper 0.1 Panyangara to Tamim , no run , back of a length and outside off , Tamim gets behind that one and defends it in front of point Tamim and Anamul are at the crease. Tamim is on strike. Panyangara will open the attack The players are out in the middle. Tinashe Panyangara will start proceedings. A slip in place for him.. . Mashrafe Mortaza : " We would have liked to bowl first as well but that is okay. The Test matches were good so we are hoping we carry the same momentum. Since the World Cup is nearing , these matches will give us good practice. Al-Amin is back in the side. Sabbir will be debuting for us. " Elton Chigumbura : " We will bowl first. It looks like a good wicket to bat later. Hopefully we can keep them down to a low score. We just have to make sure we do well. Solomon Mire is debuting for us. " Pitch Report : " It looks like a very good pitch to bat on. It is flat and hard. The dew factor will come in to play later. The team winning the toss will like to bowl first , " reckons Athar Ali Khan . Teams : Bangladesh ( Playing XI ) : Tamim Iqbal , Anamul Haque , Mominul Haque , Shakib Al Hasan , Mushfiqur Rahim ( w ) , Mahmudullah , Sabbir Rahman , Mashrafe Mortaza ( c ) , Arafat Sunny , Al-Amin Hossain , Rubel Hossain Zimbabwe ( Playing XI ) : Sikandar Raza , Vusi Sibanda , Brendan Taylor , Hamilton Masakadza , Elton Chigumbura ( c ) , Solomon Mire , Regis Chakabva ( w ) , Tinashe Panyangara , John Nyumbu , Tendai Chatara , Tafadzwa Kamungozi Legspinner Sabbir Rahman debuts for Bangladesh and Al-Amin Hossain is back in the side . Zimbabwe have won the toss and have opted to field Bangladesh may have comprehensively overpowered Zimbabwe in Tests but ODIs offer a different challenge. The hosts are on equal footing with the African team in this format. They have lost their last five one dayers while the visitors have only managed to win one out of their last five. Zimbabwe are a slightly changed team. They are expected to give chances to a few young players and will be looking forward to make up for their Test series loss. For Bangladesh , Mashrafe Mortaza will be leading the side. Bowling wise they are a better side and will be hoping their spinners fluster Zimbabwe yet again as they did in the longer format. We will bring you the toss and teams shortly , stay tuned.. . Teams : Zimbabwe ( From ) : Brendan Taylor , Regis Chakabva , Sikandar Raza , Timycen Maruma , Vusi Sibanda , Elton Chigumbura ( c ) , Malcolm Waller , Brian Vitori , Natsai Mushangwe , John Nyumbu , Tinashe Panyangara , Peter Moor ( w ) , Richmond Mutumbami , Hamilton Masakadza , Craig Ervine , Tawanda Mupariwa , Solomon Mire , Neville Madziva , Tafadzwa Kamungozi , Tendai Chatara Bangladesh ( From ) : Tamim Iqbal , Imrul Kayes , Anamul Haque , Mominul Haque , Shakib Al Hasan , Mushfiqur Rahim ( w ) , Mahmudullah , Mashrafe Mortaza ( c ) , Arafat Sunny , Al-Amin Hossain , Rubel Hossain , Jubair Hossain , Sabbir Rahman Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
