Graphs So that ends the second ODI. Can Sri Lanka bounce back in the third ODI at Hyderabad ? Join us back on Sunday to find out. Until then , take care , goodbye ! Rayudu : " It 's special , it 's been a long wait. Definitely want to dedicate it to my father. The confidence given to me by the coach , Virat and Dhoni bhai has been great and I am glad that I did well today. I was not actually looking to score a hundred , I just wanted to bat throughout. It 's left to the captain , I 'll stand behind whatever he thinks ( when asked if he 'll continue to bat at No. 3 ) . " Ambati Rayudu is the Man of the Match for his unbeaten 118-ball 121 Kohli : " A misjudged run but had to put in some extra effort to make my ground ( when Alan Wilkins asked him if he just came from a war , after seeing Virat 's shirt full of dirt ) . It 's just about giving the guys the belief that they can do well. We are just focussing to keep the guys happy and it 's working well for us. It 's a blessing in disguise to lose the toss. It was a pretty good wicket and the way the guys bowled , they showed a lot of character. I ca n't disclose the plans for the next few games ( smiles , when asked if he 'll take the No. 4 slot on a permanent basis ) . Rayudu is a great player , he 's been around for a while. It 's all about giving him that opportunity to bat at No. 3. I just told him today that whatever you are doing now is what you deserved 12 years back. We are treating every game as a last game of the series. That 's the kind of mindset we are looking to develop. Well , just had a get-together with the boys and had a lot of fun ( when asked how he celebrated his birthday ) . Thanks everyone for all the wishes. " Mathews : " Yeah , we were about 40-50 runs short. On this wicket , 275 was not enough and it makes a lot of difference. We lost crucial wickets and that put us on the back foot. These wickets are quite good for the top-four batsmen , we 'll try and better it. It 's an embarrassing performance today. It 's never easy to contend a batting line-up like India. We 've got to pull out our best to try and see if we can beat India , because it 's embarrassing to lose this way and we were a no match today. " So with this comprehensive win , India go 2-0 up in the 5-match series. Chasing 275 , they did n't get off to the best of starts as they lost Rahane very early. However , Rayudu , who was promoted up the order , combined well with Dhawan as the duo brought up their first 100 + stand in ODIs. Although Dhawan fell after his fifty , Rayudu carried on and recorded his maiden ODI hundred. Kohli gave him good company before perishing for 49 , but India were almost home by then. In the end , Rayudu ensured that India got past the line with 33 balls to spare. Sri Lanka 's bowlers were n't good enough and they have to do something to quickly turn things around to stay alive in the series . 44.3 S Prasanna to Rayudu , FOUR , fittingly , Rayudu gets to hit the winning runs and he does so in style ! Flighted delivery just outside off stump , Rayudu puts the dancing shoes on and drives inside-out over extra-cover 44.2 S Prasanna to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , on the leg stump , Jadeja flicks it to short fine leg and takes off a quick single Ravindra Jadeja , left handed bat , comes to the crease 44.1 S Prasanna to Raina , out Lbw ! ! Umpire Vineet Kulkarni took his time but raised his finger to delight Prasanna. Third wicket for him. Raina misses the sweep and is struck plumb in front of middle and off. It was too full to be attempting that shot. Raina lbw b S Prasanna 14 ( 6 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] S Prasanna to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 43.6 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , steps out and punches this flatter delivery back to the bowler , who makes a good stop to his right 43.5 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Rayudu defends off the front foot 43.4 Randiv to Raina , 3 runs , walks across the sticks and neatly flicks it into the vacant backward square leg region. The ball almost stops before the fielder tidied up 43.3 Randiv to Raina , no run , flighted delivery pitching outside leg , Raina missed the paddle-sweep and was hit on the pad 43.2 Randiv to Raina , SIX , of late , cricket balls have been lost behind the sightscreen , courtesy this man ! Flighted delivery on the stumps , Raina advances and lofts it straight back over the bowler 's head to get India closer 43.1 Randiv to Raina , FOUR , nicely down to the pitch of the ball and lofts this flighted delivery over mid-off to up his strike-rate 42.6 S Prasanna to Raina , 1 run , straightaway uses his feet and works the flighted delivery to deep mid-wicket to get off the mark Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 42.5 S Prasanna to Kohli , out Caught by Randiv ! ! Oh dear ! He 's hit this straight to the fielder and the crowd ca n't believe it. Nicely flighted ball from Prasanna , Kohli lunged forward and lost balance while playing an extended forward punch , hence he hit it uppishly and the fielder at short cover dived forward to complete a fine catch. Kohli c Randiv b S Prasanna 49 ( 44 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] S Prasanna to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Chants of Kohli , Kohli , Kohli doing the rounds as he takes strike on 49 . 42.4 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , so easily pushes this flighted delivery to sweeper cover to get his captain back on strike 42.3 S Prasanna to Kohli , 1 run , short and wide outside off stump , cut to sweeper cover 42.2 S Prasanna to Kohli , no run , flighted delivery outside off stump , Kohli guides it to short third man , Rayudu takes off but Kohli sends him back , luckily for India , the throw was off target at the bowler 's end 42.1 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , flatter delivery on the off stump , Rayudu defends it to cover 41.6 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , advances and drives the flighted delivery along the ground to long-on to keep strike 41.5 Randiv to Rayudu , FOUR , no one at long-off , hence Rayudu takes the aerial route. This time opens the face of the bat slightly to loft it over mid-off , instead of hitting with the turn over mid-on 41.4 Randiv to Kohli , 1 run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Kohli sweeps it to backward square leg 41.3 Randiv to Kohli , no run , easily punched off the back foot to mid-wicket 41.2 Randiv to Kohli , no run , on the leg stump , Kohli flicks it to mid-wicket 41.1 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , tossed up outside off stump , Rayudu pushes it to point 40.6 S Prasanna to Kohli , no run , Kohli looks to punch off the back foot but he mistimes it completely 40.5 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , an acrobatic dive to his left from Prasanna , but only manages to half-stop this drive , the ball rolls to extra-cover and they take an easy run 40.4 S Prasanna to Rayudu , no run , again , not able to get under it , hence tapping it softly into the on-side 40.3 S Prasanna to Rayudu , no run , Rayudu advances and blocks as he fails to get close to the pitch of the ball 40.2 S Prasanna to Kohli , 1 run , short and wide outside off stump , punched to sweeper cover 40.1 S Prasanna to Kohli , SIX , pure bottom-hand power ! A rank long hop from Prasanna , Kohli waited ages for it to arrive and as it came , gave all his muscles and pulled it flat over mid-wicket 39.6 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , punched off the front foot to the right of the bowler , who moves well to stop the ball 39.5 Randiv to Rayudu , FOUR , the Indians are hitting the gaps to perfection. Flighted delivery on the off stump , Rayudu sweeps uppishly and sends it to the vacant deep square leg region 39.4 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , tossed up on the off stump , Rayudu turns it into the on-side 39.3 Randiv to Rayudu , 2 runs , goes down on one knee and paddle-sweeps it to fine leg for a couple of runs 39.2 Randiv to Kohli , 1 run , goes back to flick this flighted delivery past mid-wicket 39.1 Randiv to Kohli , no run , on the leg stump , tucked to mid-wicket Suraj Randiv [ 7.0-0-39-0 ] is back into the attack In fact , Rayudu was celebrating his hundred when Perera was running in to deliver the next ball . 38.6 S Prasanna to Kohli , 1 run , short and spinning away outside off stump , Kohli cuts it to sweeper cover 38.5 S Prasanna to Kohli , no run , after smashing the previous ball , Kohli offers a compact forward defence 38.4 S Prasanna to Kohli , FOUR , where is long-on , Angelo Mathews ? Kohli gives the charge to the bowler and smashes this flighted delivery along the ground , the ball goes very straight and thuds into the boundary rope 38.3 S Prasanna to Kohli , no run , played into the off-side 38.2 S Prasanna to Kohli , 2 runs , thickish outside edge but there was no one at slip , Rayudu went deep in the crease to cut , but a thick edge that ran to third man 38.1 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , pushed to long-on Seekkuge Prasanna [ 4.0-0-28-1 ] is back into the attack So India stole 47 runs in the batting powerplay . 37.6 T Perera to Rayudu , 1 run , a similar ball from Perera and Rayudu pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 37.5 T Perera to Kohli , 1 run , short delivery on the off stump , Kohli pulls it to backward square leg 37.4 T Perera to Kohli , SIX , Kohli takes all the limelight with a stunning inside-out lofted shot on the rise ! Wow ! That went all the way. He used his feet and did well to connect the ball , despite the bounce being a little high and it sailed over wide long-off 37.3 T Perera to Rayudu , 1 run , alright , Rayudu has got his best moment of career thus far , a well-made maiden ODI hundred ! Short of a length delivery on the leg stump , Rayudu flicks it through backward square leg and gets to the landmark. He takes his helmet off and raises his bat , before hugging his captain , who congratulated him 37.2 T Perera to Kohli , 1 run , a gentle tuck to square leg and Rayudu is back on strike 37.1 T Perera to Kohli , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , turned into the on-side Thisara Perera [ 3.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack Meanwhile , quietly , Gamage has slipped in a 3-run over ! Well done . 36.6 Gamage to Rayudu , no run , full delivery outside off stump , Rayudu drives it straight to mid-off , Kohli asks him if he wants a run but Rayudu sensibly says no. There was never a run in it 36.5 Gamage to Rayudu , no run , Mathews brings the field in and Gamage delivers a tight short of length delivery on the off stump , forcing Rayudu simply offer a forward defence Alright , Rayudu is on 99 and the crowd are cheering for him . 36.4 Gamage to Kohli , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Kohli flicks it through backward square leg 36.3 Gamage to Kohli , no run , fullish delivery just outside off stump , defended straight back to the bowler 36.2 Gamage to Rayudu , 1 run , as soon as he tucked the ball softly through square leg , a mistimed hit in fact , Rayudu rocketed to the bowler 's end to return back but Kohli stuck his hand out early asking his partner to relax at the other end. 99 for Rayudu now 36.1 Gamage to Kohli , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Kohli tucks it to mid-wicket and gets the man of the moment back on strike Lahiru Gamage [ 7.0-1-25-0 ] is back into the attack The first three overs of the powerplay have yielded 34 runs to India . 35.6 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , nicely bowled ! Tossed up nicely , Rayudu defends off the front foot 35.5 Randiv to Rayudu , SIX , there you go ! This is exactly what he wanted to do a couple of ball ago and he 's just two runs away from his maiden ODI ton ! Rayudu uses his feet and gets close to the pitch of the ball , swings hard as he gets under it and the ball sails over long-on 35.4 Randiv to Rayudu , 2 runs , softly nudges this shortish ball to backward square leg and races back for the second 35.3 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , Rayudu wanted to deposit one over the sightscreen but Randiv kept him calm by pulling his length back 35.2 Randiv to Kohli , 1 run , too short and Kohli pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 35.1 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , friendly delivery on the pads , tucked away through backward square leg. Rayudu moves into the 90s As the umpires decide to change the ball , the groundsmen run across the outfield with a rope to get rid of some dew . 34.6 Dhammika to Rayudu , 1 run , third full toss of the over , Rayudu drives it along the ground , sweeper cover tidies up in the deep. That ends a 16-run over 34.5 Dhammika to Kohli , 1 run , another full toss , a little high this time , Kohli gently tucks it to mid-wicket 34.4 Dhammika to Kohli , no run , an extended forward punch from Kohli rockets off the bat , but goes straight to the man at cover. A couple of yards either side of the fielder would have been four 34.3 Dhammika to Rayudu , 1 run , a full toss but Rayudu is kind enough to simply tap it to long-on 34.2 Dhammika to Rayudu , SIX , wow ! That was almost a forehand smash from Rayudu. In fact , he fetched it from well outside off stump , yet he middled it very well to clear the deep mid-wicket fence comfortably. Short ball not good enough from Dhammika and Rayudu smoked it cleanly 34.2 Dhammika to Rayudu , no ball , 2 runs , woopssy ! Dhammika has overstepped. A free-hit comes Rayudu 's way. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Rayudu cuts well but third man slides in the deep to save a couple 34.1 Dhammika to Rayudu , FOUR , not exactly where he intended to go but Rayudu will take it ! Short of a length delivery down the leg-side , Rayudu looks to pull , but the ball runs away off the inside half of the bat to beat the man at fine leg , who was very square Dhammika Prasad [ 6.0-0-35-1 ] is back into the attack An 8-run over for India to kick-off the batting powerplay . 33.6 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , too many short balls from the spinners and Rayudu easily pulls off the back foot to deep backward square leg 33.5 Randiv to Rayudu , FOUR , that spoils the over ! Nothing delivery down the leg-side , maybe the dew has taken its effect and it slipped out his hand , Rayudu helps it away neatly with a fine sweep to beat the man at 45 33.4 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , good ball from Randiv ! Rayudu was stepping down the track , Randiv dragged his length back to keep him calm 33.3 Randiv to Kohli , 1 run , Kohli lunges forward to this flighted delivery and watchfully flicks this behind square on the on-side 33.2 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , easily guided past backward point 33.1 Randiv to Kohli , 1 run , harmless flatter delivery on the leg stump , Kohli flicks it to mid-wicket Okay folks , fasten your seat belts , it 's time for the batting powerplay . 32.6 Mathews to Kohli , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Kohli reaches out and guides it to third man 32.5 Mathews to Rayudu , 1 run , just 118.8kph on this slower bouncer , Rayudu neatly pulls , deep backward square leg in play again 32.4 Mathews to Kohli , 1 run , bumper not good enough to trouble Kohli , who pulls it along the ground behind square on the on-side 32.3 Mathews to Kohli , 2 runs , neatly done ! Kohli gets across the stumps and softly tucks this short of length delivery to backward square leg to complete two 32.2 Mathews to Rayudu , 1 run , too wide outside off stump again , guided to square third man 32.1 Mathews to Rayudu , no run , starts off with a slower delivery outside off stump , Rayudu cuts it to point Angelo Mathews [ 3.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack Time for a water break . 31.6 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , dances down the track , he did n't get to the pitch of the ball but managed to flick it to deep backward square leg 31.5 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , steps out and flicks the flighted delivery wide of mid-wicket , wants a single but Kohli says no 31.4 Randiv to Kohli , 1 run , fast and on the stumps , Kohli turns it to short mid-wicket 31.3 Randiv to Kohli , no run , flatter delivery on the stumps , defended straight back to the bowler 31.2 Randiv to Kohli , 2 runs , nicely done ! Short enough for Kohli to hang back and flick this flatter delivery into the vacant mid-wicket , Kohli returned for the second before the throw arrived 31.1 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , short from Randiv , Rayudu pulls it to deep mid-wicket Suraj Randiv [ 4.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack So , Rayudu ( 65 * ) has recorded his best ODI score . 30.6 S Prasanna to Kohli , no run , Kohli goes back and punches this powerfully , but picks out the man at extra-cover 30.5 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , leaves the crease and drives the to extra-cover for an easy run 30.4 S Prasanna to Rayudu , no run , flatter delivery on the off stump , Rayudu punches it straight to extra-cover 30.3 S Prasanna to Kohli , 1 run , cuts this away-spinning ball on the front foot to sweeper cover 30.2 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , tossed up on the stumps , turned to mid-wicket 30.1 S Prasanna to Kohli , 1 run , goes deep in the crease and tucks the flighted delivery through mid-wicket 29.6 Gamage to Rayudu , 2 runs , full toss outside off and Gamage gets away with it as Rayudu can only slice it to deep point 29.5 Gamage to Kohli , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , steered to third man with an open face 29.4 Gamage to Kohli , no run , bouncer outside off , Kohli lets it harmlessly pass over him 29.3 Gamage to Rayudu , 1 run , dab and run to short cover for a risky single. Randiv swoops in on the ball , fails to throw the stumps down. Kohli dives full stretch and makes his crease 29.2 Gamage to Rayudu , no run , pitched on off and shapes away , beating the groping bat of Rayudu. The ball swung late to fox Rayudu 29.1 Gamage to Rayudu , no run , fraction back of a length and on off , kept out off the back foot 28.6 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , flighted googly , Rayudu comes down the track and drives it down to long-off 28.5 S Prasanna to Kohli , 1 run , straighter one on middle , worked to short mid-wicket 28.4 S Prasanna to Kohli , FOUR , classy from Kohli. Fuller and outside off , Kohli leans forward and drives it past short cover 28.3 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , quicker leg-break , pushed down to long-on 28.2 S Prasanna to Rayudu , no run , pushed through on middle , blocked to the right of Prasanna 28.1 S Prasanna to Kohli , 1 run , straight roller on middle , eased to long-off 27.6 Gamage to Kohli , 1 run , pitched up on off , Kohli mistimes the off-drive to mid-on off the inside half of the bat 27.5 Gamage to Rayudu , 1 run , good length ball around off , directed to third man via an open face 27.4 Gamage to Kohli , 1 run , full on off , flicked to mid-wicket for a scampered single , the Indian skipper gets off the mark 27.3 Gamage to Rayudu , 1 run , pitched further up and coming in , driven down to long-on 27.2 Gamage to Rayudu , FOUR , back of a length and outside off , Rayudu gets on top of the bounce and punches it behind point , the ball sped away to the square third man fence Mathews is back on the field . 27.1 Gamage to Rayudu , no run , back of a length on middle , Gamage keeps Rayudu to a defensive little push to mid-wicket Lahiru Gamage [ 5.0-1-13-0 ] is back into the attack 26.6 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , back of a length and on the leg-stump , punched to long-on off the back foot 26.5 S Prasanna to Rayudu , no run , fullish on middle , driven back at the bowler , who dives in his follow-through and parries it to mid-on Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease In walks Virat Kohli . 26.4 S Prasanna to Dhawan , out Caught by Priyanjan ! ! Dhawan has holed out to deep backward square leg. Tossed up on middle , Dhawan loads up for a slog sweep , has to settle with a fat top edge that balloons to Priyanjan in the deep. He miscued it straight down the throat of the fielder. Dhawan c Priyanjan b S Prasanna 79 ( 80 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] S Prasanna to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 26.3 S Prasanna to Rayudu , 1 run , leg-break , slower through the air , Rayudu uses his feet and whips it to deep mid-wicket 26.2 S Prasanna to Rayudu , no run , tossed up on the leg-stump , worked to the leg-side 26.1 S Prasanna to Dhawan , 1 run , Prasanna pushes it flatter and outside off , reverse swept and short third makes a diving save Seekkuge Prasanna [ 1.0-0-13-0 ] is back into the attack Mathews has left the field. Mahela is the stand in captain . 25.6 Priyanjan to Rayudu , no run , pushed through quicker on off , squirted to mid-wicket off the inside half of the bat 25.5 Priyanjan to Dhawan , 1 run , flighted delivery around off , Dhawan uses his feet and push-drives it to long-off 25.4 Priyanjan to Rayudu , 1 run , tossed up on middle , eased to long-on. Rayudu raises his bat and acknowledges the cheers after getting to his 5th ODI fifty 25.3 Priyanjan to Rayudu , FOUR , fuller on off , Rayudu skips out and drives it , splitting extra-cover and mid-off 25.2 Priyanjan to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan takes it from an off-stump line and paddles it behind square leg 25.1 Priyanjan to Rayudu , 1 run , floated outside off , down the pitch and driven to sweeper cover 24.6 Dhammika to Dhawan , FOUR , cracking hit from Dhawan. Overpitched and outside off , Dhawan executes a punchy drive and sends it clattering past cover , beats mid-off too 24.5 Dhammika to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan was shaping up to shuffle across but Dhammika responds with a yorker. Dhawan jabs his bat down and keeps it out. Dhammika wears a wry smile on his face 24.4 Dhammika to Rayudu , 1 run , pitched up and on the stumps , driven down to long-on , this time all along the carpet 24.3 Dhammika to Rayudu , SIX , away she sails over the boundary ! Length ball , Rayudu comes forward and lofts it up and over long-on. Looks like India have cranked up to the next gear 24.2 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , very full and on off , Rayudu backs away and drives it past short cover. Randiv flings to his left and stops the ball 24.1 Dhammika to Dhawan , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Dhawan cuts it away to square third man 23.6 Priyanjan to Rayudu , no run , pushed back to the bowler , who dives and makes a half stop before deflecting it to mid-on 23.5 Priyanjan to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan uses his feet and eases it to long-on to notch up the 100 of the partnership 23.4 Priyanjan to Dhawan , no run , flatter and quicker on top of middle , pushed back to the bowler 23.3 Priyanjan to Dhawan , FOUR , pushed fuller on off , Dhawan uses his feet and lofts it over mid-wicket with some gorgeous wristwork 23.2 Priyanjan to Dhawan , no run , floated on middle , Dhawan skips out and turns it to mid-wicket 23.1 Priyanjan to Rayudu , 1 run , fuller and wider outside off , Rayudu guides it behind point Ashan Priyanjan , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 22.6 Dhammika to Rayudu , 1 run , low full toss on off , Rayudu squeezes out a drive to mid-off 22.5 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , length delivery on off and middle , defended to the off-side 22.4 Dhammika to Rayudu , FOUR , edged and beats Sanga ! Pushed fuller and wider outside off , Rayudu reaches out , flashes. Gets a thick bottom edge that flies wide of Sanga , Rayudu 's edge beats third man as well. Hands-on-head time for Gamage 22.3 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , pitched up and outside off , Rayudu drives it well but it amounts to nothing as Randiv makes a diving save at short cover 22.2 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , Rayudu comes down the track , manufactures a very full delivery and drills it back at Dhammika 22.1 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , pitched up and on off , Rayudu drives sweetly but ca n't beat mid-off The asking rate has been brought down to 6. The crowd find their voice again . 21.6 T Perera to Rayudu , 1 run , Thisara turns to the slower ball but strays on the pads , nudged to short fine leg 21.5 T Perera to Rayudu , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rayudu tries to take a leaf out of Dhawan 's book but misses the upper cut to third man. Sanga 's muffled appeal is negated 21.4 T Perera to Dhawan , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , steered down to third man 21.3 T Perera to Dhawan , FOUR , 14 runs off the first three balls. Thisara Perera has lost the plot. Shortish and outside off , Dhawan ramps it over the vacant slip cordon 21.2 T Perera to Dhawan , FOUR , short of length and outside off , Dhawan steps away across off and pulls it away behind square leg , beats short fine and there is nobody in the deep 21.1 T Perera to Dhawan , SIX , length delivery just outside off , Dhawan comes down the track and sends it sailing over long-off with a clean lofted drive Thisara Perera [ 2.0-0-9-0 ] is back into the attack Thisara replaces Seekkuge after the latter leaked 13 runs from his first over . 20.6 Dhammika to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhammika hurls in a yorker on leg , Dhawan loses his balance and falls over. Yet , he squeezes it out deep backward square leg 20.5 Dhammika to Dhawan , no run , short of length and outside off , Dhawan cuts it to point 20.4 Dhammika to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan parades to his 10th ODI fifty with a top shot. Dug in short and on the stumps , Dhawan pivots on the back foot and pulls it away to the deep backward square leg boundary 20.3 Dhammika to Dhawan , no run , fired full on off , Dhawan toe ends the drive and finds mid-off 20.2 Dhammika to Rayudu , 1 run , dragged down leg , Rayudu helps it down to fine leg with a pull 20.1 Dhammika to Dhawan , 1 run , pitched up and outside off , Dhawan plays an open-faced drive to sweeper cover Dhammika Prasad [ 3.0-0-11-1 ] is back into the attack Dhammika 's back . 19.6 S Prasanna to Rayudu , FOUR , Prasanna dishes out a friendly full toss. Rayudu says thank you very much as he heaves it away to the deep mid-wicket fence 19.5 S Prasanna to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan chips out , neary yorks himself. But manages to jam it out to mid-off 19.4 S Prasanna to Dhawan , 2 runs , darted in on middle and leg , Dhawan steps away and cuts it to deep backward point S Prasanna goes round the stumps . 19.3 S Prasanna to Dhawan , FOUR , not middled , but no problem. Fuller and outside off , Dhawan just about lofts it over mid-off. The ball skewed in the air off the toe end of the bat 19.2 S Prasanna to Dhawan , 2 runs , pushed through on middle , Dhawan reverse-paddles it to third man with a healthy helping of cheek 19.1 S Prasanna to Dhawan , no run , tossed up outside off , steered behind point. Rayudu is keen on a quick single , but is sent back Seekkuge Prasanna , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 18.6 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , flatter and darted in on off , punched back to the bowler with a straight bat 18.5 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , slid through on off , Rayudu hangs back and turns it to the leg-side 18.4 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , fuller and on the stumps , Rayudu takes a step forward and defends it back to Randiv 18.3 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , pushed through quicker on off , Rayudu taps it to cover 18.2 Randiv to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Dhawan skips out and nurdles a single to square leg 18.1 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , flatter length delivery on off , Rayudu opens the face of the bat and runs it to backward point 17.6 Dilshan to Rayudu , 1 run , dropped short on middle , punched off the back foot to long-on 17.5 Dilshan to Rayudu , no run , fullish and on off , driven to mid-off 17.4 Dilshan to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up and fuller on middle , Dhawan comes down the track and eases it to long on 17.3 Dilshan to Dhawan , no run , pitched up on off , Dhawan comes down the track and drives it back to the bowler , who dives to his right and stops the ball in his follow-through 17.2 Dilshan to Dhawan , 2 runs , floated up outside off , Dhawan lifts it over extra-cover. Kushal fumbles in the deep , allowing the extra run 17.1 Dilshan to Dhawan , no run , flatter on middle and leg , blocked back to Dilshan off the back foot 16.6 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , spinning away around off , Rayudu defends it gently to the off-side 16.5 Randiv to Rayudu , SIX , quick-silver footwork. Fuller on middle , Rayudu races down the track and launches it over long-on after meeting the pitch of the ball 16.4 Randiv to Dhawan , 1 run , flighted and fuller outside off , drilled to extra cover , where the fielder makes a half stop , parrying it to deep extra cover 16.3 Randiv to Dhawan , no run , fuller on middle , dead-batted to the off-side 16.2 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , floated on off , Rayudu ventures down the track and eases it past a diving bowler to long-on 16.1 Randiv to Dhawan , 1 run , Randiv gives this ample air on off , dabbed to cover-point Time for a drinks break. The asking rate has shot up to 6.44 , but India have wickets in the bag . 15.6 Dilshan to Dhawan , 1 run , use of the feet again as Dhawan plays a whippy drive to long-on 15.5 Dilshan to Rayudu , 1 run , fuller and on off , Rayudu takes a step forward and milks it down to long-on 15.4 Dilshan to Rayudu , no run , on the stumps , pushed back to the bowler after racing down the pitch 15.3 Dilshan to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Dhawan comes down the track and drives it to long-off 15.2 Dilshan to Rayudu , 1 run , flighted delivery on off , Rayudu comes down the track and pushes it back to the bowler , who aims to flick it and disturb the stumps at the non-striker 's end but misses. That allows the duo to steal a single 15.1 Dilshan to Dhawan , 1 run , fuller and wider outside off from round the stumps , crunched to sweeper cover Tillakaratne Dilshan , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 14.6 Randiv to Dhawan , 1 run , pushed through on the pads , tucked away behind square leg 14.5 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , nudged off the back foot to mid-wicket and that single raises the fifty for the hosts 14.4 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , straight roller on off , dabbed in front of cover. Dhawan looks for a quick single , but is sent back 14.3 Randiv to Dhawan , 1 run , flatter and fuller on off , Dhawan comes down the track and works it past mid-wicket 14.2 Randiv to Rayudu , 1 run , Rayudu steps out , Randiv drops it short , pushed to long-on 14.1 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , quicker on a back of a length , the line is outside off , punched to cover 13.6 T Perera to Dhawan , FOUR , parcelled up and dispatched. Dhawan picks this shortish delivery from the fourth stump and pulls it away to deep mid-wicket boundary 13.5 T Perera to Dhawan , no run , seeing Dhawan skip out , Perera pulls his length back. Punched to point 13.4 T Perera to Dhawan , no run , fraction back of a length and on middle , played to point 13.3 T Perera to Dhawan , no run , pitched up and on off , Dhawan punches it to cover , straight to the fielder though 13.2 T Perera to Rayudu , 1 run , back of a length and hurries around off , yet Rayudu has time to angle it down to third man 13.1 T Perera to Dhawan , 1 run , fuller and outside off , Dhawan comes forward and drives it fluidly to deep point 12.6 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker on off , defended in front of cover 12.5 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , blocked back to the bowler 12.4 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , spinning in from outside off , Rayudu ekes out an inside edge onto the pad 12.3 Randiv to Rayudu , no run , arm ball outside off , left alone. The TV ump is called into service to check for a possible stumping. Rayudu 's back foot was grounded 12.2 Randiv to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan comes down the track and eases this well flighted delivery to long-off 12.1 Randiv to Dhawan , no run , pushed through on a back of a length on the leg-stump , Dhawan is rapped on the pads. The ball was snaking down Suraj Randiv , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 11.6 T Perera to Dhawan , 1 run , back of a length and on middle and leg , punched away to mid-wicket 11.5 T Perera to Rayudu , 1 run , fuller and outside off , mistimed drive to mid-off 11.4 T Perera to Rayudu , no run , fullish and in the channel just outside off , left alone to the keeper 11.3 T Perera to Rayudu , no run , shortish and outside off , punched off the back foot , but the ball goes only as far as cover-point 11.2 T Perera to Dhawan , 1 run , half tracker outside off , Dhawan reaches out and cuts it to deep point 11.1 T Perera to Dhawan , no run , good length ball on off and middle , pushed to the man at mid-off Thisara Perera , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Dhammika to Dhawan , 1 run , fuller on middle and leg , turned to mid-wicket 10.5 Dhammika to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and hurries on middle , Dhawan camps on the back foot and punches it softly to cover 10.4 Dhammika to Rayudu , 1 run , dug in short and outside off , Rayudu steers it down to third man 10.3 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , good length ball on off , Rayudu defends it to the left of the bowler with minimal feet movement 10.2 Dhammika to Dhawan , 1 run , back of a length and on the hips , whipped away to fine leg 10.1 Dhammika to Rayudu , 1 run , banged in short and rises on middle , Rayudu fends it to the leg-side 9.6 Gamage to Rayudu , 1 run , fuller and on middle and leg , flicked to fine leg for a single 9.5 Gamage to Dhawan , 1 run , shortish and on middle and leg , cramping Dhawan for room , who jerks it to mid-wicket and trots off to the other end 9.4 Gamage to Rayudu , leg byes , 1 run , heading down leg , it was in the glancing radar , but Rayudu does not get hold of it. The ball brushes the pad and runs fine. Sanga dives and half stops the ball 9.3 Gamage to Dhawan , 1 run , very full and on middle , drilled to mid-off 9.2 Gamage to Rayudu , 1 run , full and attacking the off-stump , dab and run to cover for a quick single. Seekkugge has a shy at the stumps , but misses 9.2 Gamage to Rayudu , wide , drifting down leg , Rayudu does not meet with the glance. Sanga dives and gloves the ball cleanly 9.1 Gamage to Dhawan , 1 run , half volley outside off , Dhawan drives it to wide mid-off with a bent knee 8.6 Dhammika to Rayudu , FOUR , back of a length and just outside off , Rayudu waits on the back foot and punches it away to the sweeper cover boundary 8.5 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , length delivery sliding away outside off , Rayudu offers another good leave 8.4 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , lifter slanted across , Rayudu drops his wrists and lets it sail through to Sanga 8.3 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , shortish and on off , dabbed in front of point. Dhammika hit the deck hard on that occasion 8.2 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , pitched up and close to the off-stump , Rayudu knows the whereabouts of his off-stump and ignores it , hanging on the back foot 8.1 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , back of a length and close to off , Rayudu hangs back and punches it feebly to point 7.6 Gamage to Dhawan , 2 runs , Dhawan fetches this short ball from outside off and pulls it away to deep mid-wicket. Dhawan is lucky to be still out there 7.5 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and on the fourth stump , enjoys some extra bounce as well , punched to point off the back foot 7.4 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , length delivery slanted across , left alone 7.3 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , dragged short and down leg , Dhawan weaves out of the line 7.2 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , blocked back to the bowler 7.1 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , a massive appeal from Sri Lanka , but the ump shakes his head. Sanga ca n't believe it. Pitched up and curling away close to the off-stump , Dhawan pokes at it , the ball grazes the outside edge and carries through to Sanga. Ump Oxenford did not spot the nick , Dhawan gets a reprieve. Sanga still ca n't believe it 6.6 Dhammika to Rayudu , 2 runs , back of a length and outside off , Rayudu punches it between cover and point. Not all that well-timed and he gets only a couple. Randiv chases the ball , slides and fires in the throw to the keeper 6.5 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , on a length and slanted across , Rayudu is not ready to bite 6.4 Dhammika to Rayudu , no run , angled just outside off , Rayudu does not bother with it Ambati Rayudu , right handed bat , comes to the crease Rayudu has a promotion here. Can he make an impact ? 6.3 Dhammika to Rahane , out Caught by M Jayawardene ! ! Dropped by Sanga , but his buddy , MJ comes to the rescue , pouching the catch at first slip. Fuller and nipping away outside off , Rahane chases and nicks it through to the keeper , who can only parry it away to first slip , where MJ dives to his left and grabs it off the rebound. Sharp take that ! Rahane c M Jayawardene b Dhammika 8 ( 19 ) [ 4s-1 ] Dhammika to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 6.2 Dhammika to Dhawan , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , cramping Dhawan for room. Mistimed punch to mid-on is the result 6.1 Dhammika to Dhawan , no run , fuller and on the stumps , forward and push-driven to mid-off Dhammika Prasad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 5.6 Gamage to Rahane , no run , back of a length , top-of-off line , Rahane punches it to the covers 5.5 Gamage to Rahane , no run , on a good length and on off , Gamage drags Rahane forward into a defensive push in front of cover 5.4 Gamage to Rahane , no run , a tad overpitched outside off , Rahane goes hard on the drive and mis-controls it back to Gamage 5.3 Gamage to Dhawan , 1 run , back of a length and on off , Dhawan takes a step forward , shuffles across and mistimes the punch to mid-wicket 5.2 Gamage to Dhawan , 2 runs , fuller and straighter , in fact veering onto the pads , worked away wide of mid-wicket 5.1 Gamage to Rahane , 1 run , length ball angled in , Rahane clips it away to deep square leg 4.6 Mathews to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and on off , Dhawan punches it to cover-point , fails to thread the gap 4.5 Mathews to Rahane , 1 run , early call from Rahane and the single is completed with no fuss. Fuller and just outside off , Rahane comes forward and punches it to mid-off 4.4 Mathews to Dhawan , 1 run , short and wide outside off , cut away to third man 4.3 Mathews to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and around off , Dhawan hangs back and pushes it towards mid-off Mathews goes round the stumps . 4.2 Mathews to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane picks this back of a length ball from an outside off line and wrists it to short fine leg. There is a brief communication breakdown in the middle , but no harm done. A direct hit from Gamage would have been curtains for Dhawan though 4.1 Mathews to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan angles his bat on impact with this good length ball outside off and glides it down to third man 3.6 Gamage to Rahane , no run , shortish and outside off , Rahane camps on the back foot and punches it straight to the fielder at cover-point 3.5 Gamage to Rahane , no run , pitched up and around off , Rahane taps it back to the bowler after coming forward 3.4 Gamage to Rahane , no run , length ball straightening outside off , Rahane flashes and gets beaten 3.3 Gamage to Rahane , no run , back of a length and outside off , Rahane guides it in front of point 3.2 Gamage to Dhawan , 1 run , fuller and straighter , tucked past mid-wicket 3.1 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan takes a step forward , walks across as well. But the bowler drags his length back , keeping Dhawan to a defensive push to cover 2.6 Mathews to Rahane , no run , length delivery slanted across , Rahane aims to cut it late , but can only chop it to slip 2.5 Mathews to Dhawan , 1 run , dug in short and on off , Dhawan stands tall and balanced as he punches it. The man at cover dives and limits it to just a single 2.4 Mathews to Dhawan , no run , good length ball on middle , Dhawan inches forward and bunts it to the covers 2.3 Mathews to Dhawan , no run , pitched further up on middle and leg , Dhawan whips his wrists and finds the man at mid-wicket 2.2 Mathews to Dhawan , 2 runs , fullish and nips back in on middle , tucked away behind square on the leg-side for a brace By the way , some sawdust was applied behind point prior to the start of the over . 2.1 Mathews to Rahane , 1 run , back of a length and angling in on off , Rahane works it backward of square leg for a single 1.6 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and cuts back in , Dhawan gets into a tangle , but manages an inside edge onto the pads. End of an impressive maiden from the rookie 1.5 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , pitched up and leaving Dhawan in the channel outside off , Dhawan pushes forward and watches the ball zip past the outside edge 1.4 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , slower offering on middle and leg , Dhawan nudges it towards the left of the bowler 1.3 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , fuller and on middle and leg , Dhawan blocks it back to the bowler with his bat and pad close together 1.2 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , pitched up and angling away on off , dabbed in front of point 1.1 Gamage to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and drifts down leg. Might have been the slower one. Dhawan looks to help it away , but misses. Not wided by the umpire , might have clipped the thigh pad Lahiru Gamage , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Mathews to Rahane , no run , fuller and curls in on off , Rahane was seeking to turn it to the leg-side. He closes the face of the bat early , gets a leading edge. Luckily , the ball evades both cover and the bowler 0.5 Mathews to Rahane , no run , similar length and outside off , Rahane stands tall and punches it nicely. Randiv dives to his left at cover-point and consigns it as a dot 0.4 Mathews to Rahane , no run , fraction back of a length and on the fourth stump , Rahane defends it gently to cover 0.3 Mathews to Rahane , no run , pitched further up on off , Rahane props forward and drives it to mid-off 0.2 Mathews to Rahane , FOUR , crunched. Dropped a bit short outside off , Rahane switches back and punches it past the covers. The ball skims away to the sweeper cover boundary 0.1 Mathews to Rahane , no run , Mathews opens with a nip-backer , with some extra bounce , beating Rahane onto the defensive push and catching him on the thigh pad Rahane and Dhawan are at the crease. Rahane is on strike. Mathews will open the attack Hello again. Dhawan and Rahane march out to the middle. Mathews is armed with the new ball with two slips to assist him . Things could have been worse for Mathews & Co. but credit to Dhammika as well for fighting it out with the captain with a 54-run stand for the 9th wicket. Can Rahane and Dhawan get India off to another good start ? Or will Sri Lanka make early inroads to put the hosts under pressure. An interesting chase is on the cards. Join us back in a while for the Indian innings . So a competitive total from the visitors. A target of 275 is certainly not going to be easy to chase. Virak Kohli will be happy with his bowlers though. Both Ishant and Umesh started off very well. However , Sri Lanka recovered in the form of Sangakkara and Dilshan. Axar Patel came on and removed the latter , before Ashwin accounted for Jayawardene. Sanga added 90 runs with Mathews before being dismissed and the skipper batted sensibly to ensure that Sri Lanka got a good total on the board. Axar was the pick of the bowlers , while Ashwin too pulled things back despite conceding 18 runs in his first over . 49.6 Ishant to Mathews , FOUR , a full toss from Ishant , Mathews swings hard , splits long-on and deep mid-wicket to perfection. He 's not happy with himself though , maybe he wanted to sign off with a maximum ! 49.5 Ishant to Dhammika , 1 run , hops and taps the short of length delivery wide of to backward point. 50-run stand is up with that single 49.4 Ishant to Dhammika , no run , wow ! That 's a great ball ! Dhammika was totally surprised by this sharp bumper , just about managed to sway out of the line , despite getting into an awkward position 49.4 Ishant to Mathews , no ball , 1 run , free-hit coming up ! Ishant has trespassed that line again. Yorker length on the stumps , Mathews drills it to long-on 49.3 Ishant to Dhammika , 1 run , another full toss on the leg stump , but this time , Dhammika mistimes the flick and it rolls slowly to mid-wicket 49.2 Ishant to Dhammika , FOUR , Ishant is not happy with himself ! A friendly full toss from Ishant and credit to Dhammika for not trying to swing hard at it. His emphasis was more on placement and gently flicked it past the man at mid-wicket 49.1 Ishant to Mathews , 1 run , yorker on the leg stump , Mathews walks forward and flicks it to square leg Can Mathews complete his hundred in the last over ? The Indians are bowling well though . 48.6 U Yadav to Dhammika , FOUR , well done Dhammika ! He goes across the stumps to this short of length delivery and tickles it way very fine to the fine leg fence 48.5 U Yadav to Dhammika , no run , bumper , one for the over says the umpire. Dhammika does n't want to risk playing at it , simply ducks under it 48.4 U Yadav to Mathews , 1 run , Mathews gives the charge to go big , but he yorks himself up 48.3 U Yadav to Dhammika , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Dhammika fails to glance , the ball rolls behind square 48.2 U Yadav to Mathews , 1 run , low full toss , Mathews ca n't get under it , flicked straight to deep mid-wicket 48.1 U Yadav to Dhammika , 1 run , yorker again , this time , Dhammika digs it out to mid-wicket 48.1 U Yadav to Dhammika , wide , oh ! That was so close to the leg stump. Dhammika moved off-side , Umesh tried to ping him with a yorker at the base of the leg stump but just got it wrong 47.6 Ishant to Dhammika , leg byes , 1 run , short delivery on the leg stump , Dhammika gets hit on the body. No harm done though 47.5 Ishant to Dhammika , no run , bumper on the off stump , Dhammika comfortably sits under it 47.4 Ishant to Dhammika , 2 runs , slower ball not picked by Dhammika , but he 's managed to scoop this into the vacant deep mid-wicket , where the ball plugs before the fielder retrieved it 47.3 Ishant to Dhammika , 2 runs , low full toss on the leg stump , Dhammika flicks it to deep backward square leg 47.2 Ishant to Dhammika , no run , short delivery on the off stump , Dhammika drops his wrists and lets it go 47.1 Ishant to Mathews , 1 run , Ishant sticks to round the wicket and delivers a fantastic yorker on the off stump , Mathews could only dig it out to long-off 46.6 U Yadav to Mathews , 1 run , a fine yorkish length on the leg stump , Mathews flicks it to deep mid-wicket 46.5 U Yadav to Dhammika , 1 run , goes across the sticks , Umesh delivers another slower ball , Dhammika taps it wide of the bowler , waits for it to pass him and responds to Mathews ' call for a single 46.5 U Yadav to Dhammika , 1 run , to mid wicket, 46.4 U Yadav to Dhammika , no run , Umesh deceives Dhammika completely with a very good slower ball outside off stump 46.3 U Yadav to Mathews , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Mathews flicks it through backward square leg 46.2 U Yadav to Mathews , leg byes , 2 runs , full and on the pads , Mathews fails to glance , the ball rolls to fine leg off the pad 46.1 U Yadav to Dhammika , 1 run , a fantastic yorker on the off stump , Dhammika digs it out to point 46.1 U Yadav to Dhammika , wide , full and down the leg-side , easy call for the umpire Umesh starts from round the wicket . 45.6 Ishant to Dhammika , 1 run , round the wicket , short of length delivery outside off stump , Dhammika guides it to third man 45.5 Ishant to Dhammika , 2 runs , Dhammika is playing a nice hand here ! Full and wide outside off stump , he opens the face of the bat and drives it past backward point , Umesh runs to his right from third man and slides to push the ball , he gets rid of it before coming in contact with the rope. The third umpire says he 's happy with Umesh 's effort 45.4 Ishant to Mathews , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Mathews drives it to long-off 45.3 Ishant to Dhammika , 1 run , nicely opens the face of the bat and guides the short of length delivery down to third man 45.2 Ishant to Dhammika , FOUR , top hit ! Length on offer from Ishant after switching to over the wicket and Dhammika does n't miss out. He allows the ball to come and drives handsomely over cover 45.1 Ishant to Mathews , 1 run , a fine low full toss just outside off stump , Mathews could only push it to long-off 45.1 Ishant to Mathews , no ball , oops ! Ishant oversteps and a free-hit comes Mathews ' way. Sensibly , he denies the single , despite digging out this yorker to mid-wicket Ishant Sharma [ 7.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 U Yadav to Dhammika , no run , short of length delivery down the leg-side , Dhammika fails to tickle it away. It was so close to being called a wide 44.5 U Yadav to Dhammika , FOUR , crashed ! Full and in the slot from Umesh , Dhammika swings it uppishly wide of cover to open his boundary account 44.4 U Yadav to Mathews , 1 run , full and on the off stump , Mathews drives it down to long-off 44.4 U Yadav to Mathews , wide , tries to follow Mathews as he backs away but sprays this yorker down the leg-side 44.3 U Yadav to Dhammika , 1 run , Dhammika is slightly surprised by this bumper , but he manages to hop and fend it to square leg 44.2 U Yadav to Dhammika , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Dhammika defends off the back foot 44.1 U Yadav to Mathews , 1 run , full delivery from round the wicket on the leg stump from round the wicket , Mathews flicks it to deep mid-wicket Umesh Yadav [ 7.0-1-33-2 ] is back into the attack It 's a good comeback from Ashwin. He ends 10-1-49-2. Remember , his first over went for 18 runs . 43.6 Ashwin to Dhammika , no run , Ash signs off with a wicket-maiden. Dhammika just about manages to read the carrom ball off the deck to keep it out 43.5 Ashwin to Dhammika , no run , the carrom ball this time , Dhammika pushes it into the off-side 43.4 Ashwin to Dhammika , no run , right on the off stump , blocked nicely 43.3 Ashwin to Dhammika , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Dhammika defends off the front foot Dhammika Prasad , right handed bat , comes to the crease Kohli has employed a slip and leg-slip now . 43.2 Ashwin to Randiv , out Bowled ! ! Nice stuff Ash ! Saw Randiv back away and slowed it up nicely , Randiv was way too early into the attempted drive and he did not get in line with the ball. The batsman almost overbalanced and missed it. Eventually , the ball hit the top of off stump. Can Sri Lanka bat all 50 overs ? Randiv b Ashwin 10 ( 13 ) [ 4s-1 ] Ashwin to Randiv , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 43.1 Ashwin to Randiv , no run , Randiv 's attempted reverse sweep goes all wrong as it hits the glove Ravichandran Ashwin [ 9.0-0-49-1 ] is back into the attack Axar Patel ends , 10-1-39-2. Sensational bowling display . 42.6 A Patel to Randiv , 1 run , fullish outside off stump , Randiv pushes it to sweeper cover A delay as the umpires lost count of a ball. There is one more ball to be delivered and Axar is ready now ! 42.5 A Patel to Randiv , 2 runs , full on the stumps , Randiv flicks it to deep mid-wicket and he returns for the second 42.4 A Patel to Randiv , FOUR , unlucky for Axar. Maybe , Jadeja could take a leaf out of Axar 's book. Even though Axar is prepared to dart the ball in , he is not afraid to slow it up as well. He did so on this occasion but a cheeky outside edge beat the keeper 42.3 A Patel to Randiv , 2 runs , Randiv lifts this just over the man at mid-on and it 's good enough for a couple of runs 42.2 A Patel to Randiv , no run , Randiv advances and yorks himself up , but manages to dig it out 42.1 A Patel to Mathews , 1 run , Wasim Akram would be proud of this delivery ! A toe-crusher from a spinner ? Mathews skipped down the wicket to go big , but Axar fired it on his boot to keep him calm 41.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 1 run , taps it to point and sets off for a sharp run 41.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Randiv , 1 run , flatter delivery on the leg stum , punched to long-on 41.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Randiv , no run , huge cry from Jaddu for LBW , he is pleading for a wicket here and it 's a top call from umpire Kulkarni. The low full toss hit Randiv 's bat before it hit the pad as he failed to paddle-sweep the ball 41.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 3 runs , lovely chip just over mid-wicket , Umesh Yadav runs around from long-on , puts in the dive and saves one for his side. Meanwhile , the batsmen return for the third 41.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Mathews pushes it to Jadeja 41.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , faster delivery outside off stump , Mathews defends it tentatively towards the bowler 40.6 A Patel to Randiv , no run , what ? Wicket-maiden at this stage ? Take a bow Axar Patel ! Ends the over with a flatter delivery on the off stump , Randiv defends it back to the bowler 40.5 A Patel to Randiv , no run , widish outside off stump , driven to cover 40.4 A Patel to Randiv , no run , Randiv watchfully plays it into the off-side 40.3 A Patel to Randiv , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Randiv defends off the front foot Suraj Randiv , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.2 A Patel to T Perera , out Bowled ! ! Knocked him over. Another fired in , almost into the block-hole , Perera could n't get under it as he tried a big hit , the ball hit the pad and ricocheted onto the sticks. This is a massive blow for Sri Lanka. They needed Perera to be at the crease as he has the ability to hit the ball long and hard. T Perera b A Patel 10 ( 11 ) [ 6s-1 ] A Patel to T Perera , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 40.1 A Patel to T Perera , no run , wow ! Axar has fired in a pin-point yorker , which Thisara could only dig out Akshar Patel [ 8.0-0-29-1 ] is back into the attack That was a dreadful over from Jadeja. Not one ball was bowled slower than 92kph. Got to vary your pace when you are a spinner . 39.6 Ravindra Jadeja to T Perera , 1 run , turning into the pads , Perera nurdles it to to deep square leg and retains strike. Very productive over for Sri Lanka , they scored 20 runs off it 39.5 Ravindra Jadeja to T Perera , SIX , Perera joins in , flighted delivery outside off , Perera had the width to free his arms , he sends the ball sailing straight over the bowler 's head for a maximum 39.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 1 run , flatter and on off , Mathews jams it to the off-side and takes the single 39.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , FOUR , third boundary in a row and all three have come in the same region , Mathews once again walks across and sweeps , he did n't middle it as well as the first two , but got the gap between short fine and backward square 39.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , FOUR , back-to-back boundaries , this is good calculated batting from the skipper , there is no one at backward square , Mathews goes across and sweeps it over square leg 39.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , FOUR , lovely shot ! Tossed up on off and middle , Mathews shuffles across his stumps , kneels down and sweeps it behind square for a boundary 38.6 Ashwin to T Perera , no run , floated up on off , Perera pushes it back to the bowler. End of another tidy over , only 2 runs came off it 38.5 Ashwin to T Perera , no run , pushed through on off , Perera can only work it as far as mid-wicket 38.4 Ashwin to T Perera , no run , flighted close to off , Perera dabs it in front of backward point 38.3 Ashwin to Mathews , 1 run , tossed up on off , Mathews gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 38.2 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , gives this plenty of air outside off , Mathews misses the late cut , he did n't have the pace to work with 38.1 Ashwin to T Perera , 1 run , straighter one on middle , Perera gets across the stumps and nurdles it to backward square leg Ravichandran Ashwin [ 8.0-0-47-1 ] is back into the attack 37.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , floated up on off , Mathews stays in the crease and turns it to mid-wicket 37.5 Ravindra Jadeja to T Perera , 1 run , round-armish delivery on the pads , Perera clips it behind square for a single 37.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 1 run , quicker and on the stumps , Mathews works it wristily to long-on 37.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , tosses it up close to off , Mathews presses forward and blocks 37.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , flatter and on off , Mathews whips it straight to the man at mid-wicket 37.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , flighted on off , Mathews drops it in front of cover 36.6 Ishant to T Perera , no run , back of a length around off , Perera guides it with an open face to backward point 36.5 Ishant to Mathews , 1 run , low full toss on off , Mathews drives it down to long-on 36.4 Ishant to Mathews , no run , slower delivery on off , Mathews whips it to mid-wicket , this time Perera took off for the single and has to dive back in as Kohli fires at the bowler 's end 36.3 Ishant to Mathews , no run , back of a length on off , Mathews knocks it to the right of the bowler , he wanted the single but Perera was ball watching , Virat comes across from mid-wicket and fields the ball. Mathews is not happy with Perera and has a word with him 36.2 Ishant to Mathews , no run , good length ball angling in , Mathews comes half forward and turns it to mid-wicket 36.1 Ishant to T Perera , 1 run , short of length on leg-stump , Perera tucks it off the back foot to deep fine leg Thisara Perera , left handed bat , comes to the crease The batting powerplay has come to an end and it is India who have taken advantage of it. They have given away only 30 runs and have taken 3 wickets . 35.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , out Priyanjan Run Out ! ! 1 run completed. Poor cricket from Sri Lanka. There was never a second run in it. Rayudu seems to be everywhere on the field. This is the third dismissal he has been involved in. Flighted delivery on off , Mathews leans forward and turns it with soft hands towards mid-wicket , Rayudu swoops in and sends in a flat throw , Jaddu does the rest. The third umpire was not required as Priyanjan was not even in the frame. Priyanjan run out ( Rayudu/Ravindra Jadeja ) 1 ( 2 ) Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 35.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Priyanjan , 1 run , quicker and on the stumps , Priyanjan comes down the track , flicks it off the inside part of the bat to backward square leg 35.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Priyanjan , no run , pushed through on middle , Priyanjan ekes out an inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls to the leg-side Ashan Priyanjan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 35.3 Ravindra Jadeja to S Prasanna , out Caught by Rayudu ! ! Another batsman who picks out a fielder in the deep. It was a repeat of the previous shot , but this time Prasanna picks out the fielder to perfection. Rayudu had a slight problem sighting the ball as he was looking into the sun , but managed to take it. That shot was not required as he had got a boundary off the last ball. S Prasanna c Rayudu b Ravindra Jadeja 13 ( 14 ) [ 4s-1 6s-1 ] Ravindra Jadeja to S Prasanna , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 35.2 Ravindra Jadeja to S Prasanna , FOUR , bad delivery from Jadeja , drifts onto the pads , Prasanna had ample time to pick his spot , he bends his front knee and sweeps it behind square for a boundary 35.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 1 run , Mathews shuffles across to target the cow corner region , Jaddu bowls it well wide of off , Mathews drops it in front of cover and takes a single Drinks are on the field now ! 34.6 Ishant to Mathews , leg byes , 1 run , splays onto the pads , Mathews fails to get bat on ball , takes a leg-bye as the ball rolls towards short fine 34.5 Ishant to Mathews , FOUR , that is a Mathews special. We have seen him play this shot quite often. Gives the charge and converts it into a length delivery , drills it between extra cover and mid-off , the power behind that takes it to the fence 34.4 Ishant to S Prasanna , 1 run , shortish and just outside off , Prasanna flat-bats it over the bowlers head , he did n't middle this either , the mid-on fielder tidies up 34.3 Ishant to S Prasanna , no run , back of a length on off , Prasanna plays it awkwardly towards mid-wicket , he was shaping to play the heave , decides against it at the last moment. The bat almost slips out of his hands , Ishant goes up and has few words with him 34.2 Ishant to S Prasanna , SIX , this time he connects and gets the maximum result. Another short delivery and the line is on leg-stump , Prasanna hooks and the ball flies over the fine leg fence Mathews goes up and has a word with Prasanna , who has tried to play too many shots . 34.1 Ishant to S Prasanna , no run , starts the new spell with a bouncer outside off , Prasanna takes it on , he is nowhere close to making contact Ishant Sharma [ 5.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , FOUR , Mathews completes his 23rd ODI fifty. Brings the milestone with superb shot , gives himself some room , lofts it inside out over extra-cover. He just about managed to clear the fielder 33.5 Ravindra Jadeja to S Prasanna , 1 run , flighted on the middle , Prasanna sweeps it over the in-field , the ball drops well short of the deep square leg fielder 33.4 Ravindra Jadeja to S Prasanna , no run , flatter and aimed at the stumps , Prasanna works it to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 33.3 Ravindra Jadeja to S Prasanna , no run , repeat of the previous ball , he is trying to hit the ball too hard and hence not getting connecting 33.2 Ravindra Jadeja to S Prasanna , no run , fired onto the leg-stump , Prasanna misses the sweep and is struck on the pads 33.1 Ravindra Jadeja to S Prasanna , no run , comes down the track and defends it to mid-wicket Ravindra Jadeja [ 5.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 U Yadav to Mathews , no run , shortens the length on the fourth stump , Mathews dabs it straight to point 32.5 U Yadav to S Prasanna , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Prasanna guides it down to third man with an open bat face 32.4 U Yadav to S Prasanna , no run , angled into the pads , Prasanna does n't take full toll of it , misses the whip and wears it on the thigh pad 32.3 U Yadav to S Prasanna , no run , short of length around off , Prasanna rides the bounce and taps it to the off-side Seekkuge Prasanna , right handed bat , comes to the crease 32.2 U Yadav to Sangakkara , out Caught by Dhawan ! ! Another tame dismissal. It is not the first time he has perished to a high full toss against India. Remember him losing control of his bat to a RP Singh full toss and dragging his bat onto the stumps. It was a full toss on off , Sangakkara lofts it straight down the throat of Dhawan at long-on. Umpires checked for the height of the delivery , its fine and he was given the marching orders. Sangakkara c Dhawan b U Yadav 61 ( 86 ) [ 4s-4 ] U Yadav to Sangakkara , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Sanga has been caught. The umpires are checking for a possible waist high no-ball. No issue with the front foot. The replays show that it was below the waist. Sanga has to go ! 32.1 U Yadav to Sangakkara , no run , too full and outside off , Sangakkara backs away and squeezes it to extra-cover 31.6 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted outside off , Sangakkara goes for the drive , the ball takes the inside half of the bat and dribbles to long-on 31.5 Ashwin to Mathews , 1 run , carrom ball close to off , Mathews read it off the pitch and steers it to short third man 31.4 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , pushed through on off , Sangakkara punches to mid-off , takes the single as the fielder was on the edge of the circle 31.3 Ashwin to Sangakkara , no run , floated up outside off , the length was short , Sangakkara goes for the cut , ends up chopping it into the off-side 31.2 Ashwin to Mathews , 1 run , tosses it up generously , Mathews moves forward and eases it to long-on 31.1 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted on off , Sangakkara presses forward and nudges it to deepish mid-wicket Ravichandran Ashwin [ 7.0-0-42-1 ] is back into the attack Sri Lanka have taken the batting powerplay. Both batsmen are set and it is a good decision to take it now. Can they take advantage of it ? We will find out soon. . 30.6 U Yadav to Sangakkara , 1 run , shortish and angling in , Sangakkara whips it behind square for a single 30.5 U Yadav to Mathews , 1 run , short of length on off , Mathews drops it in front of point and calls for a quick single , Sanga had to hurry , he dives to get inside the crease , Rahane failed to hit the timber at the striker 's end 30.4 U Yadav to Mathews , FOUR , Mathews did not get it off the middle but he would be happy with the end result. Umesh saw him coming down the wicket , bangs it in short , Mathews plays the flat-batted shot , the ball hits high on the bat and goes over extra-cover 30.3 U Yadav to Mathews , no run , back of a length just outside off , Mathews punches and picks out the man at cover-point to perfection 30.2 U Yadav to Mathews , FOUR , poor delivery , ca n't bowl there to any batsmen. Strays onto the pads , Mathews uses the pace of the bowler and glances it to the fine leg fence , no chance for the fielder in the deep 30.1 U Yadav to Sangakkara , 1 run , Umesh starts from round the wicket , bowls it full and on off , Sangakkara goes for the heave , gets it off the inside part of the bat and the ball rolls to wide long-on Umesh Yadav [ 5.0-1-21-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , 1 run , floated up close to off , Sangakkara leans forward and eases it to long-on 29.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , no run , quicker and outside off , Sangakkara knocks it towards point , Mathews wanted the single but Sanga sends him back before the throw came in 29.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , FOUR , lovely shot ! Three fielders on the fence on the leg-side and he still managed to find the gap. Tossed up delivery on off , Sangakkara shimmies down the pitch , lofts it to the deep mid wicket fence , split the two fielders to perfection 29.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 1 run , flatter and just outside off , Mathews dabs it wide of backward point 29.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , wide , fired well down the leg-side , Mathews ca n't reach it and wide given 29.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , Mathews was making room , wanted to play the inside out drive , Jaddu was clever as he did n't give the width , Mathews has to defend to the left of the bowler 29.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , pushes it through on off , Mathews bunts it to cover 28.6 Ashwin to Mathews , 1 run , tossed up on off and middle , Mathews leans forward and nudges it to deep mid-wicket 28.5 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , tries to play the reverse sweep again , it was bit quicker and he missed , the ball strikes the pads and rolls to the off-side 28.4 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , nice loopy delivery on off , Mathews stays low and turns it in front of mid-wicket 28.3 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , floated up on off , Mathews defends it back to the bowler 28.2 Ashwin to Mathews , FOUR , a much needed boundary and needed some improvisation from Mathews. Flighted delivery outside off , Mathews reverse sweeps , he does n't get it off the middle but hits the gap , the ball runs away to the third man fence 28.1 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , throws this up gently around off , Mathews presses forward and jabs it to the on-side Ravichandran Ashwin [ 6.0-0-37-1 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , no run , darted into the blockhole , Sangakkara jams it back to the bowler. Only 3 runs have come of the last 2 overs . 27.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , no run , fired outside off , Sangakkara misses the paddle and is rapped on the pads , the impact was well wide of off 27.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , 2 runs , Sanga completes 87th ODI fifty , his 18th against India. Flighted on the stumps , Sangakkara chips it to wide long-on and comes back easily for the second 27.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , no run , too full and on off , Sangakkara digs it back to the bowler 27.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , no run , floated up outside off , Sangakkara misses the sweep , he was undone by the extra bounce , good take by Saha 27.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , no run , gives this enough air outside off , Sangakkara rolls his wrists and knocks it to Jadeja 26.6 A Patel to Mathews , no run , flatter and on off , Mathews stays leg-side and punches it to extra cover 26.5 A Patel to Mathews , no run , pushed through close to off , Mathews dabs it to cover-point , wanted the single but Sanga sends him back 26.4 A Patel to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted outside off , Sangakkara leans forward and plays a free flowing drive to sweeper cover 26.3 A Patel to Sangakkara , no run , slower and on off , Sangakkara knocks it gently towards mid-wicket , Virat runs across and stops the single 26.2 A Patel to Sangakkara , no run , fired in on the legs , Sangakkara misses the clip and is hit on the pads , the ball pitched outside leg-stump 26.1 A Patel to Sangakkara , no run , too full and on the stumps , Sangakkara squeezes it to mid-wicket 25.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , fraction quicker and on off , Mathews comes down the track , ekes out an inside edge onto the pads , the ball rolls in front of cover 25.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , 1 run , paddles the tossed up delivery to long leg and takes a single 25.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , 2 runs , nice gentle full toss , Sangakkara skips out of the crease and lifts it over mid-wicket , the ball goes towards widish long-on , Ishant runs across , slides and makes an excellent stop , saved two runs for the team 25.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , no run , floated up outside off , Sangakkara fetches it from there , under-edges the sweep to the on-side 25.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 1 run , slows it up considerably , Mathews was early into the shot , he checks it and the ball goes uppishly to long-off 25.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , 1 run , tossed up on off , Sangakkara bends his knee and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 24.6 A Patel to Mathews , no run , quicker and attacking the stumps , Mathews has no other option than to play it back to Axar 24.5 A Patel to Sangakkara , 1 run , floats it up on leg-stump , Sangakkara works it with soft hands to square leg , he called for two but has to settle with one 24.4 A Patel to Mathews , 1 run , tossed up on middle and leg , Mathews gets to the pitch and eases it to long-on 24.3 A Patel to Mathews , no run , bit short and outside off , Mathews dabs it towards point , where Raina makes a fine diving stop 24.2 A Patel to Mathews , no run , slower and on off , Mathews pushes it back to the bowler 24.1 A Patel to Sangakkara , 1 run , pushed through around off , Sangakkara knocks it wide of cover and pinches a quick single Akshar Patel [ 6.0-0-25-1 ] is back into the attack 23.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , too full and on off , Mathews leans forward and clips it to mid-wicket 23.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , another ball that is hit straight back to the bowler. Nice wicket-to-wicket stuff from Jaddu 23.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , floated on the stumps , Mathews knocks it to the right of the bowler 23.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , no run , turns it with the incoming angle to mid-wicket 23.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , 1 run , flighted just outside off , Sangakkara drives it to long-off 23.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 1 run , quicker on leg-stump , Mathews pushes it to long-on 22.6 Ishant to Mathews , 1 run , back of a length close to off , Mathews drops it in front of point and takes off for a sharp run , Jadeja gets to the ball quickly and fires a bullet throw at the bowlers end , he misses and Mathews survives 22.5 Ishant to Sangakkara , 1 run , Ishant is not getting his line right to Sanga , drifts onto the pads , Sangakkara glances it to down to fine leg. That was the third consecutive ball that he has bowled on the pads 22.4 Ishant to Mathews , 1 run , tad short and outside off , Mathews has ample time to go back and punch it to the left of mid-off , Dhawan dives and makes a fine stop 22.3 Ishant to Sangakkara , 1 run , too straight , strays onto the pads , Sangakkara nurdles it to deep fine leg 22.2 Ishant to Mathews , 1 run , shortens the length outside off , Mathews rides the bounce and punches it to sweeper cover 22.1 Ishant to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length on middle and leg , Sangakkara gets inside the line and tucks it to fine leg Ishant Sharma [ 4.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , 1 run , excellent cricket , flighted on off , Sangakkara drops it in front of point and calls for the single , gets the required response from Mathews as well 21.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 1 run , angled in with the arm , Mathews eases it to long-on 21.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , 1 run , dabs the quicker delivery wide of backward point and sets off immediately for the single 21.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , FOUR , the runs are starting to flow , fired well wide of off , Sangakkara gets a good stride forward and slashes it with an open face to deep backward point , the ball races away to the fence 21.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Mathews , 1 run , drifting onto the pads , Mathews leans forward and nurdles it to deep backward square leg 21.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Sangakkara , 1 run , floated up outside off , Sangakkara drives to the left of cover , Virat makes a half stop and parries it to long-off Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 20.6 A Patel to Sangakkara , 1 run , fraction short and outside off , Sangakkara cuts it square of the wicket for a single. Sanga reaches 1000 ODI runs in India 20.5 A Patel to Mathews , 1 run , flighted on middle and leg , Mathews leans forward and clips it to backward square leg 20.4 A Patel to Sangakkara , 1 run , half tracker outside off , Sangakkara goes back and cuts it to sweeper cover 20.3 A Patel to Mathews , 1 run , sliding onto the pads , Mathews goes deep in the crease and nurdles it behind square on the leg-side 20.2 A Patel to Mathews , no run , slower and on the stumps , Mathews taps it to the leg-side 20.1 A Patel to Mathews , FOUR , Mathews has decided that it is time to up the ante , shimmies down the track to this flighted delivery , lofts it over mid-wicket , he did n't get it off the middle but the ball had enough to reach the rope 19.6 Ashwin to Mathews , 1 run , tosses it up just outside off , Mathews moves across and eases it to long-on 19.5 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , Mathews gets to the pitch of the ball and nudges it to mid-wicket , finds Virat 19.4 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Mathews bunts it to the on-side 19.3 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , flighted on off and middle , Mathews stays low and works it to mid-wicket 19.2 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , slower and on the stumps , Mathews knocks it to the right of the bowler 19.1 Ashwin to Mathews , SIX , well calculated shot by the skipper , he knew there was no one at deep backward square , went down on his knee and sweeps it over the in-field , the ball carries the distance 18.6 A Patel to Mathews , 1 run , flatter and on off , Mathews hangs back and punches it to long-off 18.5 A Patel to Mathews , no run , flighted on off , Mathews comes well forward and blocks 18.4 A Patel to Sangakkara , leg byes , 1 run , stifled appeal for lbw , but it was nowhere close to being given out , quicker and on leg-stump , Sangakkara misses the sweep and is struck on the pads , the ball pitched outside leg , the ball dribbles towards square leg 18.3 A Patel to Mathews , 1 run , Mathews comes down the track , converts it into a full toss and whips it to mid-on , takes off for a quick single , the fielder was slow to react , Mathews had made it in before the throw came in 18.2 A Patel to Sangakkara , 1 run , straigher one outside off , Sangakkara cuts it in front of square for a single 18.1 A Patel to Sangakkara , FOUR , very poor delivery from Axar , darted in on leg-stump , Sangakkara kneels down and sweeps it fine , no chance for the deep backward square fielder. It is the first boundary in 50 balls 17.6 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , the slider around off , Sangakkara stays leg-side of the ball and punches it to sweeper cover 17.5 Ashwin to Sangakkara , no run , gently tossed up around off , Sangakkara pushes it back to the bowler 17.4 Ashwin to Mathews , 1 run , this time he hits the gap , drives it along the ground to long-on 17.3 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , again , ca n't pierce the leg-side field , nudges and finds the man at square leg 17.2 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , flicks it with the turn to Virat at mid-wicket 17.1 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , Sanga leans forward to the flighted delivery and drives it to long-off 16.6 A Patel to Mathews , no run , pushed through close to off , Mathews punches it back to the bowler 16.5 A Patel to Mathews , no run , fired onto the pads , Mathews clips and picks out backward square 16.4 A Patel to Mathews , no run , goes on with the arm , Mathews crouches low and turns it to mid-wicket 16.3 A Patel to Mathews , no run , floated up on off , Mathews knocks it back to the bowler 16.2 A Patel to Mathews , 2 runs , drops it slightly short and outside off , Mathews camps on the back foot and cuts square of the wicket for a brace 16.1 A Patel to Mathews , no run , flighted on off , Mathews drives it softly to the left of Axar Time for a drinks break. . 15.6 Ashwin to Mathews , 1 run , floated up on the stumps , Mathews drives it down to long-on 15.5 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , touch quicker and outside off , Sangakkara presses forward and drives to sweeper cover 15.4 Ashwin to Sangakkara , no run , floated on off , Sangakkara push-drives it back to Ashwin 15.3 Ashwin to Mathews , 1 run , flighted on off and middle , Mathews eases it past a diving bowler and mid-wicket fielder 15.2 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , waits for the ball to turn and works it towards mid-wicket , ca n't beat the fielder 15.1 Ashwin to Mathews , no run , straighter one on the stumps , Mathews defends it down the wicket 14.6 A Patel to Sangakkara , no run , slower and on off , Sangakkara pushes it to the left of the bowler 14.5 A Patel to Sangakkara , no run , drags the length back , Sangakkara hangs back and knocks it to the right of the bowler 14.4 A Patel to Mathews , 1 run , flighted on off , Mathews gets to the pitch of the ball and drives to long-off 14.3 A Patel to Mathews , no run , tossed up on off , Mathews comes half forward and defends solidly 14.2 A Patel to Sangakkara , 1 run , full and on leg-stump , Sangakkara helps it on its way to long leg with a sweep 14.1 A Patel to Sangakkara , no run , turns it with the spin to mid-wicket , straight to the fielder 13.6 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter on off , Sangakkara goes deep in the crease and punches it to long-on Angelo Mathews , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.5 Ashwin to M Jayawardene , out Caught by Rayudu ! ! A soft dismissal ! Ashwin strikes and India have got the second big fish. It was a well tossed up delivery on middle , Jayawardene moves across and chips it , the timing on that was so good that it carried till deep mid-wicket , Rayudu runs forward and completes a very good catch. M Jayawardene c Rayudu b Ashwin 4 ( 11 ) Ashwin to M Jayawardene , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 13.4 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , pushes it through on off , Sangakkara knocks it to long-off for a comfortable single 13.3 Ashwin to Sangakkara , no run , goes on with the angle from round the wicket , Sangakkara gets inside the line and glances it to short fine , could not get it finer 13.2 Ashwin to M Jayawardene , 1 run , too straight , drifts onto the pads , Jayawardene clips it to deep backward square leg 13.1 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , tosses it up outside off , Sangakkara comes down the track and drives to long-off 12.6 A Patel to Sangakkara , 1 run , flatter and on off , Sangakkara punches it down the ground to long-on 12.5 A Patel to M Jayawardene , 1 run , a better throw would have made matters interesting , MJ knocks it to the left of cover and calls for a risky single , Virat swoops in and sends a wayward throw , Sanga was diving in to reach the crease 12.4 A Patel to M Jayawardene , no run , flighted on off , Jayawardene pushes it gently to cover 12.3 A Patel to M Jayawardene , no run , Axar shouted " catch it " , but Saha could n't get there. Slower on middle and leg , Jayawardene looks to tuck it through the on-side , misses and the ball lobs off the pads. There was no inside edge or bat involved 12.2 A Patel to Sangakkara , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Sangakkara stays back and cuts to sweeper cover 12.1 A Patel to M Jayawardene , 1 run , quicker and outside off , Jayawardene eases it off the front foot to sweeper cover 11.6 Ashwin to M Jayawardene , 1 run , floated on off and middle , Jayawardene sweeps it to deep backward square leg 11.5 Ashwin to M Jayawardene , no run , the straight roller , Jayawardene plays for the turn and the ball dribbles off the outside half of the bat to cover 11.4 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , tosses it up outside off , Sangakkara leans into the drive to long-off 11.3 Ashwin to Sangakkara , no run , flighted around off , Sangakkara knocks it to cover 11.2 Ashwin to Sangakkara , no run , flat and on off , Sangakkara punches it back to the bowler 11.1 Ashwin to Sangakkara , no run , pushes it through on off , Sangakkara tries to drive , gets it off the inside part of the bat to mid-wicket 10.6 A Patel to M Jayawardene , no run , quicker and around off , Jayawardene waits for it and back cuts it to point , straight to the fielder 10.5 A Patel to M Jayawardene , no run , nice loopy delivery close to off , Jayawardene pushes it towards short cover 10.4 A Patel to M Jayawardene , no run , slows it up on off , Jayawardene comes half forward and knocks it back to Axar Mahela Jayawardene , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.3 A Patel to Dilshan , out Bowled ! ! Axar has picked up a wicket in his first over. Dilshan , who was looking dangerous , has to go back to the hut. It was a quicker one on the stumps , the ball straightened after pitching , Dilshan looked to cut the ball , he misses and the ball crashes into the off and middle stumps. Axar is very happy to get the breakthrough. Dilshan b A Patel 35 ( 30 ) [ 4s-7 ] A Patel to Dilshan , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 10.2 A Patel to Dilshan , 2 runs , comes down the track and works it to backward square leg off the back foot 10.1 A Patel to Dilshan , no run , flatter delivery around off , Dilshan dabs it towards backward point with an open face of the bat Akshar Patel , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack Dilshan has decided to remove his helmet. Axar comes round the wicket 18 runs came off the first Ashwin over . 9.6 Ashwin to Dilshan , 1 run , flatter and on the pads , Dilshan goes on the back foot and works it towards aquare leg to keep strike 9.5 Ashwin to Dilshan , FOUR , Dilshan is toying with Ashwin here , he goes down on one knee and sweeps this past backward square leg for the fourth boundary in a row 9.4 Ashwin to Dilshan , FOUR , another boundary for Dilshan. It was tossed up on middle stump , Dilshan comes down the track once again , he lofts it over the bowler 's head for another four Ashwin comes round the wicket now 9.3 Ashwin to Dilshan , FOUR , steps out of the crease and lofts this tossed up delivery around off straight down the ground , over the bowler 's head 9.2 Ashwin to Dilshan , FOUR , flighted delivery just outside off , Dilshan comes down the track and drives it through the cover region , the ball runs away to the deep extra-cover fence Ashwin comes over the wicket 9.1 Ashwin to Sangakkara , 1 run , tossed up on off , Sangakkara drives it towards cover , Sangakkara has to rush to the other end as Rahane at cover is quick to reach the ball and has a shy at the non-striker 's end , it would have been close had it been a direct-hit Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack There is a slip in place for Ashwin and he will start off from round the wicket 8.6 U Yadav to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Sangakkara pushes at it , the ball takes the thick outside half of the bat and dribbles away towards the third man fielder , Sangakkara will keep the strike 8.5 U Yadav to Sangakkara , no run , fullish and outside off , Sangakkara drives it to mid-off 8.4 U Yadav to Sangakkara , FOUR , bouncer from Umesh , Sangakkara looks to pull , he gets a top-edge and the ball goes very fine and crashes into the fence 8.3 U Yadav to Sangakkara , no run , fullish and on the pads , Sangakkara looks to clip it fine but ca n't connect , the ball hits the pad and there was an appeal , but the ball was going down leg with the angle 8.2 U Yadav to Sangakkara , no run , shortens his length a little , Sangakkara punches it to cover and sets off for a single , he rushes to the crease as Dilshan sends him back , the fielder had a shy at the stumps but Sanga was back in 8.1 U Yadav to Sangakkara , no run , fullish and wide of off , Sangakkara gets drawn in because of the width , he looks to drive it through the cover region but gets beaten as the ball goes past his outside edge Umesh comes round the wicket to Sangakkara . 7.6 Ishant to Dilshan , FOUR , poor delivery from Ishant to end the over , it was short and wide , Dilshan will not miss out on those , he cuts it past backward point and the ball runs away to the fence in a flash 7.5 Ishant to Dilshan , no run , on a good length and outside off , Dilshan drives it to mid-off 7.4 Ishant to Sangakkara , 1 run , bowls this one on the legs of Sangakkara , who quickly moves across and works it away to fine leg for a single 7.3 Ishant to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length delivery outside off , Dilshan looks to cut but the ball runs away towards third man off the bottom part of the bat There is a slip in place for Ishant 7.2 Ishant to Dilshan , no run , length delivery just outside off , Dilshan moves across and pushes at it , the ball rolls away towards mid-on off the inside half of the bat 7.1 Ishant to Dilshan , no run , on a good length and on off , Dilshan dabs it towards point 6.6 U Yadav to Dilshan , 1 run , fullish with a hint of movement away around off , Dilshan drives it towards cover , the short cover got a hand on it but the batsmen run through as the ball slowly dribbles away towards the cover fielder 6.5 U Yadav to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Dilshan tucks it away towards short mid-wicket , he sets off for a single but Sangakkara is not interested as the fielder was not too far away from the ball 6.4 U Yadav to Dilshan , no run , good length delivery on off , Dilshan bunts it towards short cover 6.3 U Yadav to Dilshan , no run , on a good length and outside off , Dilshan opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards point 6.2 U Yadav to Dilshan , no run , short delivery aimed at Dilshan , who mistimes the pull towards short mid-wicket Back to over the wicket 6.1 U Yadav to Sangakkara , 1 run , splays this one on the pads of Sangakkara , who is quick to shift his weight back and works it towards fine leg for a single Umesh Yadav comes round the wicket . 5.6 Ishant to Sangakkara , 1 run , touch fuller and on the pads , Sangakkara clips it behind square on the leg-side off the back foot 5.5 Ishant to Sangakkara , no run , another bumper around leg , Sangakkara ducks and lets it go 5.4 Ishant to Sangakkara , no run , Ishant has tumbled once again. It was back of a length delivery on off , Sangakkara goes on the back foot and punches it to the left of the bowler , who was down on the pitch after falling in his follow-through 5.3 Ishant to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Sangakkara comes right behind the line of the ball and gently works it into the on-side 5.2 Ishant to Sangakkara , no run , on a good length and on middle stump , Sangakkara turns it into the on-side , he thinks about a single but the batsmen decide against taking one 5.1 Ishant to Sangakkara , no run , tries a bumper on leg , Sangakkara thinks about pulling it but backs out of the shot at the last instance , the ball goes through to the keeper 4.6 U Yadav to Dilshan , no run , fullish and swinging away outside off , Dilshan looks to drive it through the cover region but gets beaten beacuse of the late movement 4.5 U Yadav to Sangakkara , 1 run , fullish and on off , Sangakkara pushes it in front of mid-off with soft hands , the batsmen pinch a quick single , it would have been interesting had the fielder collected it properly and thrown it at the non-striker 's end 4.5 U Yadav to Sangakkara , wide , short ball going down leg , Sangakkara looks to pull it but ca n't connect , the umpire calls it a wide 4.4 U Yadav to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery around off , Sangakkara pushes it to short cover 4.3 U Yadav to Sangakkara , no run , touch fuller and outside off , Sangakkara punches it towards cover 4.2 U Yadav to Sangakkara , 2 runs , back of a length delivery wide of off , Sangakkara stays back and cuts it past backward point , the batsmen run a couple before Ishant gets to the ball , he had to slide to keep the ball in play 4.1 U Yadav to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on middle stump , Sangakkara stays back and turns it towards short mid-wicket 3.6 Ishant to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Dilshan goes on the back foot and punches it towards point 3.5 Ishant to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Dilshan blocks as Ishant takes a tumble in his follow-through 3.4 Ishant to Sangakkara , 1 run , stays back in the crease and gently pushes it in front of mid-off , this time Sangakkara takes off for a single and gets to the other end in time 3.3 Ishant to Sangakkara , no run , back of a length delivery on middle , Sangakkara goes on the back foot and turns it towards backwards square leg , Sangakkara takes off for a single but Dilshan is quick to send him back as Jadeja was quick to reach the ball , Sangakkara has to put in the dive as Jadeja had a shy at the stumps 3.2 Ishant to Sangakkara , no run , fullish and outside off , Sangakkara shoulders arms 3.1 Ishant to Sangakkara , no run , short of length delivery aimed at the batsman , Sangakkara looks to work it on the on-side , the ball rolls away towards the off-side after Sangakkara closes the bat face a little too early 2.6 U Yadav to Sangakkara , 1 run , back of a length delivery on middle stump , Sangakkara moves across and works it towards backward square leg to keep the strike 2.5 U Yadav to Sangakkara , no run , touch fuller and around off , Sangakkara knocks it towards point 2.4 U Yadav to Dilshan , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the pads , Dilshan goes on the back foot and turns it towards backward square leg for a single 2.3 U Yadav to Dilshan , no run , full and moving away from the batsman , Dilshan looks to drive but the ball goes past his outside edge 2.2 U Yadav to Dilshan , FOUR , this is good batting from Dilshan. It was short of length and wide of off , Dilshan goes back in the crease and cuts it past backward point and beats the third man fielder as well , the ball crashes into the deep backward point fence 2.1 U Yadav to Dilshan , FOUR , great shot from Dilshan. It was a little full and outside off , Dilshan gets on top of the ball and slaps it past the cover region , the ball runs away to the deep extra-cover fence 1.6 Ishant to Sangakkara , no run , short of length delivery on off stump , Sangakkara gets right behind the line and blocks 1.5 Ishant to Dilshan , 1 run , first runs of the bat. It was back of a length delivery outside off , Dilshan was looking to leave the ball but changes his mind at the last moment , he opens the face of the bat and dabs it towards third man for a single 1.4 Ishant to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery outside off , Dilshan stays back in the crease and bunts it towards point 1.3 Ishant to Dilshan , no run , a touch fuller and outside off , the ball straightens after pitching , Dilshan looks to push at it , the ball goes past his outside edge and through to the keeper 1.2 Ishant to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery that swings in towards middle and leg , Dilshan gently turns it towards square leg 1.1 Ishant to Dilshan , no run , back of a length delivery that comes back in towards the batsman , Dilshan works it towards mid-wicket , he sets off for a single but Sangakkara sends him back as the fielder was quickly onto the ball 1.1 Ishant to Dilshan , wide , starts off with a poor delivery that 's going down leg , Dilshan looks to glance it fine but ca n't connect , the keeper dives to his left and saves some runs Kumar Sangakkara , left handed bat , comes to the crease Ishant Sharma , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Ishant Sharma will share the attack with Umesh Yadav. There are two slips in place for Ishant . 0.6 U Yadav to K Perera , out Lbw ! ! Perera is gone ! It was fullish on middle and leg , Perera looks to clip it away on the on-side , he misses and the ball hits him in line with the leg stump , there is a huge appeal from the bowler and the close in fielders , the umpire took his time but raised his finger to India 's delight. It was a good decision as the ball was going to hit the leg stump. K Perera lbw b U Yadav 0 ( 6 ) U Yadav to K Perera , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 0.5 U Yadav to K Perera , no run , fullish on off and moving in towards the batsman , Perera drives it back to the bowler off the inside half of the bat 0.4 U Yadav to K Perera , no run , fullish and on off , Perera drives to the right of the bowler , Umesh moves across to his right and dives to collect the ball 0.3 U Yadav to K Perera , no run , short of length delivery on off , Perera goes on the back foot and blocks it towards short cover 0.2 U Yadav to K Perera , leg byes , FOUR , fullish and swinging in towards the pads , Perera looks to tickle it fine but ca n't connect , the ball runs away to the fine leg fence after clipping the pad 0.1 U Yadav to K Perera , no run , back of a length delivery on off , Perera stays back in the crease and pushes it into the off-side K Perera and Dilshan are at the crease. K Perera is on strike. U Yadav will open the attack KJ Perera will take strike. Umesh Yadav will open the bowling with two slips in place . Dilshan and KJ Perera are walking out to the middle. Indian players are going through their catching drill near the pitch . The average first innings score in Ahmedabad since 2000 reads 259 . Teams : Sri Lanka ( Playing XI ) : Kushal Janith Perera , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Ashan Priyanjan , Thisara Perera , Seekkuge Prasanna , Suraj Randiv , Dhammika Prasad , Lahiru Gamage India ( Playing XI ) : Ajinkya Rahane , Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli ( c ) , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Wriddhiman Saha ( w ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Akshar Patel , Ravichandran Ashwin , Ishant Sharma , Umesh Yadav Virat Kohli : " We would have liked to bat first as well. The ball will turn a fair amount more than it did in Cuttack. The dew might not be a big factor. It will now be an even contest between the bat and ball. Ravindra Jadeja comes in for Varun Aaron. That 's the only change for us. " Angelo Mathews : " We will have a bat first. It looks a very good pitch and we want to put runs on the board. We did not have a good outing in the last game , but we want to set it right today. Kushal Janith replaces Tharanga. " Sri Lanka have won the toss and have opted to bat The two captains walk out for the toss. 'Heads ' is the call from Angelo . Pitch report : " The grass is quite solid and hard. The ball will come onto the bat nicely. There is enough to encourage the fast bowlers early on , there will be good lateral movement. There will be some help for the seamers because of the covering of grass. Despite that , it will get better for batting " reckon Michael Holding and Sunil Gavaskar The toss is imminent . Local lad , Axar Patel , looks set to play his first ODI in front of an enthusiastic home crowd , but whether Jaddu sits out again or takes Ashwin 's berth remains to be seen . India 's openers , Dhawan and Rahane , built much of the edifice for the mammoth win in Cuttack , scoring centuries each. Ishant Sharma , also shone , recording his hitherto career-best figures in ODI cricket. Kohli 's captaincy , highlighted by the aggressive move of taking the batting powerplay early , was another major plus. Meanwhile , Karnataka all-rounder , Stuart Binny , has been drafted in as a replacement for the injured Varun Aaron , who will miss this game and also the third ODI . Can the World T20I champs get on an even keel and draw level with the hosts ? Or will India continue their fine form ? Greetings and welcome to the second ODI between the Asian top dogs. Nuwan Kulasekara is likely to return and lend experience to the bowling attack. With Tharanga also struggling to get going , the visitors may recall Kushal Perera. Sri Lanka 's batting though can assume dangerous proportions if the big three - Sanga , Mahela and Dilshan - come good . After being outplayed by India in all departments in the opening ODI , Sril Lanka will be itching to shake off the rust and hit back. Though Angelo Mathews pinned the blame on the batsmen for the dismal loss , the bowlers and fielders were also found wanting. Sri Lanka 's fringe players will have to step up if they are to firm up their spots for the World Cup , which is exactly 99 days away . Preview After starting the series with a crushing victory , an upbeat India will aim to maintain their stranglehold over an under-prepared Sri Lanka when they meet in the second ODI at Ahmedabad on Thursday . Needless to say that India will be starting as overwhelming favourites at the Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera , having walloped the opponents by 169 runs in the opening match . India went into the series opener with their confidence boosted by back-to-back victories over West Indies at Delhi and Dharamsala , after a shock loss at Kochi in the series opener . Coming on as last-minute substitutes after West Indies pulled out of the series due to a payment dispute with their Board , nothing went right for the Islanders , who had to leave their fitness training programme midway to get ready for the India tour , in the Cuttack opener . The Lankan bowlers allowed the Indian openers - Ajinkya Rahane and Shikhar Dhawan - to put on a double-century ( 231-run ) stand , which also happened to be the third best for the country for the first wicket and was the platform for the tall Indian total . A dropped catch reprieved the left-handed Dhawan early on and after India raked up an imposing 363 for 5 , built mainly on the stroke-filled , individual hundreds from the two openers , the Lankan batting caved in meekly on a low bouncing wicket . For Lanka to make a match of it tomorrow , it 's imperative they restrict the rampaging Indian batting line-up from running up another big total if the hosts bat first . It 's in bowling that Lanka appear the weaker side especially without the services of slinger , Lasith Malinga and left-arm spinner Rangana Herath who are not with the touring party . The Sri Lanka batting-order has vast experience in the big three - Tilakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene - apart from Upul Tharanga , but a few of these batsmen have to fire big in unison to match the Indian batting might . India have fewer problems facing them in familiar home conditions. Rahane and Dhawan , having laid a perfect platform for the big total in the first game , are looking good , and with an in-form Virat Kohli and Suresh Raina to follow behind , the home team sports a formidable top-order . Dhawan , incidentally , is 124 short of completing 2000 runs in this format. In the absence of rested regular skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , the Indian lower-order does not possess the same firepower . It 's here that Sri Lanka 's slender hopes lie of dismissing the top four without allowing for too many runs to be put on the board and then getting a chance to nip steadily at the lower-order . The hosts ' pace bowling attack has seen a change following the leg injury sustained by Varun Aaron at Cuttack in his fifth over , which he could not complete. Aaron has been declared unfit for tomorrow 's game and the one after that on November 9 and has been replaced by Karnataka all-rounder , Stuart Binny . Mumbai 's Dhawal Kulkarni is also an option for the think-tank as the third seam bowler , but Stuart Binny , with better batting credentials , is also in with a chance . The Lankan batsmen struggled against Axar Patel , but the inexperienced left-arm spinner , included in place of Ravindra Jadeja , can expect a better battle from the likes of veteran batsmen Sangakkara and Jayawardene in the second ODI . Ravichandran Ashwin , though not looking at his best , would be his foil with part-timer Raina also expected to chip in if needed . India lost the last ODI game they played at this ground , against the West Indies by 16 runs nearly three years ago after tripping the then reigning champions Australia in the World Cup quarter-final in March , 2011 , at this venue on way to the coveted title . Otherwise , India do n't have an enviable record at this ground , having won only 6 out of 14 encounters they had figured in at the Motera Stadium , which should encourage the visitors. India did not feature in the other 9 matches held at this ground. This ground generally sports an easy-paced track and things are expected to continue in this respect . Teams : Sri Lanka ( From ) : Upul Tharanga , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( w ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Angelo Mathews ( c ) , Ashan Priyanjan , Thisara Perera , Seekkuge Prasanna , Suraj Randiv , Dhammika Prasad , Lahiru Gamage , Nuwan Kulasekara , Chaturanga de Silva , Kushal Janith Perera , Niroshan Dickwella India ( From ) : Ajinkya Rahane , Shikhar Dhawan , Virat Kohli ( c ) , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Wriddhiman Saha ( w ) , Stuart Binny , Akshar Patel , Ravichandran Ashwin , Ishant Sharma , Umesh Yadav , Ravindra Jadeja , Dhawal Kulkarni , Amit Mishra , Murali Vijay Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
