Ton-up Kane Williamson Helps New Zealand Crush Pakistan , Sweep ODI Series 2-0 Ton-up Kane Williamson Helps New Zealand Crush Pakistan , Sweep ODI Series 2-0 Kane Williamson top-scored with 112 as New Zealand crushed Pakistan by 119 runs in the second ODI and take the series 2-0 . Last updated on Tuesday , 03 February , 2015 16 : 21 IST Total Shares Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor shared a 79-run stand for the third wicket © AFP Napier : New Zealand flayed Pakistan 's attack on the way to a crushing 119-run win during the second one-day international in Napier on Tuesday. ( Scorecard ) The win means the Black Caps take the series 2-0 and maintain momentum ahead of this month 's World Cup , while Pakistan look in disarray after two poor displays . The New Zealanders ran riot after winning the toss and electing to bat , ending their innings at 369 for five , their highest ever score against Pakistan . Kane Williamson top-scored with 112 , Ross Taylor finished 102 not out with a boundary off the last ball and opener Martin Guptill also contributed 76 . In contrast , Pakistan medium pacer Bilawal Bhatti recorded the worst bowling figures in the country 's ODI history , leaking 93 runs off his ten overs without taking a wicket . Bhatti was far from the only underperformer and captain Misbah ul-Haq said his team needed to make huge improvements for the World Cup . " We 're nowhere near our best. We need to improve a lot in virtually everything , we need to improve our batting and bowling , and especially the death bowling. " His New Zealand counterpart Brendon McCullum was thrilled at his side 's form ahead of the tournament , where they are looming as a dark horse . " We 've got to be happy with where we 're at , " he said . " We 've played , I guess , a couple of perfect games. The challenge for us now is to maintain that freshness and momentum we 've built up. " The 369 total was the Black Caps ' fifth highest in one-day history , surpassed only by scores against second-tier nations Zimbabwe and Canada . Pakistan 's batsmen could only manage 250 in reply before they were bowled out in 43.1 overs , although they were chasing the game after a dismal bowling effort . Only Wahab Riaz in 2013 has conceded as many runs as Bhatti in 10 overs , but he at least took two wickets against South Africa . Ehsan Adil fared little better against the New Zealanders , taking one wicket but going for 8.5 an over . Mohammad Irfan was the sole bowler who appeared remotely threatening , finishing with two for 52 . With Pakistan 's front-line attack failing , captain ul-Haq was forced to call on his part-timers . But Younis Khan , Haris Sohail and Ahmed Shehzad had no answers , taking only one wicket between them at the cost of 93 runs . - Aggressive start - McCullum set the tone for the hosts with a typically aggressive cameo of 31 before Guptill and Williamson brought up New Zealand 's 100 off 18.2 overs . They both cruised to half centuries , with New Zealand on 152 at the half-way mark . Williamson stepped on the gas after Guptill was dismissed for 76 , moving from 63 to 100 in the space of eight overs . The 24-year old finally fell for 112 to Irfan but Ross Taylor then stepped in to club a 70-ball century in his 150th one-day international , smashing Bhatti onto the roof of the stands . Taylor appeared in danger of remaining stranded in the 90s in the final over , but a six and a four in the final two balls took him to 102 . Pakistan 's openers Mohammad Hafeez and Shehzad made an excellent start chasing down the mammoth total , notching half centuries at a little over a run a ball . Shehzad went for 52 dancing down the wicket to attack spinner Nathan McCullum but holing out to the man on the boundary . Younis Khan could only manage 11 as the run rate steadily crept higher , reaching almost 9.6 at the half-way mark . Hafeez ( 86 ) and dangerman Shahid Afridi ( 11 ) both went as they lashed out trying to lift the pace and when ul-Haq departed on 45 it was all over . Story first published on : Tuesday , 03 February 2015 11 : 04 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
