Graphs India continue to search for their first win since mid-November. On the other hand , Australia have just shown as to why they are the overwhelming favourites to lift the trophy once again. Tomorrow , there are 3 matches as the remaining teams dust-off their rustiness and get ready for the big stage. SCG will host England and West Indies. We will be back for that game. For now , cheers and bye. . Bailey : 'The hazy weather is good ( when asked about the cool night ) . Another very good performance , no other words to add. I think we can still improve , early wickets tonight would have been great. Would like Starc to catch with two hands ( laughs ) . We have a match against UAE , that 's a big game , we need to get used to the conditions before the England game - which will be a really big game starting the World Cup. Looking forward to the tournament.' Dhoni : 'It has been difficult for us. When the bowling clicks , the batsmen do n't and its vice-versa at other times. We tried a few things , some clicked , some did n't. We need to know our best XI before the match against Pakistan. We need to get the right team , the spinners do n't get a lot on these surfaces. It 's a very long tournament , we need to click together at the right time. So these losses are not a bad thing , but some wins will help the dressing room atmosphere get better. I had to play my shots , the ball was there to be hit and unfortunately , I found the fielder in the deep. Not too disappointed overall , we had a few positives and can only improve from now on.' Maxwell : 'It was a lot of fun. We set ourselves some benchmarks going into the World Cup , and I think we did pretty well today on that front. We have an excellent fielding unit , the boys are pushing each other , Warner got an excellent run-out. Good to hit some form with the bat , we have one more match going into the World Cup. When I was on 96 , Finchy came out with a note asking me to retire after my hundred , that was the message from the coach ( Darren Lehmann ) . I gave myself some time before getting going , it was a nice wicket to bat on. Looking forward to the actual tournament.' Glenn Maxwell is the MoM for his fine 122 A comprehensive victory from Australia. After their batsmen piled up the runs , their bowlers took turns in taking wickets. There were some positives for the Indians. Dhawan showed signs of returning to his best during his knock of 59 , Rahane , batting at four , showed plenty of encouraging signs , and was easily the best batsman on show. The Indian management will be concerned with the lack of runs from Raina and Dhoni , not to forget , the disappointments in the bowling unit. They have another match against Afghanistan on Tuesday , their last chance to iron out all their problems ahead of the mega tournament . 45.1 Starc to Ashwin , out Caught by P Cummins ! ! Australia win ! This was short and wide from Starc , Ashwin went for the cut , hits it pretty well. Cummins runs in from third man , dives forward and holds onto a good catch. India 's barren run in Australia continues. Australia have won the practice match by 106 runs. Ashwin c P Cummins b Starc 1 ( 7 ) Starc to Ashwin , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.6 Hazlewood to A Patel , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Patel looks to drive and misses 44.5 Hazlewood to A Patel , no run , short of a length and well outside off , slapped straight to Warner at backward point 44.4 Hazlewood to A Patel , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards mid-off 44.3 Hazlewood to Ashwin , 1 run , another short ball from Hazlewood , pulled away over square leg for a single 44.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , no run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed in front of point 44.2 Hazlewood to Ashwin , wide , short and angling down leg-side , wide called. Hazlewood is n't pleased one bit with the umpire 's call 44.1 Hazlewood to A Patel , 1 run , short of a length and on Patel 's pads , turned in front of mid-wicket for a single Josh Hazlewood [ 5.0-1-22-2 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Starc to Ashwin , no run , another yorker from Starc , Ashwin gets his bat down in time and digs it out 43.5 Starc to A Patel , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed down behind square on the off-side for a single 43.4 Starc to Ashwin , leg byes , 1 run , Starc fires the inswinging yorker , tails in very late at Ashwin , he fell over on the flick , appeal for LBW , but the ball was going down leg 43.3 Starc to Ashwin , no run , on a good length and on off , punched back towards the bowler 43.2 Starc to A Patel , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards deep cover for a single 43.1 Starc to A Patel , no run , short and on the stumps , Patel rides with the bounce and defends it towards the off-side Mitchell Starc [ 3.0-0-14-1 ] is back into the attack 42.6 P Cummins to Ashwin , no run , another excellent short ball , leaves Ashwin in that channel outside off , he does well to drop his gloves and lets it go 42.6 P Cummins to Ashwin , wide , short and angling well down leg-side , wide called Ravichandran Ashwin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 42.5 P Cummins to Ravindra Jadeja , out Caught by Warner ! ! That 's catching practice for Warner at backward point ! Another cheap wicket for Cummins , this was full and wide outside off , Jadeja was backing away on the drive , he has to reach out for the shot , ends up getting a slice on the drive , straight to Warner. He does n't drop those , India are one wicket away from defeat. Ravindra Jadeja c Warner b P Cummins 20 ( 26 ) [ 4s-2 ] P Cummins to Ravindra Jadeja , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 42.4 P Cummins to Ravindra Jadeja , 2 runs , full and wide from Cummins , Jadeja goes hard on the lofted off-drive , gets a thick edge over point for a brace 42.3 P Cummins to A Patel , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Patel goes hard on the drive and gets a thick edge towards third man 42.2 P Cummins to A Patel , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Patel stays behind the line and defends it 42.1 P Cummins to A Patel , no run , short of a length and just outside off , dabbed with an angled bat towards backward point 41.6 Hazlewood to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 41.5 Hazlewood to A Patel , 1 run , short and well outside off , sliced away towards third man for a single 41.4 Hazlewood to A Patel , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Patel presses across and defends it 41.3 Hazlewood to A Patel , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven down towards mid-off Axar Patel , left handed bat , comes to the crease 41.2 Hazlewood to Rayudu , out Caught by Haddin ! ! No second chance for Rayudu. This was banged in short and on the stumps , Rayudu swivelled across on the pull , was n't in any position and gets a top-edge. Haddin runs back , keeps his eyes on the ball and pouches a safe catch. Rayudu falls after a gritty knock. Rayudu c Haddin b Hazlewood 53 ( 42 ) [ 4s-4 6s-4 ] Hazlewood to Rayudu , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 41.1 Hazlewood to Rayudu , no run , Rayudu runs down the track to a full ball and mistimes the drive towards mid-on Josh Hazlewood [ 4.0-1-21-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 P Cummins to Rayudu , 1 run , short and just outside off , Rayudu waits on that , opens the face of the bat and ramps it down towards third man for a single 40.6 P Cummins to Rayudu , 5 wides , Cummins now loses his line completely , bangs one short and way down leg-side , no chance for Haddin , the ball runs away to the fence 40.5 P Cummins to Rayudu , no run , Smith lost it under the lights , at least that 's what he motioned. This was a dolly , Rayudu was in no position for the pull as Cummins banged it short , the ball lobbed off the splice of the bat. Smith ran forward from mid-wicket , then suddenly , put his hand up and completely lost the ball , it drops just in front of him 40.4 P Cummins to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , the bumper from Cummins , Jadeja swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it past mid-wicket for a single 40.3 P Cummins to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , that 's smashed by Jadeja , full and well outside off , Jadeja clears his left leg and drills it past mid-off , a couple of bounces and over the ropes 40.2 P Cummins to Ravindra Jadeja , 2 runs , on a good length and well outside off , punched off the back-foot , gets it wide of sweeper and gets back for the second run 40.1 P Cummins to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , short and angling across the left-hander , Jadeja went for the pull and missed Pat Cummins [ 4.0-1-13-2 ] is back into the attack 39.6 S Smith to Rayudu , no run , Smith drops one flatter and well outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover 39.5 S Smith to Rayudu , SIX , Rayudu is taking full toll of Smith 's gifts , another low full toss and well outside off , Rayudu gets down on his knees and slog swipes it wide of long-on for a maximum , brings up his fifty as well 39.4 S Smith to Rayudu , 2 runs , Rayudu comes down the track , takes the ball on the full and goes over extra cover , gets back for the second run 39.3 S Smith to Rayudu , no run , tossed up and wider outside off , Rayudu comes down the track and drives it back towards the bowler 39.2 S Smith to Rayudu , SIX , Smith drags one short and on the stumps , rubbish ball from Piggy , Rayudu rocks back and pulls it high and over mid-wicket for a maximum 39.1 S Smith to Rayudu , 2 runs , tossed up and just outside off , dabbed past short third man for a couple of runs 38.6 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 38.5 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , that 's easy pickings for Jadeja , this was short and on Jadeja 's hips , fine-leg was inside the ring , Jadeja swivels across and helps it past the fielder for a boundary 38.4 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Jadeja slaps it straight to the fielder at backward point 38.3 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Jadeja pushes it to the right of cover , Rayudu wanted a single and is sent back 38.2 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , 2 runs , on a good length and on the pads , worked past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 38.1 M Marsh to Rayudu , 1 run , short and just outside off , Rayudu presses across and works it wide of mid-wicket for a single 37.6 S Smith to Rayudu , 1 run , flighted and on the stumps , eased down towards long-on for a single 37.5 S Smith to Rayudu , SIX , that 's huge ! Almost went to the 2nd tier , Rayudu gets down on one knee , gets to the pitch of the ball and sends it high and deep into the mid-wicket stands 37.4 S Smith to Rayudu , no run , Rayudu is beaten in the flight as he came down the track , adjusts well and defends it towards the off-side 37.3 S Smith to Rayudu , no run , pushed through and just outside off , Rayudu makes room and dabs it straight to the fielder at point 37.2 S Smith to Rayudu , no run , lovely loop and spin from Smith , Rayudu went for the big drive and is completely beaten 37.1 S Smith to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , tossed up and on Jadeja 's pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single Steven Smith [ 1.0-0-2-0 ] is back into the attack 36.6 M Marsh to Rayudu , no run , Marsh goes full and wide as Rayudu came down the track , he had to reach out for the end , gets a toe-end towards cover 36.5 M Marsh to Rayudu , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Rayudu looks to slice it away behind square and misses 36.4 M Marsh to Rayudu , FOUR , Rayudu is making a statement here , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it over mid-on , a couple of bounces and over the ropes 36.3 M Marsh to Rayudu , FOUR , that 's delicately done by Rayudu , this was short and well outside off , Rayudu waits on it , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and ramps it past the keeper. Doherty gets across from the deep , puts in the slide and ends up taking the ball along with him as he hit the ropes 36.2 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven past extra cover for a single 36.1 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , short of a length and well outside off , punched away towards mid-off 35.6 Doherty to Rayudu , no run , flighted and just outside off , Rayudu prods forward and blocks 35.5 Doherty to Rayudu , SIX , this is even better , Doherty 's night is n't getting any better , Rayudu comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it high and way over wide long-on for a maximum 35.4 Doherty to Rayudu , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Rayudu , comes down the track , gets inside the line and goes over extra cover , a couple of bounces and the ball rolls away past the ropes 35.3 Doherty to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , flatter and on Jadeja 's pads , nudged behind square on the on-side for a run 35.2 Doherty to Rayudu , 1 run , this is tossed up and wider outside off , Rayudu comes down the track and drives it down towards long-off 35.1 Doherty to Rayudu , no run , Rayudu shimmies down the track to a well flighted delivery and drives it back towards the bowler 34.6 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , full and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 34.5 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , on a good length and nipping back into Jadeja , he was caught in the crease as he looked to flick and missed , gets struck high on the pads 34.4 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , on a good length and just outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover 34.3 M Marsh to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , the slower off-cutter from Marsh , he rolled his fingers around it , punched straight to cover 34.2 M Marsh to Rayudu , 1 run , width on offer from Marsh , cracked off the back-foot past point for a single 34.1 M Marsh to Rayudu , no run , the bumper first up from Marsh , Rayudu drops his wrists and sways away from the line Mitchell Marsh [ 3.0-0-21-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Doherty to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , pushed through by Doherty , Jadeja goes back and defends it with a straight bat 33.5 Doherty to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , tossed up and on off , Jadeja prods across and blocks 33.4 Doherty to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , slower and wider from Doherty , defended towards the off-side 33.3 Doherty to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , tossed up and on off , driven back towards the bowler 33.2 Doherty to Rayudu , 1 run , pushed through by Doherty , Rayudu nudges it to the right of the bowler and calls for a quick single. Doherty is quick to get across , turns around and makes a direct hit at the bowler 's end , but Rayudu was fast and makes his ground The third umpire has been called for , Rayudu is the man in question. He is SAFE 33.1 Doherty to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , flighted and just outside off , dabbed wide of cover-point for a single Xavier Doherty [ 5.0-0-37-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rayudu makes room and pushes it towards cover-point 32.5 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , excellent pace from Johnson , Rayudu 's feet was static as he went for the drive and missed 32.4 Johnson to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , the yorker first up from Johnson , full and swinging into Jadeja 's toes , he just about gets his bat down and clips it behind square on the on-side for a single Ravindra Jadeja , left handed bat , comes to the crease 32.3 Johnson to Binny , out Bowled ! ! This was coming ! Binny was getting frustrated with each and every dot ball , charges down the track to a full ball , makes room and goes for a wild slog. He misses and the stumps take a rattling. India are down and out now , they are crashing towards a humiliating defeat. Binny b Johnson 5 ( 13 ) [ 4s-1 ] Johnson to Binny , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 32.2 Johnson to Binny , no run , short of a length and on Binny 's pads , turned towards the on-side. Signs of frustration for Binny 32.1 Johnson to Binny , no run , short and just outside off , Binny went for the pull and is beaten for pace , the ball whizzes through to the keeper 31.6 P Cummins to Binny , 1 run , short of a length and well outside leg , dabbed away towards third man for a single 31.5 P Cummins to Binny , no run , that 's a wild hoick from Binny , he 's feeling the pressure there , comes down the track and looks to smash a short ball out of Adelaide Oval , misses it completely 31.4 P Cummins to Binny , no run , short and well outside off , good pace and bounce for Cummins , Binny was looking to ramp it over the keeper and missed 31.3 P Cummins to Binny , no run , short of a length and just outside off , defended with an angled bat towards point 31.2 P Cummins to Binny , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Binny prods across and defends it back towards the bowler 31.1 P Cummins to Binny , FOUR , that 's beautifully played by Binny , this was full and on Binny 's pads , whipped away past mid-on , the timing is sweet and the ball races away to the fence 30.6 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 30.6 Johnson to Rayudu , no ball , FOUR , that 's nicely played by Rayudu , this was short and wide from Johnson , Rayudu gets on top of the bounce and cracks it square behind point , beats the fielder getting across from third man , there was an extra fielder outside the ring , hence called as a no-ball 30.5 Johnson to Rayudu , 2 runs , just over mid-on , Rayudu was n't in any position on the pull , was done in by the bounce there , gets it high on the bat and just about clears the fielder at mid-on 30.4 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , Johnson slips in the slower ball , it 's full and wide as well , mistimed drive towards cover-point 30.3 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , more misunderstanding between the two batsmen , Rayudu dabbed a short of a length ball straight to Warner at backward point and set off , sent back by Binny 30.2 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , punched off the back-foot and straight to point 30.1 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side. Rayudu wanted a single and is sent back Mitchell Johnson [ 4.0-0-18-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 P Cummins to Binny , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Binny prods forward and defends it 29.5 P Cummins to Binny , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone 29.4 P Cummins to Binny , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 29.3 P Cummins to Binny , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Binny gets half forward and defends it towards the off-side Stuart Binny , right handed bat , comes to the crease 29.2 P Cummins to Dhoni , out Caught by Starc ! ! That 's a ripper from Starc at fine leg ! How did he catch that ? This was banged in short and on the stumps , Dhoni swivelled across on the pull , strikes it cleanly , it looked like sailing into the stands at backward square leg. Starc watches the ball all along , arches backwards and with his right hand , the ball sticks , that 's a cracker from the Aussie pacer. He is mobbed by his mates , Dhoni goes first ball and India are in serious strife. Dhoni c Starc b P Cummins 0 ( 1 ) P Cummins to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 29.1 P Cummins to Rayudu , out Raina Run Out ! ! That 's disaster for India , but excellent piece of fielding from Warner. This was dabbed in front of point by Rayudu , called for a quick single. Raina responded as well , Warner runs across from backward point , flings the ball at the striker 's end , Raina had to put in the dive , but he fails to beat the throw. Umpire Llong takes his time and calls for the TV replays. OUT is the call. Raina run out ( Warner ) 9 ( 13 ) [ 4s-1 ] P Cummins to Rayudu , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! The third umpire has been called , it 's for a run-out chance. Raina was diving into his crease and is short. India lose their fifth wicket , Raina is OUT 28.6 Johnson to Rayudu , 1 run , back of a length and angling back into the batsman , he has no room to free his arms , gets an inside edge towards the on-side for a single 28.5 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rayudu shuffles across and defends it towards the off-side 28.4 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , Johnson keeps it short and on the stumps , Rayudu shuffles across and defends it towards the on-side One slip is in place 28.3 Johnson to Rayudu , no run , Johnson shortens his length and gets this one to shape away from outside off , left alone Ambati Rayudu , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.2 Johnson to Dhawan , out Caught by Starc ! ! Dhawan has thrown his wicket away here ! This was banged in short and just outside off , Dhawan was n't in any position on the pull , he was hurried onto the shot and ends up lobbing a simple catch to the fielder at mid-on. India are slipping away rather badly here. Dhawan c Starc b Johnson 59 ( 71 ) [ 4s-5 ] Johnson to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 28.1 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , short and just outside off , Dhawan was way too early on the pull , gets a bottom edge that brushes past the off-stump , almost chopped on ! 27.6 S Smith to Raina , no run , slower and on Raina 's pads , nudged towards the on-side 27.5 S Smith to Raina , no run , Smith gives this one plenty of air , Raina gets well forward and blocks 27.4 S Smith to Dhawan , 1 run , slower and just outside off , eased square on the off-side for a run 27.3 S Smith to Raina , 1 run , tossed up and on off , eased down towards long-off for a single 27.2 S Smith to Raina , no run , pushed back to the bowler 27.1 S Smith to Raina , no run , cut straight to the fielder at point , he mistimed that Steven Smith , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 26.6 P Cummins to Raina , 1 run , steers it down to third man , retains the strike with that run 26.5 P Cummins to Raina , no run , defends off the back foot to mid-on 26.4 P Cummins to Raina , no run , goes for a big slog and toe-ends that past Cummins 26.3 P Cummins to Dhawan , 1 run , short and outside off , pulled to deep mid-wicket 26.3 P Cummins to Dhawan , wide , pacy short delivery , outside off , Dhawan looks for the upper cut , but ca n't make contact , called wide by the square leg umpire for height 26.2 P Cummins to Dhawan , no run , defended to point , looks for a quick single , but sent back by Raina 26.1 P Cummins to Dhawan , no run , beaten on the cut , Cummins ' pace beating Dhawan 's flashy shot 25.6 Watson to Dhawan , 1 run , a free flowing drive to long-off 25.5 Watson to Raina , 1 run , defended to short mid wicket , they take a quick single 25.4 Watson to Dhawan , 1 run , driven on the rise to sweeper cover for a single 25.3 Watson to Raina , 1 run , that 's a wild slog , Raina aims mid-wicket and gets a thick outside edge to third man 25.2 Watson to Raina , no run , if Warner 's under-arm throw had found the target , Raina would 've been walking back , despite a full length dive , the bat was in the air as he slid it in , when the ball missed the stumps 25.1 Watson to Raina , FOUR , cracking shot ! A tad overpitched from Watson , outside off , Raina bends his knee and square drives that past point , beats sweeper cover too. That should give Raina a lot of confidence 24.6 P Cummins to Dhawan , no run , iffy poke that from Dhawan and he nearly edges that behind. It was on a short of length outside off , Dhawan stood there and flirted at it , beaten. End of Cummins ' first over 24.5 P Cummins to Raina , 1 run , defended to point , where Warner fumbles and that allows Raina to get off the mark 24.5 P Cummins to Raina , wide , Cummins greets Raina with a sharp short delivery , called a wide for height as it was too high Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 24.4 P Cummins to Rahane , out Caught by M Marsh ! ! Rahane goes for one too many big hits and gets out. Makes room to go over mid-on , was a bit cramped for room , the bat turned in the hand and skied a dolly to Marsh. End of an entertaining knock. Cummins strikes in his first over. Rahane c M Marsh b P Cummins 66 ( 52 ) [ 4s-8 ] P Cummins to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 24.3 P Cummins to Rahane , no run , short and pacy from Cummins , Rahane does well to sway out of the way and let it go 24.2 P Cummins to Dhawan , 1 run , tad fuller and wider outside off , driven on the up and past cover for a single 24.1 P Cummins to Dhawan , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Dhawan drills it past cover for a couple of more runs Pat Cummins , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 23.6 Watson to Dhawan , 1 run , length ball and on the stumps , worked past square leg for a single 23.5 Watson to Rahane , 1 run , tad fuller and on off , nudged past square leg for a run , brings up the 100-run stand as well 23.4 Watson to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane plays with an open face and guides it towards point 23.3 Watson to Rahane , FOUR , this is superb cricket from Rahane , classy stuff from Rahane , this was pitched up and held its line on middle , Rahane presses forward , uses his wrists to good effect and flicks it past mid-on for another boundary 23.2 Watson to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane presses forward and defends it towards cover 23.1 Watson to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane is looking in excellent touch , backs away ever so slightly , gives himself some room , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and drills a length ball through cover , no need to run for those 22.6 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , Maxwell drifts one well outside off , Rahane plays with the spin and eases it down towards long-on 22.5 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , tossed up and on off , worked towards the on-side Maxwell changes to over the wicket 22.4 Maxwell to Rahane , FOUR , this is even better ! Maxwell dropped this one way too short and wide outside off , Rahane makes room and clatters it in front of square past cover , beats the man in the deep 22.3 Maxwell to Rahane , 2 runs , Maxwell drops one short and wide outside off , Rahane backs away and goes inside out over cover with the punch , gets back for the second run 22.2 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , flatter and on the stumps , Rahane rocks back and mistimes the pull towards mid-wicket 22.1 Maxwell to Rahane , 2 runs , fifty for Rahane , this was tossed up and on off , Rahane comes down the track , gets inside the line and gets it past cover for a brace 22.1 Maxwell to Dhawan , 4 wides , Maxwell fires this one well down leg-side , Dhawan looks to sweep and misses , so does Haddin , the batsmen get back for the third run 21.6 Watson to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane closes the face of the bat and turns it towards the on-side 21.5 Watson to Dhawan , 1 run , Watson keeps it short and just outside off , punched off the back-foot towards sweeper cover 21.4 Watson to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and just outside off , mistimed chop towards backward point 21.3 Watson to Rahane , 1 run , that could have been tight ! Dhawan was late in responding to Rahane 's call , it was punched to the left of mid-off. Dhawan hurries and makes his ground 21.2 Watson to Dhawan , 1 run , fifty for Dhawan , back of a length and just outside off , punched away square on the off-side for a single , Rahane jogs across to shake hands with his partner 21.1 Watson to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , no room for Dhawan to free his arms , driven back towards the bowler Shane Watson , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 20.6 Maxwell to Dhawan , 1 run , pushed through by Maxwell , Dhawan backs away and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 20.5 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , Maxwell tosses one slower and wider outside off , punched off the back-foot , just a single to deep cover 20.4 Maxwell to Dhawan , 1 run , slower and on off , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 20.3 Maxwell to Dhawan , no run , pushed through by Maxwell as Dhawan came down the track , he gets an inside edge onto the pads 20.2 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , flatter and wider from Maxwell , chopped square on the off-side for a single 20.1 Maxwell to Rahane , FOUR , Maxwell drops one short and wide outside off , Rahane makes room for the cut , gets a top-edge that drops just wide of Bailey at point , races away to the fence for a boundary 19.6 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , Doherty drifts one on Rahane 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 19.5 Doherty to Rahane , FOUR , Rahane is having some fun here , comes down the track , gets to the pitch and lofts it with the spin , clears mid-on and races away to the fence 19.4 Doherty to Rahane , 2 runs , that 's nicely played by Rahane , gets down on his knees , uses the pace of Doherty and paddles it very fine , couple of easy runs for Rahane 19.3 Doherty to Dhawan , 1 run , floated and well outside off , eased down towards long-on for a single 19.2 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , tossed up and wider outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover , Dhawan was backing up and the fielder has a shy at the stumps , he misses and concedes a single 19.1 Doherty to Rahane , no run , Rahane comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and pushes it back towards the bowler 18.6 Maxwell to Dhawan , no run , slower and just outside off , punched to point 18.5 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , just short of Warner at backward square leg , this was a half sweep/half pull from Rahane , Warner dived forward but the ball bounced in front of him 18.4 Maxwell to Dhawan , 1 run , Dhawan comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and nudges it to the right of square leg , Rahane calls him through for a quick single 18.3 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , flatter and well outside leg , pulled away behind square on the on-side for a single 18.2 Maxwell to Rahane , 2 runs , good use of the feet from Rahane , comes down the track and goes wide of extra cover for a brace 18.1 Maxwell to Rahane , no run , Maxwell comes from round the wicket and drifts one on off , defended towards the off-side 17.6 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , tossed up and on off , Rahane nudges it in front of mid-wicket and calls for a quick single. Maxwell shies at the bowler 's end and misses , Rahane wants a second run as the ball rolled away towards long-off , but he was way past the stumps A man goes to deep extra cover now 17.5 Doherty to Rahane , FOUR , beautifully played by Rahane , comes down the track , makes room as he does so , opens up the off-side and creams it through extra cover for a boundary 17.4 Doherty to Dhawan , 1 run , slower and just outside off , driven to the right of mid-off for a single 17.3 Doherty to Dhawan , no run , flighted and just outside off , Dhawan lunges forward and blocks 17.2 Doherty to Dhawan , no run , pushed through and going away with the angle , defended towards the off-side 17.1 Doherty to Dhawan , no run , Dhawan comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and turns it towards mid-wicket 16.6 Maxwell to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down to long-off for a single , brings up India 's 100 as well 16.5 Maxwell to Rahane , 1 run , Maxwell makes room to a well flighted delivery and squeezes it to the right of point for a single 16.4 Maxwell to Dhawan , 1 run , fraction too short from Maxwell , Dhawan rocks back and punches it to deep cover for a run 16.3 Maxwell to Dhawan , no run , Maxwell drops one short and wide outside off , Dhawan cuts it straight to the fielder at point 16.2 Maxwell to Dhawan , no run , slower and just outside off , Dhawan makes room and punches it straight to the fielder at cover 16.1 Maxwell to Dhawan , no run , tossed up and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler Glenn Maxwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Drinks are on the field now. Dhawan is looking good , that 's a huge positive for India going into their opening match against Pakistan on this ground. Rohit and Kohli threw away starts , Rahane , batting at four is looking pretty solid . 15.6 Doherty to Dhawan , 1 run , Doherty drops one short and wide outside off , Dhawan makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 15.5 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , slower and wider from Doherty , driven wide of cover for a quick single 15.4 Doherty to Rahane , 2 runs , Doherty tosses one well outside leg , Rahane gets down on his knees and sweeps it behind square on the on-side for a brace 15.3 Doherty to Rahane , FOUR , just over cover , Rahane comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and goes inside out over cover , Cummins leaps but the ball was always going over his outstretched fingers 15.2 Doherty to Rahane , no run , flighted and on the stumps , Rahane gets well forward and defends it back towards the bowler 15.1 Doherty to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up and just outside off , eased down towards long-on for a single 14.6 M Marsh to Rahane , 2 runs , short and wide from Marsh , Rahane dabs it down towards third man. Rahane wants the second run and Dhawan has to hurry as Haddin shies at the bowler 's end 14.5 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , nudged towards the on-side 14.4 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , the bumper from Marsh , Rahane drops his gloves and sways away from the line 14.3 M Marsh to Dhawan , 3 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Dhawan leans forward and drives it crisply past cover. The fielder in the deep gets across and prevents the boundary. Dhawan wants the third run , he has to hurry and dives in to make his ground 14.2 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and just outside off , cracked off the back-foot and to the left of backward point. Warner moves across and intercepts the shot 14.1 M Marsh to Rahane , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , punched to the left of mid-on for a quick single 13.6 Doherty to Rahane , 3 runs , deft touch from Rahane , waits on a well flighted delivery , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and runs it past short third man , the running is good and the batsmen get back for the third 13.5 Doherty to Dhawan , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven to the right of mid-off for an easy run 13.4 Doherty to Dhawan , no run , flighted and just outside off , Dhawan gets a good stride forward and defends it 13.3 Doherty to Dhawan , no run , this one is slower and wider outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 13.2 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , pushed through by Doherty , nudged behind square on the on-side for a single 13.1 Doherty to Dhawan , 1 run , flatter and wider from Doherty , Dhawan cuts it square on the off-side for a single 12.6 M Marsh to Rahane , no run , Marsh shortens his length outside off , Rahane stays back and punches it towards mid-off 12.5 M Marsh to Dhawan , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , punched off the back-foot towards deep cover 12.4 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , tad fuller and a hint of nip back into Dhawan , defended with a straight bat 12.3 M Marsh to Rahane , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 12.2 M Marsh to Rahane , FOUR , that was sublime from Rahane , he did n't hit this one hard , just got to the pitch of the ball and pushed it on the up , gets it past mid-off and races away to the fence for a boundary 12.1 M Marsh to Dhawan , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven towards deep cover for a single 11.6 Doherty to Dhawan , 1 run , floaty and just outside off , punched down towards long-on for a single 11.5 Doherty to Dhawan , no run , this one is given more air , driven back towards the bowler 11.4 Doherty to Dhawan , 2 runs , Doherty drops one short and wide outside off , Dhawan makes room and cuts it square past point , gets back for the second run 11.3 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , Doherty tosses one on Rahane 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 11.2 Doherty to Dhawan , 1 run , tossed up and on Dhawan 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 11.1 Doherty to Rahane , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Rahane goes back and works it past mid-wicket for a single 11.1 Doherty to Rahane , wide , Doherty drifts this one well down leg-side , wide called Xavier Doherty , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 10.6 M Marsh to Rahane , 1 run , tad fuller and holding its line outside off , draws Rahane forward and produces the edge , the ball quickly dies down and rolls away towards third man for a single 10.5 M Marsh to Dhawan , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , Dhawan plays with an an open face and guides it to the right of Warner at backward point 10.4 M Marsh to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Dhawan gets forward and drives it to the right of Bailey at mid-off 10.3 M Marsh to Rahane , 1 run , too straight from Marsh , tucked away towards long leg for a single 10.2 M Marsh to Dhawan , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhawan looks to chop it behind point and gets a bottom edge towards cover , calls for a quick single and gets it with ease 10.1 M Marsh to Dhawan , FOUR , sublime timing from Dhawan , a wide half-volley from Marsh , Dhawan gets well forward and caresses it through extra cover , beats the man getting across from the deep Mitchell Marsh , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Starc to Rahane , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Rahane gets half a stride forward as he blocks 9.5 Starc to Rahane , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Rahane does n't need to play those , left alone 9.5 Starc to Rahane , wide , now Starc goes up in an appeal , but Haddin was n't convinced , this was short and on Rahane 's pads , he looked to flick and missed , might have clipped the pads on the way to the keeper , given as a wide by the umpire , so there must have been nothing there 9.4 Starc to Rahane , no run , Haddin was convinced that there was a nick , but found no support from either the bowler or the close-in fielder , this was a nothing shot by Rahane , just hung his bat at a short and wide ball , does n't get the edge though 9.3 Starc to Rahane , no run , on a good length and angling away from the right-hander , left alone 9.2 Starc to Rahane , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Rahane drops his bottom hand and defends it back towards the bowler Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 9.1 Starc to Kohli , out Bowled ! ! Chopped on ! That 's unlucky for Kohli , this was short and just outside off , no room for Kohli to play the cut , he opened the face of the bat as he looked to run it down towards third man , gets an inside edge that deflects off the pads and rolls back to clip the off-stump. Kohli is gutted with himself as he walks away , he looked good for a big score. Kohli b Starc 18 ( 20 ) [ 4s-3 ] Starc to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 8.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , FOUR , short , wide and four , poor ball from Hazlewood , Dhawan gets on top of the bounce and cracks it square past point for a boundary 8.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , Kohli tucks it in front of mid-on and hares across for a quick single 8.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , full and just outside off , Kohli prods across and whips it towards mid-on 8.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Kohli plays with an angled bat and defends it towards backward point 8.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , left alone 8.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , FOUR , classy from Kohli , he is looking in good touch , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Kohli presses forward , presents the full face of the bat and drives it back past the bowler 7.6 Starc to Kohli , 1 run , just short of Hazlewood at third man , this was short and wide from Starc , Kohli was looking to help it on its way , struck it sweetly and nearly found third man to perfection , bounces just in front of the fielder there 7.5 Starc to Kohli , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Kohli prods forward and defends it towards mid-off 7.4 Starc to Kohli , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Kohli moves across his stumps and defends it towards the off-side 7.3 Starc to Kohli , no run , Starc shortens his length and gets this one to shape across the right-hander , left alone 7.2 Starc to Kohli , FOUR , lovely shot , no need to run for this one , the fielders did n't bother chasing either , full and wide from Starc , Kohli gets a big stride forward , gets to the pitch of the ball and sends it screaming past cover 7.1 Starc to Kohli , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Kohli leans into the drive and gets it to the right of Smith at cover , he dives , gets a hand on that and saves a certain boundary Mitchell Starc [ 1.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack Change of ends for Starc. . 6.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and just outside off , punched off trhe back-foot towards cover-point 6.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , leg byes , 1 run , on a good length and angling into Kohli 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away in front of square , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 6.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , FOUR , that 's a cracking shot , a little shimmy from Kohli , gets to the pitch of the ball and swings it through the line , clears cover and hits the ad board after one bounce 6.3 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Hazlewood shortens his length and drifts one around middle , nudged off the back-foot towards square leg 6.2 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Kohli gets half forward and defends it 6.1 Hazlewood to Kohli , 2 runs , full and on Kohli 's pads , he makes it look worse by shuffling across his stumps , flicks it past square leg and is back for the second run 5.6 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Dhawan rides with the bounce and keeps it down 5.5 Johnson to Dhawan , 4 runs , the slower ball from Johnson , ends up drifting onto Dhawan 's pads , whipped away past mid-wicket. The fielder gives chase and hauls the ball in before the ropes. Cummins was at the bowler 's end for the throw , he ca n't collect it cleanly and the batsmen get back for the fourth run 5.4 Johnson to Dhawan , FOUR , Dhawan has picked up the gap to perfection once again , touch full and wide outside off , allows Dhawan to free his arms , leans into the drive and finds the gap past cover-point for another boundary 5.3 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Dhawan was looking to play the drive , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up getting an inside edge towards mid-on 5.2 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , too straight from Johnson , Dhawan shuffles across and turns it towards square leg 5.1 Johnson to Dhawan , 2 runs , Dhawan leans into a crisp drive to a full ball outside off , Warner dives at cover and gets a hand on that , takes some pace off the ball and keeps the batsmen down to a couple of runs 4.6 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Hazlewood angles this one back into Kohli from wide of the crease , Kohli was shuffling across a long way on the whip , misses and the ball clips the pad on its way to the keeper 4.5 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Hazlewood , in that channel outside off and a hint of shape away , Kohli was in two minds , decides to leave it alone , but not before flirting at it 4.4 Hazlewood to Kohli , no run , Kohli is welcomed into the crease with a bouncer , Kohli gets inside the line and lets it go Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , out Caught by Finch ! ! Very loose from Rohit. This was short and angled away from the right-hander , Rohit could have left it go , thinks about steering it down towards third man. A nothing shot in the end , the edge is found and it flies to the left of 2nd slip. Finch juggles with the ball and takes it on the second attempt. India lose their first wicket. Rohit c Finch b Hazlewood 8 ( 14 ) [ 4s-1 ] Hazlewood to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit gets a good stride forward and defends it 4.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , full and on Rohit 's pads , clipped away to the right of short square leg , the fielder dives and saves some runs 3.6 Johnson to Dhawan , FOUR , that 's a cracking shot , smidgen of width on offer from Johnson , Dhawan leans across , plays with an open face and guides it into the gap between cover-point and point , the short boundary takes care of the rest 3.5 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Dhawan presses forward , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and works it towards point 3.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , that 's a vicious bouncer from Johnson , well directed as well , Dhawan was thinking about the pull , makes a late call to let it go , drops his wrists and sways away from the line 3.3 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 3.2 Johnson to Rohit , no run , short of a length and angling back into Rohit , he was shuffling across on the clip , misses and is struck high on the thigh pad. They think about a single as the ball rolled past the pitch , but wisely decide against it 3.1 Johnson to Rohit , no run , full and wide from Johnson , looking to tempt Rohit into the drive , he obliges and went chasing after that , lucky not to have edged it 2.6 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and angling across the left-hander , Dhawan went hard on the cut and gets a bottom edge towards 2nd slip 2.5 Hazlewood to Dhawan , FOUR , this should give plenty of confidence for Dhawan , a floaty half-volley from Hazlewood , Dhawan leans into the drive , gets it right off the middle of the bat and gets it past extra cover for a boundary 2.4 Hazlewood to Dhawan , no run , short and wide from Hazlewood , Dhawan cracks it off the back-foot , but straight to the fielder at backward point 2.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , 1 run , short and on Rohit 's hips , helped away behind square on the on-side , almost carried to Johnson in the deep , bounces just in front of him 2.3 Hazlewood to Rohit , wide , Hazlewood sprays this one fuller and well outside leg , wide called 2.2 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Rohit stays back and defends it with an open face towards cover-point 2.1 Hazlewood to Rohit , no run , edged ! On a good length and in that channel outside off , shapes away slightly at the last moment , Rohit is lured into pushing at that , gets an edge that drops well in front of 1st slip Josh Hazlewood , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Just one over for Starc , Hazlewood is on with two slips in place 1.6 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , short of a length and angling into Dhawan , tucked away in front of square leg , good start from Johnson 1.5 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , full and a hint of nip back into Dhawan , he was looking for the drive , the bat turned in his hands and ends up spooning it towards mid-off 1.4 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery and nipping away from outside off , Dhawan drives it crisply but straight to the fielder at extra cover 1.3 Johnson to Dhawan , no run , that 's very loose from Dhawan , Johnson shortened his length and gets this one to shape away from outside off , Dhawan was rooted to his crease as he went frailing at that , beaten on the outside edge 1.2 Johnson to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and angling away from outside off , Rohit rides with the bounce and steers it square behind point for a single 1.1 Johnson to Dhawan , 1 run , gentle start from Johnson , length ball and on Dhawan 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single Mitchell Johnson , comes into the attack Two slips for Johnson 0.6 Starc to Dhawan , leg byes , 1 run , full and on Dhawan 's pads , that should have been easy pickings when he was in form , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side for a leg-bye 0.5 Starc to Dhawan , no run , full and slanting into the left-hander , Dhawan was caught on the shuffle , fell over as he looked to flick and missed , might have got an inside edge as well Two slips for Dhawan 0.4 Starc to Rohit , 1 run , much better from Starc , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Rohit was caught in two minds , makes a late call to let it go , the ball runs off the face of the bat and rolls away towards third man 0.3 Starc to Rohit , FOUR , that 's a lovely shot from Rohit , pitched up and well outside off , Rohit leans forward , gets to the pitch of the ball and caresses it past extra cover for a boundary 0.3 Starc to Rohit , wide , swing for Starc , but that one started well outside off and went further away. Haddin stumbled as he dived across 1st slip , the ball got big on him , but he manages to hold on 0.2 Starc to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Rohit gets half forward and drives it towards cover 0.1 Starc to Rohit , no run , some inswing for Starc , pitched up and nips back in slightly , Rohit gets behind the line and defends it with a straight bat Rohit and Dhawan are at the crease. Rohit is on strike. Starc will open the attack The Australians are in the midst of a team huddle. Not sure who 's doing all the talking. Anyway , they cheer each other and are off to the middle. Dhawan and Rohit Sharma are back at the top , so Rahane will slip down to either No. 3 or 4 , depending on Kohli 's batting position . Welcome back.. Can India chase down 372 ? Or will they opt for some quality time in the middle ? Warner has already set the gauntlet for his bowlers. He wants them to keep India down to 280 or less . Umesh bowled really well until that penultimate over , while Ashwin kept it tight at one end during his 6-over spell. All the bowlers got a workout but they did n't show any signs that they have the firepower to tackle strong batting sides. 372 is a huge total to chase and Warner reckons that they will get the Indians out under 280. Will that prove to be true ? Or will India pull off their first win of the tour ? All the answers in a short while from now. Do stay tuned.. . No-one was spared as out came the reverse paddles , the fierce reverse hits , the slog sweeps and the pulls. There were the lofted hits over cover , plus the carves over point. India felt the heat of his blade. He retired after taking 27 off one Umesh over. Amidst the brilliant batting from Warner and Maxwell , there was a contribution from Bailey too . So Maxwell has decided not to come out and that will be the end of the innings. What a show the Aussie batsmen have put on. Warner was the main attraction at the top as he continued his glorious run. He was in the mood to treat this match as another exercise to extend his form with the bat. After getting to a hundred , he played a lavish shot to get out , perhaps wanting to give the others a chance to get a hit. In came Maxwell and continued from where Warner left off . 48.2 Shami to P Cummins , out Bowled ! ! Finally Shami gets the yorker right. Castles Cummins. Right at the base of middle and the ball sneaks under the bat , to hit the stump. Pinpoint execution. P Cummins b Shami 5 ( 8 ) Shami to P Cummins , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Xavier Doherty , left handed bat , comes to the crease 48.1 Shami to Johnson , out Caught by Mohit Sharma ! ! Johnson holes out. A top-edge on the pull and Mohit running in from fine leg hangs to the high ball. Good catch as Mohit was n't wearing goggles , protecting him from the sun. Johnson c Mohit Sharma b Shami 19 ( 12 ) [ 4s-4 ] Shami to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.6 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , inside-edges the slog onto his pad and he calls Cummins through 47.5 U Yadav to P Cummins , 1 run , Raina drops a skier at point ! Dhoni wears a dead-pan expression under those big glasses. Cummins went for the big pull , got a top-edge , Raina circled around it and in the end the ball hit him in the chest , escaping through the hands. That 's a surprise to see Raina drop one. The best fielder in the team without a doubt 47.4 U Yadav to P Cummins , no run , a wild slog from Cummins and he ca n't connect. The length ball goes over the stumps 47.3 U Yadav to P Cummins , no run , pushed to the right of Yadav 47.2 U Yadav to Johnson , 1 run , heaved to deep backward square leg 47.1 U Yadav to P Cummins , 1 run , full on leg , Cummins clips it to deep backward square leg Umesh Yadav [ 8.0-1-48-2 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Shami to Johnson , no run , Johnson does n't play a shot and it hits his pad , ricochets to Dhoni 's left , they take a run , but it wo n't count as Johnson did n't play a shot 46.5 Shami to P Cummins , 1 run , yorker length on middle and leg , jammed out to mid-wicket 46.4 Shami to Johnson , 1 run , picks the slower delivery and heaves to deep mid-wicket , just a single 46.3 Shami to Johnson , FOUR , down leg and short , Johnson top-edges the pull and wide of Dhoni , fine leg ca n't get around in time 46.2 Shami to Johnson , no run , length on the stumps , defended back to Shami 46.1 Shami to P Cummins , 1 run , back of a length outside off , run down to third man Mohammed Shami [ 8.0-0-76-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , FOUR , waits for the slower delivery and then makes room to crash it past the diving cover , beats the man in the deep easily. The over has n't ended well for Mohit Sharma Free-hit now. Back over the wicket for this last delivery 45.6 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , no ball , FOUR , Mohit Sharma oversteps and then concedes the boundary. Overpitched and sweetly driven past mid-off , the ball raced away 45.5 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , FOUR , low full toss outside off , Johnson plays a crisp drive , beating cover and mid-off Mohit Sharma now round the wicket 45.4 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , no run , pitched up outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 45.3 Mohit Sharma to P Cummins , 1 run , thick outside edge down to third man Pat Cummins , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.2 Mohit Sharma to Starc , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Starc gets a first baller ! Or has he ? They are checking for a clean catch , or not. Starc is gone after the third umpire has a look at the replays. Full outside off , Starc drove and edged it , Dhoni took a low catch to his left. Starc c Dhoni b Mohit Sharma 0 ( 1 ) Mohit Sharma to Starc , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.1 Mohit Sharma to Johnson , byes , 1 run , Sharma beats Johnson on the inside edge , the ball dies on Dhoni , who fumbles the take , they steal a bye Maxwell has had enough. He retires and gives someone else a chance. Starc comes in. India would be very happy with that though. Mohit to continue 44.6 U Yadav to Maxwell , SIX , Maxwell has finished off the over with another huge six. Goes outside off and then picks the slower short delivery , a monstrous pull way over deep mid-wicket. That 's 27 off the over. Spoils Yadav 's day 44.5 U Yadav to Maxwell , SIX , the ploy of bowling short at Maxwell has n't worked for Yadav at all. A pull over wide long-on now. Maxwell making merry 44.4 U Yadav to Maxwell , SIX , Bang ! Fraction short and on the stumps , Maxwell makes room and slaps it way over deep cover , cracking sound as the ball met bat 44.3 U Yadav to Maxwell , FOUR , now shuffles across and gets inside the line to help it wide of short fine , inside the ring. He is manipulating the field superbly 44.3 U Yadav to Maxwell , wide , Yadav fires this way outside off , not inside the guideline , so called a wide 44.2 U Yadav to Maxwell , FOUR , Maxwell gets to a 100. Backs away and lofts over cover , nearly a six , one bounce over the ropes. Off comes the helmet and the crowd applaud his effort. Knew as soon as he hit it , kisses the crest on his helmet and points at the heavens Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 44.1 U Yadav to M Marsh , out Caught by Rahane ! ! Beaten for pace and Marsh holes out. The short ball hurries onto him and he splices the pull to deep mid-wicket. Yadav celebrates. M Marsh c Rahane b U Yadav 21 ( 26 ) [ 4s-1 ] U Yadav to M Marsh , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Umesh Yadav [ 7.0-1-21-1 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Mohit Sharma to Maxwell , FOUR , now goes wide of cover , with an inside out shot , the man at cover dived to catch , but did n't even get a finger on it 43.5 Mohit Sharma to Maxwell , no run , what was that ? Maxwell got out in the Big Bash shouldering arms and not playing a shot , after backing away. Here he backs away and Sharma fires in the yorker , goes between the legs of Maxwell who let it go through. Both bowler and batsman see the funny side of it 43.4 Mohit Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , Marsh is teasing the fielders , wants to loft it over long-on , is deceived by the slower delivery , one hand came off the bat handle , the ball dribbles to the man in the deep 43.3 Mohit Sharma to M Marsh , no run , pacy length delivery on the stumps , beats Marsh on the whip , the ball somehow flies over the stumps 43.2 Mohit Sharma to M Marsh , FOUR , brutal hit ! Marsh is on the front foot and pummels a pull to deep mid-wicket , brilliant timing ! 43.1 Mohit Sharma to M Marsh , 2 runs , slower short delivery outside off , Marsh pulls and miscues it to fine leg , was in the air , but miles in front of the man Mohit Sharma [ 4.0-0-37-1 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Shami to Maxwell , FOUR , now Maxwell reverse laps Shami for a one-bounce four. Supreme talent , this fella. Full outside off , Maxwell is already in position to play the shot 42.5 Shami to Maxwell , no run , short and outside off , Maxwell pulls and misses 42.4 Shami to Maxwell , SIX , that 's the shot of the day ! Takes his stance , goes deep into his crease and then whiplashes a wristy flick to a low full toss , over wide long-on. Uncorking of the wrists did the trick , the ball flew flat like a missile 42.3 Shami to M Marsh , 1 run , Kohli charged in from third man , hoping to catch that , but decided to take it on the bounce. Marsh skipping out and outside edging a big hit , got lucky 42.2 Shami to Maxwell , 1 run , low full toss on off , sliced to sweeper cover 42.1 Shami to M Marsh , 1 run , Marsh makes room and drives wide of cover , Rohit dives to his right and makes a half-stop , there is a direct hit from Mohit , but Marsh was well in. Waste of time , checking that - that 's what the third umpire just did Mohammed Shami [ 7.0-0-63-1 ] is back into the attack 41.6 A Patel to Maxwell , SIX , poor bowling , rank half-tracker , sat up to be hit , Maxwell went back and muscled a pull way over wide long-on 41.5 A Patel to M Marsh , byes , 1 run , very close to leg stump as Marsh shuffled across , he missed the glance , Dhoni failed to take it cleanly and they take a bye 41.4 A Patel to Maxwell , 1 run , backs away to go over cover , but drags the heave to deep mid-wicket 41.3 A Patel to Maxwell , FOUR , now a bottom-handed shovel , to deep mid-wicket , result the same - consecutive boundaries 41.2 A Patel to Maxwell , FOUR , Maxwell makes room and then goes inside out over cover , so easily done , one bounce over the ropes 41.1 A Patel to M Marsh , 1 run , pushed off the back foot to long-on Axar Patel [ 4.0-0-31-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 Mohit Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , punches to sweeper cover , retains the strike with that run 40.5 Mohit Sharma to Maxwell , 1 run , low full toss outside off , a one-handed slice to deep backward point , as Maxwell reached out 40.4 Mohit Sharma to Maxwell , no run , misses the reverse hit , the back-of-the-hand slower delivery beats Maxwell 's big hit 40.3 Mohit Sharma to Maxwell , no run , pitched up outside off , shovelled to mid-off , no timing on that shot 40.2 Mohit Sharma to Maxwell , SIX , Shami if he was standing right at the edge of the boundary at sweeper cover , would 've had a chance , Maxwell backed away and slashed it hard towards Shami , he was in and saw the ball flying over his head 40.1 Mohit Sharma to M Marsh , 1 run , slower delivery on off , defended to point , with soft hands and a single taken Mohit Sharma [ 3.0-0-28-1 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Maxwell , 2 runs , worked through mid-wicket , for an easy couple 39.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Maxwell , no run , makes room and drives it back to Ravindra Jadeja 39.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Maxwell , FOUR , knows that mid-off is inside and uses his feet to chip the man , controlled loft and a boundary 39.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Maxwell , 2 runs , nudged off the back foot to wide long-on Looks like Maxwell may have pulled a muscle in his back , after playing that. He is doing some stretching and calls the physio out. A tablet and some fluids , and Maxwell is ready to go again 39.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Maxwell , 2 runs , takes it from outside off and slogs it to deep mid-wicket , Mohit runs around and keeps it to a couple , also fifty for Maxwell 39.1 Ravindra Jadeja to M Marsh , 1 run , gets forward and eases it to long-on 39.1 Ravindra Jadeja to M Marsh , wide , down leg , wide called Ravindra Jadeja [ 1.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack 29 off the powerplay , with the wicket of Bailey 38.6 Shami to M Marsh , 1 run , driven to long-on , retains the strike with that run 38.5 Shami to Maxwell , 1 run , driven along the ground to long-on 38.4 Shami to Maxwell , FOUR , Maxwell gets this full one over mid-on , lofted cleanly and the ball trickles away into the ropes. Maxwell held the pose too after playing the shot 38.3 Shami to Maxwell , no run , backs away and tries to slash over the off-side field , does n't make contact 38.2 Shami to Maxwell , FOUR , this is a slog. But gets it in the gap at deep mid-wicket , all along the ground , that 's 10 from two balls in this over 38.1 Shami to Maxwell , SIX , full toss from Shami and that 's stylishly clipped over mid-wicket , just a flick of the wrists and the white ball is sent soaring into the crowd 37.6 U Yadav to Maxwell , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and runs it wide of backward point , RJ runs back and keeps it to a single 37.5 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , 'oh no ' was the cry of anguish from Maxwell after he backed away and missed the carve 37.4 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , length delivery on off and middle , defended to the right of Yadav 37.3 U Yadav to M Marsh , 1 run , the slower delivery is clipped wide of mid-wicket 37.2 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , dug in short , Marsh ducks under that , square leg ump calls one for the over 37.1 U Yadav to Maxwell , 1 run , tucks it wide of square leg , for an easy single 36.6 Shami to M Marsh , no run , pitched up outside off , Marsh drives and finds mid-off , wanted to lace that through cover 36.5 Shami to Maxwell , 1 run , clipped to the right of mid-on , for a single 36.4 Shami to Maxwell , no run , wristed straight to the fielder at mid-on 36.3 Shami to M Marsh , 1 run , a misfield from Kohli at mid-wicket , allows the single , dives to his left and allows the ball to slip under his grasp 36.2 Shami to M Marsh , 2 runs , full toss , driven to Shami 's left , he was a bit wary and went at it awkwardly , did n't make any contact and they take a couple to long-off 36.1 Shami to M Marsh , no run , length ball , angling in , defended to short mid-wicket Shami has the left-thumb bandaged. He is ready to continue 35.6 U Yadav to Maxwell , no run , comes down the track and tries a wild slog to a short delivery , does n't connect. The ball flies to Dhoni Maxwell removes the helmet and has a look. Looks happy for now with that one 35.5 U Yadav to Maxwell , 2 runs , the short ball hurries onto Maxwell , who top-edges the pull onto the grill of the helmet , ricochets to fine leg 35.4 U Yadav to M Marsh , 1 run , defended in front of mid-on 35.3 U Yadav to M Marsh , no run , back of a length outside off , Marsh defends it back down the track 35.2 U Yadav to Maxwell , 1 run , shortish outside off , short-arm jabbed to deep mid-wicket 35.1 U Yadav to M Marsh , 1 run , Marsh gets a top-edge on the pull and manages to clear short third running back , it was in the air for a while , but Axar could n't get around to catching it , as he went around in circles Umesh Yadav [ 5.0-1-13-1 ] is back into the attack Shami has gone off with the team physio. Interesting to see who will bowl in the powerplay with Shami off. Umesh from the other end 34.6 Shami to M Marsh , 1 run , takes it from outside off and pulls to deep mid-wicket , off the mark 34.5 Shami to M Marsh , no run , short of length outside off , defended to point Looks the wound has opened up even more , more blood oozing out , yet Shami is willing to complete the over 34.4 Shami to M Marsh , no run , now Marsh drives and Shami intercepts the firm drive with his right hand Blood was seen coming out. But what 's good to see is that Shami is willing to soldier on . 34.3 Shami to M Marsh , no run , Shami is hurt ! The left-thumb is the part in question. Has he split the webbing ? If that is the case , then he might be in doubt for the Pakistan game. Immediately signals for the physio Mitchell Marsh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.2 Shami to Bailey , out Caught by Ravindra Jadeja ! ! Shami strikes. Bailey picks the slower delivery and cuts in the air , but finds backward point. Straight down RJ 's stomach. Bailey wears a wry smile after getting out. Bailey c Ravindra Jadeja b Shami 44 ( 66 ) [ 4s-6 ] Shami to Bailey , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 34.1 Shami to Bailey , no run , yorker length on off , dug out to mid-off Mohammed Shami [ 4.0-0-42-0 ] is back into the attack Drinks are being taken . 33.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Bailey , 1 run , punched off the back foot to long-on 33.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Bailey , FOUR , very short and wide outside off , Bailey thumped the cut , beating sweeper cover , very short boundary and it beats the man very quickly 33.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Maxwell , 1 run , worked to deep square leg 33.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Bailey , 1 run , punched to sweeper cover 33.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Bailey , no run , Ravindra Jadeja saw Bailey coming down , dragged it down , pushed back to the bowler 33.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Bailey , no run , pushed to cover Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 32.6 A Patel to Maxwell , SIX , Maxwell can play the slog sweep too. Belts that way back into the crowd at deep mid-wicket. Clean strike 32.5 A Patel to Maxwell , 2 runs , now top-edges the reverse sweep , it was bowled slower and that forced the false shot , the ball eludes short third inside the ring , over the head of the back-pedalling man 32.4 A Patel to Maxwell , FOUR , fired down leg , Maxwell has set his mind on playing the reverse sweep , flat hit , more like a hockey backhander , terrific timing and it beats sweeper , went all along the ground 32.3 A Patel to Maxwell , no run , tossed up on off , Maxwell defends cautiously 32.2 A Patel to Maxwell , no run , Maxwell works the flighted delivery to short mid-wicket 32.1 A Patel to Maxwell , FOUR , Maxwell unveils the reverse sweep now , takes it from outside off and lifts it over backward point 31.6 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , very quick maiden over from Ashwin , punched back down the track 31.5 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , dragged down , nudged to backward square leg 31.4 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , gets forward and works it to short mid-wicket , four dots in a row 31.3 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , pushed to short cover 31.2 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , pulled to backward square leg , the fielder dives to his right to cut off the single 31.1 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , cut to cover , where a diving stop is made 30.6 A Patel to Maxwell , no run , pushed back to the bowler 30.5 A Patel to Maxwell , 2 runs , earlier it was Shami , now it is Umesh with a desperate dive , to save two runs. It was going for four after Maxwell swept hard , but Umesh showed off his athleticism 30.4 A Patel to Bailey , 1 run , comes down the track and eases it to long-on 30.3 A Patel to Bailey , no run , hurries onto Bailey and cramps him for room , bunted back down the track 30.2 A Patel to Maxwell , leg byes , 1 run , down leg , they take a leg bye after Maxwell misses the sweep 30.1 A Patel to Maxwell , 2 runs , Maxwell deliberately goes over extra cover , inside out , chipping it for a couple 29.6 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , Maxwell sends Bailey back after the latter found mid-wicket 29.5 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , turning in , Bailey finds square leg 29.4 Ashwin to Maxwell , 1 run , gets forward to wrist to mid-wicket 29.4 Ashwin to Maxwell , wide , down leg and Maxwell allows it through , gets a wide 29.3 Ashwin to Bailey , 1 run , uses his feet and flicks through mid-wicket 29.2 Ashwin to Maxwell , 1 run , goes on the back foot and nudges it to deep backward square leg 29.1 Ashwin to Maxwell , no run , Ashwin tosses it up outside leg , Maxwell goes for a big reverse sweep and does n't connect 28.6 A Patel to Bailey , no run , fired in flat on the stumps , Bailey defends 28.5 A Patel to Maxwell , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and eases a drive to deep cover 28.4 A Patel to Maxwell , no run , flatter and on off , Maxwell defends it back to Patel 28.3 A Patel to Bailey , 1 run , lots of flight on that delivery , driven to long-off 28.2 A Patel to Bailey , no run , swept now , to that short fine man 28.1 A Patel to Bailey , no run , down leg , glanced to short fine 27.6 Ashwin to Bailey , 1 run , whipped to square leg , Axar dives to his left to keep it to a single 27.5 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , punched back to the bowler 27.4 Ashwin to Maxwell , 1 run , works with the spin to deep square leg 27.3 Ashwin to Bailey , 1 run , well down leg , swept to fine leg 27.2 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , now Ashwin dives to his right to stop Bailey 's drive 27.1 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , Bailey comes down the track and looks to work to leg , misses , takes it on the pad 26.6 A Patel to Maxwell , 2 runs , 'catch it ' was the cry , as Maxwell went for a reverse sweep , just wide of the diving backward point. They take a couple 26.5 A Patel to Bailey , 1 run , backs away and punches to sweeper cover 26.4 A Patel to Maxwell , 1 run , gets forward and opens the face of the bat to find point , the fielder dived , but the ball ran away from his grasp Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 26.3 A Patel to Warner , out Bowled ! ! Patel roars after getting Warner. Generously tossed up by the bowler , Warner backed away and wanted to go over cover , missed the inside out hit and the middle stump is found by the ball. Warner b A Patel 104 ( 83 ) [ 4s-14 6s-2 ] A Patel to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 26.2 A Patel to Warner , FOUR , fraction short outside off , Warner went deep into his crease and smashed the cut to sweeper cover , no-one there and it raced away 26.1 A Patel to Warner , no run , gets forward and drives to cover Axar Patel , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 25.6 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , rocks back and punches it to point 25.5 Ashwin to Bailey , 2 runs , nurdled to fine leg , for a couple 25.4 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , the carrom ball , nudged to backward square leg 25.3 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , 100 for Warner. It may be a warm-up game , but still he continues to churn them out. Punched to long-off , no big celebrations , takes his helmet off and soaks in the applause. Dhoni applauds too , as do the Aussies 25.2 Ashwin to Bailey , 1 run , pushed into the short mid-wicket area for an easy single 25.1 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , swept hard and straight to backward square leg , well-stopped 24.6 Shami to Warner , no run , pushes to mid-off and looks for the single to get to a 100 , but not there , has a big smile at the end of it 24.5 Shami to Bailey , 1 run , comes on the front foot to ease a single to sweeper cover 24.4 Shami to Bailey , FOUR , that is a fabulous pull shot. Takes it from outside off and then keeps the shot down , Rahane thought he had it covered at deep mid-wicket , but despite his dive , the ball crept under his body , as the timing on that was top notch 24.3 Shami to Bailey , no run , punched off the back foot to point 24.2 Shami to Bailey , no run , gets forward and plays a drive on-the-up to cover 24.1 Shami to Bailey , no run , tight delivery on the stumps , defended back to the bowler 23.6 Ashwin to Bailey , 1 run , sweeps to deep backward square leg , retains the strike with that run 23.5 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , reaches out and drives to long-on , to move to 99 23.4 Ashwin to Warner , SIX , what do we call that shot ? Looked like a bunt to me. Took a step out and went across the line , a flat hit and over deep mid-wicket , what timing on that ! 23.3 Ashwin to Warner , no run , hurried onto Warner , the batsman chops it to cover 23.2 Ashwin to Bailey , 1 run , shortish and punched down to long-on 23.1 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , Warner lunges out to sweep and is slightly off balance , but gets it down to deep square leg 22.6 Shami to Warner , 1 run , short on the stumps , Warner plays a swivel pull to deep backward square leg 22.5 Shami to Warner , no run , down leg , and short , Warner misses the hook , MS appealed for a caught behind , but there was no contact at all there 22.4 Shami to Bailey , 1 run , too straight from Shami , clipped wide of mid-on 22.3 Shami to Bailey , FOUR , smashed ! Full outside off , Bailey drives hard into the ground , bounces over the leaping cover and races away. Bailey looks in good nick 22.2 Shami to Bailey , no run , yorker length from Shami , Bailey squeezes it out to point 22.1 Shami to Bailey , 2 runs , gets forward and opens the face of the bat on the drive to sweeper cover , two men run after it and do some tag-team work Mohammed Shami [ 2.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack 21.6 Ashwin to Warner , FOUR , dragged down short and down leg , Warner knelt down and swept that hard past the man inside the ring at backward square , poor delivery to end the over 21.5 Ashwin to Warner , no run , floated up on the stumps , Warner defends 21.4 Ashwin to Warner , 2 runs , Warner comes down the track and drives it in the air , wide of cover , Mohit runs around and slides to cut off two runs at long-off 21.3 Ashwin to Bailey , 1 run , goes wide of the crease , dragged down short , pulled to deep backward square leg 21.2 Ashwin to Bailey , no run , Bailey takes a step out and defends to short mid-wicket 21.1 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , Warner backs away and punches to cover , Rohit dives to his right and makes a half-stop , but the batsmen have completed the single , by the time his throw reaches Dhoni Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 20.6 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , good maiden over that ! Yadav keeps that on a length outside off , Bailey shuffles across and defends 20.5 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , Yadav forces Bailey deep into his crease , defended to mid-on 20.4 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , pushed off the back foot to short cover Now a slip in place 20.3 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , another well-timed on-drive , but finds mid-on 20.2 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , pitched up outside off , driven crisply , but straight to the fielder at mid-off 20.1 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , gets forward and pushes it to mid-on 19.6 Mohit Sharma to Warner , no run , tries to muscle that through mid-off , but the ball hits the top of the bat and rolls to mid-on 19.5 Mohit Sharma to Bailey , 1 run , dug in short on the stumps , Bailey swivels on the pull , down to deep backward square leg 19.4 Mohit Sharma to Warner , 1 run , nips back in and Warner tucks it through mid-wicket 19.3 Mohit Sharma to Warner , FOUR , Warner picks the back-of-the hand slower delivery and mishits that , actually , beats mid-on and the ball runs away , beating Shami 's chase , everything going Warner 's way 19.2 Mohit Sharma to Warner , no run , defended off the back foot to mid-on 19.1 Mohit Sharma to Warner , FOUR , edged and no slip ! Warner throws his bat at a full and wide delivery outside off , the thick outside edge runs away to the third man fence. Luck running with Warner 18.6 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , short of length outside off , pushed to cover 18.5 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , short outside off , short-armed jab to deep mid-wicket 18.4 U Yadav to Bailey , 1 run , on the pads , flicked to deep mid-wicket 18.3 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , nips back in and causes Bailey some trouble , an inside edge runs away into the short mid-wicket area , Yadav follows through and prevents the quick single 18.2 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , hops back and tucks this wide of mid-on for a single 18.1 U Yadav to Warner , no run , short of length on off , Warner defends it back down the track 17.6 Mohit Sharma to Bailey , no run , punches to short cover 17.5 Mohit Sharma to Bailey , no run , pitched up outside off , Bailey comes on the front foot to press to mid-off 17.4 Mohit Sharma to Bailey , FOUR , fraction short outside off , Bailey is back and across , before cutting past cover. No-one in the deep to cut it off and back-to-back boundaries for Bailey 17.3 Mohit Sharma to Bailey , FOUR , a slap ! Flat-batted past the non-striker , it was n't all that short , but he hit the length ball outside off , straight down the ground 17.2 Mohit Sharma to Bailey , no run , dug in short , Bailey sways out of the way 17.1 Mohit Sharma to Warner , 1 run , turned to square leg , a diving stop is made , but they take a quick single Apologies for that slight delay at the beginning of the 16th over. Some technical issues caused it. That 's sorted and we are back on track . 16.6 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , pitched up outside off , nicely pressed off the front foot to mid-off 16.5 U Yadav to Bailey , FOUR , Yadav drifts onto the pads , full and down leg , flicked through mid-wicket , allows Bailey to get off the mark 16.4 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , good delivery that from Yadav , low full toss outside off , Bailey edges it onto his boot and the ball lobs over the stumps. Nervy moment for Bailey 16.3 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , short of length on off , defended to short cover 16.2 U Yadav to Bailey , no run , gets forward and opens the face of the bat to guide it to point George Bailey , right handed bat , comes to the crease 16.1 U Yadav to S Smith , out Bowled ! ! Now Smith loses his leg stump. Shuffled across far too much , exposed middle and leg , missed the flick and Yadav strikes timber. The fast bowler has a smile. Rare failure for Smith. S Smith b U Yadav 1 ( 3 ) U Yadav to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 15.6 Mohit Sharma to Warner , 2 runs , Warner guides that to third man , quick running gives him the second 15.5 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man 15.4 Mohit Sharma to S Smith , no run , Smith goes for a big pull and seems to have edged it , it wo n't count though as it 's a free hit , Dhoni drops the ball as well 15.4 Mohit Sharma to Warner , no ball , 1 run , Mohit Sharma oversteps and concedes an extra run , hit to sweeper cover 15.3 Mohit Sharma to Warner , no run , gets forward and drives to cover Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 15.2 Mohit Sharma to Watson , out Caught by A Patel ! ! Watson falls to the short ball. Head-high and he top-edges the hook and a good catch running to his left by Axar from fine leg , tumbles to the ground after taking it. Mohit Sharma strikes in his first over. Watson c A Patel b Mohit Sharma 22 ( 17 ) [ 4s-3 ] Mohit Sharma to Watson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.1 Mohit Sharma to Watson , FOUR , that 's a perfect off-drive , on-the-up , Watson gets forward and then meets it on the rise , well-timed to get four 14.6 U Yadav to Warner , no run , Warner mistimes the cut , to the right of Yadav , looks for a quick single , but the bowler is quick to get across in his followthrough 14.5 U Yadav to Warner , 2 runs , down leg , nudged to deep square leg , for an easy couple 14.4 U Yadav to Warner , no run , pitches outside leg and raps Warner on the pads , no chance of a leg bye too 14.3 U Yadav to Warner , no run , yorker length outside off , dug out to cover 14.2 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , short and outside off , Watson hops and cuts it to deep backward point , for a single 14.1 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , gets forward and pushes out , gets a thick outside edge to third man 13.6 Shami to Watson , 2 runs , down leg , nurdled to fine leg , for a couple 13.5 Shami to Warner , 1 run , backs away and steers it to third man Shami decides to change the angle , coming round the wicket now 13.4 Shami to Warner , FOUR , Warner is dealing in boundaries. That 's a hoick , picks the length delivery and then goes over mid-wicket. Shami blows some hot air 13.3 Shami to Warner , no run , short of length on the stumps , defended to short cover 13.2 Shami to Warner , FOUR , now over point , opens the face of the bat and then carves it in the air , beats sweeper cover. Shami is a disappointed man 13.1 Shami to Warner , FOUR , Warner stands there and then pulls the outside off offering through mid-wicket , beats deep mid-wicket easily 12.6 U Yadav to Warner , 1 run , gets forward and eases a drive to sweeper cover 12.5 U Yadav to Warner , no run , tries to punch through cover , but mistimes it back to Yadav 12.4 U Yadav to Warner , no run , defends to the right of Jadeja at point , good stop as RJ went quickly to his right 12.3 U Yadav to Warner , no run , short and outside off , Warner went for a big pull and missed 12.2 U Yadav to Watson , 1 run , defends into the vacant area near square leg , easy single 12.1 U Yadav to Watson , no run , short of length on off , Watson defends besides the pitch Umesh Yadav , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Shami to Watson , 1 run , defended in front of mid-on for a single Shami loses his run-up and the ball. Watson runs at him , wanting to hit the loose , stray ball , but then retreats 11.5 Shami to Watson , FOUR , Axar ca n't pull it back and it 's a lazy effort. Flicked towards wide long-on , Axar runs around , puts in the dive , pulls it back , but not cleanly , the ball rolls away to hit the ad-skirtings 11.4 Shami to Warner , 1 run , short and wide outside off , flayed to sweeper cover 11.3 Shami to Warner , 2 runs , good delivery from Shami , cramps Warner for room , the inside edge is found , it misses the stumps and a couple brings Warner fifty 11.2 Shami to Warner , SIX , he eyed the same shot off the previous delivery , this time he connects. Fine pull shot and it hits the ad hoardings on the full , over the deep backward square fielder. Flat hit from Warner 11.1 Shami to Warner , no run , short and down leg , Warner pulled and missed. Very close to the glove , but no deflection Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 10.6 Binny to Warner , 1 run , shuffles across and tucks it to deep square leg , retains the strike with that run 10.5 Binny to Warner , no run , just in front of the diving cover ! Warner checked his forward push and that ensured it did n't carry. Warner is n't happy , shakes his head after playing the shot 10.4 Binny to Watson , 1 run , great fielding by Shami running around at deep square leg , went to his left and dived full length to stop that pull , managed to keep the batsmen to just a single. Superb committment shown by the pacer 10.3 Binny to Watson , 2 runs , gets forward and plays a crisp on-drive to long-on , for a couple 10.2 Binny to Watson , no run , outswinger , nice shape away for Binny , Watson sees that through to Dhoni 10.1 Binny to Watson , FOUR , half-volley on the pads and Watson flicks past the diving mid-wicket , the fielder dived over the ball 9.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , turned to mid-wicket 9.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , defended cautiously from the crease 9.4 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , 1 run , Watson is surprised by that quick short delivery , it got big on Watson who lobbed the pull over square leg , just over the head of the man , they take a single 9.3 Bhuvneshwar to Watson , no run , sharp inswing for Bhuvneshwar , Watson brings his bat down in time and defends to mid-wicket 9.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , on off and middle , Warner shuffles across and wrists it to deep square leg , for a single 9.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 2 runs , down leg , clipped to deep square leg , for a couple 8.6 Binny to Warner , 1 run , Warner flicks through mid-wicket 8.5 Binny to Watson , 1 run , short and wide outside off , Watson chops the cut , hard into the ground , over slip 's head , to third man 8.4 Binny to Watson , no run , gets forward and stabs that to point 8.3 Binny to Watson , no run , short of length on off , Watson defends cautiously Shane Watson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 8.2 Binny to Finch , out Caught by Kohli ! ! Finch goes. Tried to lift it over mid-on , but completely mishits that , took it from outside off , so that spoiled the timing , a dolly to mid-on. Finch c Kohli b Binny 20 ( 20 ) [ 4s-4 ] Binny to Finch , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 8.1 Binny to Finch , no run , mistimes a forcing shot off the back foot into the cover region 8.1 Binny to Finch , no ball , Jeez ! What was that ? Binny bowls a beamer , unintentionally that is , it slipped it out of his hand as he tried the knuckle delivery , goes way over the head of Finch , and down leg it was , so no harm done. Binny and Finch see the funny side of it , exchange smiles. Binny had his hand up immediately to apologise 7.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , FOUR , again the last ball of the over goes for a boundary. Third consecutive time that has happened. One hand came off the bat handle as Warner drove , but he split point and cover 7.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , a controlled short-arm jab to mid-wicket Now Bhuvneshwar round the wicket to Warner 7.4 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , leg byes , 3 runs , down leg and it 's off the pads , stopped just before the ropes , but not before they take three 7.3 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , shortish down leg , swatted away to deep backward square leg 7.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , flicks and a good diving stop by Rohit at mid-wicket , dives to his left and saves a couple at least 7.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , FOUR , Warner charges Bhuvneshwar and smashes a middles stump delivery wide of mid-on , utter disdain from Warner 6.6 Binny to Finch , FOUR , what timing on that ! Just a turn of the wrists to an off-stump delivery , and the ball races through to deep square leg , short boundary and it gave long leg no chance 6.5 Binny to Finch , no run , gets forward and drives to mid-on 6.4 Binny to Finch , no run , pitched up outside off , driven back to Binny 6.3 Binny to Finch , FOUR , dragged down short and wide outside off , Finch latches on and murders a pull , one bounce over the ropes at deep mid-wicket 6.2 Binny to Finch , no run , punched wide of short cover , but mid-off is there to prevent the quick single 6.1 Binny to Finch , 2 runs , an eased drive through cover , it 's a long boundary and just a couple as the fielders pull it back 5.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , FOUR , that 's a slog. Picked that from outside off and went down on one knee , to find the deep mid-wicket fence , one bounce over the ropes 5.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , defended to the left of Bhuvneshwar 5.4 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 2 runs , wanted to muscle the pull , but mistimed it , got it in the gap wide of mid-wicket , though and it 's a couple 5.3 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , defended to the right of Bhuvneshwar and Warner sends Finch back immediately 5.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , reaches out and carves it , but finds point 5.1 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , 1 run , an inside edge onto the pads as Finch went for the pull to a shortish delivery , they take a quick single as the ball dribbles in front of Dhoni 4.6 Binny to Warner , 2 runs , driven straight down the ground , for a couple 4.5 Binny to Warner , FOUR , it was in the air , but just fell short of the backward square leg fielder , Bhuvi was the man and he did n't get the body behind the ball , allows it through his hands , four more to Warner 4.4 Binny to Finch , 1 run , pushed off the back foot wide of mid-on , easy single 4.3 Binny to Finch , no run , now Binny beats Finch with an outswinger , the feet did n't move and the big drive did n't materialise 4.2 Binny to Finch , no run , opens the face of the bat and guides it to point 4.1 Binny to Finch , no run , Finch howls in pain after missing a pull. He is hit on the ribs. Shane Warne on air : 'He is squealing like a pig , Aaron Finch. ' Finch swivelled to pull and missed. He walks away , removes his gloves , takes a breather and then is back to work 3.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , pushed without any timing to short cover 3.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 2 runs , whipped to deep square leg , the call was for two , but Warner was well in , despite Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's back-handed flick 3.4 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , pushed to cover off the back foot 3.3 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , wicket-to-wicket line from Bhuvneshwar , Warner defends 3.2 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , turned to short mid-wicket Shane Warne reckons that Warner uses the biggest bat in the world at the moment. He thinks it 's more of a club rather than a bat . 3.1 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , tight line and length on off , Warner defends to mid-off 2.6 Binny to Finch , no run , back of a length outside off , Finch defends it to the right of Binny 2.5 Binny to Finch , no run , pitched up outside off , Finch gets forward and defends to short cover 2.4 Binny to Warner , 1 run , Warner closes the face of the bat and gets a flick in the air , it would 've been a dolly for mid-wicket , but the fielder was not there , he was placed at deep mid-wicket 2.3 Binny to Warner , no run , driven straight to the fielder at cover , well-timed , Rohit hits direct at Finch 's end , but Finch plonked his bat in 2.2 Binny to Warner , FOUR , friendly delivery outside off , Warner plays a fabulous drive on-the-up wide of mid-off , no-one moved ! 2.1 Binny to Warner , FOUR , Warner swings it over mid-wicket , the bat turned in the hand as he played the hoick , but got enough timing on that stroke to get it over the infield 1.6 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , 1 run , down leg , nudged to fine leg 1.5 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , shuffles across and then defends to short cover 1.4 Bhuvneshwar to Warner , no run , pushed off the back foot to mid-off 1.3 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , ooh ! Nips back in sharply , catches Finch on the back foot , rapped on the pads , but the height saved Finch there , they pinch a leg bye 1.2 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , FOUR , another bad delivery , very short and wide outside off , Finch waits for that and then cracks that through cover , played that right in the gap and the ball rocketed away 1.1 Bhuvneshwar to Finch , FOUR , like Binny Bhuvneshwar too starts with a poor delivery , harmless length delivery outside off , Finch had all the time to punch past mid-off , hammered it wide of Kohli and he is off the mark Bhuvneshwar Kumar , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Binny to Warner , no run , gets forward and opens the face of the bat to ease a soft drive to cover 0.5 Binny to Warner , no run , that bounced and Warner played that well , it cut back in and forced the batsman to go deep into his crease , Warner hops and keeps it down Now Binny round the wicket. Short mid-wicket catching for Warner 0.4 Binny to Warner , no run , angling in on the stumps , tucked to mid-on off the back foot 0.3 Binny to Warner , no run , turned to square leg Just the one slip now and the innings has just lasted two balls 0.2 Binny to Warner , no run , punched straight to the fielder at cover 0.1 Binny to Warner , FOUR , short and wide outside off , width on offer and Warner slaps that past a diving cover , the quick outfield does the rest Warner and Finch are at the crease. Warner is on strike. Binny will open the attack Stuart Binny has the new ball. Warner to face off. The Indians were in their customary huddle before they walked out. Two slips in place for Binny. Here we go The playing conditions for the warm-up games state that - not more than 11 can bat and field. Only the ones nominated in the 11 can bowl. So that 's that then . Teams : Australia : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , George Bailey ( c ) , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood , Pat Cummins , Xavier Doherty , Michael Clarke , James Faulkner India : Shikhar Dhawan , Ajinkya Rahane , Ambati Rayudu , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( c/w ) , Stuart Binny , Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Rohit Sharma The official team sheets unveiled at the toss shows Faulkner and Clarke listed as 14 and 15 respectively. So one can safely assume that they wo n't be taking any part in the game. Here are the teams then . Bailey : 'There are certain things we will work on. It is a good day to try some things , but it is a warm-up game. Always a pleasure playing against him. He is one of the greats of the game ( talking about MS Dhoni ) . It is beautiful. Nice day for batting. They are both progressing really well ( Clarke and Faulkner ) . I still think he is on track and Pup is flying. You can say that once you have done it ( talking about the pressure of winning a home World Cup ) .' Dhoni : 'It is a warm-up game , the reason being we will feature all 15 players. We did n't train. We just wanted the boys to have a free time. Do n't get arrested or killed ( smiles ) and everything else is fine , we turned up pretty nice. Not too disappointed as we batted quite a few times first in the tri-series , we did n't get to chase. The boys are looking fresh. Rohit is fit and he is playing well. Definitely he will be tested as it 's a full game.' A surprising thing which one got to see here - for a warm-up game , a specially minted coin was used for the toss. No Clarke at the toss. It 's George Bailey . Australia have won the toss and have opted to bat Since this is a warm-up game , all the 15 can be involved. Sunny Gavaskar thinks that is 'utter nonsense'. We 'll have the 15 from both teams once the toss is done. Just not sure who the 15th from Australia is as James Faulkner is injured . Pitch report by Tom Moody : 'It 's a drop-in wicket. It looks a very good surface. Nice tinge of green. Clear skies and it wo n't take long for this wicket to bake and it will be very friendly for the batsmen.' There were some good news for Australia as well. Michael Clarke scored some runs in domestic games , but said he is still not fit enough to make it to the team. The injury to James Faulkner is a big blow to the hosts , he has been a key member of the side in the past 12 months. The practice matches will give them an idea as to who can fill in the role that will be vacant for the first game. Both teams will have an opportunity to check out all their players. Which side will make the best of it ? Stay tuned as the toss is not far away . Hello and welcome to the warm-up game between India and Australia. The World Cup is less than a week away and it is time for all the teams to get used to the conditions , get their combinations right and know which XI will take the field in their respective first games. The last couple of days has been up and down for India. Skipper MS Dhoni became a father to a baby girl , while Rohit Sharma and Bhuvneshwar Kumar passed a fitness test ahead of the World Cup. On the other hand , Ishant Sharma has been ruled out. We still do not know who his replacement might be. Mohit Sharma may get the nod as he was part of the squad that played the tri-series . Preview India Times have remarkably changed since India won the coveted title for the second time in 2011 in front of their home fans , finishing off a rather fruitful association with former coach Gary Kirsten who had taken the team to the pinnacle of Test cricket earlier as well. Four years on and it is not quite the same . Despite their woeful returns in Test cricket , India have fared better in ODIs. There were defeats to begin the last year in South Africa and New Zealand , and in the Asia Cup , but they have come back well. Beating Bangladesh in Bangladesh and winning two home series convincingly did n't turn many heads , but their series victory in England was a better indicator of their ODI reputation . Only four members remain from the squad that lifted the trophy four years ago , which is n't necessarily a bad thing. Ageing players have made way for fresher legs and they have shown with their performances that they belong. And if they maintain their form throughout the tournament , India will be difficult to dislodge from the defending champions ' perch . Strengths Like most limited-overs sides , India 's batting remains their pice de rsistance. A solid opening combination , followed by one of the best ODI batsmen in the game today , who makes way for a strong middle order before the finisher MS Dhoni walks out. Class oozes through India 's batting order and opposition teams would be wary of them . Weaknesses Bowling. It was during the end of 2013 that India began narrowing down on who their fast bowlers were going to be in the World Cup , and despite playing a good number of games , they still have n't settled on their best combination. Mohammed Shami was ODI cricket 's leading wicket-taker in 2014 , but leaks runs at over six , and no bowler looks capable of running through lower orders in the death. That in turn puts pressure on the spinners and part-timers , who then have to do the holding job. It is eventually left to the batsmen to make up for their performances in huge run chases . Australia The mid-90s marked the arrival of the Australian brand of cricket , and after not making it to the last four of the edition they hosted back in 1992 , they began a streak of four consecutive finals out of which they won three successive titles , only to lose it to eventual winners India in 2011. The ICC World Cup returns to their home territory , and Australia would look to give their fans a winning spectacle. There are no aching limbs in the team and under a new captain in either Michael Clarke or George Bailey , the players are raring to go in a bid to win an unprecedented fifth world title . Strengths Australia bat well and bat deep , and if their past form is anything to go by , teams will find it difficult to dislodge the four-time champions in home conditions. Clarke , Shane Watson , Steven Smith and Brad Haddin remain among the batsmen from the 2011 World Cup , but their experience will be backed up by David Warner and Aaron Finch at the top. The presence of allrounders Mitchell Marsh , Glenn Maxwell and James Faulkner gives them plenty of lower-order firepower to take them through in crunch situations . Weaknesses Despite having very capable bowlers in their ranks , Australia 's weak link remains their bowling as a unit. Home conditions will definitely be to their advantage , but the batting Powerplay can get the better of most bowling attacks. While Mitchell Johnson remains their most experienced frontline bowler , opposition teams could put pressure on the inexperienced others , and their lone spinner in Xavier Doherty could be a weak link . Australia have succeeded under both Clarke and stand-in captain Bailey , but in the off chance that Clarke does n't regain his fitness , it could also put Australia under pressure without their experienced captain . Teams : India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Ajinkya Rahane , Ambati Rayudu , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( c/w ) , Stuart Binny , Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Rohit Sharma Australia ( From ) : Aaron Finch , David Warner , Shane Watson , Steven Smith , George Bailey ( c ) , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Brad Haddin ( w ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood , Pat Cummins , Xavier Doherty , Michael Clarke Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
