Graphs England continue their strong preparations for the mega tournament. On the other hand , West Indies have a long way to go. The practice games continue with two more matches tomorrow. India will look to secure their first win when they take on Afghanistan at the Adelaide Oval. Do join us for all the action. For now , cheers and bye. . Morgan : 'Very pleased. The intensity was excellent and we did all the important things well. I thought we rose to the challenge of this wicket. Woakes has come leaps and bounds as cricketer over the past 12-15 months. The conditions today were in his favour. I think we are improving as a team and will look to do better going ahead.' Holder : 'I knew the pitch would do a bit early and then it would be good to bat on , but we did n't acquit ourselves early on. We needed to take this as a challenge and adjust ourselves to the task on hand. The batsmen need to spend some time in the middle and get used to the conditions. We are looking forward to the next game and the actual tournament.' A comprehensive victory for England. A clinical all-round performance from Eoin Morgan and his men. They wanted to bowl first , Jason Holder gave them the opportunity. Chris Woakes was most impressive , finishing with impressive figures of 5/19. He was well supported by Steve Finn , who finished with 2/34. Barring Lendl Simmons , none of the West Indian batsmen showed any inclination to spend time in the middle. Eventually , they were bundled out for 122. The chase was a straightforward once , Moeen Ali had some luck , and he went on to make 46. Bell spent some useful time and so did James Taylor. England continue their impressive build-up and should be one of the darkhorses going into the main tourney . 22.5 A Russell to James Taylor , FOUR , England win by 9 wickets , short and on the stumps , Taylor swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a boundary 22.4 A Russell to James Taylor , no run , full and on the stumps , Taylor watches it all along and defends it towards the off-side 22.3 A Russell to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Taylor shuffles across and defends it towards the off-side 22.2 A Russell to Bell , 1 run , short and just outside off , tapped behind point for a single 22.1 A Russell to Bell , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , kept a tad low as well , Bell gets down low and keeps it out 21.6 Nikita Miller to Bell , 1 run , tossed up and on the off-stump channel , Bell bunts it down towards long-off for a single 21.5 Nikita Miller to Bell , no run , this one is given more air , turned towards mid-wicket 21.4 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , 1 run , Miller drops one short and on Taylor 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 21.3 Nikita Miller to Bell , 1 run , slower and spinning away from off , Bell backs away and eases it past cover for a single 21.2 Nikita Miller to Bell , no run , flatter and skidding through after pitching , Bell backs away and drives it back towards the bowler 21.1 Nikita Miller to Bell , no run , flighted and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 20.6 A Russell to Bell , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Bell runs it down towards third man for a single 20.5 A Russell to Bell , no run , excellent short ball from Russell , follows Bell as he dropped his gloves and weaved away from the line 20.4 A Russell to Bell , no run , tad fuller and on the stumps , pushed towards mid-on 20.3 A Russell to Bell , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Bell hops across and dabs it down towards the off-side 20.2 A Russell to Bell , no run , on a length and on off , defended back towards the bowler 20.1 A Russell to Bell , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , extra bounce for Russell , Bell looks to dab it down towards third man and misses 19.6 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , no run , slower and on off , Taylor shimmies down the track and blocks 19.5 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , no run , pushed through by Miller , driven back towards the bowler 19.4 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , 2 runs , pushed through by Miller , Taylor works it wide of sweeper cover and gets back for the second run 19.3 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , no run , Miller drifts one on off , Taylor comes down the track in defence , misses and the ball lobs off the pads 19.2 Nikita Miller to Bell , 1 run , flatter and on Bell 's pads , clipped behind square on the on-side for a single 19.1 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , 1 run , flighted and on the stumps , Taylor comes down the track and nudges it behind square on the on-side 18.6 A Russell to Bell , 2 runs , short and well outside off , Bell swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a brace 18.5 A Russell to James Taylor , 3 runs , too full and too wide from Russell , Taylor gets a good stride forward and drives it through extra cover , runs hard and gets back for the third run 18.4 A Russell to James Taylor , no run , Russell keeps it full and on off , punched towards mid-off 18.3 A Russell to Bell , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven square on the off-side past cover for a single 18.2 A Russell to Bell , no run , Russell keeps it short and on off , Bell rides with the bounce and defends it towards the slip cordon 18.1 A Russell to James Taylor , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed down towards third man for a single 17.6 Nikita Miller to Bell , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Bell watches it all along and blocks 17.5 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , 1 run , this one is given more air , driven down towards long-on for a single 17.4 Nikita Miller to Bell , 1 run , slower and on off , Bell makes room and works it past cover-point for a run 17.3 Nikita Miller to Bell , no run , tossed up and on middle , Bell gets behind the line and blocks it 17.2 Nikita Miller to Bell , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Bell backs away and cuts it straight to the fielder at backward point 17.1 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , Taylor makes room and slaps it to deep cover for a single 16.6 A Russell to James Taylor , 1 run , the bumper from Russell , Taylor rolls his wrists and pulls it past the square leg umpire for a single 16.5 A Russell to James Taylor , no run , on a good length and around off , Taylor shuffles across and defends it 16.5 A Russell to Bell , 2 wides , sloppy from West Indies , Russell slips one full and well down leg-side , Ramdin ca n't gather it cleanly , two wides is the end result 16.4 A Russell to Bell , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Bell gets half forward and defends it 16.3 A Russell to James Taylor , 1 run , short and just outside off , Taylor dabs it down towards third man for a single 16.2 A Russell to James Taylor , 2 runs , short and on the stumps , Taylor hops across and tucks it past mid-wicket for a couple of runs 16.1 A Russell to Bell , 1 run , on a good length and around off , Bell plays with an angled bat and guides it towards third man for a single 15.6 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , no run , flighted and just outside off , Taylor gets half-a-stride forward in defence 15.5 Nikita Miller to Bell , 1 run , the slider from Miller , goes through with the arm , Bell makes room and works it past cover-point for a single 15.4 Nikita Miller to Bell , 2 runs , flatter and wider from Miller , punched past extra cover for a couple of easy runs 15.3 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , 1 run , Miller drifts one on middle , Taylor comes down the track and works it towards long-on for a run 15.2 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , no run , tossed up and on off , Taylor steps down the track and blocks 15.1 Nikita Miller to James Taylor , no run , pushed through by Miller , comes back with the angle , Taylor was prodding forward , gets an inside edge towards the on-side Nikita Miller , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack England scored 32/1 in the batting PP 14.6 A Russell to Bell , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Bell plays inside the line and lets it go 14.5 A Russell to Bell , no run , another short ball from Russell , this one did n't come as quick as Bell expected , he is early on the pull and gets an inside edge onto his pads 14.4 A Russell to James Taylor , 1 run , free-hit for Taylor , this was full and wide outside off , Taylor goes for the big drive , gets a thick edge towards third man for a single 14.4 A Russell to James Taylor , no ball , byes , FOUR , this is extremely poor bowling from Russell , oversteps by a long way , bangs one halfway down the pitch and well down leg-side , beats everyone and races away to the fence for more extras 14.3 A Russell to James Taylor , FOUR , too short from Russell , he does n't have the pace to trouble the batsman , Taylor is quick to latch onto it , rocks back and pulls it in front of square on the on-side for a boundary 14.2 A Russell to Bell , 1 run , Russell keeps it short and well outside off , Bell swivels across and mistimes the pull towards mid-on , scampers for a quick single 14.1 A Russell to Bell , no run , excitement from the keeper and 1st slip , but Russell was n't , this was short and well outside off , Bell went for the pull and missed Welcome back. . That 's dinner time at the SCG. England are cantering towards victory. Moeen Ali made most of his luck to score 46. Bell has taken his time to settle. The West Indies pacers have been hostile but have n't got any runs to defend. The players will be back after the break to complete the formalities. Do join us in a while. . 13.6 Roach to Bell , 1 run , Bell gets lucky ! This was short and just outside off , Bell was n't in any position on the pull , the ball lobs in the air and falls in no man 's land around mid-wicket 13.5 Roach to James Taylor , 1 run , short and rearing onto Taylor , he hops across and fends at it uncomfortably , the ball lobs behind square on the on-side for a single 13.4 Roach to James Taylor , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Taylor hops across and defends it towards backward point 13.4 Roach to James Taylor , wide , Roach sprays this one well down leg-side , wide called 13.3 Roach to Bell , 3 runs , back of a length and just outside off , Bell dabs it in front of backward point , Taylor calls for a quick single and beats the throw. The ball rolls away towards deep mid-wicket and the batsmen get another couple of runs 13.2 Roach to Bell , no run , Roach shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , left alone 13.1 Roach to Bell , no run , too straight from Roach , angled into Bell 's pads , clipped straight to Taylor at short fine 12.6 Jerome Taylor to Bell , 1 run , length ball and on Bell 's pads , worked behind square on the on-side for a single 12.6 Jerome Taylor to Bell , wide , Taylor slips one down leg-side , wide called 12.5 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , defended with a straight bat towards cover 12.4 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , on a good length and around off , Bell shuffles across and defends it 12.3 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven towards mid-off 12.2 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , the yorker from Taylor , right at the bowler 's end of middle stump , Bell watches it all along and digs it out 12.1 Jerome Taylor to Bell , 2 runs , short of a length and just outside off , Bell plays with an open face and guides it behind square on the off-side for a brace 11.6 Roach to James Taylor , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Taylor hops across and defends it James Taylor , right handed bat , comes to the crease 11.5 Roach to Moeen Ali , out Caught by Darren Bravo ! ! Moeen falls after a sparkling knock ! This was full and angling away from outside off , Moeen was hanging on the back-foot , has to reach forward for the drive , does n't get hold of the shot and pops a simple head high catch to Bravo at short extra cover. Moeen Ali c Darren Bravo b Roach 46 ( 43 ) [ 4s-9 ] Roach to Moeen Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.4 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Moeen rides with the bounce and keeps it down 11.3 Roach to Moeen Ali , FOUR , no need to run for those , width on offer from Roach , slapped away square past extra cover for another boundary , easy pickings for Moeen 11.2 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , back of a length and just outside off , rears on Moeen from a length , he does well to ride with the bounce and pushes it towards the off-side 11.1 Roach to Bell , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Bell , worked in front of square leg for a single Kemar Roach [ 3.0-0-20-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Jerome Taylor to Moeen Ali , no run , on a length and on Moeen 's pads , turned away towards the on-side 10.5 Jerome Taylor to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's nice timing from Moeen , short and wide outside off , Moeen stays back and cracks it square past point , beats the infield and races away to the fence 10.4 Jerome Taylor to Bell , 1 run , short and wide from Taylor , dabbed away towards third man for a single 10.3 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 10.2 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , on a length and just outside off , Bell shuffles across and defends it 10.1 Jerome Taylor to Moeen Ali , 1 run , short and well outside off , pulled away to the left of mid-on for a single England have opted for the batting PP 9.6 J Holder to Bell , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Bell shuffles across and blocks 9.5 J Holder to Moeen Ali , 3 runs , short and wide from Holder , Moeen gets on top of the bounce and cracks it square on the off-side. Carter gives chase and hauls the ball back in , saves a run for his team Holder changes to round the wicket 9.4 J Holder to Moeen Ali , FOUR , edged and four , full and wide from Holder , Moeen throws his bat at that , gets a thick edge that goes high and to the right of Sammy at 1st slip , lucky boundary for Moeen 9.3 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , he goes hard on the drive and is beaten 9.2 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Moeen gets across and defends it 9.1 J Holder to Moeen Ali , FOUR , that 's crunched by Moeen , on a good length and well outside off , he leans forward and lifts it over cover for another boundary 8.6 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at short cover 8.5 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Bell gets behind the line and defends it 8.4 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , length ball and on Bell 's pads , turned towards the on-side 8.3 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , on a good length and shaping away from off , defended with an angled bat towards backward point 8.2 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , Taylor shortens his length on off , Bell gets behind the line and blocks 8.1 Jerome Taylor to Bell , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Bell stays back and punches it to short cover 7.6 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Moeen gets behind the line and defends 7.5 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Moeen pushes at that , gets an inside edge that goes dangerously close to the off-stump 7.4 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , swing and a miss from Moeen , this was full and shaping away from outside off , lures Moeen into the drive and beats the outside edge Back over the wicket 7.3 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , Holder shortens his length on off , defended back towards the bowler 7.2 J Holder to Moeen Ali , FOUR , inside edge and four ! Holder comes from round the wicket and gets this one to angle back into the left-hander , lures him into the drive , gets an inside edge that flies over the top of middle stump 7.1 J Holder to Bell , 1 run , full and on the stumps , worked to the right of mid-on for a single 6.6 Jerome Taylor to Moeen Ali , FOUR , too short from Taylor , Moeen swivels across and pulls it in front of mid-wicket , no need to run for those 6.5 Jerome Taylor to Moeen Ali , no run , tad fuller and angling back into Moeen , defended back towards the bowler 6.4 Jerome Taylor to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven crisply but straight to the fielder at extra cover 6.3 Jerome Taylor to Moeen Ali , FOUR , lovely shot , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Moeen leans into the drive and plays it on the up , beats cover and races away to the fence 6.2 Jerome Taylor to Moeen Ali , no run , short and just outside off , Moeen was early on the pull and ends up flat batting it towards mid-off 6.1 Jerome Taylor to Bell , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Bell swivels across on the pull and gets a bottom edge towards fine leg Jerome Taylor , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 5.6 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Moeen slices it away towards backward point Holder changes to round the wicket 5.5 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , short of a length and nipping away from off , Moeen closed the face of the bat and gets an edge towards the off-side , took his bottom hand off on impact 5.4 J Holder to Bell , 1 run , too straight from Holder , nudged in front of mid-wicket for a single 5.3 J Holder to Bell , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , left alone 5.2 J Holder to Bell , FOUR , nicely played by Bell , this was full and swinging away from outside off , Bell gets down on one knee and lifts it over extra cover , a couple of bounces and over the ropes 5.1 J Holder to Moeen Ali , 1 run , length ball and on Moeen 's pads , tucked behind square on the on-side for a single 4.6 Roach to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone 4.6 Roach to Bell , wide , short and angling down leg-stump , wide called 4.5 Roach to Moeen Ali , 1 run , too short from Roach , Moeen swivels across and pulls it past square leg for a single 4.4 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , short and angling across the left-hander , Moeen looks to pull and misses 4.3 Roach to Moeen Ali , FOUR , good cricket all around , this was full and just outside off , Moeen leans forward and punches it past cover. The timing was sweet and almost goes all the way. Russell gives chase , dives in front of the ropes and drags it back in , the feet was touching the ropes as he did so , a boundary has been signalled 4.2 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , Roach slips in the slower ball , Moeen was looking to nudge it towards the on-side and misses 4.1 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , driven off the frontfoot towards cover 3.6 J Holder to Bell , FOUR , that 's a cracking shot , width on offer from Holder , Bell gets on top of the bounce and cuts it square past point , no need to run for those 3.5 J Holder to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and on Bell 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads 3.4 J Holder to Bell , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 3.3 J Holder to Moeen Ali , 1 run , the slower ball from Holder , Moeen was way too early on the pull , mistimes it backward of square on the on-side 3.3 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no ball , Moeen has been caught at backward point , but it 's a no-ball , Holder had overstepped. Short and wide outside off , Moeen cut it straight to Carter , he pouched it safely. The umpire checks for the no-ball and Holder had indeed overstepped 3.2 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , punched straight to the fielder at extra cover 3.1 J Holder to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 2.6 Roach to Moeen Ali , 1 run , too straight from Roach , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 2.5 Roach to Moeen Ali , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Moeen gets forward and scoops it over cover. Russell gives chase and keeps the batsmen down to a brace 2.4 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with a straight bat towards mid-off 2.3 Roach to Moeen Ali , FOUR , width on offer from Roach , Moeen presses forward and cracks it square past cover , beats the chasing fielder and Moeen is off the mark with a boundary 2.2 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and just outside off , pushed towards cover 2.2 Roach to Moeen Ali , wide , Roach slips one down leg-side , wide called 2.1 Roach to Moeen Ali , leg byes , 2 runs , that 's a good short ball , nipped back off the seam , Moeen does well to get out of the line. The ball clips the shoulder on its way , Ramdin leaps and tips it over the bar , a couple of leg-byes results 1.6 J Holder to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 1.5 J Holder to Bell , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape back into Bell , he pushes forward and gets an inside edge towards the on-side 1.4 J Holder to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Bell goes hard on the drive and mistimes it towards cover 1.3 J Holder to Bell , no run , Holder keeps it full and gets this one to shape away , left alone 1.2 J Holder to Bell , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of late away swing , defended towards the off-side 1.1 J Holder to Bell , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone Jason Holder , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , Moeen goes for an ambitious drive and is beaten 0.5 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , defended with a straight towards cover 0.4 Roach to Moeen Ali , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 0.3 Roach to Bell , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , nudged in front of mid-on for a quick single 0.3 Roach to Bell , 5 wides , Roach slips one down leg-side , Ramdin does n't even go for it , the ball races away for five wides 0.2 Roach to Bell , no run , back of a length and on the off-stump line , Bell gets behind the line and blocks 0.1 Roach to Bell , no run , short of a length and angling back into Bell , kept a tad low as well , Bell gets behind the line and defends it Bell and Moeen Ali are at the crease. Bell is on strike. Roach will open the attack Two slips in place for Roach Welcome back.. Can West Indies sneak in a few wickets and delay what looks like an inevitable defeat ? Woakes : 'We were probably a tad short to start with , but once we found the right length , we made it difficult for the batsmen at the top. It was a matter of putting the ball in the right areas on that surface. I feel pretty confident , hopefully more good days to come. We were definitely going to have a bowl , we were a bit surprised at their decision to bat first.' On a cold and cloudy afternoon at the SCG , Chris Woakes made the most of the conditions to finish with 5 wickets. West Indies opted to bat and never got going. Gayle and Bravo registered first-ball ducks , Smith hung on for a while , Samuels and Ramdin scratched around and only Lendl Simmons batted with authority. Some of the batting was reckless and it only aided in England 's easy afternoon. Join us in a while for the chase. . 29.3 Woakes to A Russell , out Caught by Jordan ! ! Five wickets for Woakes ! West Indies have been dismissed for 122. A hack to finish things off , this was short and just outside off , Russell was aiming for the mid-wicket boundary , does n't get anywhere near the the middle of the bat , ends up spooning it in the air and towards deep cover. The fielder from cover runs back , but it 's Jordan coming across from sweeper cover , who calls and completes the catch. A Russell c Jordan b Woakes 7 ( 13 ) [ 4s-1 ] Woakes to A Russell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 29.2 Woakes to Nikita Miller , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , dabbed away towards third man 29.1 Woakes to Nikita Miller , no run , back of a length and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 28.6 Finn to Nikita Miller , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Miller pushes at that and gets a thick edge past second slip , off the mark with a single 28.5 Finn to Nikita Miller , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended solidly towards point 28.4 Finn to Nikita Miller , no run , tad fuller and holding its line outside off , defended with an open face towards backward point 28.3 Finn to Nikita Miller , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , defended towards the off-side Nikita Miller , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.2 Finn to J Holder , out Caught by Bell ! ! Catching practice for Bell at 2nd slip ! Nicely bowled by Finn , pitched up outside off and invites Holder to drive , he ca n't resist , hangs his bat out and gets a thick outside edge. Bell dives across to his left and takes a sharp catch in front of 1st slip. West Indies lose their captain and are nine down now. J Holder c Bell b Finn 1 ( 3 ) Finn to J Holder , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 28.1 Finn to J Holder , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side 27.6 Woakes to A Russell , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Russell shuffles across and defends it 27.5 Woakes to A Russell , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Russell gets behind the line and defends it 27.4 Woakes to J Holder , 1 run , short and on Holder 's pads , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single Jason Holder , right handed bat , comes to the crease 27.3 Woakes to Simmons , out Caught by Tredwell ! ! That 's a sharp catch from Tredwell at short extra cover ! This was pitched up and holds its line outside off , Simmons leaned forward on the drive , hits it crisply but ca n't keep it along the ground. The ball was dying on him , but Tredwell gets both hands underneath and holds onto the stinger. West Indies slump further. Simmons c Tredwell b Woakes 45 ( 55 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Woakes to Simmons , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 27.2 Woakes to Simmons , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Simmons hops across and defends it 27.1 Woakes to Simmons , 2 runs , short and just outside off , Simmons goes for the pull , does n't get hold of the shot but enough to get it past Moeen at mid-on Chris Woakes [ 6.0-1-15-3 ] is back into the attack West Indies have opted for the batting PP 26.6 Finn to A Russell , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , left alone 26.5 Finn to A Russell , FOUR , that 's nicely played , short and wide from Finn , Russell makes room and slaps it over point for a boundary 26.4 Finn to A Russell , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Russell goes hard on the drive and mistimes it towards cover 26.3 Finn to Simmons , 1 run , full and on Simmons ' pads , clipped away towards long-leg for a single 26.2 Finn to Simmons , FOUR , Simmons is looking in good touch , fraction too short and well outside off , Simmons rocks back and pulls it in front of mid-wicket for a boundary 26.1 Finn to Simmons , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Simmons presses forward in defence Steven Finn [ 4.0-0-24-1 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Tredwell to A Russell , no run , tossed up and on off , Russell prods across and defends it 25.5 Tredwell to Simmons , 1 run , Tredwell drops one short and wide outside off , Simmons makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a run 25.4 Tredwell to Simmons , 2 runs , flatter and quicker from Tredwell , Simmons gets down on his knees and sweeps it fine for a brace 25.3 Tredwell to Simmons , SIX , nicely played by Simmons , shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and hoists it high and deep into the long-on stands 25.2 Tredwell to Simmons , no run , slower and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 25.1 Tredwell to Simmons , no run , loud shout for LBW , but umpire Reiffel says no , was it turning down leg ? Simmons was down on his knees as he looked to sweep and missed 24.6 Bopara to Simmons , 1 run , the slower short ball from Bopara , swatted away towards deep mid-wicket for a run 24.5 Bopara to A Russell , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , punched away off the back-foot towards deep cover 24.4 Bopara to Simmons , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on off , Simmons shuffles across and flicks it wide of mid-on for a single 24.3 Bopara to Simmons , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Simmons shuffles across and drives it towards mid-on 24.2 Bopara to Simmons , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Simmons was looking to go over the top , ends up slicing it over extra cover for a brace 24.1 Bopara to Simmons , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Simmons pushes at that before belatedly withdrawing his bat 23.6 Tredwell to Simmons , 1 run , Tredwell drifts one on off , Simmons prods forward and gets an inside edge past mid-wicket 23.5 Tredwell to Simmons , no run , pushed through on off , defended back towards the bowler 23.4 Tredwell to A Russell , 1 run , flighted delivery and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single 23.3 Tredwell to A Russell , no run , tossed up and on off , blocked back towards the bowler 23.2 Tredwell to A Russell , no run , beautifully bowled , loop and guile from Tredwell , teases Russell to come forward , beats the outside edge 23.1 Tredwell to A Russell , no run , tossed up and spinning back into Russell , he goes back and defends it 22.6 Bopara to A Russell , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , eased away square on the off-side for a single 22.6 Bopara to A Russell , wide , short of a length and angling down leg-side , wide called Andre Russell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.5 Bopara to Sammy , out Caught by Tredwell ! ! That 's an awful shot from Sammy and West Indies fall further. Another nothing shot , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , Sammy was looking for the big drive , the bat turned on impact , he ends up getting a thick inside edge and drags it to Tredwell at mid-on. Sammy c Tredwell b Bopara 12 ( 19 ) [ 4s-1 ] Bopara to Sammy , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 22.4 Bopara to Sammy , FOUR , edged and four , no slip for Bopara , this one was a beauty , on a good length and shaping away , gets some extra bounce , Sammy was sparring at that , gets a thick edge that beats the outstretched fingers of Buttler 22.3 Bopara to Simmons , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , steered away towards deep cover for a single 22.2 Bopara to Sammy , 1 run , length ball on the stumps , worked away behind square on the on-side for a single 22.1 Bopara to Sammy , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of shape away , teases Sammy into the drive and beats the outside edge 21.6 Tredwell to Simmons , no run , flatter and quicker outside off , Simmons backs away and cuts it straight to the fielder at backward point 21.5 Tredwell to Sammy , 1 run , full and just outside off , punched back past the bowler for a single 21.4 Tredwell to Simmons , 1 run , slower and just outside off , eased down towards long-on for a single 21.3 Tredwell to Simmons , no run , Tredwell gives this one more air , Simmons plays with an open face but ca n't get it past backward point 21.2 Tredwell to Simmons , no run , slower and wider , Simmons presses forward in defence 21.1 Tredwell to Simmons , no run , Tredwell drifts one outside off , defended back towards the bowler 20.6 Bopara to Sammy , no run , back of a length and well outside off , dabbed in front of point , he wants a single but is wisely sent back 20.5 Bopara to Sammy , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Sammy covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 20.4 Bopara to Sammy , no run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone 20.3 Bopara to Sammy , no run , back of a length and on off , Sammy presses across and nudges it towards mid-wicket 20.2 Bopara to Simmons , 1 run , full and on the stumps , pushed in front of mid-on for a quick single 20.1 Bopara to Simmons , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , chopped away towards backward point 19.6 Tredwell to Sammy , no run , Tredwell tosses one on middle , Sammy gets a good stride forward and blocks 19.5 Tredwell to Sammy , no run , Tredwell drifts one outside off , Sammy was hanging back , stabs at it and manages to work it towards the off-side 19.4 Tredwell to Simmons , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 19.3 Tredwell to Sammy , 1 run , Tredwell gives this one more air , eased down towards long-off for a single 19.2 Tredwell to Sammy , no run , flighted and just outside off , nudged towards the on-side Now 2 slips in place 19.1 Tredwell to Simmons , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single 18.6 Bopara to Sammy , 2 runs , Bopara keeps it full and wide outside off , creamed past extra cover for a couple of runs 18.5 Bopara to Sammy , no run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone 18.4 Bopara to Simmons , 1 run , length ball and on Simmons ' pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 18.3 Bopara to Simmons , FOUR , much better from Simmons , fraction too short from Bopara , Simmons swivels across and pulls it over square leg , beats the man in the deep for a boundary 18.2 Bopara to Simmons , no run , that 's a nothing shot from Simmons , on a good length and holding its line , Simmons was looking to dab it away towards third man and missed 18.1 Bopara to Simmons , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , punched towards mid-off 17.6 Tredwell to Simmons , 1 run , flatter and well outside off , Simmons makes room and cuts , Bell fumbles at point and allows a single 17.5 Tredwell to Sammy , 1 run , Tredwell drifts one wider outside off , nudged wide of cover-point for a single 17.4 Tredwell to Sammy , no run , slower and just outside off , Sammy shuffles across and blocks 17.3 Tredwell to Sammy , no run , flighted and just outside off , Sammy prods forward and blocks 17.2 Tredwell to Sammy , 2 runs , tossed up and holding its line outside off , Sammy pushes forward and gets an edge past 1st slip , off the mark with a brace Darren Sammy , right handed bat , comes to the crease 17.1 Tredwell to J Carter , out Bowled ! ! Tredwell strikes first ball ! Carter looks bemused but he has to go back to the hut. This was pushed through on off , skids after pitching , Carter was on the back-foot , is completely beaten for pace. The middle stump is pegged back , West Indies have lost their sixth wicket. J Carter b Tredwell 7 ( 15 ) [ 4s-1 ] Tredwell to J Carter , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Tredwell comes on , for the first time since England landed in Australia James Tredwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 16.6 Bopara to J Carter , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , Carter pushes forward and gets a thick edge towards third man 16.5 Bopara to J Carter , no run , Bopara shortens his length on off , defended with an angled bat towards the off-side 16.4 Bopara to J Carter , FOUR , nicely played by Carter , this was full and on off , Carter leans forward , checks his drive and eases it past mid-on for a boundary 16.3 Bopara to Simmons , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , steered away square behind point for a single 16.2 Bopara to J Carter , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Carter slugs it away without any timing , the ball pops in front of the fielder at deep mid-wicket 16.1 Bopara to J Carter , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Carter closes the face of the bat on the drive , ends up mistiming it towards mid-off 15.6 Jordan to Simmons , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Simmons shuffles across and pushes it towards cover-point 15.5 Jordan to Simmons , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Simmons presses across and defends it 15.4 Jordan to Simmons , 2 runs , on a good length and well outside off , Simmons leans half forward and pushes it past cover-point for a couple of runs 15.3 Jordan to Simmons , FOUR , nicely played ! Overpitched and well outside off , Simmons gets a big stride forward and drills it through extra cover , no need to run for those 15.3 Jordan to Simmons , wide , short and angling well down leg-side , Simmons looks to flick and misses , wide called 15.2 Jordan to Simmons , no run , on a length and angling back into Simmons , defended back towards the bowler 15.1 Jordan to Simmons , no run , short and wide from Jordan , Simmons cuts it straight to the fielder at point Drinks are on the field now 14.6 Bopara to J Carter , no run , full and a hint of shape back into Carter , he shuffles across and drives it back towards the bowler 14.5 Bopara to J Carter , no run , full and on off , driven towards mid-on , nasty bounce off the foot-holes , but Morgan does well to get his body behind 14.4 Bopara to J Carter , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of shape back into Carter , driven back towards the bowler 14.3 Bopara to J Carter , no run , that 's another cracker , pitched outside off and gets it to hold its line , Carter lunges forward defensively and misses 14.2 Bopara to J Carter , no run , Bopara shortens his length outside off , Carter gets behind the line and defends it 14.1 Bopara to J Carter , no run , that 's a beauty from Bopara , on a good length and shaping away slightly , Carter pokes at that and is beaten on the outside edge 14.1 Bopara to J Carter , wide , full and angling down leg-side , wide called 13.6 Jordan to J Carter , 1 run , on a good length and nipping away slightly , Carter pushes forward and gets a thick edge towards third man 13.5 Jordan to J Carter , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Carter gets well forward and drives it towards mid-off 13.4 Jordan to J Carter , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Carter gets a big stride forward and defends it solidly Three slips in place Jonathan Carter , left handed bat , comes to the crease 13.3 Jordan to Ramdin , out Bowled ! ! Ramdin 's misery is over ! West Indies have lost half the side now. Jordan follows some short deliveries with one full and nipping back in late , Ramdin was late in bringing his bat down , ends up playing across the line and misses. The middle stump takes a rattling , first wicket for Jordan. Ramdin b Jordan 6 ( 24 ) Jordan to Ramdin , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 13.2 Jordan to Ramdin , no run , short and on Ramdin 's pads , he was looking to nudge it towards the on-side , misses and is struck high on the thigh pad 13.1 Jordan to Ramdin , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ramdin lunges forward and defends it 12.6 Bopara to Simmons , no run , back of a length and well outside off , Simmons hops across and defends it back towards the bowler 12.6 Bopara to Simmons , wide , Bopara slips in the slower ball , but it 's way outside off , wide called 12.5 Bopara to Simmons , no run , short and wide from Bopara , Simmons slaps it to the left of Bell at backward point , he tumbles and makes a fine stop 12.4 Bopara to Simmons , 2 runs , back of a length and well outside off , steered away square on the off-side , third man gets across and keeps them down to a brace 12.3 Bopara to Ramdin , 1 run , uppish and safe ! This was pitched up and held its line outside off , Ramdin was early into the drive , spoons it in the air but well wide of cover 12.2 Bopara to Ramdin , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Ramdin was looking to work it towards the on-side , ends up slicing it back towards the bowler 12.1 Bopara to Ramdin , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , dabbed away straight to the fielder at point Ravi Bopara , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 11.6 Jordan to Simmons , no run , back of a length and on the stumps , Simmons shuffles across and works it towards mid-on 11.5 Jordan to Ramdin , 1 run , short of a length and on Ramdin 's pads , tucked behind square on the on-side for a single 11.4 Jordan to Ramdin , no run , on a good length and well outside off , driven towards cover 11.3 Jordan to Ramdin , no run , tad fuller and a hint of nip back into Ramdin , he was pushing forward with an angled bat , gets an inside edge onto the pads 11.2 Jordan to Ramdin , 2 runs , on a good length and just outside off , Ramdin looks to drive and gets a thick edge behind point , runs hard and comes back for the second run 11.1 Jordan to Ramdin , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , looking to tempt Ramdin into the drive , he goes after it and misses 10.6 Woakes to Simmons , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Simmons prods across and defends it towards point 10.5 Woakes to Simmons , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , left alone 10.4 Woakes to Simmons , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Simmons shuffles across and defends it towards backward point 10.3 Woakes to Ramdin , 1 run , short of a length and on Ramdin 's hips , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 10.3 Woakes to Ramdin , wide , Woakes drifts this one miles down leg-side , wide called 10.2 Woakes to Ramdin , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , defended with an open face towards the off-side 10.1 Woakes to Ramdin , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Ramdin prods across and defends it 9.6 Jordan to Simmons , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , left alone 9.5 Jordan to Simmons , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at mid-off 9.4 Jordan to Simmons , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Simmons plays with an open face and guides it towards backward point 9.3 Jordan to Ramdin , 1 run , yorker length delivery and on the off-stump channel , Ramdin was backing away , just about gets his bat down in time and works it wide of cover Free Hit 9.3 Jordan to Ramdin , no ball , Jordan oversteps and sprays this one wide outside off , left alone 9.2 Jordan to Ramdin , no run , nicely bowled by Jordan , pitched up and in that corridor outside off , lures Ramdin into the drive and beats his outside edge 9.1 Jordan to Ramdin , no run , loud shout for LBW , but the height saved Ramdin once again , he was caught in his crease as he looked to nudge a length ball behind square Chris Jordan , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 8.6 Woakes to Ramdin , leg byes , 1 run , another appeal for LBW , but Aleem Dar reckons it was going down leg , Ramdin was shuffling across on the flick , missed and was rapped on the pads 8.5 Woakes to Ramdin , no run , full and on Ramdin 's pads , he shuffles across on the flick and misses , appeal for LBW , but the ball was sliding down leg 8.4 Woakes to Ramdin , no run , tad fuller and on off , Ramdin gets behind the line and defends it with a straight bat towards mid-on 8.3 Woakes to Ramdin , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone 8.2 Woakes to Ramdin , no run , Woakes shortens his length on off , Ramdin prods across and defends it 8.1 Woakes to Ramdin , no run , appeal for LBW , but looked like the bounce saved Ramdin here. He was caught on the move to one that jagged back in sharply , the impact was around middle , but the height was an issue 7.6 Finn to Simmons , no run , Finn shortens his length and gets this one to nip back into Simmons , he was looking to nudge it towards the on-side and is rapped high on the pads 7.5 Finn to Simmons , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Simmons prods forward and defends it towards point 7.4 Finn to Simmons , FOUR , nicely played by Simmons , too full and too straight from Finn , ends up drifting onto Simmons ' pads , whipped past square leg for a boundary 7.3 Finn to Simmons , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Simmons presses forward and drives it towards mid-on 7.2 Finn to Simmons , no run , loud shout for LBW , but Simmons might have got an inside edge , the impact seemed to be outside off as well. This was pitched up and nipped back in slightly , Simmons was caught on the move , got a big stride forward though and that saves him Lendl Simmons , right handed bat , comes to the crease 7.1 Finn to Samuels , out Bowled ! ! West Indies are in shambles ! A horror shot from Samuels , this was pitched up and nipped back in slightly , Samuels footwork was extremely poor , he went for the big flick with zero foot movement , misses and the ball crashes into the middle and leg stump. England 's opening bowlers have made most of the helpful conditions , but some of the batting has been awful from the men from the Caribbean Islands. Samuels b Finn 10 ( 18 ) [ 4s-2 ] Finn to Samuels , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! Denesh Ramdin , right handed bat , comes to the crease 6.6 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , out Caught by Bell ! ! Woakes has got his man ! Smith does n't make the most of the reprieve ! This was an excellent delivery , Woakes shortened his length by a fraction and gets it to nip across the batsman. Smith 's feet went nowhere as he pushed hard , the outside edge is found and Bell snaffles a good catch , sliding across to his right at 2nd slip. Dwayne Smith c Bell b Woakes 21 ( 23 ) [ 4s-3 ] Woakes to Dwayne Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 6.5 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , 2 runs , short and just outside off , Smith rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket for a brace , he did n't time it all that well 6.4 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , no run , loud shout for a caught behind , but umpire Aleem Dar is unmoved , this was short and held its line outside off , Smith flashed at that , there was a faint noise. Buttler went up straightaway , so did the bowler and the close-in fielders , but Dar remains unmoved 6.3 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Smith gets behind the line and defends it 6.2 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , no run , tad fuller and a hint of late shape away from off , Smith was slightly opened up as he defends it towards the off-side 6.1 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Smith gets behind the line and defends it with soft hands 5.6 Finn to Samuels , no run , back of a length and on the off-stump channel , Samuels gets behind the line and blocks 5.5 Finn to Samuels , no run , full and on the stumps , Samuels feet goes nowhere as he pushes forward , ends up in a tangle but manages to drive it towards mid-off 5.4 Finn to Samuels , FOUR , this is even better , short and wide from Finn , Samuels reaches out and cracks it square past cover-point , no need to run for those 5.3 Finn to Samuels , FOUR , that 's nicely played , overpitched and on the stumps , Samuels leans forward , presents the full face of the bat and drives it back past the bowler for a boundary 5.2 Finn to Samuels , no run , full and on the off-stump line , Samuels gets his left leg out of the way and drives it towards mid-on 5.1 Finn to Samuels , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Samuels gets behind the line and defends it 4.6 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , nicely played , a wide half-volley from Woakes , he was searching for the swing there , Smith leans into the drive and slices it over point for a boundary 4.5 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Smith shuffles across and defends it towards the off-side 4.4 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , 2 runs , that 's nicely played by Smith , full and nipping away slightly , Smith presents the full face of the bat and punches it past mid-off , gets back for the second run 4.3 Woakes to Samuels , 1 run , Samuels was opened up once again , short of a length and holding its line outside off , Samuels prods forward as he is opened up once again , the edge rolls away towards third man 4.2 Woakes to Samuels , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Samuels gets behind the line and defends it 4.2 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , 2 wides , full and angling down leg-side , Smith looks to flick and misses , Buttler ca n't collect it cleanly , two wides added to the total 4.1 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Smith rides with the bounce and defends it towards backward point 3.6 Finn to Samuels , no run , Samuels is n't looking comfortable , this one was pitched up and nips back in sharply , Samuels was beaten for the movement as the ball clipped his ankle , Samuels winces in pain 3.5 Finn to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , eased square behind point for a single 3.4 Finn to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , Smith gets lucky , this was short of a length and just outside off , Smith was early on the pull , gets beaten for pace , the inside edge goes over the top of the stumps and races away to the fence 3.3 Finn to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Smith gets behind the line and defends it 3.2 Finn to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , that 's much better from Smith , full and on off , Smith leans forward and punches it past mid-on , the timing is sweet and the ball races away to the fence in a hurry 3.1 Finn to Dwayne Smith , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Smith goes hard on the drive , gets an inside edge towards mid-on 2.6 Woakes to Samuels , leg byes , 2 runs , too straight from Woakes , ends up drifting onto Samuels ' pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards long leg 2.5 Woakes to Samuels , no run , Woakes shortens his length and gets this one to angle back into Samuels , he looks to work it towards the on-side and is struck high on the pads 2.4 Woakes to Samuels , no run , short of a length and just outside off , no room for Samuels to free his arms , mistimed cut towards cover-point 2.3 Woakes to Samuels , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Samuels stays back and defends it towards backward point 2.2 Woakes to Samuels , no run , short of a length and angling back into Samuels , he was looking to nudge it towards the on-side , misses and is struck high on the thigh pad 2.1 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Smith pushes forward and gets an inside edge wide of mid-on for a single 1.6 Finn to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , full and just outside off , Smith leans forward and pushes it in front of mid-off , gets an easy single 1.5 Finn to Samuels , 1 run , streaky from Samuels , this was pitched up and held its line outside off , extra bounce for Finn , Samuels was neither forward nor back , pushes at that and gets a thick edge towards third man 1.4 Finn to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , Smith watches it all along and nudges it down towards third man 1.3 Finn to Dwayne Smith , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Smith gets behind the line and defends it 1.2 Finn to Dwayne Smith , no run , Finn keeps it full and gets it to nip back in slightly , Smith pushes forward and gets an inside edge towards square leg 1.1 Finn to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Smith stays behind the line and flashes it towards point Steven Finn , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Woakes to Samuels , no run , the bumper from Woakes , short and angling well outside off , left alone 0.5 Woakes to Samuels , no run , that 's a beauty , too good for Samuels , he is lucky not to have nicked it off , this was pitched up in that off-stump channel , draws Samuels forward before nipping away sharply , Samuels is completely squared up and is lucky not to have nicked it Hat-trick ball Marlon Samuels , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.4 Woakes to Darren Bravo , out Caught by Buttler ! ! Two in two ! Bravo falls first ball , this was a cracker of a delivery , short of a length and shaping away slightly , leaves Bravo at the last moment. He has to play at that , gets opened up completely and the edge is found. Simple catch to Buttler , England are on fire. Darren Bravo c Buttler b Woakes 0 ( 1 ) Woakes to Darren Bravo , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Darren Bravo , left handed bat , comes to the crease 0.3 Woakes to Gayle , out Caught by Buttler ! ! Huge wicket for Woakes ! Gayle falls first ball. This was short and on the leg-stump line , rears onto Gayle , he was looking to get inside the line and let it go. He is undone by the extra bounce , is late in getting out of the way , ends up gloving it through to the keeper. Early strike by Woakes. Gayle falls for a duck. Gayle c Buttler b Woakes 0 ( 1 ) Woakes to Gayle , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 0.2 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , too full and on Smith 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 0.1 Woakes to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , Smith is happy to let it go Dwayne Smith and Gayle are at the crease. Dwayne Smith is on strike. Woakes will open the attack Two slips in place as Woakes steams in The players are out in the middle.. Ambrose reckons that he has never seen so much grass on a SCG wicket. But there 's no Anderson to exploit the conditions. . Teams : West Indies : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Darren Bravo , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Jonathan Carter , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Jerome Taylor , Kemar Roach , Sulieman Benn , Sheldon Cottrell , Nikita Miller , Lendl Simmons England : Moeen Ali , Ian Bell , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Chris Jordan , James Tredwell , Steven Finn Morgan : " It has been nice since I took over. We have played some good games. It was nice to reach the final ( referring to the tri-series final ) , would have been even more pleasing if we had won it. I would have bowled first. It is a bit overcast and the wicket has a bit of grass on it , so we wanted to make first use of it. We are playing only eleven players. Anderson and Broad have been rested , Ballance and Hales also miss out. " Holder : " It is a pleasure for me to lead West Indies in a World Cup. We are going to bat first. We are going to play our full squad. We want to make the most of the wicket. The wicket will do a bit early on , but we need to see that off. " West Indies have won the toss and have opted to bat Pitch Report : " The rain has eased off and Curtly Ambrose said , he has not seen so much grass on a Sydney wicket. It will be tough to face the new ball. It will get easier to bat though as the match progresses. If the batsmen can see off the new ball , then it will get easier. However , the captain winning the toss will like to bowl first , " reckon Nick Knight and Russel Arnold . On the other hand , West Indies were given a drubbing by South Africa , who beat them 4-1 in the 5-match ODI series. There are plenty of issues they need to address. The form of Chris Gayle has been a worry at the top of the order. Marlon Samuels was the only batsman that looked to be in some sort of form. The bowling too looks weak without the likes of Kemar Roach and Sunil Narine. However , the former returns to the side , while the latter pulled out citing he needs more time to get his new action right. The return of Darren Bravo will be a boost , but can they get their combinations right and adjust to the conditions before the start of the big tournament ? Stay tuned as the toss is not far away. . Hello and welcome to the warm-up game between England and West Indies. England had a good tri-series that involved Australia and India. They made it to the final and lost to the hosts , the Aussies. However , they were brilliant with bat and ball in the two games that they won against India. James Anderson got the new ball to move both ways , Chris Woakes played the perfect foil to him. Steven Finn also returned to form when he took his maiden 5-wicket haul against India. Their batsmen too got to spend some quality time in the middle. Ian Bell and James Taylor got a couple of fifty plus scores. Eoin Morgan scored a ton against Australia , Jos Buttler made the best of the opportunities batting at No.7. They would like Ravi Bopara and Stuart Broad to make the most of the practice game . Teams : West Indies ( From ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Darren Bravo , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin ( w ) , Jonathan Carter , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( c ) , Jerome Taylor , Kemar Roach , Sulieman Benn , Sheldon Cottrell , Nikita Miller , Lendl Simmons England ( From ) : Moeen Ali , Ian Bell , Alex Hales , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steven Finn , Chris Jordan , James Tredwell , James Anderson Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
