Graphs That 's all we have from this game. There are a few more practice games before the start of the main event. Join us tomorrow for the England versus Pakistan game at Sydney. Until then , take care and Cya ! India certainly ticked a few boxes in this game. Dhoni made sure that he operated with only five bowlers , hence giving an idea as to what the team might be come 15th of February. Raina got some runs under his belt. Rahane has been the most consistent batsman and Dhawan too got some runs in the previous game against Australia. The only concern is the form of Kohli and Dhoni , who have not fired yet. The bowlers also executed the plans and it was a big positive to see Jadeja close to his best. Hopefully , this win will provide the much required boost for India heading into the World Cup . Dhoni : " Overall it was a good performance. We lost a couple of early wickets , but got a partnership after that. We will have to wait and watch with what wicket is provided ( when asked about the team combination for the first game ) . I wanted Ashwin and Jadeja to bowl their full quota of overs. I am not big fan of practice games , but it is an opportunity for some of the players to spend time in the middle. It is crucial that he ( Raina ) got some runs , batting at No. 5 is not easy. For example Yuvraj did a brilliant job , but he too was promoted to No. 4. Some of the others like Rohit , Virat ( Kohli ) have also batted at No. 5 , but Raina has done an excellent job batting at that position. We have asked for practice on centre wickets. There is a function tomorrow and followed by the opening ceremony. I do n't know what all after that , it is quiet as far as cricket is concerned for the next few days. " Nabi : " The first few overs were very good for our bowlers. Hamid was very good with the new ball , but it was a good wicket and we could n't contain the runs. He was injured for a few years , but has come back well. The start with the bat was good , but we struggled in the middle. Ashwin and Jadeja bowled well in the middle overs , but the plus point is we batted the full 50 overs. " A good workout for the Indian bowlers. Jadeja and Ashwin bowled brilliantly in the middle overs to keep a tab on the scoring rate. Umesh was inconsistent to start off with , but pulled it back very well. Shami and Mohit varied it at the death and did n't give away any freebies. The fielding though was a bit of a let down. There were a couple of dropped catches and a few easy runs given away. Apart from that , it was an all-round performance from India . Ashwin : " I learnt in 2011 that you 've got to vary the pace here. It worked well in the Test matches and I am practicing hard. He ( Jadeja ) has gone through a tough phase in the last few months and it was good to see him bowl 10 overs. It 's a flat wicket out here. You 've got to vary the pace to get some purchase here. We are pretty much ticking all the boxes , but it 's important that we tick all the boxes before we get to the quarters. " Indians walk off the field with a smile. It was a good exercise for them against an inexperienced Afghanistani side. This win also gives India first taste of success since they landed in Australia in mid-November. Afghanistan started well through Ahmadi and Ghani , but the former went just when he was looking good. Mangal joined his junior partner and added 63 runs for the second wicket , but the run-rate creeped up after the wicket of Ghani. Mangal continued and got to his fifty , but the required run-rate got the better of him. None of the other batters seemed to have the application to tackle the Indian bowlers . 49.6 Raina to Zazai , no run , Raina goes up for an lbw appeal , umpire Erasmus signals that there was an inside edge. Zazai kneels down and tries the paddle sweep , he gets an under-edge onto the pads. Raina jokingly asks for a review 49.5 Raina to Zazai , no run , fired in just outside off , Zazai misses out on the cut shot for the second time in the over 49.4 Raina to Zazai , no run , pushed through on off , Zazai gets inside the line and taps it in front of short mid-wicket 49.3 Raina to Zazai , no run , quicker and just outside off , Zazai fails to nail the cut , he was done in by the lack of bounce 49.2 Raina to Nasir Jamal , 1 run , too full and on the stumps , Jamal eases it along the floor to long-on 49.1 Raina to Nasir Jamal , no run , flatter and close to off , Jamal knocks it towards cover 48.6 Shami to Zazai , no run , gives the charge to Shami , yorks himself and ends up squeezing it down the wicket 48.5 Shami to Zazai , 2 runs , Shami varying it nicely , this is the slower ball bouncer , Zazai top-edges the pull to fine leg , the fielder was square and it allowed the duo to come back for the second 48.4 Shami to Nasir Jamal , 1 run , full and on leg-stump , clipped away in front of square for a single 48.3 Shami to Nasir Jamal , no run , bouncer on leg-stump , Jamal sinks under it and lets it pass 48.2 Shami to Zazai , leg byes , 1 run , yorker at the base of leg-stump , Zazai ca n't lay bat on ball , it roles off the boot to fine leg 48.1 Shami to Zazai , no run , low full toss on off from round the wicket , Zazai push-drives it to mid-off , Rohit did n't collect the ball , had he done so then he could have run Jamal out as he was backing up way too much Nasir Jamal , right handed bat , comes to the crease Mohammed Shami [ 8.0-0-36-0 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Raina to Mirwais , out Bowled ! ! Cleaned up ! After a few tossed up deliveries , Raina fires this one in , Ashraf goes for the old mighty heave towards cow corner , he misses and loses his off-stump. Mirwais b Raina 2 ( 7 ) Raina to Mirwais , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 47.5 Raina to Zazai , 1 run , slower and on off , Zazai eases it down to long-on for a single 47.4 Raina to Mirwais , 1 run , drilled down the ground to long-off 47.3 Raina to Mirwais , no run , a repeat of the previous ball , Raina is bowling it slowly , Ashraf is early into the shot and is beaten once again 47.2 Raina to Mirwais , no run , slower and just outside off , Ashraf goes for the cut but ca n't connect 47.1 Raina to Zazai , 1 run , worked away with the turn to deep mid-wicket Suresh Raina [ 1.0-0-5-0 ] is back into the attack 46.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Zazai nudges it to backward square leg. Jadeja finishes his spell , he ends with : 10-2-38-2 46.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , no run , " catch it " was the call from Raina at slip , but the ball drops in from Jaddu. He held it back , Zazai comes down the track and checks his shot , the ball lobs up and falls just before Jadeja 46.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Mirwais , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , nurdles away through mid-wicket for a single 46.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , 1 run , goes deep in the crease and punches it to the left of mid-wicket for a single 46.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , no run , blocked off the front foot down the wicket 46.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , no run , defends it with an angled bat , the ball goes off the outer half to backward point 45.6 Mohit Sharma to Mirwais , no run , short delivery right at the batsman , Ashraf takes his eyes off the ball and wears a blow on the left shoulder 45.5 Mohit Sharma to Mirwais , no run , back of a length around off , Ashraf misses the flick , the ball strikes him high on the pad and rolls to point 45.4 Mohit Sharma to Zazai , 1 run , nudged away through mid-wicket 45.3 Mohit Sharma to Zazai , no run , low full toss on off , Zazai pushes it to mid-off Mirwais Ashraf , right handed bat , comes to the crease 45.2 Mohit Sharma to Zazai , out Shenwari Run Out ! ! 2 runs completed. A miscommunication leads to a run-out. It was the back of the hand slower delivery , Zazai steers it towards short third man , Umesh parries the ball towards fine leg with a slide , Rohit throws the ball to the striker 's end , Shenwari wanted the third run but Zazai was not at all interested. Jadeja grabs the ball and then tries to hit the stumps with an under-arm throw , he misses but Rayudu was there to do the rest. Shenwari and Zazai were at the same end and the former did n't even try to get back. Shenwari run out ( Rohit/Ravindra Jadeja/Rayudu ) 17 ( 30 ) [ 4s-1 ] Mohit Sharma to Zazai , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Shenwari is run-out ! 45.1 Mohit Sharma to Shenwari , 1 run , full and inches away from the blockhole , Shenwari drives it to long-on Mohit Sharma [ 8.0-1-36-2 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Shenwari , 1 run , goes on with the arm , Shenwari works it with the angle to deep square leg 44.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , 1 run , flatter and on off , Zazai short-arm pulls it towards long-on 44.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , no run , slower and on off , Zazai presses forward and defends it to the left of Jaddu 44.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , FOUR , superb shot ! Good use of the feet , tossed up on off and middle , Zazai comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it handsomely over mid-on for a boundary 44.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , no run , pushed through on the stumps , blocked down the wicket 44.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Shenwari , 1 run , flighted on off , Shenwari taps it between cover and point Ravindra Jadeja [ 8.0-2-28-2 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Shami to Shenwari , 1 run , excellent over from Shami , fullish and on off , Shenwari goes for a wild slog , gets an inside edge to fine leg 43.5 Shami to Shenwari , no run , yorker aimed at the base of leg-stump , Shenwari digs it out in front of mid-wicket. Ca n't do much if you are a batsman , if the length is so full 43.4 Shami to Zazai , 1 run , short of length on the ribs , Zazai jumps up and tucks it behind square on the leg-side 43.3 Shami to Shenwari , leg byes , 1 run , pings the left boot with a pin-point yorker , Shenwari is late in bringing his bat down , another leg bye taken 43.2 Shami to Shenwari , no run , quick bouncer on leg-stump , Shenwari goes for the pull , but decides against it at the last moment 43.1 Shami to Zazai , leg byes , 1 run , starts from round the wicket , fires it in the blockhole , Zazai ca n't connect with the flick , the ball dribbles off the pads to fine leg Mohammed Shami [ 7.0-0-34-0 ] is back into the attack 42.6 U Yadav to Shenwari , no run , bumper on the stumps , Shenwari ducks under it and lets it sail over him 42.5 U Yadav to Shenwari , no run , fuller and targeting the sticks , blocked back to the bowler 42.4 U Yadav to Shenwari , 2 runs , on a length close to off , Shenwari lifts it over mid-wicket , Shami gives chase from mid-on and keeps it down to a couple 42.3 U Yadav to Zazai , 1 run , back of a length on the hips , Zazai tucks it to deep backward square leg 42.3 U Yadav to Zazai , wide , short delivery down leg , poor delivery and umpire rightfully calls it a wide 42.2 U Yadav to Zazai , no run , fuller and on off , Zazai defends it to the right of the bowler , Dhawan runs across from mid-wicket to field the ball 42.1 U Yadav to Zazai , no run , back of a length close to off , Zazai bunts it off the back foot to cover 42.1 U Yadav to Zazai , wide , splays it down leg , wide called 41.6 Ashwin to Zazai , 1 run , leg-spinner to finish off the spell , Zazai watches it closely and knocks it between cover and point for a brisk single. He ends with figures of : 10-1-37-1 41.5 Ashwin to Shenwari , 1 run , goes wide of the crease , floated up on middle , milked away to deep backward square leg 41.4 Ashwin to Zazai , 1 run , waits on the back foot for the ball to spin , then works it wide of mid-wicket Ashwin goes back over the wicket 41.3 Ashwin to Shenwari , 1 run , dabs it in front of backward point and takes off immediately for a single 41.2 Ashwin to Zazai , 1 run , turning into the batsman , Zazai nudges it to deep backward square leg 41.1 Ashwin to Zazai , no run , tossed up outside off , Zazai plunges forward and blocks it to cover Ravichandran Ashwin [ 9.0-1-32-1 ] is back into the attack 40.6 U Yadav to Shenwari , no run , good length ball on off and middle , defended down the wicket 40.5 U Yadav to Zazai , 1 run , pitched up on middle and leg , Zazai nurdles it to deep backward square leg 40.4 U Yadav to Shenwari , 1 run , again , tails the fuller length delivery , Shenwari clips it behind square leg for a run 40.3 U Yadav to Shenwari , no run , inswinging yorker , Shenwari manages to get his front leg out of the way and jam it back to the bowler 40.2 U Yadav to Shenwari , no run , full and shaping in , Shenwari mistimes the hoick towards mid-wicket 40.1 U Yadav to Zazai , 3 runs , sloppy from India , full and hint of shape into the batsman , Zazai works it off the inner part to deep square leg , Rayudu throws it at the bowler 's end , where there was no one backing up The batting powerplay produced 17 runs and 3 wickets . 39.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , 1 run , quicker and on the pads , Zazai nurdles it to backward square leg 39.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Zazai , no run , arm-ball on off and middle , Zazai shuffles across and knocks it to the right of Jadeja Afsar Zazai , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Nabi , out Bowled ! ! Another batsman goes trying to accelerate. Second wicket of the evening for Jaddu. He saw the batsman give him the charge and darted it in , Nabi was outdone by the pace as he missed the big shot , the ball crashes into leg-stump. Nabi b Ravindra Jadeja 1 ( 6 ) Ravindra Jadeja to Nabi , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 39.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Shenwari , 1 run , flighted close to off , Shenwari dabs it wide of backward point for a brisk run 39.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Shenwari , no run , slower and around off , Shenwari defends off the inside part to the on-side 39.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Shenwari , no run , tad short and just outside off , Shenwari cuts it to cover-point , finds the fielder there Ravindra Jadeja [ 7.0-2-26-1 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Mohit Sharma to Shenwari , 1 run , full and on leg-stump , flicked away behind square for a run 38.5 Mohit Sharma to Nabi , 1 run , another off-speed delivery , Nabi glides it to the right of Dhoni , the skipper dives and stops the ball but ca n't prevent the single 38.4 Mohit Sharma to Shenwari , 1 run , back of the hand slower ball , Shenwari drops it in front of point and Nabi calls for a quick single 38.3 Mohit Sharma to Shenwari , no run , fuller and just outside off , Shenwari drives it towards extra cover , where Kohli fields the ball 38.2 Mohit Sharma to Shenwari , FOUR , lovely shot ! It was a length delivery in the slot , Shenwari does not move his feet as he tonks it over Nabi 's head. No chance for the mid-on fielder to stop , it was a clean strike from Shenwari 38.1 Mohit Sharma to Shenwari , no run , short delivery outside off , Shenwari sways away and allows it to go through to Dhoni 37.6 Ashwin to Nabi , no run , straight roller close to off , Nabi prods forward and defends it to cover 37.5 Ashwin to Nabi , no run , carrom ball , Nabi sits on the back foot and blocks it to the on-side 37.4 Ashwin to Shenwari , 1 run , drops it slightly short , Shenwari rocks back and pulls it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 37.3 Ashwin to Shenwari , no run , stays in the crease and turns it towards short mid-wicket 37.2 Ashwin to Shenwari , no run , tad short and just outside off , Shenwari cuts it and finds short third man , he wanted the single but Nabi sends him back 37.1 Ashwin to Shenwari , no run , fires it full and on off , Shenwari squeezes it back to the bowler 36.6 Mohit Sharma to Nabi , no run , on a length and straightens a touch , Nabi tries to run it down to third man with an open bat face , but is beaten on the outside edge 36.5 Mohit Sharma to Nabi , no run , fullish and close to off , Nabi presses it to cover after coming forward Mohammad Nabi , right handed bat , comes to the crease Time for a drinks break. India look well set to register their first win on Australian soil on this tour. Ghani and Mangal were going nicely before the former threw his wicket away. Stanikzai struggled in his stay and Najibullah was in a hurry. With the wicket of Mangal , India have ensured that the match is beyond Afghanistan 's reach . 36.4 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! The umpire took his time , but he raised his finger in India 's favour. Dhoni went up straightaway though. It was a full delivery on the fourth stump line , Mangal tries to steer it fine , gets it too fine in the end , Dhoni takes a smart catch as the ball was travelling. A fine innings from Mangal comes to an end. Nawroz c Dhoni b Mohit Sharma 60 ( 85 ) [ 4s-2 6s-2 ] Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 36.3 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , no run , pin-point yorker just outside off , Mangal ca n't lay bat on ball 36.2 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , 2 runs , short delivery on off , Mangal pulls it awkwardly , the ball hits high on the bat and lands right between the two fielders , Shami was tracking back from mid-on and Dhawan was racing forward from deep mid-wicket and the ball eluded both of them 36.1 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , no run , Mohit misses the yorker and ends up bowling a full toss , Mangal does n't take full toll of it , drives it down the wicket 35.6 Ashwin to Shenwari , no run , leg-spinner which is too full in length , Shenwari works it to mid-wicket 35.5 Ashwin to Shenwari , no run , some turn on that occasion , Shenwari prods forward and gets an inside edge onto the pad , luckily for him the ball drops in the vacant short leg area Samiullah Shenwari , right handed bat , comes to the crease A leg slip in place. . 35.4 Ashwin to Najibullah , out Stumped ! ! Ashwin picks up his first wicket ! He has deserved it as he has bowled well tonight. Najibullah tried one shot too many , once again dances down the pitch and looks to go big , Ashwin though slowed it up and beat the batsman , Dhoni did the rest behind the stumps. Najibullah st Dhoni b Ashwin 4 ( 3 ) [ 4s-1 ] Ashwin to Najibullah , THATS OUT ! ! Stumped ! ! 35.3 Ashwin to Najibullah , no run , stays back in the crease and dabs it to the left of the slip fielder , Raina dives and makes a fine stop 35.2 Ashwin to Najibullah , FOUR , no sighters needed for Najibullah , shimmies down the wicket and lofts the flighted delivery to the right of mid-on , it was a calculated shot from the batsman as the fielder was inside the ring 35.1 Ashwin to Nawroz , 1 run , slower through the air , Mangal steps out and drags the hoick towards backward square leg Ravichandran Ashwin [ 7.0-1-26-0 ] is back into the attack Najibullah Zadran , left handed bat , comes to the crease Time for the batting powerplay ! Ashwin returns. . 34.6 Mohit Sharma to Stanikzai , out Caught by Shami ! ! Stanikzai 's struggle ends ! It was a well disguised slower delivery , Stanikzai was looking for the release shot , he bends his left knee and tries to go over mid-on , does n't get the elevation and Shami runs across to his left , jumps and completes a good catch. He timed his jump to perfection on that occasion. Stanikzai c Shami b Mohit Sharma 20 ( 43 ) [ 4s-2 ] Mohit Sharma to Stanikzai , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 34.5 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , 1 run , Jaddu almost pulls off a stunner , but it will go down as a drop. It was short and just outside off , Mangal looks to ramp it fine , but does n't get it anywhere near the middle , Jadeja runs back from backward point , sticks out his right hand , the ball hits it and bursts through. That would have been a terrific take 34.4 Mohit Sharma to Stanikzai , 1 run , another one of those back of the hand deliveries , Stanikzai taps it to the right of the bowler and picks up an easy single 34.3 Mohit Sharma to Stanikzai , no run , yorker on off , Stanikzai gets his front leg out of the way and digs it to mid-off 34.2 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , 1 run , full and attacking the stumps , Mangal punches it down the ground towards long-on 34.1 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , no run , starts with the back of hand slower one , Mangal stays in the crease and bunts it to the off-side Mohit Sharma [ 5.0-1-24-0 ] is back into the attack 33.6 Raina to Stanikzai , no run , now he finds Jadeja at mid-wicket with a pull shot. Stanikzai is getting frustrated as the runs are not coming easily for him 33.5 Raina to Stanikzai , no run , punched off the back foot to mid-wicket 33.4 Raina to Nawroz , 1 run , slightly short , Mangal goes back and pulls it to deep backward square leg 33.3 Raina to Nawroz , no run , pushes it back to the bowler 33.2 Raina to Nawroz , no run , flatter on leg-stump , Mangal works it to backward square , straight to the fielder 33.1 Raina to Nawroz , FOUR , fires it in full and outside off , Mangal hammers the drive through the diving cover and picks up a boundary Suresh Raina , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 32.6 Shami to Stanikzai , FOUR , Shami misses the yorker and pays the price , low full toss just outside off , Stanikzai drives it and gets it to the right of sweeper cover , who had no chance of stopping that 32.5 Shami to Nawroz , 1 run , fifty for Mangal ! Short and outside off , Mangal glides it uppishly to third man. The Afghanistan supporters cheer loudly as their most experienced player reaches the landmark 32.4 Shami to Nawroz , no run , full and almost in the blockhole , Mangal jams it towards cover , where the fielder is onto the ball quickly 32.3 Shami to Stanikzai , 1 run , too full and close to off , squeezed to the right of backward point 32.2 Shami to Stanikzai , no run , slower short ball outside off , Stanikzai tries the upper cut , but is done in by the lack of pace. The square leg ump signals one for the over 32.1 Shami to Stanikzai , no run , low full toss around off , Stanikzai drills the drive straight to mid-off 31.6 Ashwin to Stanikzai , 1 run , slower and on off , Stanikzai meets the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 31.5 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , floated up around off , Stanikzai dabs it in front of point 31.4 Ashwin to Nawroz , 1 run , plenty of air given , Mangal waits on the front foot and milks it to the right of backward square 31.3 Ashwin to Nawroz , no run , tad short and just outside off , Mangal cuts and picks out the cover-point fielder 31.2 Ashwin to Nawroz , no run , push-drives the flighted delivery to cover 31.1 Ashwin to Nawroz , no run , Ashwin starts from round the wicket , tosses it up on middle , worked away towards mid-wicket 30.6 Shami to Stanikzai , no run , pitched up on off , Stanikzai does not get in line with the delivery as he drives it to mid-off 30.5 Shami to Nawroz , 1 run , off-speed delivery on the hips , Mangal gets inside the line and tucks it behind square leg 30.4 Shami to Nawroz , no run , fuller and on off , Mangal pushes it to mid-off , thought about the single but he had timed it too well 30.3 Shami to Stanikzai , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Stanikzai pulls it rather awkwardly to deep square leg 30.2 Shami to Nawroz , 1 run , Shami gets away with a full toss , it was the attempted yorker , Mangal works it towards mid-wicket , where Dhawan dives to his left to stop the ball 30.1 Shami to Nawroz , no run , too full and around off , Mangal backs away and somehow manages to gets his bat down in time to jam it back to Shami Mohammed Shami [ 5.0-0-25-0 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , steps out of the crease and yorks himself , Stanikzai manages to squeeze it to cover 29.5 Ashwin to Nawroz , 1 run , straight roller on middle and leg , Mangal milks it towards short fine leg for a run 29.4 Ashwin to Nawroz , 2 runs , tossed up on off , Mangal skips out of the crease and lofts it inside out wide of long-off for a brace 29.3 Ashwin to Stanikzai , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Stanikzai nurdles it to backward square leg 29.2 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , the Indians go up for a bat-pad appeal , but umpire Erasmus shakes his head. Top spinner from Ash , Stanikzai prods forward and misses the forward defence , the ball lobs off the pads and Dhoni runs across and holds onto it 29.1 Ashwin to Nawroz , 1 run , tossed up on middle , Mangal comes down the track and eases it to long-on 28.6 U Yadav to Stanikzai , 2 runs , Stanikzai itching to get going , pitched up just outside off , he gets his front leg out of the way and lifts it between extra cover and mid-off , no timing and hence only a couple 28.5 U Yadav to Stanikzai , no run , fuller on middle and leg , Stanikzai stays in the crease and pushes it in front of mid-on , Dhawan intercepts from mid-wicket 28.4 U Yadav to Stanikzai , no run , short and just outside off , Stanikzai forehands the pull towards mid-on 28.3 U Yadav to Nawroz , 1 run , needless from Dhawan , Mangal wrists the full delivery towards mid-wicket , Dhawan hits the timber at the bowler 's end and the ball ricochets off the stumps and the batsmen sneak a single 28.2 U Yadav to Nawroz , no run , good length ball attacking the stumps , Mangal hangs back and knocks it to cover , his feet went nowhere 28.1 U Yadav to Nawroz , no run , Mangal gives the charge to Umesh , who drags the length back , Mangal mistimes the heave towards mid-wicket 27.6 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , another leg-spinner , Stanikzai watches it carefully and blocks it off the back foot 27.5 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , carrom ball on middle and leg , Stanikzai tucks it to square leg 27.4 Ashwin to Stanikzai , FOUR , rank long hop and deserved the treatment , leg-spinner from Ashwin , it was short and outside off , Stanikzai slaps it through the off-side , the ball raced away to the sweeper cover fence 27.3 Ashwin to Nawroz , 1 run , paddle swept towards long leg for a single 27.2 Ashwin to Stanikzai , 1 run , slower through the air , Stanikzai drives and gets an inside edge through mid-wicket 27.1 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , carrom ball around off , Stanikzai bunts it off the front foot to cover 27.1 Ashwin to Stanikzai , wide , turn for Ashwin , but it spins down leg , wided by the umpire 26.6 U Yadav to Stanikzai , 1 run , drops it mid-way down the pitch , Stanikzai nails the pull , picks out Rayudu at deep square leg 26.5 U Yadav to Nawroz , 1 run , short and outside off , Mangal slashes it uppishly to third man , goes on the bounce to Shami 26.4 U Yadav to Nawroz , 2 runs , fraction short and just outside off , Mangal cuts it behind point for a comfortable two 26.3 U Yadav to Stanikzai , 1 run , dug in halfway down the wicket , Stanikzai goes for the pull , but is hurried into the shot , ends up splicing it over the bowler 's head , the ball drops in between mid-on and mid-off 26.2 U Yadav to Stanikzai , no run , back of a length just outside off , Stanikzai stays back and blocks it to the bowler 26.1 U Yadav to Nawroz , 1 run , on a length close to off , Mangal knocks it wide of cover and takes off for a quick single , the throws comes in at the bowler 's end , but Mangal had made it Umesh Yadav [ 5.0-1-16-1 ] is back into the attack 25.6 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , nice loopy delivery , Stanikzai lunges forward and defends it with an angled bat towards point 25.5 Ashwin to Nawroz , 1 run , camps on the back foot and nurdles it to deep backward square leg 25.4 Ashwin to Stanikzai , 1 run , direct hit and Mangal would have been a goner , Stanikzai drops the flighted delivery towards cover and sets off , Jadeja was the fielder who has a go at the striker 's end , even a dive from Mangal would have not saved him 25.3 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , tucked away to square leg , finds the fielder there 25.2 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , flighted on off , Stanikzai blocks it off the back foot 25.1 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , worked away with the spin to short mid-wicket 24.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , defends it to the off-side 24.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , SIX , " catch it " was the call , but the ball had enough to clear the rope. It was a nice heave across the line , Mangal got enough connection to clear Rayudu at deep square leg 24.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Stanikzai , 1 run , nudged away behind square leg for a single 24.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Stanikzai , no run , flighted on off and middle , Stanikzai blocks it solidly off the front foot 24.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , 1 run , worked away with the angle from round the wicket through mid-wicket 24.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , 2 runs , dropped ! What is happening with the Indian fielding ? Rayudu the culprit this time. It was slower through the air , Mangal bends down and top-edges the sweep , Rayudu runs in from deep backward square , he gets there and grabs at it , the ball hits his hands and lobs out 23.6 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , presses forward and defends it down the track 23.5 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , throws this up , the length is a bit short , Stanikzai goes for the cut and is beaten. He was outdone by the lack of pace 23.4 Ashwin to Stanikzai , no run , camps on the back foot and knocks it to short mid-wicket , no chance for a single 23.3 Ashwin to Nawroz , leg byes , 1 run , gives this plenty of air , Mangal kneels down and ca n't connect with the paddle sweep , the ball goes off the thigh pad to long leg 23.2 Ashwin to Nawroz , no run , slower and on off , Mangal turns it to short mid-wicket , picks out the fielder 23.1 Ashwin to Nawroz , no run , pushed through on off , punched straight to the cover fielder 22.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Stanikzai , no run , second maiden for Jaddu , Stanikzai comes on the front foot and pushes it back to the bowler 22.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Stanikzai , no run , gets a good stride forward and blocks it back to the bowler 22.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Stanikzai , no run , knocks it off the front foot towards cover-point A slip and gully in place. . 22.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Stanikzai , no run , goes on with the arm , Stanikzai presses forward and gets an inside edge 22.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Stanikzai , no run , slower on middle , Stanikzai pushes it to cover 22.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Stanikzai , no run , tossed up on off , defended back to the bowler 21.6 Ashwin to Nawroz , no run , nice loopy delivery outside off , Mangal lunges forward in defence 21.5 Ashwin to Nawroz , FOUR , superb shot ! It was flatter and just outside off , Mangal stays leg-side of the ball and punches it sweetly through the cover region , the fielder gives chase but the ball wins 21.4 Ashwin to Nawroz , 2 runs , floated up on off , Mangal goes down on his knee and paddles it to long leg for a brace 21.3 Ashwin to Nawroz , no run , slower and around off , Mangal leans forward and nudges it to short mid-wicket 21.2 Ashwin to Nawroz , no run , turned away to square leg , straight to the fielder 21.1 Ashwin to Nawroz , no run , floated up just outside off , Mangal kneels down and misses the sweep , Dhoni also does n't collect it cleanly , but no single taken 20.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , 1 run , worked away through mid-wicket 20.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , flatter and on off , Mangal knocks it towards point 20.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , tossed up on off , Mangal defends it to the on-side Asghar Stanikzai , right handed bat , comes to the crease 20.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , out Caught by U Yadav ! ! Excellent team work ! It was not intentional though , Umesh was there at the right time. Ghani does not make most the of the reprieve he got earlier. It was slower and close to off , Ghani heaves it across the line , miscues it completely , Dhawan runs back from mid-wicket , dives full length and holds onto it , but when he hits the ground , the ball pops out of his hand , he jugggles twice before Umesh takes it. Umesh had run forward from long-on and was waiting for Dhawan to pouch it , but he did well react quickly to grab the ball. Usman Ghani c U Yadav b Ravindra Jadeja 44 ( 72 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 20.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , tossed up on off , Ghani presses forward and defends 20.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , extra bounce , Ghani hangs back and gets a thickish outside edge , the ball balloons up and drops in front of point Ravindra Jadeja [ 4.0-1-15-0 ] is back into the attack 19.6 Ashwin to Usman Ghani , 1 run , dropped ! Shami has put down a sitter. Flighted around off , Ghani does n't get to the pitch of the ball , but still goes through with the loft , gets a lot of height , Shami settles under it at long-on , the ball hits his hand and pops out 19.5 Ashwin to Usman Ghani , no run , punched off the back foot to short mid-wicket 19.4 Ashwin to Nawroz , leg byes , 1 run , slower and some turn as well , Mangal kneels down and misses the paddle sweep , the ball lobs off the pad towards short fine. Ashwin appeals for lbw , but the impact was outside off 19.3 Ashwin to Usman Ghani , 1 run , touch quicker and on off , Ghani leans forward and nudges it through mid-wicket 19.2 Ashwin to Nawroz , 1 run , waits for the ball to turn and tucks it behind square on the leg-side 19.1 Ashwin to Usman Ghani , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , nurdled away to deep backward square leg Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 18.6 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , no run , back of a length on off , Mangal taps it to the left of short mid-wicket , takes off for a single before sending back Ghani , if Dhawan had picked up the ball , it would have been close 18.5 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , no run , one more slower one just outside off , Mangal tries to guide it to third man , is deceived by the lack of pace 18.4 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , leg byes , 1 run , another change of pace from Mohit , Ghani is early into the tuck to the on-side , the ball hits the thigh pad and rolls it behind square 18.3 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , back of the hand slower ball , Ghani spots it early and defends it back to Mohit 18.2 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , targeting the stumps , Ghani turns it to the on-side , straight to mid-wicket 18.1 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , tad loose from Ghani , back of a length delivery bowled with a cross-seam , holds its line around off , Ghani pokes at it and is beaten Drinks are on the field now. This is a good fight from Afghanistan. Even though they have n't managed to score aggressively , they have kept the scoreboard moving. Their openers got them off to a good start before Umesh dismissed Ahmadi for 17. Since then , these two have added 57. Meanwhile , Jadeja has bowled a tight spell to stem the run flow . 17.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , nice and straight from Jadeja , Mangal defends and picks out mid-wicket 17.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , on the off stump again , defended to mid-wicket 17.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , outside off stump , punched to extra-cover 17.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , 1 run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Ghani punches it to sweeper cover 17.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , 1 run , on the stumps , driven to long-on 17.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off stump , Ghani steps out and taps it to long-off 16.6 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Mangal turns it into the on-side 16.5 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , no run , slower delivery outside off stump , Mangal taps it to the left of point and sets off , but Usman Ghani sends him back , Jadeja has a shy and misses 16.4 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Ghani tucks it away through backward square leg 16.3 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , slower delivery outside off stump , Ghani defends 16.2 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , 1 run , shortish and outside off stump , guided uppishly to third man 16.1 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , SIX , he was waiting for it. Good length delivery in the slot , the front leg was out of the way very early and he nailed the slog to perfection as it cleared the deep mid-wicket boundary quite easily Mohit Sharma [ 3.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , it 's a maiden over from Jadeja. Fullish and on the off stump , Ghani defends it back to the bowler 15.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , it 's five dot balls now. Flatter delivery outside off stump , Ghani cuts it to point 15.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , quicker and on the off stump , blocked 15.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Ghani defends from the crease 15.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , flatter delivery on the off stump , Ghani defends 15.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , flatter delivery outside off stump , Ghani cuts it to the right of the man at point 14.6 Shami to Usman Ghani , 1 run , gently taps the good length delivery wide of mid-on and sets off 14.5 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , yorker outside off stump , hit back to the bowler 14.4 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Ghani punches it towards cover 14.3 Shami to Usman Ghani , FOUR , nicely done ! Short and wide outside off stump , asking to be hit , Ghani rocks back and cuts it over backward point. That gets the crowd going 14.2 Shami to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , just a bit of inswing on this fuller length delivery , Ghani flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 14.1 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , full and outside off stump , Ghani defends it towards cover 13.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , flatter delivery from Jadeja , pushed back to the bowler 13.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Ghani advances and mistimes the drive to long-on 13.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , flatter delivery on the leg stump , Ghani defends 13.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , 3 runs , spinning away outside off stump , Mangal guides it down to third man , Jinks gives chase and saves one 13.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , advances and tries to drive , but inside-edges the flighted delivery onto pad 13.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , flatter delivery on the off stump , punched to the left of the bowler 12.6 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Ghani looks to cut but only manages to under-edge on the bounce to the man at first slip , who moves to his left to stop the ball 12.5 Shami to Nawroz , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , Mangal flicks it along the ground through backward square leg 12.5 Shami to Nawroz , wide , too short from Shami and the umpire calls a wide 12.4 Shami to Nawroz , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Mangal takes his bat out of the way and lets it go 12.3 Shami to Usman Ghani , 1 run , full and outside off stump , Ghani drives it along the ground to extra-cover 12.2 Shami to Nawroz , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Mangal tucks it to mid-wicket 12.1 Shami to Nawroz , no run , short and wide outside off stump , Mangal takes his bat out of the way and lets it go 11.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , slower through the air , Ghani defends off the front foot 11.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , darted on the leg stump , worked into the on-side 11.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , SIX , shimmies down the track and lofts the flighted delivery over wide long-on. That was done so easily by Ghani 11.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Usman Ghani , no run , flatter in trajectory , Ghani defends 11.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , 1 run , Mangal swings hard but mistimes it and is caught at mid-on , it wo n't count because it was a free-hit , the batsmen then rush through for a run 11.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no ball , oops , Jadeja has overstepped and it will be a free-hit. Mangal defends well from the crease 11.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Nawroz , no run , flighted delivery on the off stump , Mangal defends Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 10.6 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , on a length and around the off stump , defended back to the bowler 10.5 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , short delivery on the off stump , Ghani ducks under it 10.4 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , short of length delivery from Shami , Ghani defends 10.3 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , surprised by the bouncer on the off stump , Ghani manages to tap it into the off-side 10.2 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ghani shoulders arms 10.1 Shami to Usman Ghani , FOUR , short and wide outside off stump , Ghani rocks back and cuts it fiercely in front of square on the off-side Mohammed Shami [ 2.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , Ghani works it wide of mid-on 9.5 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Ghani defends 9.4 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , FOUR , short and outside off stump , Ghani allows the ball to come , uses the pace on the nicely and guides it to the right of backward point to beat third man 9.3 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , slower delivery outside off stump , pushed into the off-side 9.2 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , worked away to mid-wicket 9.1 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Mangal defends 8.6 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , short ball on the off stump , Ghani sits under it 8.5 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , shortish outside off stump , Ghani looks to pull but ends up flat-batting it to mid-off 8.4 U Yadav to Nawroz , leg byes , 1 run , shortish delivery down the leg-side , Mangal misses the pull and it rolls off the thigh pad 8.3 U Yadav to Nawroz , no run , fullish and outside off stump , Mangal pushes it towards point 8.2 U Yadav to Nawroz , no run , short and wide outside off stump , should have been put away , but Mangal misses the cut 8.1 U Yadav to Nawroz , no run , shortish delivery on the off stump , Mangal defends off the back foot 7.6 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , gets a bit of a leading edge as he tries to work this short of length delivery into the on-side , but it rolls along the ground towards mid-off 7.5 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , slower ball from Mohit , Ghani picks it early and defends well off the front foot 7.4 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , pushed into the off-side 7.3 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , short delivery on the off stump , Ghani pulls it to deep mid-wicket 7.2 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , uppish but safe ! Good length delivery from Mohit , Ghani gives the charge and looks to loft , but mistimes it , luckily for him , mid-off , who was running back , could n't get there 7.1 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Mangal defends it to backward point 6.6 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , Ghani loses balance while trying to defend this good length delivery away from the body and gets beaten 6.5 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , back of a length this time , Ghani defends off the back foot 6.4 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , on a length and outside off stump defended Dhoni has employed his favourite leg slip. Maybe that 's a ploy to control a few runs than to term it as a catching position because his bowlers slip one down the leg-side every now and then . 6.3 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , fullish and outside off stump , blocked off the front foot 6.2 U Yadav to Nawroz , 1 run , width on offer outside off stump , guided away to third man 6.1 U Yadav to Nawroz , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Mangal defends 5.6 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , second ball of the over that goes down the leg-side , Ghani glances it fine to fine leg 5.5 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , short ball from Mohit , Ghani ducks under it 5.4 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , 2 runs , bad ball. On the leg stump , easy pickings and Ghani flicks it along the ground to deep backward square leg 5.3 Mohit Sharma to Usman Ghani , no run , edged but does n't carry. Teasing fullish length from Mohit , Ghani was late on the attempted front foot punch , the ball goes off the bottom of the bat and on the bounce to Dhoni 5.2 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , 1 run , slightly back of a length , Mangal tries to guide it to third man , but the ball takes a thick outside edge and goes wide of second slip 5.1 Mohit Sharma to Nawroz , no run , on a length and just outside off stump , defended off the front foot Two slips in place for Mohit as well . Mohit Sharma , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 4.6 U Yadav to Nawroz , leg bye , 1 run , this good length delivery nips back in slightly , Mangal looks to defend but the ball takes the thigh pad and rolls to backward square leg 4.5 U Yadav to Nawroz , no run , back of a length delivery from Yadav , Mangal defends Nawroz Mangal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 4.4 U Yadav to Ahmadi , out Caught by Dhoni ! ! Easy catch for Dhoni ! Nothing but a short of a length delivery outside off stump , Ahmadi looks to cut , but there was n't enough width to employ the shot. The ball takes a thick edge , which goes straight into Dhoni 's gloves. So the opening partnership , which was looking good has been broken against the run play. I say against the run of play because the Indians bowlers were n't disciplined enough. Ahmadi c Dhoni b U Yadav 17 ( 16 ) [ 4s-4 ] U Yadav to Ahmadi , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.3 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , 1 run , too straight again , Ghani slightly gets across the stumps to tickle it fine to fine leg 4.2 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , back of a length just outside off stump , defended off the back foot 4.1 U Yadav to Ahmadi , leg byes , 1 run , gets away with a short of length delivery down the leg-side as Ahmadi fails to tickle it , the ball rolls off the thigh pad to fine leg 3.6 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , bouncer outside off stump , left alone 3.5 Shami to Ahmadi , 1 run , bit of extra bounce on this short of length delivery , but Ahmadi hops , controls it well and guides it along the ground to third man 3.4 Shami to Ahmadi , no run , inswinging good length delivery , defended from the crease 3.3 Shami to Ahmadi , FOUR , this is good batting. He 's waiting for that one-bad-ball in the over and not missing out. Short and a bit of width on offer from Shami , Ahmadi cuts it in front of point and the fielder had no chance 3.2 Shami to Ahmadi , no run , Shami was right on target on that occasion , Ahmadi pushes it to mid-on 3.1 Shami to Ahmadi , no run , just a hint of outswing on this short of length delivery , Ahmadi checks his cut and dabs it to point 2.6 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , close to the off stump to end the over , defended back to the bowler 2.5 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , nice extended front foot punch , this good length delivery goes to mid-off 2.4 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , right on the off stump , Ghani respects it off the back foot with a defence 2.3 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , short of length delivery this time , blocked off the back foot 2.2 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , FOUR , thank you very much Umesh Yadav , says Ghani and helps himself to a boundary. With fine leg very square , Yadav opts to bowl on the middle stump , the batsman moved across the stumps to make life a bit easy and he glanced it fine enough to beat the fielder in the deep 2.1 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , no run , covers the off stick and allows the good length delivery to go through to Dhoni 2.1 U Yadav to Usman Ghani , wide , down the leg-side and that 's an easy call for the umpire 1.6 Shami to Ahmadi , FOUR , that 's a stylish front foot punchy-drive. On a length and outside off stump , Ahmadi frees his arms and sends it to the left of mid-off , Kohli gives chase and tries to stop it with his boot but the ball escapes to the boundary 1.5 Shami to Ahmadi , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Ahmadi defends off the front foot and looks for a run , but decides against it 1.4 Shami to Ahmadi , no run , shortish delivery outside off stump , Ahmadi dabs it into the off-side 1.3 Shami to Usman Ghani , 1 run , much better line. Full and just shaping away outside off stump , Ghani defends and gets a thick edge to third man 1.2 Shami to Usman Ghani , no run , another one around the leg stump , Ghani misses the flick 1.1 Shami to Usman Ghani , leg byes , FOUR , your slips wo n't come into play if you bowl down the leg-side , dreadful start for Shami. Short and down the leg-side , Ghani misses the glance and it runs away to the boundary off the thigh pad Two slips for Shami ! Mohammed Shami , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 U Yadav to Ahmadi , no run , a teasing full ball wide outside off stump , Yadav wants Ahmadi to drive away from the body but the batsman simply lets it go 0.5 U Yadav to Ahmadi , no run , this outswinger goes well outside off stump , Ahmadi slashes and misses 0.5 U Yadav to Ahmadi , wide , sprays this down the leg-side , poor ball from Yadav 0.4 U Yadav to Ahmadi , FOUR , sweetly timed. Good length delivery on the leg stump , Ahmadi easily flicks it away , does n't try to hit it too hard and it rockets to the deep mid-wicket boundary 0.3 U Yadav to Ahmadi , FOUR , uppish and safe ! Another short ball from Yadav , Ahmadi tries to guide it over the slip-cordon but gets a thick edge that flies over Dhoni 's head. Not where he intended but Ahmadi will take the boundary 0.2 U Yadav to Ahmadi , no run , nicely rising short ball from Yadav , Ahmadi lets it go 0.1 U Yadav to Ahmadi , no run , oh he was almost squared up by the late outswinger. Got into an awkward position to meet this short of length delivery but managed to tap it into the on-side Ahmadi and Usman Ghani are at the crease. Ahmadi is on strike. U Yadav will open the attack Interestingly , Dhoni has employed three slips . Welcome back. All eyes will be on India 's new-ball bowlers. Can they make early inroads and give some confidence to MS Dhoni ahead of the big game against Pakistan ? We 'll find out soon . Afghanistan were n't all that good with their fielding and the bowlers did n't get enough support when the Indian batsmen were going hard at them. Mirwais Ashraf was the only bowler to concede under 5 runs per over. It will be interesting to see their approach with the bat. Take a short break and be right back here for the second innings . Raina : " The plan was to just hang in there and play a few balls. Me and Rohit had a good partnership. I looked to play proper cricket , get used to the left-arm fast bowler because Pakistan have Irfan. He ( Kohli ) is a great match-winner. I know , before the main game we will all be up for the challenge. Hopefully we 'll start with Umesh , Shami and Stuart and then see how many spinners we are going to play with. We would look to restrict them to 140 , we are not thinking about 360 , we would want to see this as 250-260. We 've spent a lot of time at Adelaide , it 's like a home ground for us. " So India will be happy to see 364 on the board after opting to bat first. They got off to a disastrous start as Dhawan was knocked over very early. Kohli too perished cheaply to increase the pressure in the dressing room , but a sensational 158-run third wicket stand between Rohit and Raina steadied the ship for India. Both registered fine fifites and although the latter perished for 75 , Rohit continued and got a hundred. Rahane batted exceptionally well to record a fifty as well . 49.6 Nabi to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , Jadeja swings hard looking to slog this flighted delivery over mid-wicket but misses it 49.5 Nabi to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane advances and takes it on the full , mistimes the lofted hit and it goes on the bounce to long-on 49.4 Nabi to Rahane , 2 runs , comes over the wicket to Rahane. The batsman runs down the track but Nabi fires it wide outside off stump , Rahane reaches out and sends it to sweeper cover 49.3 Nabi to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , darts this low full toss , Jadeja flicks it to deep square leg 49.2 Nabi to Ravindra Jadeja , FOUR , flighted delivery from Nabi , Jadeja plays the slog-sweep to the left of the man at mid-wicket and picks up a boundary. He timed that very well 49.1 Nabi to Ravindra Jadeja , 2 runs , that should have been just one run. Low full toss from round the wicket , Jadeja flicks it straight to mid-wicket , the fielder got an awkward bounce , but he should have done better with it Mohammad Nabi [ 8.0-0-52-1 ] is back into the attack 48.6 Shapoor to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , slower ball bumper , Jadeja goes early into the pull and under-edges it past the stumps towards short fine leg 48.5 Shapoor to Rahane , 1 run , good fielding from the man at short fine leg. Rahane helps this full delivery fine , but the fielder dived to his right to save three runs 48.4 Shapoor to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , shortish delivery outside off stump , Jadeja pulls it through mid-wicket 48.3 Shapoor to Rahane , 1 run , walks across the off stump and drives the low full toss to long-on 48.2 Shapoor to Rahane , FOUR , he has split the fielders to perfection. Shortish slower delivery down the leg-side , Rahane pulls it between backward square leg and short fine leg and it races away. 350 up for India 48.1 Shapoor to Rahane , no run , low full toss outside off stump , Rahane tries to guide it fine to third man but misses Round the wicket to Rahane 48.1 Shapoor to Ravindra Jadeja , 4 wides , oh no ! Afghanistan ca n't afford these. Full and swinging back into the left-hander , but it goes down the leg-side , Jadeja misses the flick , the ball swung further away from the keeper to beat his dive to his right. Meanwhile , the Indian batsmen run three 47.6 Aftab Alam to Rahane , 2 runs , full and outside off stump , Rahane punches it uppishly through mid-off and Ravindra Jadeja races back for the second. That 's a massive over for India , 17 came off it 47.6 Aftab Alam to Rahane , wide , sprays this slower ball way outside off stump 47.5 Aftab Alam to Rahane , FOUR , cracking drive ! He hit that very , very hard. Full and outside off stump , Rahane times it very well , the fielder at extra-cover should have done better on that occasion 47.4 Aftab Alam to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , full and wide outside off stump , squeezed out to cover-point 47.3 Aftab Alam to Rahane , 1 run , slower delivery on the off sump , Rahane looks to defend with an angled bat and it takes the outside edge before thudding into the pad and rolling to backward point 47.2 Aftab Alam to Rahane , FOUR , slower ball picked early and Rahane nailed to slog to perfection. He took his front leg out of the way and timed it sweetly. It went flat and almost all the way 47.1 Aftab Alam to Rahane , FOUR , a desperate dive in the deep but the ball wins the race. Full and outside off stump , Rahane drives it hard , sweeper cover runs to his right , puts in the dive but the ball escapes Aftab Alam [ 3.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack With 18 balls to go , India would want to score at least 25 more runs . 46.6 Shapoor to Rahane , 1 run , full delivery on the off stump , Rahane walks across the stumps and flicks it along the ground to deep mid-wicket 46.5 Shapoor to Ravindra Jadeja , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , Jadeja punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 46.4 Shapoor to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , very full inswinger , Jadeja falls over while trying to flick , misses and gets hit on the pad , but it was going down the leg-side 46.3 Shapoor to Ravindra Jadeja , no run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Jadeja plays a punchy pull to mid-wicket 46.2 Shapoor to Rahane , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , driven towards extra-cover , where the fielder half-stops the ball Ravindra Jadeja , left handed bat , comes to the crease 46.1 Shapoor to Dhoni , out Caught by Nawroz ! ! Dhoni 's struggle ends. Normally he would hit these out of the ground , but this time he 's mistimed it completely. Slower delivery in the slot , Dhoni goes hard again , the ball does n't take the middle of the bat , in fact it hit the bottom of the bat , long-on settles under it and takes it easily. Dhoni c Nawroz b Shapoor 10 ( 20 ) Shapoor to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 45.6 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , FOUR , this is a classic example to show that you do n't have to hit the ball hard to get boundaries. Low full toss on the off stump , Rahane walks across the stumps and gently tickles it past the man at short fine leg 45.5 Dawlat Zadran to Dhoni , 1 run , again Dhoni loses his shape looking to muscle the ball , the mistimed hit rolls to short mid-wicket 45.4 Dawlat Zadran to Dhoni , no run , slower delivery on the stumps , Dhoni swings very hard , but only manages to hit it back to the bowler 45.3 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , 1 run , backs away and guides the low full toss to deep point. The timing was so good that it raced quicky to the fielder 45.3 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , wide , walks right across the stumps this time and the bowler sprays it down the leg-side 45.2 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , SIX , gee ! That 's a stunning hit from Jinks ! Short of a length delivery on the off stump , Rahane moved leg-side to give himself a bit of room , the length was perfect for him to slap it hard over extra-cover 45.1 Dawlat Zadran to Dhoni , 1 run , hurries Dhoni with a short of length delivery on the leg stump , Dhoni manages to nudge it behind square on the on-side Dawlat Zadran [ 7.0-0-52-1 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Shapoor to Dhoni , 1 run , full and outside off stump from round the wicket , Dhoni drives it along the ground to sweeper cover 44.5 Shapoor to Rahane , 1 run , pace off the ball again , punched along the ground to sweeper cover 44.4 Shapoor to Dhoni , 1 run , very full and on the off stump , Dhoni drills it down to long-on 44.3 Shapoor to Rahane , 1 run , fifty for Rahane. Slower ball bumper around the off stump , Rahane pulls it along the ground to backward square leg 44.2 Shapoor to Rahane , FOUR , overpitched and punished. Full and juicy outside off stump , Rahane does n't try to overhit the ball , with mid-off inside the ring , he lofts it very straight and moves on to 49 44.1 Shapoor to Dhoni , leg byes , 1 run , appeal for LBW , but I think it 's pitched outside leg stump. Yes , it did. Dhoni gets across the line and tries to flick , but gets an inside edge onto pad. The umpire missed the edge there. 300 up for India Shapoor Zadran [ 5.0-0-35-0 ] is back into the attack 43.6 Nabi to Dhoni , 1 run , punched down to long-on 43.5 Nabi to Rahane , 1 run , worked away to mid-wicket 43.4 Nabi to Rahane , FOUR , poor fielding from the man at long-off. Rahane drives this along the ground to the right of extra-cover , the fielder in the deep runs to his left and tries to stop the ball but fumbles 43.4 Nabi to Rahane , no ball , Rahane backs away , but he gets a full toss above waist height , umpire calls a no-ball as Rahane taps it towards cover 43.3 Nabi to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni swung hard at this flighted delivery but he toe-ended it to long-off 43.2 Nabi to Rahane , 1 run , gives the charge again , but Nabi drags his length back , nudged to long-on 43.1 Nabi to Rahane , FOUR , there is no one at sweeper cover and that 's a safe shot ! Flighted delivery outside off stump , Rahane races down the track and lofts it inside-out over extra-cover 42.6 Hamid to Dhoni , no run , ends the over with a slower ball again , defended towards the bowler 42.5 Hamid to Dhoni , no run , softly punched off the back foot towards extra-cover 42.5 Hamid to Dhoni , wide , slower ball down the leg-side 42.4 Hamid to Dhoni , leg byes , FOUR , oh he 's lost control of this one and even a full length dive from the keeper was n't good enough to stop the ball. Hassan bowls a high full toss , Dhoni fails to tickle it , the ball brushes the pad , keeper dives to his left but the ball escapes to the fine leg boundary off his fingertips 42.3 Hamid to Dhoni , no run , slower ball from Hassan , Dhoni taps it straight to the fieldsman at point 42.2 Hamid to Dhoni , 2 runs , full and outside off stump , Dhoni leans forward and plays a square-drive along the ground , sweeper cover mops up running to his left 42.2 Hamid to Dhoni , wide , sprays the slower ball way outside off stump 42.1 Hamid to Rahane , 1 run , inswinging yorker dug out to deep square leg 41.6 Nabi to Rahane , 1 run , Nabi pushes this down the leg-side after seeing Rahane advance down the wicket , but the batsman manages to nudge it through backward square leg 41.5 Nabi to Rahane , no run , gets across the stumps and sweeps the flighted delivery fine to short fine leg 41.4 Nabi to Dhoni , 1 run , bowls a low full toss as he attempts a quicker ball , punched down to long-on 41.3 Nabi to Dhoni , no run , no flight whatsoever on this one , blocked off the back foot 41.2 Nabi to Dhoni , no run , nice and straight from Nabi , worked to short mid-wicket 41.1 Nabi to Dhoni , no run , advances and tries to flick , but gets hit on the pad 40.6 Hamid to Rahane , no run , Rahane gently pushes this into the off-side 40.5 Hamid to Rahane , FOUR , poor ball. Drags his length back and sprays this down the leg-side as well , Rahane swivels and helps it away along the ground through backward square leg 40.4 Hamid to Rahane , no run , another appeal for LBW , but this low full toss was clearly going down the leg-side 40.3 Hamid to Dhoni , 1 run , hugeeee shout for LBW , the bowler pleads but the umpire gently walks away from the stumps. There was a big inside edge and it was well spotted by the ump ! Short of a length delivery from Hassan , Dhoni was hurried by the pace luckily for him , the ball took the inside edge before hitting the pad 40.2 Hamid to Rahane , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , Rahane tucks it through backward square leg 40.1 Hamid to Rahane , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , pushed into the off-side Hamid Hassan [ 6.0-1-38-1 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Nabi to Dhoni , no run , lunges forward to keep this flighted delivery out MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 39.5 Nabi to Rohit , out Caught by Mirwais ! ! End of a fantastic innings from Rohit. Flighted delivery outside off stump , Rohit dances down the track and looks to go inside-out , but does n't get the timing right , he hits it straighter than he anticipated and long-off ran to his left to grab it with both hands. Rohit c Mirwais b Nabi 150 ( 122 ) [ 4s-12 6s-7 ] Nabi to Rohit , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 39.4 Nabi to Rohit , no run , looks to give the charge to the bowler , but Nabi keeps him calm by firing it quicker 39.3 Nabi to Rohit , SIX , Suresh Raina whistles from the sidelines after watching this sail over the boundary. Flighted delivery on the leg stump , Rohit advances and slogs it handsomely over deep mid-wicket. That 's 150 for Rohit 39.2 Nabi to Rahane , 1 run , floated up outside off stump , Rahane drives it along the ground to sweeper cover 39.1 Nabi to Rohit , 1 run , flighted delivery on the leg stump , Rohit drives it down to long-on Mohammad Nabi [ 5.0-0-29-0 ] is back into the attack India have scored 48/0 in the 5-over batting powerplay . 38.6 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , 1 run , very full again from Zadran , Rohit sends it to sweeper cover and keeps strike 38.5 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , FOUR , ca n't bowl full tosses to a man batting on 138. Rohit waits for the ball and effortlessly drives it over extra-cover 38.4 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , 2 runs , in the air , but safe. Oh no ! The fielder at long-on should have put in a better effort. Shapoor Zadran is the man , maybe that knee is still hurting him. Slower ball outside off stump , Rohit wanted to send this out of the ground , but mistimed it high in the air , long-on ran forward , but was n't quick enough 38.3 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , no run , Rohit loses his shape as he goes hard at this full ball looking to drive it past mid-off 38.2 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , 2 runs , he 's got away with a low full toss as Rohit does n't hit it in the gap , sweeper cover runs to his right and tidies up , Rohit was late to take off for a second , the throw comes in at his end but he makes his ground 38.1 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , 1 run , low full toss outside off stump , Rahane drives it to sweeper cover 37.6 Hamid to Rahane , 1 run , neatly dabs this slower ball down to third man and keeps strike 37.5 Hamid to Rahane , no run , almost foxed by a slower ball , Rahane 's inside edge rolls into the on-side 37.4 Hamid to Rahane , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Rahane mistimes the drive to cover 37.3 Hamid to Rohit , 1 run , on the leg stump , worked away to mid-wicket 37.2 Hamid to Rohit , 2 runs , shortish again from Hassan , Rohit short-arm jab pulls it past the man at short fine leg 37.1 Hamid to Rohit , FOUR , catch is the cry but there is no one in the deep behind square on the on-side. Short ball from Hassan , Rohit rocks back and pulls it flat and it almost goes all the way Hamid Hassan [ 5.0-1-30-1 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , FOUR , that 's a gift. Low full toss on the leg stump , Rahane flicks it along the ground to the right of mid-wicket , the man in the deep runs to his left and stops the ball with one hand , his right foot almost touched the rope as he got up to throw the ball back to the keeper. In fact , replays suggest that the ball itself has touched the rope and the umpire has changed his verdict 36.5 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , no run , the change of pace does Rahane in again. He goes early into the pull and it beats the inside half of the bat 36.5 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , wide , bowls a good slower ball outside off stump , it bounces extra as well , Rahane had no clue about it 36.4 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , no run , yorker again from Zadran , dug out 36.3 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , no run , another widish yorker from Zadran , Rahane reaches out and tries to squeeze it past backward point , the ball takes the bottom of the bat , it was dying on its way to the keeper. Replays were n't conclusive enough to suggest that the keeper caught it cleanly. There was an element of doubt and Rahane benefited from it The keeper claims a catch , but the umpires are converging to check if it carried. Certainly , there was an edge , but was it a bump ball ? Zadran 's footing is fine. Oh this is close. The umpire initially shaked his head when the bowler appealed. This is interesting , the keeper grabbed it inches from the ground. Is there enough evidence to rule Rahane out ? The third umpire has a close look. Not out is the call as the benefit of the doubt goes to the batsman 36.2 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , no run , yorker length outside off stump , Rahane tries to squeeze it down to third man but misses 36.1 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , 1 run , fullish delivery outside off stump , Rohit drives it to long-on Wow ! A spectator takes a selfie with the ball after Rahane hit one into the stands. Suresh Raina has a giggle about it from the sidelines . 35.6 Nabi to Rahane , no run , Rahane tries to rush down the track again , but yorks himself as Nabi fires this in 35.5 Nabi to Rahane , no run , flatter in trajectory , punched back to the bowler 35.4 Nabi to Rahane , SIX , inside-out and all the way again , this time from Rahane 's bat. The intentions are very clear from India. Tossed up outside off stump , Rahane runs down the pitch , gets close to the pitch of the ball and lofts it easily over extra-cover 35.3 Nabi to Rohit , 1 run , flighted delivery , driven down to long-on 35.2 Nabi to Rohit , SIX , he 's hit that miles in the air and it 's gone a long way back over deep square leg. Flighted delivery around the leg stump , with the ball spinning into the him , Rohit kneels down and plays a lovely slog sweep for a maximum , his sixth of the day 35.1 Nabi to Rohit , no run , round-armish flatter delivery from Nabi , Rohit misses the flick and gets hit on the thigh pad 34.6 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , no run , fullish delivery outside off stump , driven to mid-off 34.5 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , FOUR , oh he 's let that go through , Shenwari the culprit. Shortish and outside off stump , Rahane cuts hard , sweeper cover runs forward and tries to pick it with his left hand - should have gone with both hands - and the ball escapes to the boundary 34.4 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , FOUR , oh that 's nicely played by Rahane. He knew that the fielder at third man was very square , so just waited for the ball to come and opened the face of the bat at the last moment , got the placement right as it went fine , third man tries to get around running to his left but even a dive was n't good enough in the end 34.3 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , 1 run , slower delivery on the off stump , Rohit easily works it away through mid-wicket 34.2 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , no run , yorker length delivery and just outside off , Rohit jams it straight to cover 34.1 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Rohit reaches out , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and drives it square on the off-side for a brace Drinks are on the field now 33.6 Nabi to Rohit , 1 run , slower and on off , worked in front of mid-wicket for a single 33.5 Nabi to Rahane , 1 run , Nabi gives this one more air , driven wide of extra cover for a single 33.4 Nabi to Rahane , 2 runs , has Shapoor injured himself ? Things are going wrong for Afghanistan , this was flatter and wider outside off , Rahane dabbed it square on the off-side. Zadran fumbled and then chased it down , hauls the ball back in with the slide. As he did so , his knee jammed into the ground and he yelps in pain. He 's off the field now , the physio is across for some treatment 33.3 Nabi to Rahane , no run , that 's a lucky escape for Rahane , he came down the track to a flat ball and flicked it straight to short fine , calls for a quick single. Rohit responds before asking his partner to go back. Rahane was halfway down the track when the throw came in , Zazai , in his excitement drops the ball and breaks the stumps The third umpire has been called. Rahane was miles down the pitch. But did the keeper collect the ball cleanly ? No , he dropped it and hit the stumps with his hands. Rahane survives 33.2 Nabi to Rahane , no run , slower and just outside off , Rahane prods across and blocks 33.1 Nabi to Rahane , no run , Rahane comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and drives it back towards the bowler Mohammad Nabi [ 3.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 32.6 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , eased square on the off-side for a single 32.5 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , no run , short and wide from Zadran , Rahane throws his bat at that and misses 32.5 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , wide , Zadran goes for the yorker and ends up slipping it down leg-side , wide called 32.4 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Rahane cuts it straight to the fielder at point 32.3 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , leg byes , 1 run , loud shout for LBW , but the ball was sliding down leg-side , this was full and tailed back late into Rohit , he fell over on the flick and missed , signs of some reverse swing there 32.2 Dawlat Zadran to Rahane , 1 run , tad fuller and just outside off , Rahane runs it down towards third man 32.1 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , punched to the left of mid-off for a single Dawlat Zadran [ 3.0-0-21-1 ] is back into the attack 31.6 Ahmadi to Rohit , 1 run , flighted delivery and on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 31.5 Ahmadi to Rohit , SIX , this is majestic from Rohit , gets inside the line to a well tossed up ball and goes over cover , sails all the way into the stands at wide long-off. He 's making a statement here , Rohit 31.4 Ahmadi to Rohit , FOUR , Zadran has dropped a sitter , this was fractionally short from Ahmadi , Rohit was quick to rock back on the pull , hits it flat and hard , straight to deep mid-wicket , Dawlat shells a straight-forward chance , and the ball pops out of his hands to kiss the rope 31.3 Ahmadi to Rohit , no run , slower and well outside off , Rohit presses forward and defends it 31.2 Ahmadi to Rohit , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Rohit backs away and drives it straight to the fielder at cover 31.1 Ahmadi to Rahane , 1 run , Rahane comes down the track , takes the ball on the full and drives it towards long-on 30.6 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , full and on Rohit 's pads , he looks to flick and misses Back over the wicket Looks like the ball has been lost , they have asked for a replacement 30.5 Shapoor to Rohit , SIX , hundred for Rohit , he has sent this one into the second tier ! Banged in short and on the stumps , Rohit was into position early and sends this one miles over backward square leg , gets a warm hug from his partner , an important innings for the opener 30.4 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Rohit hops across and defends it towards the off-side 30.3 Shapoor to Rohit , 2 runs , excellent running from Rohit , dabs a short ball behind square , runs hard and gets back for the second run 30.2 Shapoor to Rohit , SIX , Rohit has been good on anything short , swivels across and pulls this short ball over mid-wicket , sends it sailing over the fence for a maximum 30.1 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Rohit drops it in front of cover , Rahane set off for a quick single and is sent back 29.6 Ahmadi to Rohit , 1 run , pushed through by Ahmadi , Rohit plays with the spin and works it past mid-wicket for a single 29.5 Ahmadi to Rohit , no run , flighted and just outside off , Rohit presses across and blocks 29.4 Ahmadi to Rahane , 1 run , Ahmadi tosses one on off , worked with the spin for a run past mid-wicket 29.3 Ahmadi to Rahane , no run , this one is given more air , Rahane watches it all along and blocks 29.2 Ahmadi to Rahane , no run , tossed up and just outside off , Rahane goes back and defends it 29.1 Ahmadi to Rohit , 1 run , flighted delivery and just outside off , eased down towards long-on for a single 28.6 Shapoor to Rohit , 1 run , short and just outside off , Rohit swivels across and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a single 28.5 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Rohit plays with an angled bat and defends it 28.4 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards the off-side Ajinkya Rahane , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.3 Shapoor to Raina , out Raina Run Out ! ! Excellent piece of fielding from Nabi at mid-wicket. This was dropped in front of him by Raina , he was on the back-foot but still called for the quick single , Nabi runs across , cuts the angles and makes a direct hit at the bowler 's end , Raina was struggling even as he stretched forward , replays suggest he is well short of his ground. Raina falls after an enterprising innings. Raina run out ( Nabi ) 75 ( 71 ) [ 4s-5 6s-3 ] Shapoor to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Appeal for a run-out chance. Raina is the man in question. He is OUT 28.2 Shapoor to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Rohit gets a bottom edge on the cut , just a single down towards third man Shapoor changes to round the wicket 28.1 Shapoor to Raina , 1 run , short and just outside off , Raina paddles it away behind square on the on-side for a single Shapoor Zadran [ 3.0-0-18-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Ahmadi to Rohit , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Ahmadi , gives this one more air and gets it to dip onto Rohit , he was forced to lung forward and gets an inside edge towards mid-wicket 27.5 Ahmadi to Raina , 1 run , this one is given more air , punched down towards long-on for a single 27.4 Ahmadi to Rohit , 1 run , full and on Rohit 's pads , flicked in front of square on the on-side for a single 27.3 Ahmadi to Raina , 1 run , flighted and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 27.2 Ahmadi to Raina , FOUR , nicely played by Raina , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and goes inside out over extra cover for a boundary 27.1 Ahmadi to Rohit , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , eased down towards long-on for a single 26.6 Shenwari to Rohit , 1 run , tossed up and well wide outside off , driven to deep cover for a single 26.5 Shenwari to Raina , 1 run , Shenwari drags another one short and wide outside off , Raina was down the track , reaches out and slaps it square on the off-side for a single 26.4 Shenwari to Raina , no run , full toss from Shenwari , Raina was looking to sweep and mistimes it towards square leg 26.3 Shenwari to Raina , 2 runs , Raina gets lucky ! Shenwari drags this one shorter and wider outside off as Raina came down the track , he has to reach out in the end and gets a thick edge past short third man 26.2 Shenwari to Raina , no run , flatter and just outside off , Raina prods across and defends it towards the off-side 26.1 Shenwari to Raina , SIX , Raina is treating Shenwari with disdain , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball , plays it with the spin and sends it sailing over the mid-wicket ropes 25.6 Ahmadi to Raina , 1 run , tossed up and on off , driven down towards long-on for a single 25.5 Ahmadi to Raina , no run , flighted and well outside off , dabbed straight to the fielder at short third man 25.4 Ahmadi to Rohit , 1 run , pushed through flatter and wider outside off , punched down towards long-off for a single 25.3 Ahmadi to Raina , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 25.2 Ahmadi to Raina , no run , flatter and on off , Raina makes room and pushes it towards cover 25.1 Ahmadi to Rohit , 1 run , tossed up and on Rohit 's pads , nudged in front of mid-wicket for a single Javed Ahmadi , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 24.6 Shenwari to Rohit , 1 run , Shenwari drops one short and just outside off , punched down towards long-on for a single 24.5 Shenwari to Raina , 1 run , flatter and on off , punched down towards long-on for a single 24.4 Shenwari to Raina , SIX , that 's huge ! Raina was itching to go after the leg-spinner , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and heaves it with the spin , sends it way over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 24.3 Shenwari to Rohit , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , Rohit makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 24.2 Shenwari to Raina , 1 run , pushed through by Shenwari , punched down towards long-off for a single , brings up Raina 's fifty 24.2 Shenwari to Raina , wide , Shenwari slips this one way down leg-side , wide called 24.1 Shenwari to Rohit , 1 run , flatter and well outside off , punched down towards long-on for a single 23.6 Aftab Alam to Rohit , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit shuffles across and flicks it past mid-wicket for a single 23.5 Aftab Alam to Rohit , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Alam , effort delivery that , short and rearing onto Rohit , he was looking to run it down towards third man and missed 23.4 Aftab Alam to Raina , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on off , Raina presents the full face of the bat and drives it down towards long-on 23.3 Aftab Alam to Raina , FOUR , fraction too short from Alam , Raina is quick to rock back and heaves it past mid-wicket for another boundary. India are on a roll now 23.2 Aftab Alam to Rohit , 1 run , full and on Rohit 's pads , flicked away past mid-wicket for a single 23.1 Aftab Alam to Rohit , FOUR , that 's nonchalantly played ! This was full and just outside off , Rohit gets a good stride forward , uses his wrists , picks up the length early and flicks it over mid-wicket for a boundary 22.6 Shenwari to Raina , 2 runs , good use of the feet from Raina , comes down the track , plays with the spin and gets it wide of long-on for a couple of runs 22.5 Shenwari to Raina , no run , slower and just outside off , Raina prods half forward and defends it 22.4 Shenwari to Raina , no run , this one is drifted on off , worked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 22.3 Shenwari to Rohit , 1 run , Shenwari tosses one on off , eased down towards long-off for a single 22.2 Shenwari to Raina , 1 run , Shenwari drops one short and wide outside off , chopped away to the left of point where the fielder makes a diving half-stop 22.1 Shenwari to Raina , no run , flighted delivery and on off , Raina gets forward and defends it towards the on-side Samiullah Shenwari , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 21.6 Aftab Alam to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Rohit leans into the drive and finds cover 21.5 Aftab Alam to Rohit , FOUR , nicely played by Rohit , comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and drills it past extra cover for a boundary 21.4 Aftab Alam to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit gets half forward and defends it 21.3 Aftab Alam to Rohit , FOUR , the fielder at deep square leg misjudged this one completely ! He ran in too much , ended up watching the ball sail over his head , this was short and on the stumps , Rohit swivelled across on the pull. The fielder came in , realised very late that the ball was going over his head. Gulbudin Naib was the fielder 21.2 Aftab Alam to Rohit , no run , full and on the stumps , Rohit presents the full face of the bat on the punch , Raina ca n't get his bat away in time. Rohit misses out on a few runs 21.1 Aftab Alam to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with an angled bat towards backward point 20.6 Mirwais to Rohit , 1 run , length ball on Rohit 's pads , tucked past square leg for a single 20.5 Mirwais to Rohit , no run , short of a length and just outside off , slapped straight to the fielder at backward point 20.4 Mirwais to Raina , 1 run , the slower ball from Ashraf , Raina nudges it in front of short fine and calls for a quick single , Rohit beats the throw with ease 20.3 Mirwais to Raina , no run , Ashraf slips in the off-cutter , Raina lunges forward and defends it towards the on-side 20.2 Mirwais to Raina , FOUR , lovely shot , Raina comes down the track , makes room as he did so and goes inside out over extra cover , no need to run for those 20.1 Mirwais to Raina , no run , on a good length and on off , defended back towards the bowler 19.6 Aftab Alam to Raina , 1 run , too straight from Alam , ends up drifting onto Raina 's pads , worked to the right of short fine for a single 19.5 Aftab Alam to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , punched to the left of mid-wicket , the fielder ca n't stop the ball cleanly and allows a single 19.4 Aftab Alam to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , defended back towards the bowler 19.3 Aftab Alam to Rohit , 2 runs , back of a length and just outside off , worked away behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs 19.2 Aftab Alam to Rohit , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Rohit prods across and turns it towards the on-side 19.1 Aftab Alam to Rohit , no run , full and angling onto Rohit 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , Zazai dives and saves a run Aftab Alam , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 18.6 Mirwais to Raina , no run , change of pace form Ashraf , slips in the slower ball , Raina was early into the flick , closes the face of the bat and gets a soft edge towards the off-side 18.5 Mirwais to Raina , no run , Raina comes down the track to a length ball and drills it to the right of mid-on , Shenwari gets across , puts in the slide and saves some runs 18.4 Mirwais to Raina , 2 runs , time and again Raina plays the wild hoick , clears his left leg and looks to clear mid-wicket , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up dragging it past the fielder 18.3 Mirwais to Raina , 2 runs , short of a length and on Raina 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs 18.2 Mirwais to Rohit , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Rohit leans into the drive and gets a single to deep cover 18.1 Mirwais to Rohit , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Rohit shuffles across and defends it towards mid-on 17.6 Nabi to Raina , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Raina goes back and nudges it towards the off-side 17.5 Nabi to Rohit , 1 run , low full toss from Nabi , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 17.4 Nabi to Raina , 1 run , Raina nudges a well flighted delivery past mid-wicket for a single 17.4 Nabi to Raina , wide , slower and angling well down leg , wide called 17.3 Nabi to Rohit , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Rohit goes back and slaps it towards long-on 17.2 Nabi to Raina , 1 run , Nabi tosses one wide outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 17.1 Nabi to Rohit , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , Rohit comes down the track and eases it down towards long-on Drinks are on the field now. Decent recovery from India after the loss of two early wickets. The back-up bowling has n't been all that threatening 16.6 Mirwais to Raina , no run , tad fuller and on off , defended with a straight bat 16.5 Mirwais to Raina , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended towards mid-off 16.4 Mirwais to Raina , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Raina shuffles across and dabs it straight to backward point 16.3 Mirwais to Rohit , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , eased down towards long-on for a single 16.2 Mirwais to Rohit , FOUR , fifty for Rohit , a freebie from Mirwais , short and well down leg-side , Rohit helps it on its way , fine leg was inside the ring 16.1 Mirwais to Raina , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Raina clears his left leg and looks to go back over the bowler 's head , bounces well in front of the man at fine-leg 15.6 Nabi to Rohit , no run , Nabi drifts one back into Rohit , he was making room and defends it towards the off-side 15.5 Nabi to Raina , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Raina goes back and works it behind square on the on-side for a single 15.4 Nabi to Raina , no run , this one is given more air , Raina gets a big stride forward in defence 15.3 Nabi to Raina , no run , flighted and on off , Raina gets forward and blocks 15.2 Nabi to Rohit , 1 run , Rohit comes down the track to a well tossed up ball and eases it down towards long-on Over the wicket goes Nabi to Rohit 15.1 Nabi to Raina , 1 run , tossed up and just outside off , worked in front of mid-wicket for a single 14.6 Mirwais to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , driven crisply but straight to the fielder at cover 14.5 Mirwais to Rohit , no run , on a good length and coming back into Rohit , he gets an inside edge onto the defensive push 14.4 Mirwais to Raina , 1 run , Ashraf shortens his length outside off , dabbed away square behind point for a single 14.3 Mirwais to Rohit , 1 run , fuller length delivery and angling into Rohit , driven down towards long-on for a single 14.2 Mirwais to Raina , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , dabbed away square behind point for a single 14.1 Mirwais to Raina , no run , fuller length delivery and on off , Raina clears his left leg and drills it towards mid-on 13.6 Nabi to Raina , 1 run , Nabi drifts one outside off , driven past cover for a single 13.5 Nabi to Rohit , 1 run , Nabi tosses one on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 13.4 Nabi to Rohit , no run , pushed through by Nabi , Rohit tucks it towards square leg , wants a single and is sent back 13.3 Nabi to Rohit , no run , slower and on off , Rohit turns it towards the on-side 13.2 Nabi to Raina , 1 run , that 's a wild hoick from Raina , comes down the track , does n't get to the pitch and ends up dragging it past mid-wicket for a single 13.1 Nabi to Raina , no run , tossed up and on off , Raina gets a good stride forward in defence Mohammad Nabi , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 12.6 Mirwais to Rohit , FOUR , that 's much better from Rohit , a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lifts it over mid-on , a couple of bounces and over the ropes for a boundary 12.5 Mirwais to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit gets well forward and blocks 12.4 Mirwais to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Rohit closes the face of the bat and drives it towards mid-on 12.3 Mirwais to Rohit , 2 runs , on a good length and around off , Rohit backs away and looks to go over the bowler 's head , does n't get hold of the shot but manages to spoon it over mid-on , back for the second run 12.2 Mirwais to Raina , 1 run , full and on off , Raina shuffles across and works it behind square on the on-side for a single 12.1 Mirwais to Rohit , 1 run , on a length and just outside off , worked in front of mid-wicket for a single 11.6 Shapoor to Rohit , 1 run , short of a length and angling back into Rohit , he rides with the bounce and tucks it behind square on the on-side for a single 11.5 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , Zadran shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , left alone 11.4 Shapoor to Rohit , FOUR , that 's a screamer from Rohit , full and wide outside off , Rohit gets down on one knee and creams it past point , no chance for the man in the deep 11.3 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , on a good length and well outside off , mistimed drive towards mid-off 11.2 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , tad fuller and on off , Rohit presses half forward and gets an inside edge towards mid-on 11.1 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , short of a length and well outside off , Rohit presses across and steers it towards cover-point 10.6 Mirwais to Raina , no run , tad fuller and on off , Raina gets a good stride forward and drives it towards mid-off 10.5 Mirwais to Raina , no run , full and on the stumps , Raina presses across and defends it towards mid-on 10.4 Mirwais to Raina , no run , that 's a nothing shot from Raina , short of a length and angling away from off , Raina was looking to dab it down towards third man and missed 10.3 Mirwais to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 10.2 Mirwais to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit stays back and defends it towards the off-side 10.1 Mirwais to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Rohit gets a good stride forward in defence Mirwais Ashraf , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 9.6 Shapoor to Raina , SIX , that 's Raina at his best , this was full and angled back in slightly , Raina cleared his left leg and shovelled it over mid-wicket , has enough to clear the ropes on the full , the pick-up shot from Raina , he looks so good while playing those 9.5 Shapoor to Raina , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Raina prods across and defends it 9.4 Shapoor to Raina , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Raina shuffles across and defends it 9.3 Shapoor to Raina , FOUR , Afghanistan ca n't afford to bowl short , especially with the square boundaries being so short , Raina swivels across and helps one on its way , backward of square , almost went all the way , bounces just in front of the ropes 9.2 Shapoor to Raina , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Raina shuffles across and defends it 9.1 Shapoor to Raina , no run , Zadran shortens his length and angles one onto Raina 's pads , turned away towards the on-side 9.1 Shapoor to Raina , wide , Zadran slips this one well down leg-side , wide called 8.6 Hamid to Rohit , no run , on a good length and just outside off , defended with an open face towards cover-point 8.5 Hamid to Rohit , SIX , just over deep mid-wicket , on any other ground , this would have been caught by the fielder in the deep , Rohit made room to a short ball and clubbed it over mid-wicket , the bat turned on impact and he does n't get the desired power , has enough to clear the fielder at the ropes 8.4 Hamid to Rohit , FOUR , fraction too short from Hassan , Rohit is quick onto the pull , does n't get hold of the shot but has enough to clear the fielder at mid-wicket 8.3 Hamid to Rohit , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Rohit presses across and defends it 8.2 Hamid to Raina , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Raina 's pads , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 8.1 Hamid to Raina , FOUR , that 's sweetly timed by Raina and the short boundaries take care of the rest , on a good length and well outside off , Raina leans into the punch and beats the man at backward point , races away across the fast outfield 7.6 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , Zadran shortens his length outside off and gets it to hold its line , left alone 7.5 Shapoor to Rohit , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and holding its line , left alone Zadran changes to round the wicket 7.4 Shapoor to Raina , 1 run , short of a length and angling into Raina 's pads , pulled away to the left of square leg where the fielder makes a half stop 7.3 Shapoor to Rohit , 1 run , short and wide from Zadran , slapped away square over backward point , one bounce and through to third man 7.2 Shapoor to Raina , leg byes , 1 run , that 's good running from Rohit , calls for a quick single after Raina missed the flick , beats the fielder coming across from square leg 7.1 Shapoor to Raina , no run , full and angling onto Raina 's pads , he presses across and defends it towards the on-side Shapoor Zadran , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 6.6 Hamid to Rohit , no run , good comeback from Hamid , pitches this one further up and gets it to shape away late , Rohit was in no man 's land as he poked away from his body , nearly nicks it through to the keeper 6.5 Hamid to Rohit , SIX , Rohit is looking much more comfortable when the bowler drags the length back , this was short and just outside off , Rohit swivels across and pulls it high and over mid-wicket , just about clears the ropes 6.4 Hamid to Rohit , no run , lovely channel from Hassan , pitches this one in that corridor outside off , draws Rohit half-forward before getting it to zip past the outside edge 6.3 Hamid to Rohit , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Rohit prods across and defends it towards the off-side 6.2 Hamid to Raina , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , angled away behind square on the off-side for a single 6.1 Hamid to Raina , 2 runs , on a good length and a hint of nip back into Raina , he pushes forward and gets an inside edge behind square , he runs hard and gets back for the second run 5.6 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , no run , much better from Zadran , on a good length and just outside off , Rohit gets a good stride forward and blocks 5.5 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , FOUR , too full and too straight from Zadran , ends up offering a half-volley on Rohit 's pads , whipped away past mid-wicket for a boundary 5.4 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , FOUR , that 's a shot of authority from Rohit , shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it back over the bowler 's head , the timing was n't great , but has enough to roll across to the fence 5.3 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Rohit gets behind the line and defends it , some late movement on offer for Zadran 5.2 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 5.1 Dawlat Zadran to Raina , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Raina plays with an open face and guides it down towards third man 4.6 Hamid to Raina , 1 run , full and wide from Hamid , Raina goes for the drive and gets a thick edge behind square on the off-side , off the mark with a single 4.5 Hamid to Raina , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Raina gets a big stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go Hamid changes to round the wicket 4.4 Hamid to Raina , no run , short of a length and angling across from off , Raina shuffles and turns it towards the on-side 4.3 Hamid to Rohit , 1 run , Hassan goes for the yorker and offers a low full toss , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 4.2 Hamid to Rohit , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Rohit shuffles across and defends it towards point 4.1 Hamid to Rohit , no run , short of a length and shaping away from off , Rohit is slightly squared up , but manages to nudge it away towards the off-side Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 3.6 Dawlat Zadran to Kohli , out Caught by Zazai ! ! Late movement and Kohli falls ! This was full and swirled away from off , it 's the late movement which Kohli failed to cover , ends up jamming his bat down , gets a thick edge and to the right of the keeper. Zazai dives across and holds onto a very good catch , low to his right. India are in some early trouble , yet another failure for Kohli. Kohli c Zazai b Dawlat Zadran 5 ( 9 ) [ 4s-1 ] Dawlat Zadran to Kohli , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.5 Dawlat Zadran to Kohli , no run , on a good length outside off and holding its line , Kohli does n't need to play at those , left alone 3.4 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , 3 runs , fraction short and drifting onto Rohit 's pads , he prods across and tucks it in front of square on the on-side. Hamid has a long way to get across from long leg , allows the batsmen to get back for the third run 3.3 Dawlat Zadran to Kohli , 1 run , fuller length delivery and shaping back into Kohli , he presents the full face of the bat and drives it to the left of mid-on , an easy single results 3.2 Dawlat Zadran to Kohli , FOUR , nicely done by Kohli , this was the inswinger from Zadran , ends up swinging onto Kohli 's pads , he shuffled across , almost fell over as a result , holds his balance and whips it through mid-wicket for a boundary 3.1 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , 1 run , fuller length delivery and nipping away from well outside off , draws Rohit forward and gets a thick outside edge , gets a single as the ball rolls away behind square on the off-side 2.6 Hamid to Kohli , no run , Hassan keeps it full and just outside off , Kohli gets across , closes the face of the bat and defends it towards mid-on 2.5 Hamid to Kohli , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , Kohli presses across and defends it with an open face 2.4 Hamid to Kohli , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape back into Kohli , he prods across and looks to defend , misses and is struck high on the thigh pad 2.3 Hamid to Kohli , no run , that 's a lovely delivery , pitched up in that channel outside off and shapes away ever so slightly , Kohli is drawn into the defensive push , beaten on the outside edge 2.2 Hamid to Kohli , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Kohli prods forward and defends it Virat Kohli , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.1 Hamid to Dhawan , out Bowled ! ! Cleaned up ! That 's a loose shot from Dhawan , this was short of a length and nips back in slightly , Dhawan was pushing forward , plays well away from his body , gets a thick inside edge , the ball clips the pads and goes back to hit the off-stump. Dhawan fails again and India have lost an early wicket. Hassan is chuffed to bits as he celebrates with his mates. Dhawan b Hamid 4 ( 8 ) Hamid to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 1.6 Dawlat Zadran to Rohit , no run , on a good length and a hint of shape back into Rohit , he was pushing forward and gets an inside edge towards square leg 1.5 Dawlat Zadran to Dhawan , 3 runs , full and swinging back into Dhawan , he gets a good stride forward , covers for the movement and punches it past extra cover , the batsmen run hard and get back for the third run 1.4 Dawlat Zadran to Dhawan , no run , tad fuller and a hint of nip back into Dhawan , he presses across and defends it towards mid-off , thinks about a quick single but Rohit sends him back 1.3 Dawlat Zadran to Dhawan , no run , Dawlat Zadran keeps it full and in that channel outside off , Dhawan gets a good stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 1.2 Dawlat Zadran to Dhawan , no run , fuller length delivery outside off and shaping away , Dhawan gets a big stride forward , lifts his bat and lets it go 1.1 Dawlat Zadran to Dhawan , no run , on a good length and a hint of swing away from off , Dhawan gets a good stride forward and defends it towards cover-point Dawlat Zadran , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Hamid to Rohit , 2 runs , nicely played by Rohit , short and angling back into him , he shuffles across and tucks it in front of square on the on-side , the fielder at long leg gets across and keeps them down to a brace 0.5 Hamid to Dhawan , 1 run , Hassan bowls short and offers some width to the left-hander , he stays back and chops it square on the off-side , just a single for Dhawan 0.4 Hamid to Dhawan , no run , back of a length and in that channel around off , Dhawan shuffles across and defends it towards the off-side 0.3 Hamid to Rohit , 1 run , some luck for Rohit , this was short and nipped back in slightly , Rohit was pushing away from his body , gets an inside edge that rolls away behind square on the on-side for a single 0.2 Hamid to Rohit , no run , Hassan keeps it short and just outside off , Rohit was looking to pull , is very early on the shot and gets a bottom edge towards the on-side 0.1 Hamid to Rohit , no run , short of a length and on off , Rohit shuffles across and defends it towards the off-side Rohit and Dhawan are at the crease. Rohit is on strike. Hamid will open the attack Two slips in place as Hamid steams in Teams : Afghanistan : Usman Ghani , Nawroz Mangal , Afsar Zazai ( w ) , Mohammad Nabi ( c ) , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mirwais Ashraf , Nasir Jamal , Gulbadin Naib , Aftab Alam , Najibullah Zadran , Dawlat Zadran , Shapoor Zadran , Hamid Hassan , Javed Ahmadi India : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane , Virat Kohli , Ambati Rayudu , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Stuart Binny , Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma The players are out in the middle. This is the last chance for India to arrive at a settled combination ahead of their World Cup opener against Pakistan . Pitch Report : 'A beautiful batting wicket. There will be some pace and bounce and not much in it for the spinners. Win the toss and bat first , reckon Russell Arnold and Matthew Hayden.' Nabi : " It is a big event for us. It is a good preparation for the World Cup , hopefully we will do well. They are batting first so it will be a bit tough , but now we will get a chance to give a lot of time for our bowling. We know these conditions well because we have spent one month in Australia and in New Zealand as well. " Dhoni : " We have to play well and find out what is the best suited eleven for us. We want to get the most out of this game , see what you can do. We will bat first. I want the middle-order to get a chance to bat. Not worried about getting too many runs on the board. Just want to make the most out of it. All 15 are fit and ready , which is a rarity. " India have won the toss and have opted to bat A win today will drastically improve the mood in the Indian camp. It is a good opportunity for Dhoni and Co. to finally break the jinx. Stay tuned for the toss... . On the other hand , Afghanistan 's rise in recent times has been commendable. They have the capability to upset other teams. With the likes of Shapoor Zadran , Dawlat Zadran and Hamid Hassan in the team , they command a strong bowling attack. In comparison , their major weakness has been their batting , which seems to implode under pressure. This is their first warm-up fixture and the minnows will be hoping to make a positive impression before the main tournament kicks off . Even after two months of gruelling cricket , India are still searching for a win in Australia. They lost the Test series , crashed out of the tri-series prematurely and then failed to register a win in their first warm-up game against Australia. India 's bowling problems came back to haunt them as the hosts posted an intimidating total of 371 on the board. And although the batsmen fought back hard , a total this high was never going to be easy to chase . Preview : India : Times have remarkably changed since India won the coveted title for the second time in 2011 in front of their home fans , finishing off a rather fruitful association with former coach Gary Kirsten who had taken the team to the pinnacle of Test cricket earlier as well. Four years on and it is not quite the same . Strengths : Like most limited-overs sides , India 's batting remains their pice de rsistance. A solid opening combination , followed by one of the best ODI batsmen in the game today , who makes way for a strong middle order before the finisher MS Dhoni walks out. Class oozes through India 's batting order and opposition teams would be wary of them . Weaknesses : Bowling. It was during the end of 2013 that India began narrowing down on who their fast bowlers were going to be in the World Cup , and despite playing a good number of games , they still have n't settled on their best combination. Mohammed Shami was ODI cricket 's leading wicket-taker in 2014 , but leaks runs at over six , and no bowler looks capable of running through lower orders in the death. That in turn puts pressure on the spinners and part-timers , who then have to do the holding job. It is eventually left to the batsmen to make up for their performances in huge run chases . Afghanistan The latest entrants into the 50-over World Cup , Afghanistan 's rise in world cricket from the Division Five league in 2008 to being a part of three T20 WCs has been phenomenal. The Asian minnow made it to their maiden 50-over World Cup in October 2013 when they defeated Kenya to finish second in the ICC World Cricket League Championship. The 37th Associate nation of ICC , Afghanistan will bank on their potent bowling attack in the tournament , and even though it is next to impossible for them to go beyond the group stages from Pool A , that includes heavyweights like hosts Australia and New Zealand and last edition 's finalists Sri Lanka , they have the potential to upset the likes of Bangladesh and Ireland . Strengths : With the likes of Shahpoor Zardan , Dawlat Zadran and Hamid Hasan in the team , Afghanistan have the best pace bowling attack among the associates , and on the pacy wickets of Australia and New Zealand they are more than capable of packing a punch , as was evident when they had Pakistan on the ropes during the Asia Cup last year. The trio can clock over 135 kmph consistently , and opponents will be wary of their pace attack . Weaknesses : Batting has always been the weakest link for any Associate nation , and that holds true for Afghanistan as well. In the three ODIs that they have played this year , the bowlers have been able to restrict the likes of Ireland and Scotland , but their batting has let them down. Afghanistan have not picked their experienced opener Mohammad Shehzad for the World Cup and apart from Nawroz Mangal and Asghar Stanikzai , the Asian team 's batting line-up does seem inexperienced and raw for the bouncy wickets of Australia and New Zealand . Teams : Afghanistan ( From ) : Usman Ghani , Nawroz Mangal , Afsar Zazai ( w ) , Mohammad Nabi ( c ) , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mirwais Ashraf , Nasir Jamal , Gulbadin Naib , Aftab Alam , Najibullah Zadran , Dawlat Zadran , Shapoor Zadran , Hamid Hassan , Javed Ahmadi India ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane , Virat Kohli , Ambati Rayudu , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( c/w ) , Stuart Binny , Ravindra Jadeja , Axar Patel , Ravichandran Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
