Virat Kohli Already an ODI Batting Legend : Sir Viv Richards Virat Kohli Already an ODI Batting Legend : Sir Viv Richards Virat Kohli has scored 6232 runs in 150 matches , helping himself to 21 hundreds and is one of the most prolific ODI batsmen . Last updated on Tuesday , 03 February , 2015 16 : 56 IST Total Shares Virat Kohli celebrates after taking India to victory in 5th ODI vs Sri Lanka . © BCCI Mumbai : Caribbean cricket legend Vivian Richards Tuesday heaped praise on Indian vice-captain Virat Kohli , saying he has already become a One-Day International ( ODI ) batting legend. ( Virat Kohli blowing kisses to Anushka after century not a problem : Kapil Dev ) Richards , who was an integral member of the West Indies ' World Cup-winning squad in 1975 and 1979 , also listed Kohli in his list of top 10 ODI batsmen. ( India heavily-reliant on Virat Kohli for World Cup : Dravid ) Richards , considered the most fearsome batsman in the 1980s , put Sachin Tendulkar at the summit spot , followed by compatriots Brian Lara , Chris Gayle , Clive Lloyd , Australians Ricky Ponting , Matthew Hayden , India 's Virender Sehwag , Australia 's Michael Hussey , South Africa 's AB de Villiers and current Indian star Kohli. ( Kohli 's batting position does n't matter , he is India 's pivot : Gavaskar to NDTV ) " The last name on my list , but not the least by any means , is young Virat Kohli. There might be some surprise regarding this pick because he is very young and has a lot of cricket to play still. But in my eyes , he is already legendary , " Richards said. Kohli has scored 6232 runs in 150 matches , helping himself to 21 hundreds . " At such a young age he has twice the number of ODI century than in Tests and he is such a confident player in limited-overs. It is not to say he is n't so in the longer format , but I really like his aggressive style in ODI cricket , " Richards said of the Indian who has recorded 30 fifties and his average is at 51.50 . Talking about the 26-year-old 's rise in world cricket , Richards also hoped the Indian Test captain would get better in the future . " Look at the way he started his career , and the batsman he has already become today , he is simply magnificent in whatever little time he has played as compared to others. He is only going to get better and better , and add to his list of achievements. " Story first published on : Tuesday , 03 February 2015 14 : 35 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
