Graphs That 's it from this game. So , we are a couple of days away from the World Cup opener between New Zealand and Sri Lanka. Do join us for that game on Saturday. Until then , take care and Adios ! Pakistan won both their practice matches , while England won one and lost one. The Asian side after surviving a scare from Bangladesh , played to their potential to beat England. In both the games different individuals put their hands up and performed. The two wins will give them the confidence going into the World Cup. England , on the other hand , can see this as a one-off game. They missed Finn and Woakes , who have been key members of the side since they landed in Australia . Misbah : " It was very important to win this game. It gives us the momentum going into the World Cup. The bowlers were tremendous. Yasir Shah was excellent , Sohail Khan was brilliant at the death. Very impressed with the way they finished. It is a confident booster for our team before the big game. We have to handle pressure when we play India on Sunday. The team that handles pressure will win the game. " Morgan : " No , we were 20 short of a good score. The wicket was quite dry and 265 would have been a competitive score. Ballance and Root had a good game with the bat. Root has come leaps and bounds over the last one year. It is good to have Jimmy ( Anderson ) and Broad back with the new ball. Those two are threatening with the new ball. It was a lot more competitive , than on Monday ( when they played West Indies ) . This was the kind of game we were looking forward to before going into the main tournament. " England started well with the new ball , Anderson and Broad sending back the openers in quick succession. Jordan then backed them up with the wicket of Younis. However , the spinners were not effective in the middle overs. There was the odd bad delivery that was put away. The fielding too was sloppy at times. Overall , England would want to put this game behind them as quickly as possible . Pakistan batsmen walk off to a round of applause from their supporters. It was a well paced run-chase from them. Even though they lost the openers cheaply , the rest of the batsmen put their hands up and saw the side through. Haris Sohail and Younis steadied the innings after a poor start , then Misbah and Umar Akmal took over the mantle. The pair added 133 runs for the 5th wicket and both got to their respective fifties. Maqsood and Afridi came in and applied the finishing touches . 48.5 Broad to Afridi , FOUR , Pakistan win by 4 wickets ! Afridi finishes things off and gives the crowd what they wanted as well. It was pitched up outside off , Afridi drills it in the air , he hit it so hard that the ball burst through Anderson 's fingers at mid-off. Broad had his hands on his head , but there was very little that Anderson could do with that 48.4 Broad to Afridi , FOUR , it was just a matter of time before Afridi went after the bowling , it was slightly full and just outside off , Afridi goes through the line , he mistimed it completely but it was good enough to clear the mid-off fielder 48.3 Broad to Afridi , no run , change of pace , Afridi checks his shot , the ball was in the air but falls in front of the cover fielder 48.2 Broad to Afridi , no run , short delivery just outside off , Afridi looks to help it over the slip fielder , fails to make contact 48.1 Broad to Misbah , 1 run , leg-cutter which is too straight in line , Misbah nudges it square of the wicket , he thought about two but decided against it Stuart Broad [ 9.0-0-42-2 ] is back into the attack 47.6 J Anderson to Afridi , no run , pitched up around off , Afridi leans into the drive , picks out the fielder at cover 47.5 J Anderson to Afridi , no run , back of a length on off , Afridi turns it softly towards short mid-wicket A slip comes in for Afridi. . Shahid Afridi , right handed bat , comes to the crease 47.4 J Anderson to Maqsood , out Caught by Buttler ! ! Excellent take by Buttler. Maqsood does not see his side through to victory today. It was on a length close to off , Maqsood drives with laden feet , the outside edge flies to the right of the keeper , Buttler dives and hangs onto a sharp take. Maqsood c Buttler b J Anderson 20 ( 12 ) [ 4s-4 ] J Anderson to Maqsood , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 47.3 J Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , another off-speed ball from Anderson , Misbah nurdles it gently behind square leg for a single 47.2 J Anderson to Maqsood , 1 run , slower short ball , Maqsood jumps up and forehands it to deep square leg 47.1 J Anderson to Maqsood , FOUR , the slower ball yorker goes wrong , ends up gifting a full toss , Maqsood presses slightly forward and drives it through the off-side , there was no guarding the sweeper fence The required run-rate has come down to below 6. Pakistan need 14 off 3 overs. . 46.6 Jordan to Misbah , FOUR , the extra delivery costs Jordan and England four runs , short ball down leg , Misbah gets inside the line and pulls it fine , the fielder was square and it was easy pickings for Misbah 46.6 Jordan to Misbah , wide , fires it down the leg-side , Misbah shuffles across and ca n't connect with the pick up shot , wide called by umpire Davis 46.5 Jordan to Misbah , no run , dug in halfway down the pitch , Misbah tries to help it on the way to third man , fails to make contact 46.4 Jordan to Misbah , 2 runs , pitches it up slightly , Misbah chips it straight back over the bowler 's head , good enough for two 46.3 Jordan to Maqsood , leg byes , 1 run , this time does not provide the room , Maqsood fails to tickle it away , the ball thuds off the thigh pad to fine leg 46.2 Jordan to Maqsood , 2 runs , drops it short and gives a bit of width , Maqsood frees his arms and cuts it over backward point for a couple , Ballance does the tiding up in the deep 46.1 Jordan to Misbah , 1 run , shortens the length on off , Misbah jams it onto his boot , the ball trickles to the off-side and Maqsood calls him for a quick single Chris Jordan [ 8.0-0-41-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 J Anderson to Maqsood , FOUR , once again a boundary coming off the last delivery of the over , fullish and just outside off , Maqsood throws his bat at it and gets a thick outside edge to third man , Moeen Ali was inside the circle 45.5 J Anderson to Maqsood , no run , Maqsood looks to swat it across the line , gets it off the toe-end and that foils his timing as the ball dribbles to mid-on 45.4 J Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , full and speared in on the stumps , Misbah flicks it to mid-wicket for a single 45.3 J Anderson to Maqsood , 1 run , shortish and just outside off , Maqsood goes back and cuts it towards third man 45.2 J Anderson to Maqsood , no run , good length ball on the stumps , it does not bounce as much as Maqsood expected , but he does well to bunt it to mid-off 45.1 J Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , starts with a slower one , Misbah taps it in front of mid-wicket and hands the strike to Maqsood James Anderson [ 8.0-0-29-1 ] is back into the attack 30 balls 32 required 44.6 Broad to Maqsood , FOUR , Maqsood is not afraid to take on the short stuff , he rocks back and muscles the pull in front of square , does well to evade the man in the deep and collect his second four for the over 44.5 Broad to Maqsood , no run , pacy delivery , 145.1kph short of length around off , Maqsood stands tall and looks to defend , the ball whizzes past the outside edge 44.4 Broad to Maqsood , FOUR , streaky ! Pakistan will take that. It was a sharp lifter from Broad , right on the left shoulder , Maqsood decides to take it one , top-edges it fine and the man in the deep had no chance of stopping that Sohaib Maqsood , right handed bat , comes to the crease It is not Afridi that has come out , but the match-winner from the previous game , Maqsood who makes his way out to the middle . 44.3 Broad to U Akmal , out Caught by Buttler ! ! Broad has his man ! A fine innings from Akmal comes to an end. It was cleverly bowled by Broad , leg-cutter which is short in length , Akmal makes room and tries to force it through the off-side , gets a thin edge , he does n't even wait for the umpire to raise his finger. U Akmal c Buttler b Broad 65 ( 66 ) [ 4s-3 6s-3 ] Broad to U Akmal , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 44.2 Broad to U Akmal , FOUR , release shot for Akmal , he was itching to go for a few deliveries now , Broad provides him with the perfect delivery , short and width on offer , Akmal cuts it up and over backward point for a boundary , third man was brought into the circle 44.1 Broad to U Akmal , no run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Akmal pulls and finds mid-on , he once again got it high on the bat 43.6 Jordan to Misbah , no run , tucks the batsman for room , Misbah knocks it to between bowler and mid-wicket , he wanted the run but Akmal was not interested. There was a run there 43.6 Jordan to Misbah , wide , bouncer which is too high from Jordan , wided by the ump 43.5 Jordan to Misbah , no run , the length is short and around off , Misbah glides it with an open face to backward point 43.4 Jordan to U Akmal , 1 run , short of length on off , Akmal plays the short-arm pull in front of square 43.3 Jordan to U Akmal , no run , shortish and outside off , Akmal fails to connect with the cut , Misbah walks up and has a few words with him 43.2 Jordan to U Akmal , no run , nip-backer from Jordan , Akmal tries to steer it to third man , is cut into half as the ball beats the inside edge 43.1 Jordan to Misbah , 1 run , drifts onto Misbah 's pads , glanced away to fine leg for a single The equation now reads 47 off 42 42.6 Broad to U Akmal , no run , shortish and rises up steeply , Akmal jumps up and drops it dead on the wicket , he wanted the single but Misbah is not interested 42.5 Broad to U Akmal , no run , Broad responds with a sharp bouncer , Akmal charges down and sways away from the line of the delivery 42.4 Broad to U Akmal , FOUR , " catch " shouted someone , but he cleared the fielder quite easily. Short of length on off , Akmal was cramped for room , but still manages to play the short-arm pull over mid-wicket , beats the fielder in the deep as well 42.3 Broad to Misbah , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the turf , Misbah pulls it to fine leg , he got it high on the bat 42.2 Broad to Misbah , FOUR , poor ball from Broad , ca n't bowl full with mid-off in the circle , Misbah does not do anything fancy , he lofts it handsomely over mid-off , the ball bounces couple of times before reaching the ropes 42.1 Broad to Misbah , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , he rolled his fingers around it , Misbah poked at that and missed , it was a leg-cutter from Broad Stuart Broad [ 7.0-0-21-1 ] is back into the attack Another change from Morgan. Broad is into the attck. The match is slipping away from England 's grasp. . 41.6 Jordan to Misbah , 1 run , banged in halfway down the wicket , Misbah stands tall and helps it to sweeper cover 41.5 Jordan to Misbah , no run , back of a length on off , Misbah stays in the crease and dabs it in front of point 41.4 Jordan to U Akmal , 1 run , slower short ball , Akmal pulls it in front of square for a single 41.3 Jordan to U Akmal , no run , off-speed delivery well wide of off , just inside the guideline , Akmal ca n't reach it as he had given himself some room 41.2 Jordan to U Akmal , 2 runs , Akmal dances down the wicket , Jordan drops it short , Akmal still goes through with the shot , clears mid-on and picks up two 41.1 Jordan to U Akmal , SIX , what a way to reach fifty ! It was a length delivery right in the slot , Akmal has been waiting for that since ages , he gets his front leg out of the way and hoicks it over deep mid-wicket , there was no one protecting the fence there Chris Jordan [ 6.0-0-28-1 ] is back into the attack There is a conference going on between Morgan , Anderson , Broad and Jordan. Looks like they are deciding as to who needs to bowl. Finally , the ball is tossed to Jordan. . 40.6 Bopara to Misbah , no run , shortens the length around off , Misbah dabs it wide of backward point , there was a single but the duo missed out 40.5 Bopara to Misbah , FOUR , bit sloppy from Anderson , Bopara not happy with the effort. Pitched up close to off , Misbah takes couple of steps down the pitch and drives it to mid-off , Anderson dives over the ball and allows it to go through 40.4 Bopara to U Akmal , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , Akmal forehands it towards mid-off , it came off the splice of the bat 40.3 Bopara to U Akmal , FOUR , that will do , Akmal makes room and shimmies down the wicket , Bopara fires it full and around off , Akmal goes through with the shot , the ball takes the outside edge and beats the third man , who was inside the ring 40.2 Bopara to Misbah , 1 run , fullish and outside off , Misbah drives it sweetly , but straight to sweeper cover 40.1 Bopara to U Akmal , 1 run , starts with a slower one , nurdled away behind square on the leg-side Ravi Bopara [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack The batting powerplay yielded 27 runs. Pakistan need 77 runs in the last 10 overs with Afridi still in the dug-out . 39.6 J Anderson to Misbah , no run , shortens the length with an off-speed delivery , Misbah fails to connect with the nudge and the ball strikes him on the thigh pad 39.5 J Anderson to U Akmal , byes , 1 run , how did that miss the off-stump ? It was a length delivery that slants back in , Akmal clears his front leg and looks to heave it towards cow corner and the ball almost kisses the off-pole 39.4 J Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , yorker just outside off , Misbah squeezes it out towards cover 39.3 J Anderson to Misbah , no run , Misbah advances down the wicket , Anderson takes the pace off the ball and drags the length back , Misbah pulls it straight to mid-wicket 39.2 J Anderson to Misbah , no run , back of the hand slower one , Misbah checks his shot and knocks it to the left of Anderson 39.1 J Anderson to Misbah , no run , Misbah makes room and looks to carve it through the off-side , Anderson follows him and Misbah ends up getting an inside edge to the left of Buttler 39.1 J Anderson to Misbah , wide , slips the slower one down leg , Misbah ca n't lay bat on that , wided by umpire Bowden James Anderson [ 7.0-0-27-1 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Jordan to Misbah , 1 run , short and aimed at the body , Misbah gets inside the line and pulls it to fine leg 38.5 Jordan to U Akmal , 1 run , shortens the length , Akmal takes it from outside off and swipes it to deep mid-wicket 38.4 Jordan to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length around off , Misbah dabs it wide of third man , runs the first one hard and has to settle with that 38.3 Jordan to U Akmal , 1 run , slower short ball , Akmal pulls it to fine leg , he did n't have the pace to work with 38.3 Jordan to U Akmal , wide , goes back to the short delivery , gets the line wrong - down the leg-side , wide signalled 38.2 Jordan to U Akmal , SIX , clean hit ! Pakistan need few more of these. It was the first pitched up delivery to Akmal , he gets underneath it , presents the straight bat and lofts it over long-off , the ball travels all the way 38.1 Jordan to U Akmal , no run , shortish and just outside off , Akmal cuts it towards backward point , Morgan makes a fine save diving to his left 37.6 Broad to Misbah , no run , follows Misbah who was backing away to the leg-side , he ca n't connect with the flick and the ball rolls to the off-side after thudding into the pads 37.5 Broad to U Akmal , 1 run , even the slower delivery is short in length , Akmal ca n't generate the power behind the pull , picks out deep mid-wicket 37.4 Broad to U Akmal , no run , short and outside off , Akmal slaps it right off the toe-end , straight back at the bowler , Broad does well to bend down and stop it in his followthrough 37.3 Broad to U Akmal , 2 runs , nothing pitched up by Broad , Akmal pulls off the inside half of the bat wide of deep mid-wicket 37.2 Broad to U Akmal , no run , back of a length around off , Akmal knocks it to backward point , calls is for " wait " 37.1 Broad to Misbah , 1 run , short from Broad , Misbah fetches it from outside off and pulls it to deep mid-wicket Stuart Broad [ 6.0-0-17-1 ] is back into the attack 36.6 Jordan to Misbah , 1 run , shortens the length just outside off , Misbah rides with the bounce and glides it to third man 36.5 Jordan to Misbah , no run , banged in halfway down the pitch and right at the body , Misbah does not play the pull and wears a blow on the forearm 36.4 Jordan to Misbah , no run , the no-ball does n't cost England , Misbah drills the full delivery straight to mid-on Free hit coming up ! Morgan and Jordan having a long chat regarding the field. No one at long-on or long-off , there are up in the circle 36.4 Jordan to U Akmal , no ball , 1 run , Jordan oversteps and drops it short , Akmal hammers the pull to deep square leg 36.3 Jordan to U Akmal , no run , Akmal gives the charge to Jordan , looks to swipe it across the line , the length was short and he does n't make contact. Misbah walks up to him and tells him to calm down 36.2 Jordan to U Akmal , no run , pitched up around off , Akmal goes for the drive , his bat turns and the ball goes off the inside part to mid-on 36.1 Jordan to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length just outside off , steered away to third man Chris Jordan [ 4.0-0-13-1 ] is back into the attack Time for a drinks break ! 35.6 J Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , again , no pace from Anderson , Misbah wrists it wide of mid-on and retains strike 35.5 J Anderson to Misbah , no run , 123.1kph slower one , Misbah guides it to point with an angled bat 35.4 J Anderson to U Akmal , 1 run , this is good clever batting , drops the back of a length delivery in front of mid-wicket and takes off for the single 35.3 J Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , once again nurdled away behind square leg , this was the slower one from Anderson 35.2 J Anderson to U Akmal , 1 run , drops it short and on middle , Akmal pulls it along the floor towards deep square leg , Jordan does well to keep the pair down to one 35.1 J Anderson to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length on off , Misbah tucks it to deep backward square leg , they do n't risk the second James Anderson [ 6.0-0-22-1 ] is back into the attack Time for the batting powerplay ! Anderson comes back. The match is poised evenly. A wicket here and it will swing towards England and if these two survive the next 5 overs , then Pakistan will march ahead in the game. . 34.6 J Root to U Akmal , no run , pushed through around off , Akmal backs away and fails to connect with the cut , that was not far away from the off-pole either 34.5 J Root to U Akmal , no run , flighted on off and middle , Akmal nudges it behind square , the short fine fielder swoops in quickly on the ball 34.4 J Root to U Akmal , no run , again , the length is tad short , Akmal toe-ends the pull , picks out the fielder at short fine 34.3 J Root to Misbah , 1 run , drops it slightly short , Misbah rocks back and pulls it square of the wicket 34.2 J Root to U Akmal , 1 run , slower and turning into the pads , worked away behind square for a single 34.1 J Root to Misbah , 1 run , a direct hit and that would have made it interesting. Misbah drops it to the on-side and sets off , Buttler runs across and fires a throw at the bowler 's end , had he hit Misbah was a goner. It was a risky single ! Joe Root , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 33.6 Bopara to Misbah , 1 run , dug in mid-way down the pitch , Misbah swivels and pulls it along the ground to deep square leg 33.5 Bopara to Misbah , no run , slight hesitation between the two batsmen , but no harm done. Misbah knocks it between cover and point , was halfway down the wicket before Akmal sends him back. There was a single on that occasion 33.4 Bopara to U Akmal , 1 run , back of the hand slower ball , it bounces a bit extra , Akmal mistimes the pull to short fine leg 33.3 Bopara to U Akmal , no run , shortens the length just outside off , Akmal dabs it towards point , thinks about the run but Misbah sends him back 33.2 Bopara to Misbah , 1 run , angled in on off and middle , Misbah punches it past the diving bowler 33.1 Bopara to Misbah , no run , good length ball on off , Misbah is half-forward and defending to the left of Bopara Ravi Bopara , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 32.6 Broad to U Akmal , no run , short of length on off , Akmal jumps up and guides it to backward point 32.5 Broad to U Akmal , no run , rolled his fingers on top of the ball , Akmal tries to steer it to third man , is deceived by the lack of pace 32.4 Broad to U Akmal , no run , bouncer on leg-stump , Akmal sits down and allows the ball to sail over him 32.3 Broad to U Akmal , no run , sharp bouncer and well directed as well , Akmal thought about hooking it , but decided against it at the last instant 32.2 Broad to U Akmal , no run , full and on off , Akmal drives it back to the bowler , Broad mocks a throw at the non-striker 's end 32.1 Broad to Misbah , 1 run , short and wide of off , Misbah slaps it to the right of third man , that came right off the meat 31.6 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 1 run , full toss on the stumps , Misbah does not capitalize as he eases it along the ground to long-on 31.5 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , slower and close to off , Misbah presses forward and blocks it back to the bowler 31.4 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , short and around off , Misbah dabs it to short third man , finds the fielder there Moeen Ali goes round the wicket ! 31.3 Moeen Ali to Misbah , SIX , amazing hitting ! This is even better from the Pakistani skipper , he also brings up his fifty. Nice floaty delivery on off , Misbah clears his front leg and sends it sailing over the long-on fence for a maximum 31.2 Moeen Ali to Misbah , FOUR , lovely shot ! Time and again Misbah brings out one of these shots. It was tossed up around off , Misbah gets underneath it and plays a whippy loft between deep mid-wicket and long-on , he split the fielders to perfection 31.1 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , 1 run , floated up around off , Akmal works it towards long-on 30.6 Broad to Misbah , no run , fuller and on off , Misbah defends it back to the bowler , Broad shows off his footballing skills as he juggles it with his feet 30.5 Broad to U Akmal , 1 run , once again moves across his stumps and tucks it towards mid-on for a sharp single 30.4 Broad to Misbah , 1 run , on a length and holds its line , Misbah waits for it on the front foot , runs it down to third man 30.3 Broad to Misbah , no run , bit loose from Misbah , banged in halfway down the wicket , he tries to ramp it over the vacant slip cordon , but fails to make contact as the ball gets big on him 30.2 Broad to U Akmal , 1 run , walks across his stumps and wrists it in front of mid-on , he called early for the run and got it comfortably 30.1 Broad to Misbah , 1 run , short of length on off , Misbah stands up , opens the bat face and steers it to third man Stuart Broad [ 4.0-0-12-1 ] is back into the attack 29.6 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , no run , turns it with soft hands in front of short mid-wicket , shouts " no " for the single 29.5 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 1 run , nurdles it with the spin to backward square leg , another well run single 29.4 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , shuffles across and knocks it to the right of the bowler 29.3 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , 1 run , gets it much wider of Morgan at mid-wicket and Misbah responds to his call this time 29.2 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , no run , opens the face of the bat and glides it straight to short third man 29.1 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , no run , works it to the left of mid-wicket , he sets off for a single but Misbah sends him back 28.6 Tredwell to U Akmal , 1 run , too full and just outside off , Akmal drills the drive towards mid-off , where Ballance does well to dive and stop the ball going further 28.5 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , flatter and on off , Misbah punches it to long-on 28.4 Tredwell to U Akmal , 1 run , flatter and close to off , Akmal steers it to short third man , Misbah calls him for a brisk run 28.3 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , another paddle sweep , but this time Misbah gets it a lot straighter , hence only the single 28.2 Tredwell to Misbah , 2 runs , slower and around off , Misbah kneels down and paddles it to long leg , Buttler tried to move to his left and stop it , but ca n't and the batsmen pick up two as Hales hunts it down near the rope 28.1 Tredwell to Misbah , no run , floaty delivery around off , defended off the front foot to the off-side 27.6 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 1 run , tossed up , Misbah fetches it from outside off-stump line and wrists it to long-on 27.5 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , flighted on off , Misbah works it gently to short mid-wicket 27.4 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 2 runs , quicker , fuller and on off , Misbah plays it with soft hands in front of square , hares back for the second and makes it with ease 27.3 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , 1 run , turns back in sharply , Akmal is cramped for room , but still manages to steer it to short third man 27.2 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , SIX , Moeen gifts Akmal a friendly full toss and the batsman says thank you very much and puts it away , he swivels and heaves it over deep mid-wcket , just about cleared Jordan and hit the ad-boards on the full 27.1 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , no run , loopy off-break around off , Akmal leans forward and taps it in front of cover 26.6 Tredwell to U Akmal , 1 run , gets to the pitch of the ball and eases it to long-on 26.5 Tredwell to Misbah , 3 runs , Buttler was outdone there , he anticipated Misbah playing the reverse sweep and moved to his right , but the batsman hit it to his left , it did n't have the required timing to reach the fence , hence only the three taken 26.4 Tredwell to U Akmal , 1 run , bit of turn , the line ends up on middle , Akmal gets inside the line and milks it to backward square leg 26.3 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , drags the length back , Misbah stays in the crease and dabs it to the vacant point region 26.2 Tredwell to Misbah , no run , draws the batsman forward , Misbah middles the drive but hits it straight to the bowler 26.1 Tredwell to Misbah , no run , camps on the back foot and knocks it to short mid-wicket 25.6 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , no run , stays in the crease and tucks the flighted delivery towards square leg 25.5 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , 2 runs , slower and just outside off , Akmal plays an extended forward defensive , gets it wide of cover and picks up an easy two 25.4 Moeen Ali to Misbah , leg byes , 1 run , goes down on one knee and fails to connect the paddle sweep , the ball dribbles off the pad , Moeen appeals for lbw , but the impact was outside off 25.3 Moeen Ali to Misbah , FOUR , Jordan makes a complete mess of that , he tries to stop it with his boot , fails to do so and crashes into the ad-hoardings. Flighted on off and middle , Misbah plays the pick-up shot to the left of deep mid-wicket , he had enough power behind that to beat the fielder 25.2 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , presents the full face of the bat and blocks it down the wicket 25.1 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 2 runs , tosses it up around off , Misbah kneels down and paddles it to long leg , he pushes his partner for the second and gets it comfortably 24.6 Tredwell to U Akmal , 2 runs , a dangerous shot to play , but Akmal gets away with it , pushed through just outside off , he waits for it and late cuts it wide of the slip fielder for a couple. It was not far away from Root at slip 24.5 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , uses the depth of the crease and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 24.4 Tredwell to Misbah , no run , floated up close to off , blocked off the front foot to cover 24.3 Tredwell to U Akmal , 1 run , easily done , gets inside the line and nurdles it to deep square leg , thought about the second but decided against it as Hales gets to the ball quickly 24.2 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , slighly short and outside off , Misbah opens the face of the bat and steers it to deep backward point 24.1 Tredwell to U Akmal , 1 run , worked away in front of square , Morgan gives chase and keeps the duo down to a single 23.6 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , 1 run , full and on off , Akmal meets the pitch of the ball and wrists it to long-on 23.5 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , no run , throws it up and teases the batsman , Akmal presses forward and blocks it solidly to cover 23.4 Moeen Ali to U Akmal , no run , quicker and around off , Akmal tucks it to short mid-wicket 23.3 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 1 run , pulls the length back , Misbah has ample time to go back and punch it to long-on 23.2 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , this time Misbah finds Morgan at mid-wicket with a nudge 23.1 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , turned away to the right of mid-wicket , Misbah wanted the single but Akmal sends him back 22.6 Tredwell to U Akmal , no run , floated up around off , Akmal dead-bats it down the wicket 22.5 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , flatter and outside off , Misbah goes on his toes and punches it square of the wicket on the off-side 22.4 Tredwell to U Akmal , 3 runs , slower and just outside off , Akmal closes the bat face and gets a leading edge past the vacant slip cordon , a conventional slip and he would have gobbled it up A leg slip is in place. . 22.3 Tredwell to U Akmal , no run , flighted outside off , Akmal lunges forward and guides it to backward point with an angled bat 22.2 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , turning into the pads , Misbah works it past the leg slip fielder for a single Umar Akmal , right handed bat , comes to the crease 22.1 Tredwell to Sohail , out Caught by Ballance ! ! Once again Sohail throws it away in the thirties. Tredwell provides the much needed wicket for England. He saw the batsman advance down the wicket and held it back , Sohail had to reach for it and he ends up chipping it towards long-on , Ballance runs to his right , slides and takes another good catch. Sohail wanted to hit it a lot straighter. Sohail c Ballance b Tredwell 33 ( 56 ) [ 4s-1 ] Tredwell to Sohail , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 21.6 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , flighted on off , Misbah reverse sweeps and finds the fielder at short third 21.5 Moeen Ali to Sohail , 1 run , tad short and around off , Sohail guides it to the left of point and scampers across for a quick single 21.4 Moeen Ali to Sohail , no run , extra bounce on that occasion , Sohail rides it and cuts it towards backward point , straight to the fielder 21.3 Moeen Ali to Sohail , no run , bit quicker , bowled at 93.5kph , Sohail goes for the cut and is beaten , he was outdone by the pace on that delivery 21.2 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 1 run , waits for the ball to arrive and then nudges it behind square leg for a single 21.1 Moeen Ali to Sohail , 1 run , drops it short , Sohail hangs back and cuts it to sweeper cover 20.6 Tredwell to Misbah , no run , gives this bit more air , Misbah gets behind the line and defends it to short mid-wicket 20.5 Tredwell to Misbah , 2 runs , fraction short , Misbah goes deep in the crease and pulls it square of the wicket , Hales does the mopping up near the rope 20.4 Tredwell to Sohail , 1 run , pitched up on off and middle , Sohail drives it neatly down to long-off 20.3 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , skips out of the crease and plays a crisp drive back to the bowler 20.2 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , quicker and on off , Sohail knocks it back to Tredwell 20.1 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , this one holds its line just outside off , Misbah does well to play it late and dab it to short third man 19.6 Moeen Ali to Sohail , no run , nice loopy delivery to end the over , Sohail leans forward and blocks it to cover 19.5 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 1 run , takes it from outside off and whips it to long-on for a run 19.4 Moeen Ali to Sohail , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , punched down to long-off 19.3 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 1 run , bends his front leg and plays the half pull/sweep to deep backward square leg 19.2 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , works it gently to short mid-wicket , no chance of a single 19.1 Moeen Ali to Misbah , no run , stifled appeal for lbw , but umpire Bowden says not-out. It was the straight roller , Misbah plays down the wrong line and is rapped on the back pad , the impact was outside off. Good call from the ump 18.6 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , pushed through on the stumps , Misbah eases it off the back foot to long-on 18.5 Tredwell to Sohail , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , Sohail drives it inside out , along the ground to long-off 18.4 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , this one holds up in the wicket , Sohail checks his punch and lobs it towards cover , luckily the ball drops in front of cover 18.3 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , drags the length back , Misbah stands tall and punches it to sweeper cover 18.2 Tredwell to Misbah , no run , floated up around off , Misbah presses forward and blocks to the off-side 18.1 Tredwell to Misbah , SIX , Misbah sends the ball sailing into the crowd. The Pakistani supporters make more noise. This came out of nowhere , tossed up on off , Misbah gets under it and lofts it handsomely over wide long-on fence 17.6 Moeen Ali to Sohail , 2 runs , goes on with the arm , Sohail waits for it in the crease and back cuts it behind point for a brace 17.5 Moeen Ali to Sohail , no run , flighted on off , Sohail knocks it off the back foot to cover 17.4 Moeen Ali to Sohail , no run , slows this up and gets it to straighten , Sohail does well not to go hard at it , plays it with soft hands and the ball squirts off the outside half to backward point 17.3 Moeen Ali to Misbah , 1 run , worked away with the turn to deep mid-wicket 17.2 Moeen Ali to Sohail , 1 run , drifts onto the pads , Sohail nurdles it square of the wicket on the leg-side A slip in place. . 17.1 Moeen Ali to Sohail , no run , starts with a floaty delivery on leg-stump , Sohail turns it softly to short mid-wicket Moeen Ali , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 16.6 Tredwell to Misbah , no run , flatter and just outside off , punched back to the bowler 16.5 Tredwell to Sohail , 1 run , bit too full from Tredwell , Sohail gets to the pitch and wrists it to long-on 16.4 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , slower and on off , Sohail presses forward and pushes it back to the bowler 16.3 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , quicker and on off , Sohail hangs back and taps it in front of point 16.2 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , tosses it up close to off , Misbah reverse sweeps it towards short third man , Broad dives and saves some runs for the team 16.1 Tredwell to Sohail , 1 run , flighted around off , Sohail leans into the drive to long-off Drinks are on the field now 15.6 Jordan to Sohail , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away with the bounce towards third man 15.5 Jordan to Sohail , no run , aahs and oohs from the keeper and the slip cordon as another one beats Sohail 's outside edge , this was full and wide outside off , tempts Sohail into the drive , he obliges and nearly nicks it through 15.4 Jordan to Misbah , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed down towards third man for a single 15.3 Jordan to Sohail , 1 run , short and on Sohail 's pads , he hops across and tucks it in front of square on the on-side for a single 15.2 Jordan to Sohail , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Sohail gets behind the line and defends it towards mid-off 15.1 Jordan to Sohail , no run , short of a length and angling away from the left-hander , he has a loose waft at that and is beaten 14.6 Tredwell to Misbah , no run , Tredwell drifts one on off , Misbah gets his bat in front of the pads and blocks 14.5 Tredwell to Sohail , 1 run , tossed up and on off , punched down towards long-on for a single 14.4 Tredwell to Misbah , 1 run , fraction short and just outside off , Misbah backs away and cuts it square past cover for a single 14.3 Tredwell to Misbah , no run , flighted and just outside off , pushed back towards the bowler 14.2 Tredwell to Sohail , 1 run , slower and just outside off , Sohail gets a good stride forward and drives it towards long-off 14.1 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Sohail stays back and pushes it towards the off-side 13.6 Jordan to Sohail , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , Sohail works it in front of mid-on and calls for a quick single 13.5 Jordan to Misbah , leg byes , 1 run , fuller length delivery and angling onto Misbah 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , they sneak in a leg-bye 13.4 Jordan to Misbah , no run , Misbah is greeted with a bumper , he does well to drop his gloves and sways away from the line 13.3 Jordan to Sohail , 1 run , fuller length delivery and angling away from off , Sohail prods forward and gets a thick edge towards third man Misbah-ul-Haq , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.2 Jordan to Younis Khan , out Caught by Ballance ! ! Excellent catch from Ballance. This was banged in short and on the stumps , Younis was taken by surprise , goes for the pull , does n't get hold of the shot and ends up top-edging it behind square. Ballance runs forward from fine leg , the ball was dying on him , he dives forward , gets both hands underneath and holds onto a sharp catch. He was n't sure but his teammates were already celebrating. YK is happy to walk off. Younis Khan c Ballance b Jordan 19 ( 40 ) [ 4s-2 ] Jordan to Younis Khan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Has Younis been caught ? He is walking 13.1 Jordan to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Jordan is hitting the deck hard , Younis rides with the bounce and defends it 12.6 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , the slider from Tredwell , came back with the angle , Sohail presses forward and blocks it with a straight bat 12.5 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , this one is given more air , driven back towards the bowler 12.4 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Sohail prods forward and defends it towards the on-side 12.3 Tredwell to Sohail , no run , slower and just outside off , punched back towards the bowler 12.2 Tredwell to Younis Khan , 1 run , flighted and on the stumps , eased down towards long-on for a single 12.1 Tredwell to Younis Khan , no run , tossed up and on middle , punched towards the on-side James Tredwell , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 11.6 Jordan to Sohail , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Sohail dabs it in front of cover-point and set-off for a quick single , sent back by Younis 11.5 Jordan to Sohail , no run , full and slanting away from outside off , Sohail went chasing after that and is beaten 11.4 Jordan to Sohail , no run , Jordan shortens his length on off , Sohail gets behind the line and defends 11.3 Jordan to Younis Khan , 1 run , Jordan keeps it on a back of a length and just outside off , punched to deep cover for a single 11.2 Jordan to Sohail , 1 run , back of a length and on Sohail 's hips , nudged in front of mid-wicket for a single 11.1 Jordan to Sohail , no run , short and shaping away from well outside off , Sohail spars at that as an afterthought , nearly fenced it through to the keeper 10.6 J Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , tad fuller and just outside off , Younis lets it come along and guides it towards gully 10.5 J Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and well outside off , YK plays with an angled bat and dabs it towards backward point 10.4 J Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Younis stays behind the line and defends it towards backward point 10.3 J Anderson to Sohail , 1 run , Anderson shortens his length outside off , Sohail hung his bat at that , gets a thick inside edge that brushes past the leg-stump 10.2 J Anderson to Sohail , FOUR , nicely played by Sohail , width on offer from Anderson , Sohail gets on top of the bounce and cuts it square on the off-side for a boundary 10.1 J Anderson to Sohail , no run , fuller length delivery and holding its line outside off , left alone Anderson switches to round the wicket 9.6 Jordan to Younis Khan , 2 runs , short and wide again from Jordan , Younis Khan cuts it hard and gets it behind square on the off-side. Moeen gets across from the deep and keeps them down to a brace 9.5 Jordan to Younis Khan , no run , tad fuller and in that channel outside off , YK stays on the front-foot and drives it towards point 9.4 Jordan to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Younis presses across and defends it solidly 9.3 Jordan to Younis Khan , FOUR , cracking shot from Younis , short and wide from Jordan , YK gets on top of the bounce and cracks it square on the off-side , races away to the square boundary 9.2 Jordan to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and angling back into the right-hander , he prods across and defends it towards mid-on 9.1 Jordan to Younis Khan , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Younis rides with the bounce and defends it towards the on-side Chris Jordan , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 8.6 J Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , on a good length and shaping away from off , Younis runs it down towards third man for a single 8.5 J Anderson to Sohail , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , steered away towards third man for a single 8.4 J Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , fuller length delivery and angling into Younis , he presses across and clips it in front of mid-on for a single 8.3 J Anderson to Younis Khan , FOUR , that 's much better from YK , full and wide from Anderson , Younis leans into the drive , plays it with the swing , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and guides it past cover-point for a boundary 8.2 J Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , that 's a cracker from Anderson , Younis gets a big stride forward as he looked to get behind the line , the ball slants away to beat the outside edge 8.1 J Anderson to Sohail , 1 run , back of a length and well outside off , dabbed away towards third man 7.6 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , punched towards mid-on 7.5 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , almost chopped on ! Short of a length and just outside off , no room for Younis as he looked to guide it down towards third man , gets an inside edge that rolls towards the on-side 7.4 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and angling back into Younis , he closes the face of the bat and drives it towards silly mid-on 7.3 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , very full and on the off-stump line , Younis jams it out towards backward point 7.2 Broad to Sohail , 3 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Sohail leans into the drive and gets it past cover-point. The timing is sweet , Jordan gets across from deep point , stops the ball with his boot and saves a run for his team 7.2 Broad to Sohail , wide , short and angling down leg-side , wide called 7.1 Broad to Sohail , no run , on a good length and around off , Sohail gets behind the line and blocks 6.6 J Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , how do you play those ? This was pitched up in that channel outside off nips back in slightly before shaping away , Younis is completely opened up. To his credit , he plays at the original line and the ball zips past the outside edge 6.5 J Anderson to Sohail , 1 run , too full from Anderson , allows Sohail to clip it away past mid-wicket for a single 6.4 J Anderson to Sohail , no run , Anderson slips one onto Sohail 's pads , he looks to flick and is struck on the pads 6.3 J Anderson to Sohail , no run , on a good length and in that channel outside off , Sohail gets behind the line and defends it 6.2 J Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , tad fuller and nipping away from outside off , Younis is opened up as he dabs it down towards third man 6.1 J Anderson to Sohail , 1 run , on a good length and on Sohail 's pads , turned past square leg for a single 5.6 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , loud shout for LBW , but Bowden says NO. Broad was pleading for the decision. This was full and angled back in late , Younis was shuffling across on the flick and missed , looked like the impact was just outside off , might have been going over the top as well. Replays suggest that the impact was on middle , but the ball was going over the top 5.5 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , left alone 5.4 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , Broad keeps it full and just outside off , punched towards mid-off 5.3 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Younis gets well forward and defends it 5.2 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , Younis is unlucky there , the stumps at the bowler 's end cost him a boundary , this was full and on off , YK presented the full face of the bat as he leaned forward into the drive , too straight though 5.1 Broad to Sohail , 1 run , short and on Sohail 's hips , tucked away behind square on the on-side for a single 4.6 J Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , pitched up and holding its line around middle , Younis prods across and defends it 4.5 J Anderson to Sohail , 3 runs , too straight from Anderson , ends up drifrting onto Sohail 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side. Broad gets across from long leg , puts the slide in and saves a run for his team 4.4 J Anderson to Sohail , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Sohail presses forward and drives it towards mid-off 4.3 J Anderson to Sohail , no run , on a good length and holding its line outside off , Sohail covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 4.2 J Anderson to Sohail , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Sohail shuffles across and defends it Haris Sohail , left handed bat , comes to the crease 4.1 J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , out Caught by Tredwell ! ! Edged and caught ! Both openers have fallen now. This was pitched up and shaping away from well outside off , Shehzad could have let it go , he decides to go chasing after that , gets a thick edge that is well snapped up by Tredwell at 2nd slip. He moved across to his left and takes it reverse cupped. Pakistan have lost both openers now. Ahmed Shehzad c Tredwell b J Anderson 2 ( 11 ) J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.6 Broad to Younis Khan , 2 runs , lovely shot , this was pitched up and hels its line outside off , Younis presents the full face of the bat and punches it back at the bowler. Broad gets a hand onto it as he looked to deflect it away towards the stumps , that takes the pace off and mid-off hauls it back in 3.5 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , that 's much better from YK , gets a big stride forward to a full ball and drives it straight to the fielder at extra cover 3.4 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , this one stayed a tad low , Younis watches it all along and blocks it with a straight bat 3.3 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , Broad shortens his length and gets this one to hold its line outside off , Younis prods across and defends it towards the off-side 3.2 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , Younis gets a good stride forward in defence 3.2 Broad to Younis Khan , wide , short and angling well down leg-side , called as a wide 3.1 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Younis gets across and defends it 2.6 J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , that 's a ripper from Anderson , tad fuller and just outside off , draws Shehzad forward before nipping away sharply , beats the outside edge by a mile. Shehzad has n't had a clue in this over 2.5 J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and a hint of nip away from off , Shehzad is opened up as he prods from his crease , plays with an angled bat and gets it away towards the off-side 2.4 J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Shehzad prods forward and pushes it back towards the bowler 2.3 J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 2.2 J Anderson to Younis Khan , 1 run , that 's beautifully bowled by Anderson , full and swings it very late , Younis was completely squared up , does well to play with soft hands and gets a thick edge towards third man 2.1 J Anderson to Younis Khan , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , left alone 1.6 Broad to Ahmed Shehzad , 2 runs , too straight from Broad , ends up drifting onto Shehzad 's pads , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a couple of runs 1.6 Broad to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , Broad shortens his length , but the line is well outside off , wide called 1.5 Broad to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away further after pitching , left alone 1.4 Broad to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , Shehzad watches it all along , gets his bat and gloves out of the way and lets it go 1.3 Broad to Younis Khan , 1 run , nicely bowled by Broad , on a good length and just outside off , Younis prods forward and drops it in front of point , calls for a quick single and gets it with ease 1.2 Broad to Younis Khan , no run , short of a length and angling into Younis , he shuffles across and turns it towards mid-wicket Younis Khan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.1 Broad to Jamshed , out Caught by Tredwell ! ! Poor shot from Jamshed , but sharp catch from Tredwell at 2nd slip. Broad strikes with his first ball. This was pitched up and went away with the angle , Jamshed was rooted to his crease as he flashed at that , gets a thick edge towards 2nd slip. The ball was travelling and was around head high. Tredwell stands still and holds onto the stinger. Jamshed c Tredwell b Broad 1 ( 4 ) Broad to Jamshed , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Stuart Broad , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , fuller length delivery and a hint of shape away from off , defended with an open face towards backward point 0.6 J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , wide , this one has been wided , full and swinging away from well outside off , a bit too far though , wide called 0.5 J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , Anderson shortens his length and gets it to hold its line outside off , Shehzad does n't need to play those , left alone 0.4 J Anderson to Ahmed Shehzad , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , left alone. Umpire Davis thinks about it and lets the bowler get away from one 0.3 J Anderson to Jamshed , 1 run , almost a mix-up , this was a back of a length delivery and just outside off , Jamshed dabbed it to the right of backward point and set-off , Shehzad initially said NO before coming across to complete the single 0.2 J Anderson to Jamshed , no run , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , Jamshed covers the line , lifts his bat and lets it go 0.1 J Anderson to Jamshed , no run , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Jamshed plays inside the line and lets it go Jamshed and Ahmed Shehzad are at the crease. Jamshed is on strike. J Anderson will open the attack Welcome back.. Anderson steams in with two slips in place A decent effort from England on a pitch that 's not the best for batting. They lost Moeen Ali early on , but Ballance ( 57 ) and Hales ( 31 ) steadied the innings. Joe Root played the big innings , his impressive 85 laying a solid platform. Chris Jordan 's unbeaten 31 helped boost the total further. Yasir Shah was the most impressive of the Pakistani bowlers , and he finished with figures of 3/45. The death bowling by Riaz and Sohail was impressive as well. Both teams will back themselves to win this. Join us in a while for the chase. . 49.6 Riaz to Tredwell , 1 run , England end up with exactly 250 on the board , Riaz followed Tredwell as he backed away , chopped down towards third man for a single 49.5 Riaz to Jordan , leg byes , 1 run , full and on Jordan 's pads , he looks to whip and misses , sneaks in a leg-bye 49.4 Riaz to Jordan , no run , excellent change of pace from Riaz , slips in the slower ball , Jordan had backed away a long way , does n't get any bat on that Looks like Broad is unlucky , the umpire did n't spot that there were 5 fielders outside the ring. Misbah realises it now and the fielder at third man gets inside the ring 49.3 Riaz to Jordan , 2 runs , another full toss from Riaz , chipped over extra cover for a couple of runs James Tredwell , left handed bat , comes to the crease 49.2 Riaz to Broad , out Caught by Misbah ! ! That 's an excellent catch from the Pakistan captain. This was banged in short and just outside off , Broad went for the pull , ends up getting a top-edge. Misbah ran back from mid-on , keeps his eyes on the ball and takes the catch over his shoulder. Broad falls first ball , England have lost their 8th wicket. Broad c Misbah b Riaz 0 ( 1 ) Riaz to Broad , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Back over the wicket 49.1 Riaz to Jordan , leg byes , 1 run , full and angling into Jordan 's pads , he shuffled across on the flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards fine leg 48.6 Sohail Khan to Jordan , 1 run , another low full toss from Sohail , driven towards mid-off for a quick single Stuart Broad , left handed bat , comes to the crease 48.5 Sohail Khan to J Root , out Caught by Ehsan Adil ! ! Sohail deserved this wicket ! This has been a skillful over from him , slips in the slower ball. Root made his intentions clear , reversed his stance and was looking to help the ball on its way , no pace to work with , he does n't get hold of the shot and loops a simple catch to Adil at short third man. J Root c Ehsan Adil b Sohail Khan 85 ( 89 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Sohail Khan to J Root , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 48.4 Sohail Khan to Jordan , 1 run , low full toss from Sohail , Jordan drives it towards mid-off for a single 48.3 Sohail Khan to J Root , 1 run , yorker length delivery and on the stumps , Root backs away and digs it out towards cover for a single 48.2 Sohail Khan to J Root , 2 runs , Root comes down the track to a full ball , goes hard on the drives , the bottom hand comes flying out , ends up getting a thick edge that loops over backward point 48.1 Sohail Khan to J Root , no run , nicely bowled by Sohail , the back of the hand slower ball , Root was way too early on the shot and is beaten by a long way Sohail Khan [ 8.0-1-42-1 ] is back into the attack 47.6 Riaz to Jordan , no run , short and on the stumps , Jordan shuffles across on the pull and misses 47.6 Riaz to Jordan , wide , Riaz goes for the bumper , it is short and well down leg , wide called 47.5 Riaz to J Root , leg byes , 1 run , Riaz slips in the slower ball , Root was looking to play an ungainly looking reverse sweep , misses and is struck high on the pads 47.4 Riaz to Jordan , 1 run , full and on Jordan , whipped away behind square on the on-side for a single 47.3 Riaz to J Root , 1 run , that 's ridiculous from Pakistan , this was short and just outside off , Root pulled it straight to mid-on. Jordan had set-off for a quick single and has to hurry back. The throw misses the stumps and rolls across towards Shehzad at backward point. He makes a direct hit at the striker 's end with Root well in , the ball deflects away and rolls away towards fine leg. Misbah is n't one bit pleased and glares at his fielder 47.2 Riaz to J Root , no run , the slower bouncer from Riaz , Root was looking to pull and misses 47.1 Riaz to Jordan , 1 run , full and well outside off , Jordan punches it towards mid-off for a single 47.1 Riaz to Jordan , wide , Riaz comes from round the wicket and fires one short and well down leg-side , wide called 46.6 Afridi to Jordan , 1 run , Afridi tosses one on off , punched down towards long-on for a single 46.5 Afridi to Jordan , 2 runs , pushed through quicker and flatter , Jordan works it square behind point for a single 46.4 Afridi to Jordan , FOUR , more handy runs for England , this was full and wide from Afridi , Jordan was looking for the big drive , ends up slicing it over backward point for a boundary 46.3 Afridi to Jordan , SIX , that 's massive from Jordan , Afridi gave this one more air , Jordan gets down on his knees and slog sweeps it high and into the crowd at wide long-on Jordan backs away at the last moment. Afridi knocks over the off-pole with a straight ball , but no damage done 46.2 Afridi to J Root , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , Root makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a single 46.1 Afridi to Jordan , 1 run , short and wide from Afridi , slapped away towards sweeper cover for a single Shahid Afridi [ 9.0-0-44-1 ] is back into the attack 45.6 Riaz to J Root , FOUR , was it intentional ? This was pitched up and held its line outside off , Root was looking to dab it down towards third man , gets a thick edge that flies past the keeper and races away to the fence 45.5 Riaz to Jordan , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Jordan shuffles across and nudges it wide of mid-on 45.4 Riaz to Jordan , 2 runs , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Jordan leans forward and drives it wide of extra cover for a couple of runs 45.3 Riaz to J Root , 1 run , Jordan gets lucky again ! And this time , Akmal ca n't collect the throw. It was a bit too high though , and even a leap could n't help the keeper. This was short and just outside off , swung away in front of mid-wicket , Jordan wanted a second run and was half-way down the track before being sent back , the poor throw saves him again 45.2 Riaz to J Root , no run , that should have been the end of Jordan , he was a long way down the track and was a goner had there been a direct hit , the bowler did n't collect it either , Root tapped one towards point and frozed even as Jordan set-off 45.1 Riaz to J Root , no run , short of a length and following Root as he backed away , nudged towards the on-side Wahab Riaz [ 7.0-0-30-0 ] is back into the attack 44.6 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , Yasir shortens his length and keeps it outside off , punched off the back-foot towards deep cover 44.5 Yasir Shah to Jordan , 1 run , slower and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single 44.4 Yasir Shah to Jordan , no run , pushed through flatter and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 44.3 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , Shah gives this one more air , eased down towards long-on for a single 44.2 Yasir Shah to J Root , no run , tossed up and spinning away from outside off , Root went for the big slog sweep and missed 44.1 Yasir Shah to Jordan , 3 runs , Yasir goes for the googly , the ball slipped out of his hand , ends up drifting it wide outside off , Jordan swipes at that and gets it behind point for an easy three 43.6 Sohail Khan to Jordan , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Jordan stays back and pushes it past point for a single 43.5 Sohail Khan to J Root , 3 runs , Sohail bangs one short and just outside off , Root was quick on the pull , might have got a bit high on the bat , gets enough to clear mid-wicket and comes back for the third run 43.4 Sohail Khan to Jordan , 1 run , short of a length and well outside off , punched off the back-foot towards deep point 43.3 Sohail Khan to Jordan , no run , that 's a peach from Sohail , tad fuller and straightens after pitching , nips away at the last moment , Jordan was prodding forward and is beaten 43.2 Sohail Khan to Jordan , 2 runs , short and wide from Sohail , Jordan goes hard on the cut and mistimes it wide of sweeper cover for a brace 43.1 Sohail Khan to J Root , 1 run , short of a length and on the stumps , Root swivels across and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a single Sohail Khan [ 7.0-1-34-1 ] is back into the attack 42.6 Yasir Shah to Jordan , no run , this is flighted and well outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 42.5 Yasir Shah to Jordan , no run , the wrong 'un from Yasir , Jordan spots it early and defends with a straight bat 42.4 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , pushed through by Yasir , Root goes back and nudges it in front of mid-wicket for a single 42.3 Yasir Shah to J Root , 2 runs , this is dropped too short and too wide , Root rocks back and cuts it square on the off-side for a brace 42.3 Yasir Shah to J Root , wide , Shah slides one wider and gets it to spin away further , wide called 42.2 Yasir Shah to J Root , no run , flighted and just outside off , Root gets well forward and pushes it towards the off-side 42.1 Yasir Shah to J Root , SIX , that 's massive , this was tossed up and held its line outside off , Root gets down on his knees and slog sweeps , high and over the ropes at deep mid-wicket Yasir Shah [ 8.0-1-29-3 ] is back into the attack 41.6 Riaz to J Root , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single 41.5 Riaz to J Root , no run , Riaz shortens his length outside off , he presses across and defends it 41.4 Riaz to J Root , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Root hops across and defends it 41.3 Riaz to J Root , 2 runs , short of a length and on Root 's hips , he gets inside the line and works it in front of square on the on-side. Maqsood is slow on the ball and that allows the batsmen to get back for the second run 41.2 Riaz to J Root , no run , back of a length and just outside off , no room for Root to free his arms , he rides with the bounce and defends it 41.1 Riaz to J Root , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Root gets behind the line and defends it 40.6 Sohail Khan to Jordan , no run , loud shout for a caught behind , but only the bowler was convinced. Sharp pace from Sohail , angling in from outside off. Jordan was beaten as he wafted at that , there was no noise and Steve Davis says NO 40.5 Sohail Khan to Jordan , no run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , defended with an open face towards backward point Chris Jordan , right handed bat , comes to the crease 40.4 Sohail Khan to Buttler , out Bowled ! ! That 's a cracker from Sohail ! You ca n't get a yorker better than this one , this was fired on the off-stump line , Buttler made room as he looked to work it towards cover , the ball slid underneath the bat and hits the base of off-stump. Sohail celebrates , Pakistan have an opening now. Buttler b Sohail Khan 13 ( 20 ) [ 4s-1 ] Sohail Khan to Buttler , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 40.3 Sohail Khan to J Root , 1 run , full toss on the stumps , Root looks to drive and gets an inside edge past mid-wicket 40.2 Sohail Khan to J Root , 2 runs , Sohail keeps it short and well outside off , Root swivels across and pulls it in front of square on the on-side , Buttler pushes his partner for the second , Root has to hurry as he makes his ground 40.1 Sohail Khan to J Root , FOUR , edged and four , short and wide from Sohail , Root throws his bat at that , gets a thick edge that flies past the keeper and into the fence Sohail Khan [ 6.0-1-27-0 ] is back into the attack 39.6 Riaz to J Root , 1 run , fifty for Root , back of a length and just outside off , dabbed away towards third man for a single , he raises his bat towards the dressing room as the England supporters cheer 39.5 Riaz to Buttler , 1 run , short and on the stumps , Buttler was swivelling across on the pull , gets a bottom edge towards the on-side 39.4 Riaz to J Root , 1 run , Riaz shortens his length outside off , punched away off the back-foot towards deep cover 39.3 Riaz to J Root , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Root gets behind the line and defends it 39.2 Riaz to Buttler , 1 run , Riaz shortens his length and gets this one to angle across Buttler , dabbed away towards third man for a single 39.1 Riaz to Buttler , no run , the bumper first-up from Riaz , Buttler ducks underneath it and lets it go Wahab Riaz [ 5.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 38.6 Yasir Shah to Buttler , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , Buttler gets a good stride forward and nurdles it towards mid-wicket 38.5 Yasir Shah to Buttler , 2 runs , flatter and on the stumps , nudged behind square on the on-side , Adil rushes forward and fires it back at the bowler , he ca n't collect it and the ball rolls away towards long-on 38.4 Yasir Shah to Buttler , no run , Shah drifts one on off , Buttler goes back and defends it with a straight bat 38.3 Yasir Shah to Buttler , no run , floater on middle , Buttler clears his left leg and drives it towards mid-on 38.2 Yasir Shah to Buttler , no run , tossed up and wider outside off , Buttler looks to cut and misses 38.1 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , fraction short from Yasir , Root rocks back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket for a single 37.6 Afridi to Buttler , 2 runs , this one is given more air , Buttler gets a big stride forward and eases it square on the off-side for a brace 37.5 Afridi to J Root , 1 run , tossed up and on the stumps , Root goes back and nudges it in front of square on the on-side for a single 37.4 Afridi to Buttler , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , Buttler was late in bringing his bat down , the ball gripped onto the surface , the inside edge is found and it rolls towards square leg 37.3 Afridi to Buttler , no run , Afridi drifts one on off , Buttler gets well forward and blocks 37.2 Afridi to Buttler , no run , the wrong 'un from Afridi , Buttler goes deep inside his crease and defends it 37.1 Afridi to Buttler , no run , fraction shorter and just outside off , Buttler shuffles across and mistimes it towards the on-side 36.6 Yasir Shah to Buttler , 1 run , this one is given more air , Buttler gets a big stride forward and punches it square on the off-side for a single 36.5 Yasir Shah to Buttler , no run , Shah drifts one outside off , Buttler prods forward and defends it with an open face 36.4 Yasir Shah to Buttler , no run , tossed up and on off , Buttler gets well forward and blocks A slip is in place now 36.3 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , flighted and on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 36.2 Yasir Shah to J Root , no run , pushed through by Shah , the straighter one , Root does n't spot it , goes back and just about gets his bat down in time , gets an inside edge towards the on-side 36.1 Yasir Shah to J Root , no run , flighted and on off , Root prods forward and defends it towards the off-side 35.6 Afridi to Buttler , no run , stays back and defends , almost chops the ball back onto the stumps , he looks to kick it away but the keeper gets his gloves around it 35.5 Afridi to Buttler , no run , pushed slower through the air on middle and off , Buttler blocks it back 35.4 Afridi to Buttler , FOUR , shortish and wide of off , Buttler goes back , waits for it and cuts it elegantly to the third man fence 35.3 Afridi to J Root , 1 run , gets forward and pushes it to cover 35.3 Afridi to J Root , wide , drifts it down leg , Root misses the flick , Akmal whips off the bails but Root 's back foot was firmly grounded 35.2 Afridi to J Root , no run , gets back , opens the face of the bat and steers it to short third man , finds the fielder 35.1 Afridi to J Root , no run , flighted on off , Root defends it off the front foot Jos Buttler , right handed bat , comes to the crease 34.6 Yasir Shah to Bopara , out Bowled ! ! Beautiful delivery from Yasir ! It was a flipper from him , Bopara was playing for the turn , looks to hammer it into the off-side , drives and misses it completely. The ball goes through bat and pad and crashes into the off-stump. Bopara b Yasir Shah 11 ( 25 ) [ 4s-1 ] Yasir Shah to Bopara , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 34.5 Yasir Shah to Bopara , no run , flighted around off , Bopara defends it to cover-point 34.4 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , touch short and wide of off , Root punches it to sweeper cover 34.3 Yasir Shah to Bopara , 1 run , drifts it on leg , Bopara leans forward and glances it to deep backward square leg 34.2 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , shuffles across and gently tucks it through backward square leg 34.1 Yasir Shah to J Root , 2 runs , leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket for a comfortable brace 33.6 Afridi to Bopara , no run , flighted on middle and leg , Bopara blocks it back 33.5 Afridi to Bopara , FOUR , Bopara gets down on one knee and sweeps it hard to deep backward square leg , Maqsood bends down near the rope , gets his hands to the ball but is not able to hold on as it bursts through his fingers and rolls to the fence 33.4 Afridi to J Root , 1 run , continues to remain inside the line and works it to long-on 33.3 Afridi to J Root , no run , drifts it in again , Root defends it off the back foot back to the bowler 33.2 Afridi to J Root , no run , stays on the back foot and dabs it to point 33.1 Afridi to J Root , no run , gets inside the crease and nudges it to short mid-wicket Shahid Afridi [ 6.0-0-29-1 ] is back into the attack Drinks are on the field now 32.6 Yasir Shah to Bopara , no run , leans across and turns it off the pads just in front of square on the leg-side 32.5 Yasir Shah to Bopara , no run , quicker on off , Boapara gets back and cuts , finds the fielder at cover , who dives and stops it 32.4 Yasir Shah to Bopara , no run , on leg , Bopara leans forward and turns it in front of square on the on-side 32.3 Yasir Shah to Bopara , 2 runs , drifts it on leg , Bopara gets down and sweeps it to deep backward square leg , finds the fielder but good running between the wickets to take a couple 32.2 Yasir Shah to Bopara , no run , flighted on middle , Bopara blocks it down the track off the front foot 32.1 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , fuller on off , Root gets forward and drives it to long-off 31.6 Sohail Khan to Bopara , no run , stays on the back foot and knocks it to point. A maiden over from Sohail 31.5 Sohail Khan to Bopara , no run , short of length and wide of off , Bopara gently guides it behind point , wants a single but gets back as the backward point fielder cuts off the ball 31.4 Sohail Khan to Bopara , no run , Bopara comes down the track and punches this back of a length delivery to cover 31.3 Sohail Khan to Bopara , no run , short of a good length around off , Bopara dabs it behind point 31.2 Sohail Khan to Bopara , no run , back of a length and outside off , Bopara reaches out to it , the ball takes the bottom half of the bat and rolls to mid-off 31.1 Sohail Khan to Bopara , no run , back of a length and shaping away , Bopara looks to push it into the off-side but is beaten Sohail Khan [ 5.0-0-27-0 ] is back into the attack 30.6 Yasir Shah to Bopara , 1 run , gets forward and taps it with an angled bat towards point 30.5 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , full on middle , Root gets forward and drives it to long-on 30.4 Yasir Shah to J Root , no run , gets forward and pushes it back to the bowler 30.3 Yasir Shah to Bopara , 1 run , presses on the front foot and pushes at it from the inside half of the bat towards mid-on , 'catch it ' is the call but the ball falls short of the fielder 30.2 Yasir Shah to Bopara , no run , moves inside the crease and dabs it behind point 30.1 Yasir Shah to Bopara , no run , full around off , Bopara pushes it to cover-point , wants a single but gets back as the ball is fielded 29.6 Ehsan Adil to Bopara , 1 run , back of a length around off , Bopara stays back and punches it to cover-point for a brisk single 29.5 Ehsan Adil to J Root , 1 run , back of a length on off , Root shuffles across and tucks it behind square for a comfortable single 29.4 Ehsan Adil to J Root , 2 runs , leans forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket for a brace 29.3 Ehsan Adil to Bopara , 1 run , fullish on off , Bopara drives it to mid-off , the batsmen scamper through for a quick run as Yasir fires a throw at the non-striker 's end from mid-off , he misses , excellent running between the wickets , Bopara was well in 29.2 Ehsan Adil to Bopara , no run , touch fuller on middle , Bopara defends it in front of point 29.1 Ehsan Adil to J Root , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Root guides it with an open bat face to third man 28.6 Yasir Shah to Bopara , no run , full on middle and off , Bopara blocks it off the front foot 28.5 Yasir Shah to Bopara , no run , gets forward and defends it back Ravi Bopara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 28.4 Yasir Shah to Eoin Morgan , out Caught by Younis Khan ! ! Two in the over for Yasir ! Morgan departs without troubling the scores , he just looks to scoop this full toss from Yasir , gets a thick outside edge and ends up offering a simple catch to Younis at slip. Eoin Morgan c Younis Khan b Yasir Shah 0 ( 3 ) Yasir Shah to Eoin Morgan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 28.3 Yasir Shah to Eoin Morgan , no run , very full on middle and off , Morgan jams it to the left of the bowler 28.2 Yasir Shah to Eoin Morgan , no run , stays on the back foot and blocks with a straight bat A slip in place for Morgan Eoin Morgan , left handed bat , comes to the crease 28.1 Yasir Shah to Ballance , out Caught by Maqsood ! ! Ballance has thrown away his wicket ! Yasir has managed to break this 66-run stand. It was a flighted delivery on off , Ballance gets down on one knee and slog sweeps it hard , finds the deep mid-wicket fielder to perfection. He is not happy about it. The Pakistani players are delighted , they desperately needed a breakthrough. Ballance c Maqsood b Yasir Shah 57 ( 81 ) [ 4s-4 ] Yasir Shah to Ballance , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Yasir Shah [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 27.6 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , 1 run , Ballance comes on the front foot and drives it to sweeper cover 27.5 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , 2 runs , full on middle and off , Ballance lofts , the bat turns in his hands and he ends up mistiming the shot , the ball clears the mid-on fielder , who is backpedaling but he is not able to reach to the ball 27.4 Ehsan Adil to J Root , 1 run , length delivery wide of off , Root stays back and knocks it to square third man 27.3 Ehsan Adil to J Root , no run , length ball around off , Root defends it into the off-side 27.2 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , 1 run , fuller length delivery around off , Ballance pushes it to mid-off for a quick single , Misbah has a shy at the non-striker 's end but misses , the running between the wickets was good , even if he had hit it , Ballance was in safely 27.1 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , slower delivery from Adil outside off , Ballance wafts at it and is beaten Ehsan Adil [ 5.0-1-16-1 ] is back into the attack 26.6 Sohail to J Root , FOUR , drifts it in , Root gets down on one knee and sweeps it to the deep backward square leg fence 26.5 Sohail to Ballance , 1 run , presses on the front foot and drives it to deep extra cover , good fielding there restricts the batsmen to a single 26.4 Sohail to J Root , 1 run , full around off , Root drives it off the front foot to long-off 26.3 Sohail to J Root , no run , gets forward and defends it back 26.2 Sohail to Ballance , 1 run , Ballance skips forward and drives it past mid-off , but Riaz does well to slide to his right and cut it off 26.1 Sohail to J Root , 1 run , stays back and punches it to long-on for a comfortable single 26.1 Sohail to J Root , wide , slides it down leg , Root looks to sweep and misses it 25.6 Yasir Shah to Ballance , no run , a googly from Yasir this time , Ballance jams it onto his pads 25.5 Yasir Shah to Ballance , no run , looks to work it to the on-side , misses and is struck on the thigh pad 25.4 Yasir Shah to Ballance , no run , leans forward and turns it towards mid-wicket 25.3 Yasir Shah to J Root , 3 runs , nicely played by Root , opens the face of the bat and steers it gently towards third man , where the fielder slides along the rope and drags the ball back in , clean stop ! Meanwhile , fifty partnership up between these two 25.2 Yasir Shah to Ballance , 1 run , fuller and just outside off , Ballance drives it hard , straight to the man at deep point 25.1 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , full around off , Root presses forward and drives it to sweeper cover 24.6 Sohail to J Root , 1 run , on middle , Root punches it with a straight bat to long-on 24.5 Sohail to Ballance , 1 run , leans on the front foot and works it to short mid-wicket for a quick single , brings up a fine fifty 24.4 Sohail to Ballance , no run , gets back and looks to work across the line , the ball brushes the pad and drops into the off-side 24.3 Sohail to J Root , 1 run , gets deep inside the crease and punches it to long-on 24.2 Sohail to Ballance , 1 run , full on off , Ballance shuffles across and works it to long-on 24.1 Sohail to J Root , 1 run , flighted on leg , Root clips it off the pads through backward square leg 23.6 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , presses forward , taps it to cover and scampers through 23.5 Yasir Shah to J Root , FOUR , flighted around off , Root is quick to get down on one knee and drags the sweep to the deep mid-wicket fence 23.4 Yasir Shah to J Root , no run , touch short and outside off , Root punches it to backward point 23.3 Yasir Shah to Ballance , 1 run , shuffles across a touch and tucks it to deep square leg 23.2 Yasir Shah to J Root , 1 run , quicker and wide of off , Root slaps it to sweeper cover 23.1 Yasir Shah to J Root , no run , stays on the back foot and defends into the off-side Yasir Shah , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Yasir replacing Afridi. A slip in place for him. . 22.6 Sohail to Ballance , no run , stays inside the line and turns it to square leg 22.5 Sohail to Ballance , no run , gets forward and pushes it back to the bowler 22.4 Sohail to J Root , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it to long-on , finds the fielder there 22.3 Sohail to J Root , no run , full around off , Root gets forward and drives it to cover 22.2 Sohail to J Root , no run , stays inside the line and turns it in front of square on the leg-side 22.1 Sohail to J Root , 2 runs , full toss on leg , Root leans forward and clips it between mid-wicket and long-on 21.6 Afridi to J Root , 1 run , short and wide of off this time , Root punches it to sweeper cover 21.5 Afridi to Ballance , 1 run , shortish on middle and off , Ballance pulls it along the ground to deep square leg to bring up England 's 100 21.4 Afridi to Ballance , no run , flighted on off , Ballance drives it off the front foot to mid-off 21.3 Afridi to Ballance , no run , presses forward a touch and turns it gently to short mid-wicket 21.2 Afridi to Ballance , FOUR , beautiful shot ! Ballance gets down on one knee and drags the sweep from outside off to the deep square leg fence 21.1 Afridi to Ballance , no run , shuffles across and nudges it to square leg 20.6 Sohail to Ballance , 1 run , shuffles across a touch and works it towards long-on 20.5 Sohail to J Root , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Root guides it square of the wicket 20.4 Sohail to J Root , no run , full on middle and off , Root defends it back to the bowler 20.3 Sohail to J Root , no run , gets forward and pushes it into the off-side 20.2 Sohail to Ballance , 1 run , drifts on leg , Ballance tucks it off the inside half of the bat to short fine leg 20.1 Sohail to J Root , 1 run , flighted on middle , Root gets forward and drives it to long-on Haris Sohail , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 19.6 Afridi to Ballance , no run , presses on the front foot and defends this full ball into the covers region 19.5 Afridi to J Root , 1 run , on middle and off , Root taps it towards long-on 19.4 Afridi to Ballance , 3 runs , quicker form Afridi this time , Ballance runs it down past the diving short third man fielder 19.3 Afridi to Ballance , 2 runs , gets down on one knee and looks to scoop , the ball drifts in , takes the gloves and runs to fine leg , Afridi was appealing as he thought that Ballance had missed that one 19.2 Afridi to Ballance , no run , drifts it in , Ballance gets inside the crease and defends it towards the leg-side 19.1 Afridi to J Root , 1 run , flighted on leg , Root pushes it to long-on for a comfortable single 18.6 Riaz to J Root , 1 run , short of length on middle and leg , Root tucks it to mid-wicket , the fielder does well to stop the ball from going any further and restricts the batsmen to a single 18.5 Riaz to J Root , no run , back of a length around off , Root defends it off the back foot towards cover 18.4 Riaz to Ballance , 3 runs , shortish and down leg , Ballance gets back and pulls , the ball takes the glove and runs fine , Adil slides near the fine leg rope , sticks his left hand out and drags the ball back in to save the one run 18.3 Riaz to Ballance , no run , short of length on off , Ballance hops back and defends it in front of point 18.2 Riaz to Ballance , 2 runs , short of a good length around off , Ballance punches it to sweeper cover for a couple , good running between the wickets by the batsmen 18.1 Riaz to Ballance , no run , length delivery around off , Ballance presses forward and taps it to mid-off 17.6 Afridi to J Root , no run , gets forward and defends it into the off-side 17.5 Afridi to Ballance , 1 run , clips it to deep mid-wicket for a comfortable single 17.4 Afridi to Ballance , no run , the ball grips the surface and turns on leg , Ballance is hit on the thigh pad as he looks to work it off the back foot 17.3 Afridi to Ballance , no run , gets forward and pushes it to the right of the bowler , who moves across and stops it 17.3 Afridi to Ballance , wide , slides it down leg , wided by the umpire 17.2 Afridi to J Root , 1 run , drifts it in again , Root gets inside the line and turns it through backward square leg 17.1 Afridi to J Root , no run , Root moves deep inside the crease and tucks it in front of square 16.6 Riaz to Ballance , 2 runs , Riaz searches for the yorker this time , bowls it very full on middle and leg , Ballance flicks it to deep backward square leg for a couple 16.5 Riaz to Ballance , no run , beautiful delivery from Riaz ! It was a short of a good length delivery this time , pushes Ballance into the crease as he pokes at it listlessly , the ball whistles past the outside edge of his bat and travels into the keeper 's gloves 16.4 Riaz to J Root , 1 run , short of length and outside off , Root runs it down towards third man , the fielder dives and stops it 16.3 Riaz to Ballance , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Ballance guides it to third man with an open bat face 16.2 Riaz to Ballance , no run , fullish on middle , Ballance leans forward and turns it into the leg-side 16.1 Riaz to J Root , 1 run , short of length outside off , Root stays back and runs it down to third man 15.6 Afridi to Ballance , no run , on middle and off , Ballance turns it gently towards square leg , wants a single but gets back as the fielder gets to the ball 15.5 Afridi to J Root , 1 run , drifts it on leg , Root tucks it off the pads to deep square leg Joe Root , right handed bat , comes to the crease Drinks are on the field now . 15.4 Afridi to Hales , out Caught by Maqsood ! ! Boom Boom gets a breakthrough ! A soft dismissal for Hales , who walks back dejectedly. It was a shortish delivery that drifts into the batsman , Hales flicks it by taking his bottom hand off the bat , ends up chipping it straight into the hands of Maqsood at short mid-wicket. Hales c Maqsood b Afridi 31 ( 47 ) [ 4s-3 ] Afridi to Hales , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 15.3 Afridi to Hales , no run , fires it in on the stumps , jammed back to the bowler 15.2 Afridi to Hales , no run , drifts into the batsman , Hales presses forward and looks to work it across the line , misses and is rapped on the pads. Loud appeal for lbw but the umpire turns it down , that was sliding down leg 15.1 Afridi to Ballance , 1 run , gets back and clips it to deep mid-wicket 14.6 Riaz to Hales , 2 runs , pitches it up this time around off , Hales gets forward and drives it towards square third man 14.5 Riaz to Hales , FOUR , banged in short by Riaz , Hales rocks on the back foot and muscles the pull to the deep backward square leg fence , powerfully hit that one ! 14.4 Riaz to Ballance , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Ballance steers it with an open bat face to third man 14.3 Riaz to Ballance , no run , fullish on middle and off , Ballance drives it towards mid-on 14.3 Riaz to Ballance , wide , short and outside off , Ballance jumps inside the crease and looks to ramp it but that was very high 14.2 Riaz to Ballance , no run , short of length on off , Ballance shuffles across and nudges it towards short mid-wicket 14.1 Riaz to Ballance , no run , short of a good length around off , Ballance defends it towards cover-point 13.6 Afridi to Hales , no run , stays on the back foot and chops it to cover 13.6 Afridi to Ballance , 4 wides , turns this down leg , gets down and looks to sweep but is beaten , the keeper fails to collect the ball as well and it races away towards the fence , Riaz slides near the rope and does well to drag the ball back in , the batsmen take a three 13.5 Afridi to Hales , 1 run , gets down on one knee and sweeps it to deep backward square leg 13.4 Afridi to Hales , no run , full on off , Hales pushes it back to the bowler 13.3 Afridi to Ballance , 1 run , pushed through around off , Ballance carefully dabs it square of the wicket 13.2 Afridi to Hales , 1 run , goes on the back foot and punches it back to the bowler , who misfields and parries the ball to cover , the batsmen take a quick single 13.1 Afridi to Ballance , 1 run , drifts it on middle and leg , Ballance gets forward and clips it to deep mid-wicket 12.6 Riaz to Hales , no run , beautiful delivery from Riaz , shapes away sharply from the right-hander , Hales hangs his bat away from his body and is beaten comprehensively 12.5 Riaz to Ballance , 1 run , shuffles across a touch and nurdles this back of a length delivery towards square leg 12.4 Riaz to Ballance , no run , short of length and moving away , Ballance pokes at it off the back foot and is beaten , there was some noise there but does not look like any wood was involved , no appeal from the fielders as well 12.3 Riaz to Ballance , no run , stays back and bunts this short of a good length delivery in front of point 12.2 Riaz to Ballance , no run , back of length and shaping away from the left-hander , Ballance looks to flay it into the off-side and is beaten by the movement 12.1 Riaz to Hales , 1 run , back of a length on leg , Hales clips it through backward square leg for a brisk run 11.6 Afridi to Hales , 1 run , touch short and outside off , Hales punches it to sweeper cover 11.5 Afridi to Hales , no run , comes on the front foot and gently taps it back to the bowler 11.4 Afridi to Hales , no run , a quicker one this time , Hales moves inside the crease and knocks it towards point 11.3 Afridi to Hales , no run , tossed up on off , Hales defends it off the front foot A slip in place 11.2 Afridi to Ballance , 1 run , full on off , Ballance gets forward and drives it to long-on 11.2 Afridi to Ballance , wide , drifts it down leg , Ballance gets down and looks to sweep but misses 11.1 Afridi to Ballance , no run , flighted on off , Ballance gets forward and jams it back to the bowler Shahid Afridi , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Time for Boom Boom ! 10.6 Riaz to Hales , no run , outside off , Hales stays inside the line and bunts it towards point 10.5 Riaz to Hales , no run , a bouncer from Riaz , Hales sinks under it and lets it go 10.4 Riaz to Ballance , 1 run , back of a length on middle and off , Ballance works it to mid-wicket 10.3 Riaz to Ballance , no run , stays inside the line and defends it into the off-side 10.2 Riaz to Hales , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length and coming back into the batsman , Hales looks to tuck , misses and the ball goes off the thigh pad in front of square , the bowler runs forward to get to the ball but the batsmen are quicker and scamper through. Riaz fired a throw at the non-striker 's end but missed it by miles 10.1 Riaz to Ballance , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Ballance cuts it square of the wicket for a comfortable single Wahab Riaz , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Wahab Riaz will replace Sohail in the attack. Just a slip in place for him.. . 9.6 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , 1 run , shuffles across a touch and nudges it towards mid-on , scampers through for a quick single 9.5 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , 2 runs , outside off , Ballance guides it to backward point , Shehzad fires a wayward throw towards the bowler , who is not able to collect the ball cleanly and the batsmen manage to take a second run 9.4 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , FOUR , Ballance hits back with his second boundary of the over , he presses on the front foot to this length delivery outside off and drives it elegantly to the deep extra cover fence 9.3 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , excellent comeback delivery from Adil. It was a good length ball that shapes away sharply , Ballance just pushes his bat at it and the ball just about manages to evade the outside edge 9.2 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , FOUR , fullish and width on offer , Ballance eyes lit up as he saw the width on that one , reaches out and slaps it to the square third man fence 9.1 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , back of a length around off , Ballance bunts it to point 8.6 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , stays on the back foot and punches it straight to the man at mid-off 8.5 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , short of length around off , Hales defends it off the back foot to cover 8.4 Sohail Khan to Hales , FOUR , good looking shot from Hales ! It was back of a length and outside off , Hales gets back and punches it to the sweeper cover fence 8.3 Sohail Khan to Ballance , 1 run , shuffles across a touch and tucks this back of a length delivery through backward square leg 8.2 Sohail Khan to Ballance , FOUR , short of a good length and some width on offer , Ballance stays back and cuts it hard to the deep backward point fence , no chance for the point fielder to stop that one 8.1 Sohail Khan to Ballance , no run , back of a length on leg , Ballance nudges it in front of square on the on-side 7.6 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , 1 run , good length delivery on off , Ballance taps it to mid-off for a brisk run 7.5 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , fuller and just outside off , Ballance reaches out and drives it hard , finds the fielder at point 7.4 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , good delivery from Adil ! It was a back of a length ball with a hint of inswing , Ballance looks to punch it off the back foot , the ball beats the inside edge and goes through to the keeper 7.3 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , touch fuller around the off stump , Ballance pushes it towards cover again 7.2 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , fuller around off , Ballance drives it firmly to cover 7.1 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , fullish and outside off , Ballance reaches out and knocks it to point 6.6 Sohail Khan to Ballance , 1 run , Ballance is finally off the mark ! It was a short of a good length delivery from Sohail on middle and leg , Ballance nudges it to mid-on for a quick single 6.5 Sohail Khan to Hales , 1 run , back of a length and outside off , Hales looks to push it into the off-side , gets a thick outside edge to third man 6.4 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , touch fuller on off , Hales comfortably defends it to cover 6.4 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run 6.3 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , in that channel outside off , does not interest Hales into playing at it 6.2 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , back of a length and outside off , Hales punches it straight to backward point , who dives to his right and makes a fine stop 6.1 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , on a good length on off , Hales defends it off the front foot into the off-side 5.6 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , good length ball around off , Ballance knocks it straight to cover 5.5 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , Ballance gets forward to this length delivery and pushes it towards cover-point 5.4 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , touch back of a length around off , Ballance pats it in front of point 5.3 Ehsan Adil to Hales , 1 run , fullish on leg , Hales leans forward and works it towards mid-on for a brisk run 5.2 Ehsan Adil to Hales , no run , short of a good length around off , Hales knocks it straight to the point fielder 5.1 Ehsan Adil to Hales , no run , length delivery on middle and off , Hales turns it toward short mid-wicket 4.6 Sohail Khan to Ballance , no run , fuller and in the channel outside off , Ballance just watches it closely and lets it go 4.5 Sohail Khan to Ballance , no run , length delivery around off , Ballance bunts it in front of point 4.4 Sohail Khan to Hales , 1 run , back of a length on off , Hales camps on the back foot and works it towards mid-on for a quick single 4.3 Sohail Khan to Hales , 2 runs , Hales stays inside the line and slaps it square of the wicket for a brace 4.2 Sohail Khan to Hales , FOUR , a bouncer from Sohail but Hales has somehow managed to put that away , he swivels back and is early into the hook shot , mistimes it to the fine leg fence One slip in place 4.1 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Hales defends it towards point 3.6 Ehsan Adil to Hales , 3 runs , length ball onto the pads , Hales leans forward and works it to deep mid-wicket , the fielder gives the ball a chase and drags it back in front of the rope , comfortable three taken by the batsmen 3.5 Ehsan Adil to Hales , no run , short of a good length around off , Hales defends it into the off-side 3.4 Ehsan Adil to Hales , no run , back of a length and shaping back in , Hales looks to work it across the line , gets a thick inside edge onto the pads , muted appeal for lbw by Adil but the umpire had spotted the inside edge straightaway 3.3 Ehsan Adil to Hales , no run , back of a length around off , it keeps low as well , Hales stays back and bunts it towards cover 3.2 Ehsan Adil to Hales , no run , on a good length and coming back in a touch , Hales defends it off the front foot 3.1 Ehsan Adil to Hales , no run , fuller and moving away from the right-hander , Hales lifts his bat and lets it go 2.6 Sohail Khan to Hales , 1 run , Hales stays on the back foot and punches this short of a good length delivery to mid-off for a quick single 2.5 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , back of a length just outside off , Hales punches it towards cover 2.4 Sohail Khan to Hales , 2 runs , back of a length on middle and leg , Hales clips it through backward square leg 2.3 Sohail Khan to Hales , 2 runs , touch fullish and around off , Hales presses forward and eases it to sweeper cover for a brace 2.2 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , back of a length around off , Hales defens it off the back foot towards cover 2.1 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , fullish on off , Hales gets forward and pushes it towards mid-on 1.6 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , fuller and outside off , Ballance covers the sticks and lets it go through 1.5 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , around the off-stump , Ballance knocks it towards cover 1.4 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , Ballance stays on the back foot and looks to dab this length delivery into the off-side , gets an outside edge and the ball falls short of the fielder at second slip 1.3 Ehsan Adil to Ballance , no run , shortish and going down leg , Ballance manages to connect as he looks to tuck , the ball falls just short of the keeper diving to his right Gary Ballance , left handed bat , comes to the crease 1.2 Ehsan Adil to Moeen Ali , out Caught by Younis Khan ! ! Great start for Pakistan ! It was a short of length ball by Adil that nipped back in , Moeen was looking to tuck it into the on-side , gets a thick leading edge that flies to cover , where Younis slides and snaffles a good take. Moeen Ali c Younis Khan b Ehsan Adil 4 ( 6 ) [ 4s-1 ] Ehsan Adil to Moeen Ali , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.1 Ehsan Adil to Moeen Ali , no run , shortish and moving away , some extra bounce on that one , Moeen gets back and looks to defend , the ball beats the outside edge and travels into the keeper 's gloves , good carry as well Ehsan Adil , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , back of a length on middle , Hales defends it in front of point 0.5 Sohail Khan to Hales , no run , on a good length and shaping away just a touch , Hales shoulders arms to it 0.4 Sohail Khan to Moeen Ali , leg byes , 1 run , back of a length on leg , Moeen looks to tuck , the ball goes off the thigh pad behind square 0.3 Sohail Khan to Moeen Ali , no run , around the off stump again , Moeen knocks it towards point 0.2 Sohail Khan to Moeen Ali , no run , back of a length and outside off , Moeen bunts it towards point 0.1 Sohail Khan to Moeen Ali , FOUR , Moeen Ali gets off the mark with a boundary. A good length delivery by Sohail , coming back into the batsman , Moeen just clips it off the pads to the deep backward square leg fence Moeen Ali and Hales are at the crease. Moeen Ali is on strike. Sohail Khan will open the attack The Pakistani players are taking their positions. Moeen Ali and Alex Hales are making their way out to the middle. Sohail Khan with the new ball. Two slips to assist him. Here we go.. . Teams : Pakistan : Ahmed Shehzad , Nasir Jamshed , Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Sohaib Maqsood , Haris Sohail , Umar Akmal ( w ) , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Yasir Shah , Ehsan Adil , Sohail Khan , Sarfraz Ahmed , Rahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan England ( Playing eleven ) : Moeen Ali , Alex Hales , Gary Ballance , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Jordan , Stuart Broad , James Tredwell , James Anderson Misbah : 'We played 4 bowlers in the last match ( against NZ ) and struggled a bit. Happy with the performance in the last practice match , looking to do well today. We are searching for the right combination. We are playing a 12-man team. Slightly worried about Sarfraz 's form , he 's struggling in Australia after a good show in the home season ( against Australia and New Zealand ) , but confident that he will be back in form . Morgan : 'We will bat , the pitch looks a lot drier. We are looking to get a good score on the board. We are taking this one as an ODI and want a win under our belt before the big tournament. We need to adapt to the conditions. We are featuring just 11 members today.' England have won the toss and have opted to bat Pitch Report : " There is a good grass cover on the wicket. It is very hard and the batsmen will be able to adapt. The spinners will get something out of it as well. The batsmen will enjoy batting on this first up. The overhead conditions are also great " , reckons Ian Bishop . On the other hand , Pakistan have been ravaged by injuries. They are without some of their best bowlers in Junaid Khan and Saeed Ajmal. The team was dented further after Mohammad Hafeez was ruled out with an injury. Sohaib Maqsood and Umar Akmal got some runs during their win against Bangladesh in their first practice game. With a big match coming up against India , this is their last chance to get their right XI. Hello , and a warm welcome to one and all to the practice match between England and Pakistan . It 's the final practice match for England and Pakistan as they continue to prepare themselves for the big tournament coming up. England have enjoyed their Australian summer , reaching the final of the tri-series and then rolling over West Indies in their first practice match. The batting has looked solid and their bowlers have n't let the team down . Teams : Pakistan ( From ) : Ahmed Shehzad , Sarfraz Ahmed ( w ) , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( c ) , Umar Akmal , Sohaib Maqsood , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Yasir Shah , Ehsan Adil , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan , Nasir Jamshed England ( From ) : Ian Bell , Moeen Ali , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( c ) , Ravi Bopara , Jos Buttler ( w ) , Chris Woakes , Chris Jordan , Stuart Broad , James Tredwell , Steven Finn , James Anderson , Gary Ballance , Alex Hales Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
