Graphs So , that 's all we have for you from this game. Do n't forget to join us for another big clash tomorrow as Chennai Super Kings take on the Delhi Daredevils. On behalf of Krishna , Bharath , Raju and my co-commentators , Srivathsa , Ramakrishnan and Pradeep , this is Sidhant Maheshwari , signing off ! Take care folks ! Morne Morkel : 'I think with the new ball , there was a little bit of swing. The rhythm helped and we did well with the ball. It is fantastic to come here and play in front of this crowd. It 's great to start off with a win. It does lift me and sometimes I have to catch my breath circling around my mark. Definitely , the crowd gives us the extra edge and the extra energy ( talking about the Eden Gardens crowd cheering them on ) . As a bowling unit , it was good to bowl first. Our first outing as a group was great. We expected the wicket to turn a little bit more , but the way we played in the tricky bit of conditions summed up our night.' Morne Morkel is the Man of the Match for his bowling figures of 4-1-18-2 . Gautam Gambhir : 'I think credit should go to the entire unit. It was a tough total to chase and the way we chased it was great. It was a very good wicket , but we never knew how it was going to behave. It was a pretty new wicket in Kolkata and the way Morne bowled , it was exceptional. He showed a lot of character and mental toughness ( talking about Sunil Narine ) . So , the credit should go to the bowling unit. Suryakumar Yadav as I said during the toss , he is an important player and he showed us why it was right to make him the vice-captain today before the game. We loved the support here today. They always turn up in huge numbers ( referring to the Eden Gardens crowd ) .' Rohit Sharma : 'The kind of wicket it was , we were probably 10-15 runs short. We should have done better with the ball though. We did n't execute our plans well. Let 's hope the guys can pick up from this and come out in a positive manner. The pace was good. The wicket was very good. It is a trend in Kolkata as the pitch is always good to bat. We just have to go back and need to make a good comeback. Does n't please to be on the losing side , but let 's hope the guys will learn from them. Once we go back to Mumbai , we will figure things out.' Earlier , Rohit Sharma played a rousing knock to lift Mumbai 's sagging morale after they lost wickets early on in the innings. Rohit took his time before cracking eye-catching strokes. Anderson too gave a good account of himself with a crunching fifty. For Kolkata , it was Morne Morkel , who bowled with a good burst of pace to take wickets and put the opposition in a spot of bother. In fact , Morkel 's fiery spell played a key part in Kolkata 's win . Gautam Gambhir 's sterling half-century helped Kolkata Knight Riders to start their IPL campaign on a high with a facile win. While chasing down a competitive target , Gambhir essayed a series of fluent shots to keep the scorecard ticking. Gambhir took the attack to even the main spinner in the opposition ranks , Harbhajan Singh , and collected boundaries. On the other hand , Manish Pandey gave Gambhir good support with a quick-fire innings. Once Gambhir was dismissed , Suryakumar Yadav steered Kolkata home. Mumbai did n't help their cause by dropping a slew of chances. Among the bowlers , Corey Anderson swung the new ball and troubled the batsmen . The players walk off the field after exchanging handshakes. It was a dominating performance from KKR as they chased it down with 7 wickets in hand. Captain Gambhir also comes out to congratulate his team-mates and shakes hands with his counterparts . 18.3 Vinay to Suryakumar Yadav , FOUR , Yadav finishes off with a boundary and extends KKR 's winning streak in IPL to 10 games. It was fuller and outside off , Yadav leans forward and drives it through the covers , the ball crashes into the fence in no time 18.2 Vinay to Y Pathan , 1 run , touch fuller and on the stumps from Vinay , Pathan lofts it towards long-on , the ball goes on the bounce to the fielder 18.1 Vinay to Y Pathan , no run , banged in short and well outside off , Pathan jumps in the crease and looks to slash hard , but ca n't lay bat on it Vinay Kumar [ 3.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Malinga to Suryakumar Yadav , 2 runs , fuller and angling in on middle and leg , Yadav works it wide of long-on , the throw from Pollard comes towards Rohit who was standing near mid-on and that allows the batsmen to come back for the second , good running that from these two 17.5 Malinga to Suryakumar Yadav , SIX , Gambhir mentioned during the toss that Suryakumar Yadav is a very good player for his side and this is his opportunity to perform. Till now , Yadav has n't disappointed his captain one bit as he reaches his highest score in the IPL. It was fullish on the pads , just a flick of the wrists from Yadav and the ball carries a whopping 101 metres over the wide long-on fence 17.4 Malinga to Y Pathan , 1 run , slower short ball well outside off , Pathan was early into the flat-batted shot and manages to just about get it over the bowler , takes a single before the fielder from mid-off cuts it off , was n't timed well at all 17.3 Malinga to Y Pathan , no run , Tare is appealing for everything even though there 's nothing on this one. It was banged in short and at the batsman , Pathan went for the pull but fails to connect 17.2 Malinga to Y Pathan , FOUR , Pathan bags another boundary , it was on the pads this time and Pathan flicks it very fine. The fielder from fine leg runs to his right , dives but can only parry it towards the fence 17.1 Malinga to Suryakumar Yadav , 1 run , Malinga bowls a fuller one , Yadav goes across slightly and wrists it uppishly to the wide of long-on. Pollard runs to his right , takes note of the extra bounce off the practice pitch and keeps the batsmen down to a single 16.6 Bumrah to Y Pathan , SIX , Pathan joins the party ! It was another short ball from Bumrah but it sits up nicely for Pathan to rock back and muscle the pull over the deep mid-wicket fence , 20 runs came off that over 16.5 Bumrah to Suryakumar Yadav , 1 run , sensible batting from Yadav as he runs this one down to third man 16.4 Bumrah to Suryakumar Yadav , SIX , poor delivery to follow the bouncer , it was a low full toss , Yadav gets under it and hammers it over the deep mid-wicket fence 16.3 Bumrah to Suryakumar Yadav , no run , good comeback from Bumrah as he digs this one short , Yadav went for the pull , but ca n't connect and wears it on the helmet. Luckily for Yadav , it hit the grille and saves his face. Yadav takes his time to get back for the next ball. In fact , a piece has come off the helmet 16.2 Bumrah to Suryakumar Yadav , SIX , Yadav is looking in great touch here. After missing out on the last delivery , he bludgeons this fullish delivery outside off over the long-off fence 16.1 Bumrah to Suryakumar Yadav , no run , bowls this one fuller and slightly wide outside off , Yadav went for the big booming drive through the off-side , but could n't connect. There was a faint sound though as the ball passed the bat 16.1 Bumrah to Suryakumar Yadav , wide , poor start to the over as Bumrah bowls this one well outside the tramline , easy wide call for the umpire Time for the batting team to take the strategic timeout 15.6 Malinga to Suryakumar Yadav , 1 run , goes for the yorker this time , but could n't quite get it in the blockhole. Yadav squeezes out the drive towards long-on and he will keep the strike 15.5 Malinga to Suryakumar Yadav , no run , Malinga is livid that the umpire has n't given it out. If it 's not out , then it is a wide , but the umpire forgot about it. It was the bumper down the leg-side , Yadav tries to help it fine into the on-side , but ca n't get any bat on that. Do n't know what Malinga and the keeper Tare were appealing about 15.4 Malinga to Y Pathan , 1 run , just short of a good length delivery outside off this time , Pathan opens the face of the bat and steers it towards squarish third man 15.3 Malinga to Y Pathan , no run , another one with width on offer , Pathan goes for the cut this time , but ca n't get it past Finch at backward point , who dives to his left and stops the ball 15.2 Malinga to Y Pathan , no run , gives more width this time and gets it to shape away as well , Pathan hangs his bat at it and is lucky to not have edged it 15.1 Malinga to Y Pathan , no run , length delivery on the stumps , Pathan gets right behind the line and defends it into the off-side Lasith Malinga [ 2.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 14.6 Bumrah to Y Pathan , 1 run , another short delivery from Bumrah , Pathan goes for the pull , mistimes it but gets it towards deep backward square leg for a single 14.5 Bumrah to Y Pathan , no run , just short of a good length and just outside off , Pathan punches it to point , Pollard dives to his right and stops the ball Pathan backs away as Bumrah was coming in to bowl. That got the Eden Gardens crowd going as well 14.4 Bumrah to Suryakumar Yadav , 1 run , length delivery just outside off , Yadav reaches out for the drive , but gets an inside edge that rolls away down to long-on 14.3 Bumrah to Suryakumar Yadav , SIX , Yadav does n't care that his captain got out on the last ball , it was angling in on off and middle , Yadav uses the pace on the ball after going across slightly and flicks it over the fine leg fielder , who can only see it sail over his head Yusuf Pathan , right handed bat , comes to the crease Is there a twist in the tale here ? Gambhir 's wicket was crucial for Mumbai Indians to have any chance of winning this. Still , KKR 's run-rate is pretty good and only wickets can change the face of the game 14.2 Bumrah to Gambhir , out Caught by Rayudu ! ! The captain departs after a fine fifty. The umpires check for a front foot no-ball , but Bumrah is fine there. It was banged in short and Gambhir went for the pull once again , he gets a top edge and Rayudu runs in from deep backward square leg to swallow it. Gambhir c Rayudu b Bumrah 57 ( 43 ) [ 4s-7 6s-1 ] Bumrah to Gambhir , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.1 Bumrah to Gambhir , FOUR , Gambhir clears his front leg to this fullish delivery and lofts it over mid-on , he did n't time it that well as the bat turned in his hands but the ball runs away to the fence as the fielder was inside the circle Jasprit Bumrah [ 1.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Harbhajan to Suryakumar Yadav , 2 runs , touch flatter and on the stumps , Yadav just wrists it wide of long-on for an easy couple 13.5 Harbhajan to Gambhir , 1 run , poor bowling from Harbhajan as he drags one more short this time , he is lucky that Gambhir mistimed the pull on this one , the ball rolls away towards long-on for a single 13.4 Harbhajan to Suryakumar Yadav , 1 run , drifting on the pads this time , Yadav works it through mid-wicket and hands the strike back to Gambhir 13.3 Harbhajan to Gambhir , 1 run , shortish delivery this time from Harbhajan , Gambhir rocks back and pulls it wide of long-on for a single 13.2 Harbhajan to Gambhir , FOUR , another drop ! This time Harbhajan shells it but it still runs away to the fence , this boundary also brings up the fifty for Gambhir. It was tossed up on off , Gambhir drills it back to the bowler , who parries it towards the long-on fence. He got both hands on it , but could n't hold on. Also , had the ball hit the stumps after the deflection from Harbhajan at the non-striker 's end , Yadav would have been out as well 13.1 Harbhajan to Suryakumar Yadav , 1 run , walks across to this tossed up delivery just outside off and works it to long-on 12.6 Vinay to Gambhir , no run , another one that 's been angled across off , Gambhir looks to steer it down to third man off the back foot , but Pollard was there at backward point to prevent the single 12.5 Vinay to Suryakumar Yadav , 1 run , short of length delivery just outside off , Yadav was looking to run it down to third man , the ball bounces a touch more than he expected , but Yadav still controls it well as he plays it towards the gully region , the batsmen take a single 12.4 Vinay to Gambhir , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Gambhir hops in the crease and gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls away to Gambhir 's left and the batsmen charge through for a quick single 12.3 Vinay to Suryakumar Yadav , 1 run , waits for this length delivery just outside off , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man to get off strike 12.2 Vinay to Suryakumar Yadav , SIX , that 's a brilliant six to get off the mark. It was nothing but a flick off the pads and it has carried the distance. Super strike that from Yadav 12.1 Vinay to Suryakumar Yadav , no run , fuller and just outside off , Yadav squeezes out the drive back towards the bowler , who gets a hand on it and parries it towards mid-off Vinay Kumar [ 2.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack Suryakumar Yadav , right handed bat , comes to the crease Can Mumbai Indians push for more wickets here ? Only time will tell. KKR are still in the driver 's seat though . 11.6 Harbhajan to M Pandey , out Caught by Pollard ! ! Pandey goes after being dropped in Harbhajan 's last over. It was floated up on the stumps , Pandey goes down on one knee and goes for the slog sweep , gets a top-edge and Pollard from long-on runs in and takes the catch. M Pandey c Pollard b Harbhajan 40 ( 24 ) [ 4s-2 6s-3 ] Harbhajan to M Pandey , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.5 Harbhajan to Gambhir , 1 run , flatter and turning away from outside off , Gambhir stays back and cuts it square of the wicket for a single 11.4 Harbhajan to M Pandey , 1 run , touch quicker and around off , Pandey comes on the front foot and drives it to long-off 11.3 Harbhajan to Gambhir , 1 run , eases this flighted delivery on off down to long-off 11.2 Harbhajan to Gambhir , no run , shortish delivery slightly wide outside off , Gambhir makes room as well and cuts , but ca n't get it past backward point 11.1 Harbhajan to M Pandey , 1 run , floated up just outside off , Pandey puts his front foot forward and drives it to long-on 10.6 Malinga to M Pandey , 1 run , another full toss from Malinga , whipped away past square leg for a single 10.5 Malinga to Gambhir , 1 run , yorker length delivery and on the stumps , Gambhir brings his bat down in time and gets it to the left of mid-wicket for a single 10.4 Malinga to Gambhir , no run , full toss from Malinga , Gambhir looks to drive and misses. Tare does well to hold on , the ball got some wicket bounce off the pitch strip 10.3 Malinga to M Pandey , 1 run , Malinga slips in another slower ball , worked past mid-wicket for a single 10.2 Malinga to M Pandey , SIX , poor ball from Malinga , he goes for the yorker and slips in a full-toss on Pandey 's pads , helped over backward square leg for a maximum , Malinga has a wry smile on his face 10.1 Malinga to M Pandey , no run , the slower ball from Malinga , Pandey spots it early and checks his on-drive , the ball drops well in front of the fielder at short mid-wicket Lasith Malinga [ 1.0-0-2-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 Harbhajan to Gambhir , FOUR , this is even better , fractionally short and well outside off , Gambhir waits on it and cuts it precisely past point , the man in the deep is very square , he puts in a dive in vain , but the ball beats him to the fence 9.5 Harbhajan to Gambhir , FOUR , this is excellent cricket from Gambhir , tossed up and wider outside off , Gambhir comes down the track , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and slices it over extra cover , the ball lands on the practice pitches and bounces away to the fence 9.4 Harbhajan to M Pandey , 1 run , slower and wider from Harbhajan , eased down towards long-off for a single 9.3 Harbhajan to M Pandey , no run , flighted delivery and just outside off , punched straight to the fielder at cover 9.2 Harbhajan to Gambhir , 1 run , flighted delivery and just outside off , chopped in front of short third man for a single 9.1 Harbhajan to M Pandey , 1 run , misjudgement from Anderson at long-off ! That will go down as a dropped chance , this was flatter and well outside off , Pandey punched it in the air and towards long-off. Anderson ran in , then had to backpedal , gets his left hand as he stretched backwards , but ca n't hold on. Anderson was looking at the lights after the catch went down , he probably lost them in those lights and that 's why misjudged it completely 8.6 P Ojha to Gambhir , 2 runs , tossed up and on Gambhir 's pads , he goes back and works it behind square on the on-side. Lots of vacant spaces there and the batsmen get back for the second run 8.5 P Ojha to M Pandey , 1 run , flatter and on the stumps , Pandey goes back and nudges it past mid-wicket for a single 8.4 P Ojha to Gambhir , 1 run , pushed through and on Gambhir 's pads , worked past square leg for an easy single 8.3 P Ojha to M Pandey , 1 run , flighted and well outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 8.2 P Ojha to M Pandey , SIX , poor bowling from Ojha , drops this one short and on the stumps , Pandey rocks back and pulls it over square leg , the ball sails into the delirious crowd for a maximum 8.1 P Ojha to Gambhir , 1 run , flighted delivery and just outside off , Gambhir waits on it and at the last instant , dabs it past the keeper for a single 7.6 Harbhajan to Gambhir , 1 run , pushed through and on Gambhir 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 7.5 Harbhajan to Gambhir , no run , Harbhajan darts one on off , defended back towards the bowler 7.4 Harbhajan to Gambhir , FOUR , nicely played by Gambhir , width on offer from Harbhajan , Gambhir waits on it , makes use of the pace and cracks it square on the off-side for a boundary 7.3 Harbhajan to Gambhir , 2 runs , this one is drifted on off , Gambhir was early into the drive , gets an inside edge past leg-stump for a couple of runs 7.2 Harbhajan to Gambhir , 2 runs , Harbhajan drops one short and just outside off , Gambhir backs away and cuts it square past point , back for the second run as Malinga misfields in the deep 7.1 Harbhajan to Gambhir , FOUR , good start after the break , Harbhajan tosses one wider and gets it to spin away , Gambhir gets a good stride , plays with the spin and goes over extra cover for a boundary Harbhajan Singh , right-arm off break , comes into the attack Time for a strategic break 6.6 P Ojha to Gambhir , 1 run , Ojha drops one short and on the stumps , Gambhir rocks back and pulls it towards deep mid-wicket for a single 6.5 P Ojha to M Pandey , 1 run , pushed through and on the stumps , Pandey works it to the right of the bowler. Ojha ca n't get past Gambhir and makes his unhappiness clear 6.4 P Ojha to Gambhir , 1 run , flatter and wider from Ojha , dabbed straight to Bumrah at short third man for a single 6.3 P Ojha to Gambhir , SIX , that 's a magnificent shot from Gambhir , a little shimmy down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball , plays it with the turn and lofts it high and over deep mid-wicket for a maximum 6.2 P Ojha to Gambhir , 2 runs , Ojha drops one short and well outside off , Gambhir makes room and cuts it square on the off-side for a couple of runs 6.1 P Ojha to Gambhir , no run , Ojha drops one short and just outside off , Gambhir goes hard on the cut and mistimes it towards cover Pragyan Ojha , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 5.6 Bumrah to Gambhir , 1 run , nicely bowled by Bumrah , on a good length and just outside off , Gambhir was playing with an angled bat , gets an inside edge that rolls past the off-stump , Pandey calls for a quick single and Gambhir responds positively 5.5 Bumrah to Gambhir , no run , on a good length and on the stumps , Gambhir watches it all along and defends it. He was making room and the bowler followed him there 5.4 Bumrah to Gambhir , no run , short of a length and angling away from outside off , Gambhir uses the pace of the bowler and steers it straight to Pollard at backward point 5.3 Bumrah to M Pandey , 1 run , poor ball from Bumrah , short and on Pandey 's pads , flicked straight to Malinga at short fine 5.2 Bumrah to M Pandey , no run , short of a length and well outside off , mistimed drive towards cover-point 5.1 Bumrah to M Pandey , FOUR , freebie from Bumrah , short and wide outside off , Pandey stays on the front foot and goes over extra cover with the drive , almost went all the way , just one bounce and over the ropes Jasprit Bumrah , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 4.6 Corey Anderson to Gambhir , no run , Anderson beats Gambhir on the inside edge ! Tare went up for an appeal , but Anderson was n't interested. This one nipped back in from outside off , Gambhir was late in bringing his bat down , the ball whizzed through the gate and to the keeper 4.5 Corey Anderson to M Pandey , 1 run , fuller length delivery and just outside off , punched towards mid-on for a single 4.4 Corey Anderson to M Pandey , 2 runs , on a good length and a hint of shape back into Pandey , he covers for the movement , uses the wrists and works it in front of mid-wicket , runs hard and gets back for the second run 4.3 Corey Anderson to M Pandey , FOUR , Pandey gets lucky ! This was full and shapes away late , Pandey was looking to flick , closes the face of the bat a bit too early , gets a fat leading edge , the ball clears point and beats the man getting across from third man 4.2 Corey Anderson to M Pandey , SIX , cracking shot , this was full and well outside off , Pandey leans forward , gets to the pitch of the ball and lofts it back over the bowler 's head , the ball went sailing over the ropes for a maximum 4.1 Corey Anderson to M Pandey , no run , fuller length delivery and shaping away from outside off , left alone 3.6 Vinay to Gambhir , no run , width on offer from Vinay , Gambhir slaps it to the left of extra cover where Finch makes a tumbling stop. Pandey was looking for a quick single and has to dive to make his ground. Had there been a direct hit,Manish was way short of his crease 3.5 Vinay to Gambhir , no run , back of a length and coming back into the left-hander , Gambhir makes room and dabs it straight to the fielder at backward point 3.4 Vinay to Gambhir , no run , another swish and a miss , Vinay shortened his length as Gambhir gave the charge , he ends up swiping at that and misses by a long way 3.3 Vinay to M Pandey , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , pushed in front of mid-off for a quick single 3.2 Vinay to Gambhir , leg byes , 1 run , short of a length and on Gambhir 's pads , he looks to work it towards the on-side and misses , the ball rolls away behind square on the on-side 3.1 Vinay to Gambhir , FOUR , too short from Vinay , ca n't bowl at his pace , Gambhir swivels across , rolls his wrists and pulls it behind square on the on-side for a boundary 2.6 Corey Anderson to M Pandey , no run , this one nipped back in from a length ! Pandey was completely caught by suprise , ends up playing away from his body , the ball sneaks through the gap between bat and pad , close to the off-stump Two slips in place Manish Pandey , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.5 Corey Anderson to Uthappa , out Caught by Harbhajan ! ! Edged and caught ! Huge strike from Anderson , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , Uthappa goes hard on the drive , plays away from his body and gets a thick edge , Harbhajan does n't drop those , at first slip , first strike for Mumbai Indians. The last season 's orange cap holder falls cheaply. Uthappa c Harbhajan b Corey Anderson 9 ( 12 ) [ 6s-1 ] Corey Anderson to Uthappa , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 2.4 Corey Anderson to Gambhir , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Gambhir drops it in front of Pollard at point for a quick single 2.3 Corey Anderson to Uthappa , 1 run , another chance , and it 's another dropped chance , a tough one though and to Anderson 's wrong side , it was punched firmly and to his right , he got down in time but ca n't hold on 2.2 Corey Anderson to Uthappa , no run , much better from Anderson , on a good length and shaping away from outside off , draws Uthappa into the drive and beats his outside edge 2.1 Corey Anderson to Uthappa , SIX , lovely shot , gentle delivery from Anderson , full and swinging onto Uthappa 's pads , he shuffles across and flicks it high and over square leg for a maximum Corey Anderson , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 1.6 Vinay to Gambhir , no run , edged and dropped , that was a tough chance to the keeper , short of a length and angling across the left-hander , as is his habit , Gambhir pokes at that , gets a thick edge and to the left of the keeper. It was n't carrying to the man at first slip. Tare went with his left hand and shells the chance 1.5 Vinay to Uthappa , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , Uthappa gets across and pushes it towards mid-off , calls for a quick single and gets it with ease Just one slip in place 1.4 Vinay to Uthappa , no run , Vinay shortens his length outside off , Uthappa gets across and defends it towards cover 1.3 Vinay to Uthappa , no run , uppish and safe , on a good length and a hint of shape away from outside off , Uthappa closed the face of the bat as he looked to flick , the ball goes wide of the bowler and rolls away towards mid-off 1.2 Vinay to Gambhir , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Gambhir waits on it and dabs it away towards Malinga at third man 1.1 Vinay to Gambhir , no run , Gambhir breaks his bat ! This was full and shaping away from outside off , Gambhir shimmies down the track on the drive , the bat broke into two on impact and the ball rolls away towards cover Vinay Kumar , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Malinga to Uthappa , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Uthappa stands tall and punches it towards mid-off , Rohit makes a tumbling stop 0.5 Malinga to Uthappa , no run , back of a length and in that channel outside off , Uthappa gets behind the line and defends it towards the on-side 0.4 Malinga to Uthappa , no run , that 's nicely bowled by Malinga , tad fuller and shaping away from outside off , Uthappa is rooted to his crease as he plays away from his body , nearly edges it through to the keeper 0.3 Malinga to Uthappa , no run , Malinga shortens his length outside off , Uthappa stays behind the line and defends it towards point 0.2 Malinga to Gambhir , leg byes , 1 run , full and slanting onto Gambhir 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away off the pads and behind square for a leg-bye 0.2 Malinga to Gambhir , wide , Malinga slips one well down leg-side , Gambhir looks to flick and misses , called as a wide 0.1 Malinga to Uthappa , 1 run , short of a length and holding its line outside off , Uthappa pushes at that and gets an inside edge behind square on the on-side for a single Uthappa and Gambhir are at the crease. Uthappa is on strike. Malinga will open the attack Welcome back.. Malinga has the ball in his hand. Can he get some early wickets ? Two slips in place. . Morkel : 'It 's a good wicket. The margin is still very , very small with the small outfield. It is important to stick to the basics and do well upfront. It is a fantastic crowd. It is great when they get behind the team. It 's a good wicket , a fast outfield , we need a good stand upfront and then we have the big-hitters to follow.' It was left to Rohit and Corey Anderson to resurrect Mumbai 's fortunes. Initially , Rohit took his time to get his eye in before launching Umesh Yadav for three fours and a six in the 15th over to up the tempo. He also thumped Andre Russell for a six in the 19th over. Anderson too played a fine hand. Russell dropping a catch to give Anderson a reprieve did n't help Kolkata 's cause. To make it worse for them , Robin Uthappa missed a stumping , with Rohit being the lucky batsman. Rohit ended up with two runs short of what would have been a well-deserved century. On a track that is assisting the spinners , it wo n't be easy for Kolkata to chase down the target . Rohit Sharma played with a calm head on his shoulders to take Mumbai Indians to a good total on the board. It was Morne Morkel , who bowled with fire and aggression to put the opposition under pressure with the new ball. He dismissed both Aaron Finch and Ambati Rayudu to give Kolkata a flying start . 19.6 Shakib to Corey Anderson , SIX , drifting on middle , Anderson just smashes it over the wide long-on fence to reach his fifty as well. It was a great shot to end the innings on a high 19.5 Shakib to Rohit , 1 run , touch quicker and on middle and leg , Rohit misses his century as he can only get a single down to long-on after coming down the track 19.4 Shakib to Rohit , FOUR , fullerr delivery just outside off , Sharma gives himself room and carves it to the deep backward point fence 19.3 Shakib to Corey Anderson , 1 run , another swipe across the line and this time the ball rolls away to deep mid-wicket , was n't timed too well 19.2 Shakib to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , another drop ! This time Morne Morkel is the culprit. It was on leg , Anderson gave the charge and went for the hoick , he did n't get the desired distance and the ball was dying down on Morkel who was running in from deep backward square leg , he gets his hands under it , but ca n't hold onto it 19.1 Shakib to Corey Anderson , SIX , clears the front leg and Anderson gets under the full toss , he just tonks it over the deep mid-wicket fence with ease 18.6 A Russell to Corey Anderson , 1 run , Russell bowls full this time , Anderson drives it down to long-off , he will retain the strike 18.5 A Russell to Corey Anderson , no run , Anderson is beaten for pace there , it was banged in short and at the batsman , Anderson went for the big pull , but fails to connect 18.4 A Russell to Rohit , 1 run , full and right in the blockhole just outside off , Rohit goes for the drive this time , but gets an outside edge that goes straight into the ground and to the right of the keeper , who moves to his right and collects. He ca n't prevent the quick single though 18.3 A Russell to Rohit , SIX , this time Rohit gets a six ! It was full and just outside off , Rohit clears the front leg and hammers it over the long-off fence for another maximum 18.2 A Russell to Corey Anderson , 1 run , very full again and just outside off , Anderson mistimes the drive towards cover but it is good enough for a single 18.1 A Russell to Corey Anderson , SIX , Anderson brings up the 100-run stand in style ! It was full and outside off , Anderson reaches out and smashes it straight down the ground , the ball goes over the rope and Anderson collects six for this super shot Andre Russell [ 2.0-0-6-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Shakib to Corey Anderson , 1 run , flighted delivery just outside off , Anderson wanted to go over the deep extra cover fence , but hits it on the bounce to sweeper cover , he will keep the strike 17.5 Shakib to Corey Anderson , FOUR , Anderson goes downtown ! It was a low full toss on the stumps , Anderson lofts it over the bowler and the ball runs away to the fence 17.4 Shakib to Corey Anderson , no run , quicker one from Shakib this time , Anderson was looking to work it through the on-side and misses , wears it on the pad 17.3 Shakib to Rohit , 1 run , touch flatter and outside off , Sharma punches it towards long-on for a single 17.2 Shakib to Rohit , no run , flighted delivery just outside off , Sharma drives it back to the bowler 17.1 Shakib to Rohit , FOUR , The umpires were checking whether Russell has saved a boundary here or not. He has touched it and his effort could n't prevent the boundary. It was tossed up outside off , Sharma lofts it through extra cover , Russell runs to his right near the fence , slides and then tries to put in the dive. The ball rolled back on towards him and when he tried to put it away from him on the second attempt , his body was touching the rope 17.1 Shakib to Rohit , wide , bowls this way outside off , Rohit leaves it and the umpire calls it a wide 16.6 Narine to Rohit , 1 run , turning in on middle stump line , Rohit clips it through mid-wicket and he will keep the strike 16.5 Narine to Rohit , SIX , Rohit follows the four with a good six over deep mid-wicket , it was floated up from Narine , Rohit clears his front leg and slog sweeps this up and over deep mid-wicket 16.4 Narine to Rohit , FOUR , tossed up outside off , Rohit reaches out and slog sweeps it to the deep mid-wicket fence 16.3 Narine to Rohit , no run , edged , dropped and a missed stumping chance as well ! It was tossed up just outside off , Rohit came down the track but was beaten by the slowness of the ball , he ends up getting an edge but Uthappa ca n't hold onto the catch as well as the stumping opportunity 16.2 Narine to Corey Anderson , 1 run , Narine drags his length back as he saw Anderson charging down the track , Anderson adjusts well and punches it down to long-off 16.1 Narine to Rohit , 1 run , slower on off and middle , Rohit works it away to deep mid-wicket with the turn Sunil Narine [ 3.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack Time for the strategic timeout 15.6 Shakib to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , touch quicker and on middle stump , Anderson hoicks it over mid-wicket , the batsmen come back for the second 15.5 Shakib to Rohit , 1 run , drifting on middle stump line , Sharma wanted to go big over the on-side with a slog sweep , but does n't hit it too well , the ball goes on the bounce to deep mid-wicket and the batsmen take a single 15.4 Shakib to Rohit , FOUR , Rohit finally gets one away this time , it was tossed up outside off , Rohit makes room and drives it along the ground to the deep extra cover fence 15.3 Shakib to Rohit , no run , floated up just outside off , Rohit comes down the track and squeezes it out but ca n't get it past backward point 15.2 Shakib to Rohit , no run , full outside off , driven to backward point 15.1 Shakib to Corey Anderson , 1 run , dropped by Russell ! This could prove to be a disastrous drop from the West Indian. It was tossed up on middle and leg , Anderson hoicks and picks out deep mid-wicket , but the safe hands of Russell were not so safe today as it goes straight in and straight out , he tried to take it on the second attempt but the ball was too far away to his left on the second time Shakib Al Hasan [ 1.0-0-9-1 ] is back into the attack 14.6 U Yadav to Rohit , FOUR , short of length delivery outside off , Rohit waits for it and steers it towards the square third man boundary , the fielder at third man had no chance of running to his right and cutting it off , 21 runs came off that over 14.5 U Yadav to Rohit , SIX , Rohit is going berserk here ! This time he hits Umesh for a six. It was angling in from around off , Rohit has a hoick and gets it over the deep mid-wicket fence 14.4 U Yadav to Rohit , FOUR , length delivery from Umesh this time , Rohit stays leg-side of the ball and drives it hard through extra cover , the ball ran away to the fence 14.3 U Yadav to Rohit , FOUR , mistimed but Rohit still gets four for that ! It was banged in short and at the batsman , Rohit went for the pull , did n't time it too well but places it to the right of long-on , who ran across , but the short boundaries did the rest. Collects four for that. 22nd IPL fifty for Rohit 14.2 U Yadav to Corey Anderson , 1 run , on a good length and on middle stump line , Anderson was looking to work it through the on-side , but gets an inside edge onto the pad , the ball rolls away towards cover-point and the batsmen take a single 14.1 U Yadav to Corey Anderson , 2 runs , length delivery angling away outside off , Anderson waits for it and cuts it past backward point , the fielder from sweeper cover runs to his right and keeps the batsmen down to a couple Umesh Yadav [ 2.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Narine to Rohit , no run , floated up around off , Rohit comes forward and pushes it to the right of the bowler , who was quick to move across and prevents the single 13.5 Narine to Rohit , no run , touch shorter and outside off , Rohit opens the face of the bat and steers it towards backward point 13.4 Narine to Corey Anderson , 1 run , tossed up this time , Anderson goes down on one knee and looks to slog sweep it over the leg-side , but he ends up dragging it off the inside half of the bat behind square on the on-side 13.3 Narine to Rohit , 1 run , spinning in towards leg from middle stump line , Rohit works it through mid-wicket and gets to the other end 13.2 Narine to Corey Anderson , 1 run , bowls it slower this time around and on leg , Anderson waits for it and flicks it off his pads to deep mid-wicket 13.1 Narine to Rohit , 1 run , flatter and turning in on off and middle , Rohit goes back and bunts it down to long-on Sunil Narine [ 2.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Chawla to Corey Anderson , FOUR , like the last over from Chawla , he goes for another boundary off the last ball. It was flatter and on off , Anderson goes deep in the crease and smashes the punch past the bowler , who bends down but ca n't stop the ball , the fielder at long-on also did n't have a chance of stopping that as the ball raced away quickly to the fence 12.5 Chawla to Rohit , 1 run , slows this one on off , Rohit goes back and punches it down to long-off , the batsmen change ends 12.4 Chawla to Rohit , no run , goes hard at another googly outside off , but can only hit it straight to cover. He did n't time it well 12.3 Chawla to Corey Anderson , 1 run , flatter this time and around off , Anderson goes on the back foot and punches it to long-off 12.2 Chawla to Rohit , 1 run , tossed up outside off , Rohit went for the big hit over the on-side , but gets it off the inside half of the bat , the ball rolls away towards deep mid-wicket 12.1 Chawla to Rohit , no run , beauty from Chawla ! It was slow and just turned away slighty as Rohit was trying to run it down fine towards third man , ca n't make a connection though 11.6 A Russell to Corey Anderson , no run , banged in short and outside off , Anderson went for the pull , but the extra bounce took it over his bat. Uthappa jumps and collects the ball 11.5 A Russell to Rohit , 1 run , bit of width on offer this time around , Rohit opens the face of the bat and guides it to the right of third man , where Morkel runs to his right , dives and saves three runs for his team. The ball went towards him very quickly 11.4 A Russell to Corey Anderson , 1 run , back of a length from Russell , Anderson goes for the pull , but ca n't time it properly. The ball rolls away towards long-on and the batsmen take a single 11.3 A Russell to Corey Anderson , no run , on the middle stump line this time around , Anderson flicks it to short mid-wicket There is a slight drizzle around. Hopefully , it wo n't affect the match 11.2 A Russell to Corey Anderson , no run , short of length delivery angling away just outside off , Anderson stays back , opens the face of the bat but ca n't get it past backward point 11.1 A Russell to Rohit , 1 run , full and outside off , Rohit leans forward and drives it along the ground to long-off 10.6 Chawla to Corey Anderson , FOUR , a boundary to end the over , it was short and it was slow as well , Anderson had all the time in the world to rock back and he cuts it fiercely to the left of short cover , who could only watch the ball run away to the fence. The fielder at long-off also did n't have a chance of cutting that off 10.5 Chawla to Rohit , 1 run , pushed through on middle and leg , Rohit clears his front leg and flicks it through mid-wicket for a single 10.4 Chawla to Corey Anderson , 1 run , quicker and shorter just outside off , Anderson waits inside the crease and knocks it to sweeper cover , the batsmen cross over 10.3 Chawla to Corey Anderson , no run , bowls the googly just outside off , Anderson makes room and drives it to short cover 10.2 Chawla to Rohit , 1 run , touch flatter and on the stumps , Rohit hangs back and bunts it down to long-on 10.1 Chawla to Rohit , 2 runs , pushes this one on middle and leg , Rohit waits for it and works it to deep square leg , the batsmen come back for the second Piyush Chawla , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack For the first time today , we will see the leg spin from Piyush Chawla 9.6 A Russell to Rohit , 1 run , good length delivery on the off stump , Rohit wrists it to square leg 9.5 A Russell to Corey Anderson , 1 run , gets on top of the bounce and steers the short of length delivery to third man 9.4 A Russell to Corey Anderson , no run , angles the short of length delivery wide outside off stump , Anderson tries to reach out and cut but fails to make contact 9.3 A Russell to Rohit , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , dabbed to point The physio comes out , but Rohit sends him back 9.2 A Russell to Rohit , no run , pacy back of a length delivery from Russell , looked like an effort ball , it certainly hurried onto Rohit , who was late on the pull , gets hit on the right arm. Looks like he is in some pain 9.1 A Russell to Rohit , no run , good length delivery outside off stump , Rohit defends it to point Andre Russell , right-arm fast , comes into the attack Time for the strategic timeout . 8.6 Narine to Rohit , 1 run , works this with the turn to deep mid-wicket 8.5 Narine to Rohit , FOUR , poor ball and Rohit makes full use of it. Narine is not happy with himself. Short and wide outside off stump , Rohit made a bit of room and cut it nicely between backward point and short third man. It was in the air for a while , but it was in the gap 8.4 Narine to Rohit , no run , on the off stump , defended to the right of the bowler 8.3 Narine to Rohit , no run , this one skids on and keeps a bit low as well , Rohit adjusts and manages to defend it 8.2 Narine to Rohit , no run , on the off stump , Rohit defends off the front foot 8.1 Narine to Corey Anderson , 1 run , off-spinner from Narine , Anderson drives with one hand to long-off Morne Morkel ends 4-1-18-2. Gambhir said at the toss that Morne was bowling well in the nets and he has certainly made his captain proud. End of a brilliant spell . 7.6 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , 1 run , pushes this with an angled bat towards point and keeps strike 7.5 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , on the stumps , defended 7.4 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , FOUR , the length is much fuller and Anderson crashes it for four. Finally , he 's off the mark after facing nine deliveries. Fullish and outside off stump , Anderson drives it to the right of mid-off 7.3 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , beaten ! The angle across the left-hander troubled Anderson on that occasion. Back of a length outside off stump , Anderson drives away from the body and gets away with it 7.2 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Anderson defends from the crease 7.1 M Morkel to Rohit , 1 run , short of length delivery on the off stump , Rohit hops and works it to mid-wicket Morne to bowl out 6.6 Narine to Corey Anderson , no run , again the incoming ball from Narine , Anderson manages to defend 6.5 Narine to Corey Anderson , no run , does n't pick the carrom ball and gets hit on the pad , but Narine was n't keen on the LBW appeal as he knew that it was sliding down the leg-side Slip and a silly-point now 6.4 Narine to Rohit , 1 run , waits for the ball to spin back and punches it to long-on 6.3 Narine to Rohit , no run , could be a run-out but Anderson escapes. Short and outside off stump , Rohit cuts , Shakib makes a diving save to his right at backward point , Corey Anderson was charging for the run but Rohit sent him back , Shakib has a shy at the bowler 's end but Anderson made his ground. Narine failed to grab the throw and flicked the bails off before the throw arrived as well 6.2 Narine to Rohit , no run , spinning back in , Rohit defends off the back foot 6.1 Narine to Rohit , FOUR , does n't get it right first ball. A friendly full toss outside off stump , Rohit waits for the ball and crashes the drive through cover Sunil Narine , right-arm off break , comes into the attack The mystery spinner is coming on. He has one slip in place . 5.6 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , that 's a wicket-maiden from Morne Morkel. Good length delivery outside off stump , Anderson shoulders arms 5.5 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , big appeal from Uthappa but umpire S Ravi shakes his head. No appeal from Morne though. Full and outside off stump , Anderson goes for the drive and misses it completely 5.4 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , left alone 5.3 M Morkel to Corey Anderson , no run , good length delivery on the leg stump , Anderson defends and gets an inside edge that rolls into the on-side Corey Anderson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 5.2 M Morkel to Rayudu , out Caught by Y Pathan ! ! Edged and taken. Shortish delivery from Morne again , Rayudu is not able to handle the extra bounce , he is completely squared up as he tries to defend. The ball almost went off the face of the bat. Yusuf at first slip moved to his left and just about managed to hold on. The ball popped out initially , but Yusuf clutched it to his chest. Manish Pandey at second slip was ready to grab the rebound. Rayudu c Y Pathan b M Morkel 0 ( 2 ) M Morkel to Rayudu , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 5.1 M Morkel to Rayudu , no run , bit of extra bounce on this short of length delivery outside off stump , Rayudu plays inside the line and lets it go Ambati Rayudu , right handed bat , comes to the crease Two slips in place . 4.6 Shakib to Tare , out Caught by U Yadav ! ! Brilliant piece of bowling from Shakib. He slowed this up nicely and lured Tare into the lofted drive , Tare was n't to the pitch of the ball , yet he went through with the shot and hit it straight to the man at long-off. The ploy to employ a spinner in the powerplay has worked for KKR. Tare c U Yadav b Shakib 7 ( 7 ) [ 4s-1 ] Shakib to Tare , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.6 Shakib to Tare , wide , attempts the slider , but sprays it down the leg-side 4.5 Shakib to Tare , no run , flatter and outside off stump , cut to cover-point 4.4 Shakib to Rohit , 1 run , on the leg stump , worked away to deep mid-wicket 4.3 Shakib to Rohit , SIX , has he connected that well ? Yes he has ! Looked like a mishit but it 's gone all the way. Flighted delivery from Shakib , Rohit dances down the track and goes for the loft , does n't get the timing right but the boundary is short enough to clear long-off 4.2 Shakib to Rohit , no run , on the leg stump , this was more a slider , Rohit defends off the front foot 4.1 Shakib to Tare , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps from round the wicket , Tare flicks it to deep mid-wicket One slip in place Shakib Al Hasan , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 3.6 M Morkel to Tare , 1 run , back of a length again from Morne , Tare works it behind square on the on-side 3.5 M Morkel to Rohit , 1 run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Sharma turns it into the on-side for a run 3.4 M Morkel to Rohit , no run , beaten ! Good length delivery just outside off stump , Rohit looks to defend off the front foot , the ball jags away off the deck and beats the bat 3.3 M Morkel to Tare , 1 run , swings hard looking to drive this full ball , gets a thick edge that flies past fly slip to third man 3.2 M Morkel to Tare , FOUR , width on offer again from Morne Morkel and Tare gets off the mark in style. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Tare pushes it with an angled bat , sends it through cover-point and it races away 3.1 M Morkel to Tare , no run , very full and outside off stump , Tare reaches out for the drive but picks out point 2.6 U Yadav to Rohit , FOUR , goes hard at the drive , the fielder at backward point got a hand on it , yet it went to the boundary. Good length delivery outside off stump , Rohit drives , the bat turns in his hands and goes towards point , Pandey dives to his left and gets a hand on it , but the ball had enough legs to reach the boundary 2.5 U Yadav to Rohit , no run , good length delivery just outside off stump , punched off the front foot to point , where Pandey moves to his right and stops the ball 2.4 U Yadav to Rohit , FOUR , excellent hit from the Mumbai Indians skipper. Slowish ball outside off stump , there was a bit of outswing on it as well , Rohit leans forward and drives it along the ground through cover 2.3 U Yadav to Rohit , no run , on the off stump again , Rohit defends off the front foot 2.2 U Yadav to Rohit , no run , hurries Rohit with an incoming good length delivery , but the batsman manages to defend it 2.1 U Yadav to Rohit , FOUR , that 's a gift and that 's first boundary of IPL-8 for Rohit Sharma. Good length delivery down the leg-side , Rohit flicks it handsomely over backward square leg and it runs away to the boundary 1.6 M Morkel to Rohit , 1 run , this time Rohit allows the length ball to come and turns it along the ground to long leg 1.5 M Morkel to Rohit , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , left alone 1.4 M Morkel to Rohit , no run , appeal for LBW , but not given. Looked like it was going down the leg side as well. Rohit was n't fully forward on his attempted forward defence , he misses the length ball and gets hit on the pad. In fact replays showed that Rohit got an inside edge onto the pads Aditya Tare , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.3 M Morkel to Finch , out Caught by U Yadav ! ! That is a good catch by Umesh Yadav. He had a lot of ground to cover , but he did well to judge it to perfection. Nothing but a good length delivery on the stumps , Finch bends his knees and tries to help it away behind square on the on-side , gets a thick leading edge and the ball goes high in the air , fine leg runs to his left and grabs it with both hands much to the delight of the capacity Eden Gardens crowd. This is just the start KKR wanted after opting to bowl first. Finch c U Yadav b M Morkel 5 ( 5 ) [ 4s-1 ] M Morkel to Finch , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.2 M Morkel to Finch , no run , short of length close to the off stump , Finch hops and fends it towards short mid-wicket , Rohit looks for a run but Finch sends him back 1.1 M Morkel to Finch , FOUR , not the best of starts for Morne Morkel. Strays onto the pad , Finch helps it away very fine to the fine leg boundary Morne Morkel , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 0.6 U Yadav to Rohit , no run , drives uppishly but it does n't carry to the man at cover-point. Yadav bowls this full and outside off stump , the outswing on this ball lured Rohit into the drive , he played away from the body and reached out , but got away with it 0.5 U Yadav to Finch , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery hurrying Finch on the flick , the ball hits Finch on the pad and rolls into the on-side. That was bowled at 148.4kph 0.4 U Yadav to Rohit , 1 run , edged , but there is no one at second slip. Fullish and just outside off stump , maybe just a hint of away-movement on this one , Rohit looks to push with soft hands , gets the outside edge and it goes well wide of the man at fly slip Just one slip in place now 0.3 U Yadav to Finch , 1 run , Yadav brings this short of length delivery back into the right-hander , Finch hops and tucks it to square leg 0.2 U Yadav to Rohit , 1 run , strays down the leg-side , Rohit looks to flick , gets a thickish inside edge that rolls to fine leg 0.1 U Yadav to Rohit , no run , gentle outswing on this good length delivery , Rohit defends with an angled bat towards point , thinks about a run and then decides against it. Finch was keen for the run as well but Rohit sent him back Rohit and Finch are at the crease. Rohit is on strike. U Yadav will open the attack Two slips in place . The umpires are making their way out to the middle. The players take their positions now. The countdown begins and we are all set for the action to begin . Teams : Mumbai Indians ( Playing XI ) : Rohit Sharma ( c ) , Aaron Finch , Ambati Rayudu , Aditya Tare ( w ) , Corey Anderson , Kieron Pollard , Harbhajan Singh , Lasith Malinga , Vinay Kumar , Jasprit Bumrah , Pragyan Ojha Kolkata Knight Riders ( Playing XI ) : Gautam Gambhir ( c ) , Robin Uthappa ( w ) , Manish Pandey , Suryakumar Yadav , Yusuf Pathan , Shakib Al Hasan , Andre Russell , Piyush Chawla , Sunil Narine , Umesh Yadav , Morne Morkel Kolkata Knight Riders have won the toss and have opted to field Rohit : " We 've got a new coach in Ricky Ponting. He 's done very well with the team so far. Our preparation has been good and hopefully we can do well. I always love coming here and playing here. We 've got good memories playing here both individually and as a team as well. It looks a good track , the wicket will not change much. We would have batted anyway , so it 's a good toss to lose. It 's the first game of the season so we want to start well. The preparation has been really good. We are looking forward to this game. We are playing with six batters and five bowlers. Finch , Anderson , Pollard and Malinga are the four overseas players. " Gambhir : " I think we deserve to be playing at home , especially after the way we played last year. We 've got a good bunch of players so hopefully we can turn it on this time around as well. Starting in front of 70000 people is going to be great. We will bowl first , try and restrict them and chase it down. It 's a fresh wicket. Not sure what is a good score on this surface. I think there could be some dew. The weather has been very unpredictable over the last two days. Russell , Shakib , Narine and Morkel are the four foreigners for us. " Toss time ! The Mumbai Indians form a huddle. Vinay Kumar gets his cap from Ricky Ponting. This is Vinay 's fourth team in the IPL , having represented Bangalore , Kochi and Kolkata previously. Folks , the toss is not too far away. Stay tuned.. . The build-up to the tournament was not smooth for the Men in Purple. When the BCCI asked Sunil Narine to undergo re-testing to clear his bowling action , KKR threatened to pull out of IPL-8 as they reckoned that Narine had a clearance letter from one of ICC 's accredited testing centres. However , with the BCCI insisting that Narine should undergo re-testing in Chennai 's Sri Ramachandra University , the off-spinner got his bowling action tested again under the watchful eyes of former India captain S Venkataraghavan , former India fast bowler Javagal Srinath and ex-international umpire AV Jayaprakash and got the clearance to play in IPL-8 . Weather update : The forecast was not all that great in the build-up to the season opener as heavy rains hit the city earlier in the week. In fact , yesterday 's opening ceremony was slightly delayed due to rain as well. However , the good news is that it is quite dry at the moment and there is nothing threatening on the radar . Head-to-head : In 14 previous meetings , Mumbai have won 10 games , while Kolkata have won just four. However , the fact that Kolkata are on a 9-match unbeaten streak in the Indian Premier League will give them a lot of confidence going into today 's game . Previous winners : 2008 - Inspirational captaincy from Shane Warne gave Rajasthan Royals , who were being considered the underdogs , the title. 2009 - After finishing last in the table in the inaugural edition , Adam Gilchrist led the Deccan Chargers to victory against all odds. 2010 - Having sneaked through to the top four , the Chennai Super Kings stayed calm when it mattered and lifted the title. 2011 - MS Dhoni 's boys improved their standard of play and became the first team to retain the title. 2012 - A brilliant knock from a young man stunned the two-time champions in their own backyard and gave Kolkata Knight Riders the coveted trophy. 2013 - Always one the of the strongest teams on paper , the Mumbai Indians finally proved their worth and got their hands on the trophy. 2014 - Gautam Gambhir 's men peaked at the right time and stopped a rampant Kings XI Punjab in the final to be crowned champions again . With those big bats and innovative stuff , the batsmen will try to be at their aggressive best. With those clever variations , bowlers will try hard to prevail in this shortest format. With those acrobatic efforts , the fielders will try to take some jaw-dropping catches. Ah ! This is going to be great fun. Before we go any further , let 's take a look at the history of the Indian Premier League . The wait is over ! The most popular T20 league in the world is here. Get ready for a 47-day T20 carnival. Defending champions Kolkata Knight Riders take on the Mumbai Indians at the Eden Gardens to inaugurate the eighth edition of the Indian Premier League. We witnessed a grand opening ceremony yesterday in Kolkata and we are all set now for the action to begin. Teams have revamped their squads with some smart buys in the auctions and everyone is looking forward to an exciting season . PreviewFor the second season running , Kolkata Knight Riders and Mumbai Indians kick off the Indian Premier League. The stage for last year 's encounter was Abu Dhabi 's Sheikh Zayed Stadium where MI fell 41 runs short of KKR 's 163 for 5.MI should be aware how important opening encounters are. Following the thrashing at the hands of KKR , they went on to lose four more matches in a row and though they came back brilliantly by winning seven of their last nine matches to make it to the play-offs , a bad start meant they were never considered a threatening opposition.KKR also had their share of ups and downs but peaked at the right time and lifted the trophy for the second time. As to the match tomorrow , MI will have to play their A game if they are to break KKR 's nine-game winning streak.Venue : Eden Gardens , KolkataDate : April 8 , 2015Time : 20 : 00 ISTWeather : The weather has been forecast to be partly cloudy with the temperatures hovering between 24 and 33 degrees Celsius.Team NewsKolkata Knight RidersThe defending champions have no reasons to tamper with the combination that won them the final against Kings XI Punjab last year. KKR would have breathed a big sigh of relief after Sunil Narine was cleared to play the IPL following a successful retest on his bowling action in Chennai. Gautam Gambhir is one of the few captains this season to have no selection headaches.Probable XI : 1. Robin Uthappa ( wicketkeeper ) , 2. Gautam Gambhir ( captain ) , 3. Manish Pandey , 4. Yusuf Pathan , 5. Shakib Al Hasan , 6. Ryan ten Doeschate , 7. Suryakumar Yadav , 8. Piyush Chawla , 9. Sunil Narine , 10. Morne Morkel , 11. Umesh YadavMumbai IndiansOpening was a big problem for MI last year. They began with the combination of Michael Hussey and Aditya Tare and after it did n't work , Rohit Sharma joined Tare for a few games. Ben Dunk and CM Gautam were also tried but to no avail. Only towards the end , they managed to find a reliable pair in Lendl Simmons , a late replacement for allrounder Jalaj Saxena , and Hussey. However , when MI let Hussey go to Chennai Super Kings and went for Aaron Finch at the auctions earlier this year , it was clear they were trying to bring in more stability.With Finch and Simmons more or less certain to open , Mumbai will have two players to pick from the quartet of Kieron Pollard , Lasith Malinga , Corey Anderson and Josh Hazlewood - all very important players. Vinay Kumar , who was part of KKR 's winning team last season , should make his MI debut - besides Unmukt Chand - in light of his familiarity with the Eden pitch and an excellent domestic season where he led Karnataka to their second successive Ranji Trophy win.Probable XI : 1. Lendl Simmons , 2. Aaron Finch , 3. Unmukt Chand , 4. Rohit Sharma ( captain ) , 5. Kieron Pollard , 6. Ambati Rayudu , 7. Aditya Tare ( wicketkeeper ) , 8. Harbhajan Singh , 9. Lasith Malinga , 10. Vinay Kumar 11. Pragyan OjhaQuotes : That needs to be figured out. I am going to sit down and see what the best combination is. Whatever I am going to do , I am going to do in the team 's interest. I am going to try and do whatever suits the team. But definitely , I have been opening for the past two years , I would like to continue. We will see. Once we go to Kolkata and see the wicket , we will decide : Rohit Sharma when asked whether he will openHe 's an integral part of KKR , he will always be an integral part... Even if he bowls a straight ball , he will be an asset for us and will always remain an asset. That 's the confidence we have on Sunil. We never thought that we needed a back-up spinner for him.There can never be a backup for Sunil : Gautam Gambhir stressing Sunil Narine 's importance Teams : Mumbai Indians ( From ) : Aaron Finch , Aditya Tare ( w ) , Rohit Sharma ( c ) , Corey Anderson , Kieron Pollard , Ambati Rayudu , Shreyas Gopal , Harbhajan Singh , Vinay Kumar , Lasith Malinga , Jasprit Bumrah , Pragyan Ojha , Lendl Simmons , Unmukt Chand , Parthiv Patel , Josh Hazlewood , Marchant de Lange , Pawan Suyal , Mitchell McClenaghan , Abhimanyu Mithun , Aiden Blizzard , Akshay Wakhare , Nitish Rana , Siddhesh Lad , Hardik Pandya , Jagadeesha Suchith Kolkata Knight Riders ( From ) : Gautam Gambhir ( c ) , Robin Uthappa ( w ) , Manish Pandey , Shakib Al Hasan , Yusuf Pathan , Ryan ten Doeschate , Suryakumar Yadav , Piyush Chawla , Sunil Narine , Morne Morkel , Umesh Yadav , Andre Russell , Kuldeep Yadav , Pat Cummins , Johan Botha , Azhar Mahmood , Brad Hogg , Sumit Narwal , Sheldon Jackson , Aditya Garhwal , Kishan Cariappa , Vaibhav Rawal , Veer Pratap Singh Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
