Graphs This is Sidhant Maheshwari , saying goodbye on behalf of Krishna , Raju , Bharath and my co-commentators , Srivathsa , Pradeep and Ramakrishnan. Take care ! So , that 's all we have for you from this game. Tomorrow , we have a doube-header coming your way , with CSK taking on SRH in the first game. In the second game , it is going to be a huge battle as RCB play their first game of the tournament against last year 's champions , KKR. Do n't forget to join us then . Faulkner : 'It 's great to be back here playing for Rajasthan. It 's a great start but there 's a long way to go. I just back myself in this format. The younger players stepped up really well tonight , especially Hooda , who showed his confidence with the bat. Mitch ( Mitchell Johnson ) and I get along very well. I got a little bit lucky today ( on winning his battle with Johnson ) .' James Faulkner is the Man of the Match for his knock of 46 and for taking 3/26 with the ball Smith : 'They were very good. We did n't get off to the best of starts , but we got around in the end. Hooda was good in his first match and Faulkner was great too. He is a little man , but he did brilliantly behind the stumps , effecting two direct-hits ( talking about Sanju Samson 's athleticism behind the stumps ) . I like playing here , it is a nice place to play and we have great stadiums here. The crowd is amazing too. I am sure we will be fine , we will look at the combinations and decide accordingly for each game. It 's nice to have started off with a win in the first game.' Bailey : 'Pretty happy ( on the team 's performance ) . I thought 160 was about par. If we had taken a couple of opportunities , we should have restricted them before. That 's the nature of this game , a couple of run-outs and we changed the batting order and in hindsight , it was n't a great idea as well. We thought that David ( Miller ) and I will come later and finish it off , but it was an error in judgement. Smith was really good and Faulkner was brilliant in the end. Hopefully , we can learn from our mistakes. Disappointed with the loss , but happy with the bowling effort. Obviously , it was a great year for us last year but I am sick of talking about it. It 's time for us to move on and concentrate on this year 's competition.' From Rajasthan 's perspective , their fielding was on the money. Sanju Samson effected two direct hits and Southee took an excellent catch to send the dangerous Glenn Maxwell back to the pavilion. Southee also showed superb balance at the boundary line and Karun Nair backed him up to pluck the catch to dismiss Bailey. It has to go down as one of the finest catches taken in the history of the IPL. The Rajasthan camp would also be pleased with the way they recovered after their top-order batsmen struggled against the new ball. The credit certainly has to go to Deepak Hooda and Faulkner for landing some hefty blows at a crucial juncture of the match . Rajasthan 's bowlers put up an inspired show to overcome their fancied opponents. Tim Southee , Dhawal Kulkarni and James Faulkner were among the wickets and they never allowed Punjab to up the tempo. Chris Morris bowled well in the end overs. It was Southee , who swung the new ball to produce the edge off Virender Sehwag 's bat and take his wicket in the first over. Murali Vijay looked in supreme touch before he was run out. To make it worse for them , David Miller was dismissed just when he looked set play a breezy innings. Axar Patel and George Bailey tried to steer Punjab home , but they had too much to do . Rajasthan Royals have deserved this win. After a poor start where they lost quick wickets , this win will give them huge confidence going forward. KXIP have only themselves to blame as they gave away too many runs in the final overs when they were bowling and then they did n't bat to the best of their abilities either. The two run-outs also did n't help their cause . 19.6 C Morris to Anureet Singh , no run , Royals win by 26 runs , a comfortable victory in the end. Coming back to the ball , it was a low full toss , Anureet drives it back to the bowler 19.5 C Morris to Anureet Singh , no run , that was so close to the off stump , it was very full and just outside off , Anureet fails to lay his bat on it and the keeper collects 19.4 C Morris to Karanveer Singh , 1 run , low full toss on the stumps , Karanveer was trying to hit it down the ground but ca n't get it off the middle of the bat , the ball was in the air for sometime but rolls away to long-on 19.3 C Morris to Karanveer Singh , no run , full and outside off once again , Karanveer fails to make a connection once again 19.2 C Morris to Karanveer Singh , FOUR , full and just outside off , Karanveer carves it over a diving backward point , it was inches away from him , the ball runs away to the backward point fence 19.1 C Morris to Karanveer Singh , no run , full outside off , Karanveer has a swing at it and misses Chris Morris [ 3.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack Karanveer Singh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.6 Faulkner to Bailey , out Caught by Nair ! ! Is that the best catch ever in IPL 's history ? Tim Southee did this during CLT20 and he has done it again. What a team effort there ! Such a superb piece of fielding. Bailey went big on the on-side off this full delivery and it was looking like that it will clear Southee at long-on. Southee runs to his right , takes the catch and as he was about to cross the rope , he released the ball quickly. Karun Nair , who ran to his left from deep mid-wicket , plucks it out with his right hand after diving to his right. Great presence of mind from Nair to stay close to Southee. Like a tag-team effort , this was a breathtaking piece of fielding. Bailey c Nair b Faulkner 24 ( 18 ) [ 4s-2 6s-1 ] Faulkner to Bailey , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.5 Faulkner to Anureet Singh , leg byes , 1 run , slower ball on the pads , Anureet fails to flick it through the on-side and gets it off the pad , the batsmen take a leg bye 18.4 Faulkner to Bailey , 1 run , low full toss from Faulkner , Bailey was looking to work it through the on-side and closes the bat face a little too early. He gets a leading edge that rolls away towards sweeper cover Anureet Singh , right handed bat , comes to the crease 18.3 Faulkner to Johnson , out Caught by Southee ! ! Faulkner took a toll off Johnson 's bowling in the first innings , he gets him out this time as well. Oh wait ! Has Faulkner overstepped here ? It was fairly close and Johnson has been given out though. It was a very lucky call for Faulkner , but he will take it. It was a length delivery outside off , Johnson wanted to go big on the off-side , but mistimes it completely. Long-off takes the simplest of catches. Johnson c Southee b Faulkner 0 ( 4 ) Faulkner to Johnson , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.2 Faulkner to Bailey , 1 run , very full and slightly wide outside off , Bailey was backing away and in the end , he manages to reach out and squeezes it towards sweeper cover 18.1 Faulkner to Bailey , SIX , this was a poor ball from Faulkner , it was just short of a good length and just outside off , Bailey had enough room there to free his arms , he pulls it and gets it over the deep mid-wicket fence , the ball boy just behind the boundary takes the catch as well James Faulkner [ 3.0-0-18-1 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Southee to Johnson , no run , another great ball to end his spell , Southee follows Johnson with another fullish delivery that tails in as Johnson backs away and misses , the keeper collects and applauds the superb over from Southee 17.5 Southee to Johnson , no run , another wild swing from Johnson as he backs away to another full delivery , this time it was close to the leg stump , he missed it completely 17.4 Southee to Johnson , no run , ohh dear ! That was not far away from the off stump too , it was very full and just outside off , Johnson backs away and has a wild swing at it , misses it completely and the ball misses the off stick as well Mitchell Johnson , left handed bat , comes to the crease 17.3 Southee to A Patel , out Bowled ! ! Patel 's unsuccessful stay at the crease comes to an end. Southee bowls a foot short of a yorker right at the base of the leg stump , Patel as usual was backing away and this time he ca n't make a contact with the ball. The ball uproots the leg-stump and Southee is happy with the ball he bowled there. A Patel b Southee 24 ( 28 ) [ 4s-2 ] Southee to A Patel , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 17.2 Southee to Bailey , 1 run , dropped ! It was a difficult chance though , it was a low full toss from Southee , Bailey drills it hard over his head , he puts his hands up and gets his fingertrips on it , he takes the pace off the ball as it rolls away towards long-on , probably saved at least a run there for his team Southee comes round the wicket Southee comes round the wicket 17.2 Southee to Bailey , wide , is that a harsh call from the umpire ? Southee bowls a widish yorker that was just outside the tramline , Bailey ca n't squeeze it out and the umpire calls it another wide , Southee is not happy there 17.2 Southee to Bailey , wide , Southee bowls this one well outside the tramline , Bailey leaves it alone and the umpire calls it a wide 17.1 Southee to A Patel , leg byes , 1 run , Patel is not understanding that backing away everytime will make him predictable and the bowlers will keep following him , Southee follows him once again and this time Axar fails to make a connection , the ball rolls away behind square into the on-side off his pad , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye Tim Southee [ 3.0-0-33-1 ] is back into the attack Southee comes back to finish his quota of 4 overs 16.6 C Morris to Bailey , no run , excellent ball from Morris to end the over , Bailey came down the track and Morris bowled it right in the blockhole , all Bailey could do was to squeeze it out back to the bowler 16.5 C Morris to Bailey , no run , Morris follows Bailey with another shortish delivery as he was backing away , Bailey pulls but picks out mid-wicket 16.4 C Morris to A Patel , 1 run , Patel backs away and Morris follows him with a fuller one , Patel can only dispatch this ball down the ground to long-on for another run 16.3 C Morris to Bailey , 1 run , sprays this one on the pads of Bailey , who glances it to fine leg for a single 16.2 C Morris to Bailey , 2 runs , Morris follows Bailey with a short ball as he was backing away a little , Bailey mistimes the pull towards deep mid-wicket , but it 's good enough for a couple 16.1 C Morris to A Patel , 1 run , backs away once again and mistimes the heave towards deep mid-wicket , the batsmen cross over Chris Morris [ 2.0-0-11-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Faulkner to Bailey , FOUR , that 's lucky for Bailey but they will take the runs as they come , it was touch fuller and on the stumps , Bailey backs away and pushes at it , gets an inside edge that runs away past the keeper and crashes into the fence 15.5 Faulkner to A Patel , 1 run , good slower ball from Faulkner , Patel mistimes the cut towards backward point , who has a shy at the non-striker 's end as Bailey was out of his crease , the ball gets deflected as there was a direct-hit , allowing the batsmen to take the run eventually Third man is inside the circle 15.4 Faulkner to Bailey , 1 run , banged in short and just outside off , Bailey plays a controlled pull to deep square leg to get off strike 15.3 Faulkner to Bailey , 2 runs , on the pads this time , Bailey goes across slightly and clips it behind square on the on-side , the fielder from deep square leg runs to his right and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 15.2 Faulkner to A Patel , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Patel opens the face of the bat and dabs it to the right of backward point for a single 15.2 Faulkner to A Patel , 1 run , just short of a good length and outside off , Patel opens the face of the bat and dabs it to the right of backward point for a single 15.1 Faulkner to A Patel , no run , Faulkner bowls this on a length and angles it in around off , Patel has a big heave , but picks out mid-wicket James Faulkner [ 2.0-0-9-1 ] is back into the attack 14.6 Tambe to Bailey , no run , good ball to end the over , Bailey was making room but Tambe cramps him by bowling it closer to the stumps , punched to short cover and another dot ball for Rajasthan Royals 14.5 Tambe to Bailey , no run , touch quicker and just outside off , Bailey leans forward and drives it straight to short cover 14.4 Tambe to A Patel , 1 run , gives the charge once again and this time he squeezes this fullish delivery past the bowler , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away to long-off 14.3 Tambe to Bailey , 1 run , Bailey goes right across after coming down the track to this flighted delivery , wrists it behind square on the on-side for a single 14.2 Tambe to A Patel , 1 run , Patel takes a step forward to this tossed up delivery just outside off , went for the loft but the ball goes on the bounce to long-on , only a single 14.1 Tambe to A Patel , no run , comes down the track and almost yorks himself , squeezes it out towards short cover Pravin Tambe [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 D Kulkarni to Bailey , no run , just short of a good length and outside off , Bailey hangs back , opens the face of the bat and pushes it towards the direction of point 13.5 D Kulkarni to Bailey , FOUR , great way to get off the mark , it was banged in short and it sits up nicely for Bailey , who rocks back and short-arm pulls it to the deep mid-wicket fence Coming back to Miller 's dismissal , it was the extra bounce that did him. Miller could n't control it properly and the ball flew off the leading edge . 13.4 D Kulkarni to Bailey , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Bailey hops in the crease and defends it to the right of the bowler 13.3 D Kulkarni to A Patel , 1 run , bowls this one on a length and on middle stump line , Patel pushes at it from the crease , the ball rolls away to fine leg off the inside half of the bat 13.2 D Kulkarni to A Patel , FOUR , not a great second ball from Kulkarni , he offers more width this time around and Patel slices it over backward point , the ball runs away to the fence George Bailey , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.1 D Kulkarni to D Miller , out Caught by Faulkner ! ! This is a huge wicket , right after the timeout. Kulkarni is delighted as he pumps his fists in the air. It was not a wicket-taking delivery today , but the Royals would n't mind it. It was a short of length delivery angling away outside off , Miller wanted to work it through the on-side but was early into the shot , he gets a leading edge that flies towards third man. Faulkner runs to his right and takes a good catch. D Miller c Faulkner b D Kulkarni 23 ( 21 ) [ 4s-3 6s-1 ] D Kulkarni to D Miller , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Dhawal Kulkarni [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack Kulkarni comes back in place of Tambe Time for the strategic timeout 12.6 Southee to D Miller , 1 run , short of length delivery little wide outside off , Miller hangs back and cuts it to third man , he will keep the strike 12.5 Southee to D Miller , no run , good comeback from Southee , it was angled away just outside off , Miller tries to open the face of the bat at the last moment , but the ball goes past his blade 12.4 Southee to D Miller , SIX , clobbered ! Miller has started his show now , it was fuller and just outside off , Miller goes across to this slower delivery and smokes it over the wide long-on fence for a maximum 12.3 Southee to D Miller , no run , back of a length delivery just outside off , Miller stays back and defends it towards point , sends his partner back as the single was not available 12.2 Southee to D Miller , FOUR , good shot from Miller , he comes out of his crease and pulls it behind square on the on-side , splits the fielders at fine leg and deep square leg to perfection 12.1 Southee to D Miller , no run , Miller was looking to walk across once again to this short of length delivery on the stumps , he misses the flick and the ball rolls away into the off-side off the pad Tim Southee [ 2.0-0-22-1 ] is back into the attack 11.6 Tambe to A Patel , no run , nice ball to end the over , it was right in the blockhole , Patel squeezes it out 11.5 Tambe to D Miller , 1 run , advances down the track and works it past mid-wicket for another single 11.4 Tambe to D Miller , no run , Miller gives the charge this time and drills this fullish delivery hard at the bowler , who does well to make a stop , the batsmen ca n't get a single this time as the ball did n't go that far away from Tambe 11.3 Tambe to A Patel , 1 run , Patel goes for a slog this time but ca n't connect well , he can only get a single as the ball rolls away to long-on 11.2 Tambe to D Miller , 1 run , pushed through a touch quicker on middle and leg , Miller clips it to deep mid-wicket 11.1 Tambe to A Patel , 1 run , floated up on the stumps , Patel works it through mid-wicket and gets to the other end Pravin Tambe [ 1.0-0-8-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Binny to D Miller , no run , Miller shuffles across and misses the flick this time , he was rapped on the pads and Binny goes up in appeal , but that pitched outside leg and hence , ca n't be given out 10.5 Binny to D Miller , no run , that 's a good ball from Binny , it was full and Binny bowled this little wide outside off because of Miller shuffling across prior to that , Miller goes for the drive and gets beaten 10.4 Binny to D Miller , 2 runs , angles this one across off , Miller goes across as well and works it through mid-wicket , the fielder from mid-wicket gives chase but ca n't prevent the couple 10.3 Binny to D Miller , FOUR , banged in short and at the batsman , Miller went for the pull , gets a top-edge that sails over the leaping keeper and crashes into the fence , lucky but KXIP wo n't mind these runs 10.2 Binny to D Miller , FOUR , Miller finally gets off the mark with a boundary , it was a fullish delivery on off and middle , Miller goes across and clips it past a diving mid-on and the ball runs away to the fence 10.1 Binny to A Patel , 1 run , back of a length delivery on off , Patel stays back , opens the face of the bat and runs it down to third man to get off strike 9.6 C Morris to D Miller , no run , excellent ball from Morris. He almost went through Miller 's defences. Fast and full , the late inswing foxed Miller completely , he fell over while trying to flick , the ball hit him on the pad but it was going down the leg-side 9.5 C Morris to D Miller , no run , walks forward , Morris takes pace off the ball , Miller looks to defend and gets an inside edge onto thigh pad 9.4 C Morris to D Miller , no run , short of length delivery on the stumps , Miller tries to pull , but gets hit on the thigh pad as he swivels 9.3 C Morris to D Miller , no run , full and wide outside off stump , Miller drives and picks out mid-off Two slips in place 9.2 C Morris to A Patel , 1 run , bit of extra bounce on this short of length delivery , Patel slices the cut over backward point to square third man 9.1 C Morris to A Patel , no run , short of length delivery just outside off stump , Miller hops and cuts it to backward point Chris Morris [ 1.0-0-10-0 ] is back into the attack 8.6 Binny to D Miller , no run , around the off stump , Miller offers a compact forward defence 8.6 Binny to D Miller , wide , excellent diving save to the right by Samson. Saved a certain boundary. Binny tries the inswinger but sprays it down the leg-side 8.5 Binny to D Miller , no run , biggggg shout for caught behind , but the umpire shakes his head. Samson , Smith and Binny were confident , but it looks like Miller has missed it. Full and angling away from the left-hander , Miller plays a drive away from the body and misses David Miller , left handed bat , comes to the crease 8.4 Binny to A Patel , out Vijay Run Out ! ! Slower ball just outside off stump , Patel dabs it with soft hands and the ball rolls behind the wicket towards second slip , the batsmen take off for a run , Samson quickly gets to the ball and under-arms an accurate throw at the striker 's end to catch Vijay just short of his crease. In fact , replays show that it was Vijay 's call. The Royals are right on top now. Vijay run out ( Samson ) 37 ( 32 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Binny to A Patel , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Third umpire has been called for a run-out check. Vijay is the man in question and he 's gone. Needless run attempted and KXIP have lost a set batsman. Brilliant bit of work from keeper Samson 8.3 Binny to Vijay , 1 run , full and on the stumps , wristed to deep mid-wicket 8.2 Binny to A Patel , 1 run , short again from Binny , Patel swivels and sends it down to fine leg 8.1 Binny to A Patel , no run , Patel goes early into the pull and toe-ends it into the off-side 8.1 Binny to A Patel , wide , short and angling away from the left-hander , Patel slashes and misses. Oh that 's a harsh call from the umpire Stuart Binny , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Time for the time-out 7.6 Tambe to Vijay , no run , very full , almost a yorker , Vijay tries to flick it on the on-side , but he only manages to dig it out 7.5 Tambe to Vijay , no run , down the leg-side , Vijay misses the flick and gets hit on the pad 7.4 Tambe to A Patel , 1 run , well outside off stump , Patel leans forward and drives it to long-off 7.3 Tambe to A Patel , FOUR , short and wide outside off stump , crashed hard off the back foot , there was a man sweeping on the off-side but he had no chance. Nice clean strike from Patel there 7.2 Tambe to A Patel , 2 runs , tossed up outside off stump , flicked to the left of Kulkarni at long-on 7.1 Tambe to Vijay , 1 run , Vijay dangerously plays this flighted delivery off the back foot , but he manages to drive it wide of long-off Pravin Tambe , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Time for spin 6.6 Faulkner to Vijay , 1 run , work for fine leg to do but Kulkarni does well. Shortish and down the leg-side , Vijay helps it fine , fine leg runs to his right , dives and saves three 6.5 Faulkner to Vijay , no run , a well directed bouncer from Faulkner , but Vijay manages to fend off the back foot. He took his eyes off the ball at the last moment 6.4 Faulkner to A Patel , 1 run , short of a length delivery on the off stump , Patel pulls it along the ground through mid-wicket 6.3 Faulkner to A Patel , no run , nice looking off-drive but hit straight to mid-off , who is a little square 6.2 Faulkner to A Patel , no run , length ball on the off stump , defended straight back to the bowler 6.1 Faulkner to A Patel , no run , beaten ! Short of a length delivery just outside off stump , Patel plays inside the line and the ball goes past the outside edge 5.6 D Kulkarni to Vijay , no run , on the stumps , gently flicked to mid-wicket 5.5 D Kulkarni to Vijay , no run , good bowling from Kulkarni , Vijay makes room again , but Kulkarni cramps him for room with a short of length delivery , Vijay tries to force it through the off-side but he ends up playing it back to the bowler 5.4 D Kulkarni to Vijay , FOUR , inside edge but it 's gone past the stumps. Slower ball , the off-cutter in fact , Vijay backs away and swings hard , luckily the edge missed the leg stump 5.3 D Kulkarni to Vijay , no run , gets a stride forward and defends this good length delivery to mid-on 5.3 D Kulkarni to Vijay , wide , bumper on the stumps , Vijay lets it go but the umpire does n't like the height on that one 5.2 D Kulkarni to Vijay , no run , length ball on the stumps , Vijay defends from the crease 5.1 D Kulkarni to Vijay , no run , driven off the back foot to cover-point Axar Patel , left handed bat , comes to the crease Well , well , Axar Patel comes ahead of Bailey , Miller . 4.6 Faulkner to Maxwell , out Caught by Southee ! ! Excellent catch from Tim Southee. This is a big wicket for the Royals. Umpire checks for the no-ball , but Faulkner had something behind the line. Maxwell was n't looking great and he 's gone. Short of a length delivery on the stumps , Maxwell advances and also gives himself a bit of room , tries to smash it hard , the ball hits him high on the bat. Mid-off runs to his left , puts in the dive and grabs it inches from the ground. Maxwell c Southee b Faulkner 7 ( 5 ) [ 4s-1 ] Faulkner to Maxwell , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 4.5 Faulkner to Maxwell , no run , did that carry ? Short of a length delivery outside off stump , Maxwell drives off the back foot , looked like the ball bounced extra , Maxwell was early into the shot , luckily for him , it dropped short of the fielder who was diving forward at short extra 4.4 Faulkner to Maxwell , 2 runs , he 's chipped that high in the air and it 's well over mid-on. Good length delivery on the stumps , Maxwell sends this over the infield and the ball plugs in the outfield 4.4 Faulkner to Maxwell , 2 runs , to long on 4.3 Faulkner to Vijay , 1 run , a well controlled flick shot along the ground through mid-wicket 4.2 Faulkner to Vijay , FOUR , sensible batting from Vijay. Faulkner sprays one down the leg-side , Vijay does n't try to do anything fancy , just tickles it on its way and picks up four more 4.1 Faulkner to Vijay , no run , starts with a slower ball straightaway , Vijay checks his flick and it goes on the bounce to mid-on James Faulkner , comes into the attack 3.6 D Kulkarni to Vijay , 1 run , again extra bounce for Kulkarni but Vijay managed to handle it well. The length was a little on the shorter side and Vijay was looking to cut , but the ball came back in , hit Vijay high on the bat and rolled towards third man 3.5 D Kulkarni to Maxwell , 1 run , a wristy flick from Maxwell , he picks this length ball from outside off stump and sends it to deep square leg 3.4 D Kulkarni to Maxwell , FOUR , it 's an inside edge but it 's missed the stumps. Lucky escape for Maxwell. Short of a length delivery outside off stump , the ball nips back and bounces a bit as well , Maxwell was surprised a bit , he tries to defend and gets away with the edge Alright , fasten your seat belts folks. The Big Show is in. Maxwell gets a big cheer from the crowd as he gets ready 3.3 D Kulkarni to Vijay , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Vijay guides it past backward point to third man 3.2 D Kulkarni to Vijay , no run , driven with an open face but straight to backward point 3.1 D Kulkarni to Vijay , no run , good length delivery from Kulkarni , Vijay defends Dhawal Kulkarni , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack Glenn Maxwell , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.6 Southee to W Saha , out W Saha Run Out ! ! Oh dear ! Big mix-up and Saha has to go. Brilliant direct-hit from the keeper. Southee tries the yorker , but bowls it down the leg-side , Saha misses the flick , the ball brushes the boot and the keeper dives to his left to collect the ball. Saha was keen for a run , Vijay responded initially , but changed his mind. Saha was left stranded in the middle and Samson hit the stumps with an excellent throw. W Saha run out ( Samson ) 7 ( 4 ) [ 4s-1 ] Southee to W Saha , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! 2.5 Southee to W Saha , FOUR , that 's cruel for the bowler. Good length delivery outside off stump , Saha late-cuts the ball past the man at slip and third man had no chance. Saha waited for the ball to come and just opened the face of the bat at the last moment to get the placement right 2.4 Southee to Vijay , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Vijay drives it to the left of backward point , who dives to his left and saves a few 2.3 Southee to Vijay , no run , beaten ! This short of length delivery nipped back in and beat Vijay 's inside edge as he looked to defend , Samson was interested for a caught behind shout but Southee was n't too keen 2.2 Southee to Vijay , FOUR , misfield and Southee is not impressed , should have been just one. Full and just outside off stump , Vijay flicks it wide of mid-on , Kulkarni runs to his right , he had it covered , but let the ball go right through him as he dived over the ball 2.1 Southee to Vijay , 2 runs , another elegant drive but Faulkner takes some pace of the ball with a dive to his left. Overpitched from Southee , Vijay drives it to the left of mid-off 1.6 C Morris to Vijay , 1 run , works this good length delivery towards mid-wicket and keeps strike 1.5 C Morris to Vijay , SIX , top shot again ! Oh he 's effortlessly hit that all the way. It was n't all that a bad ball , short of length delivery on the off stump , Vijay plays on the rise and lofts it handsomely over long-on. Gee , he 's looking very good 1.4 C Morris to Vijay , no run , back of a length this time , watchfully defended off the back foot 1.3 C Morris to Vijay , no run , good length delivery on the off stump , Vijay defends 1.2 C Morris to Vijay , 2 runs , down the track , goes over the top , does n't get hold of it but it clears mid-off and Vijay gets a couple of runs. He was trying to hit it much straighter , but the good length delivery took the outside half of the bat and flew over the infield 1.2 C Morris to Vijay , wide , good length delivery angling down the leg-side , Vijay tries to help it on its way but misses 1.1 C Morris to Vijay , no run , full and on the stumps , Vijay turns it into the on-side Chris Morris , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Southee to W Saha , no run , full and outside off stump , Saha drives but Rahane makes an excellent diving save to his left at backward point 0.5 Southee to Vijay , 3 runs , again , the key to playing swing bowling is letting the ball come to you and Vijay has played that beautifully long the ground with a gentle flick through mid-wicket. The line was n't all that great though from Southee as it was on the pads 0.4 Southee to Vijay , no run , allows the outswinger to come and plays with soft hands with an open face towards point , batsmen look for a run and decide against it 0.3 Southee to Vijay , FOUR , wow ! ! ! Classy shot ! What a shot. Southee teases the batsman with a fullish outswinger , Vijay covers the swing nicely , leans forward and creams the drive through extra-cover , where there is a big gap. Great way to open your account 0.3 Southee to Vijay , wide , tries the inswinger but sprays it down the leg-side 0.2 Southee to W Saha , 3 runs , nice and full outside off stump , Saha drives it gently along the ground to long-off. The fielder at mid-off was a bit too square Wriddhiman Saha , right handed bat , comes to the crease 0.1 Southee to Sehwag , out Caught by Samson ! ! Edged and gone ! Oh no Virender Sehwag , what have you done ? Excellent catch by Sanju Samson diving to his right. We saw the new ball swinging around quite a bit in the first innings , but Sehwag does n't bother to have a look. It was nothing but a genuine outswinger outside off stump , could have been left alone , instead Sehwag opts to drive with no feet movement and gets a thick edge. Samson dives full length to his right and grabs it with both hands. Dream start for RR. Sehwag c Samson b Southee 0 ( 1 ) Southee to Sehwag , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! Sehwag and Vijay are at the crease. Sehwag is on strike. Southee will open the attack Two slips in place Welcome back... New ball will be key for both sides. Southee against Sehwag and Vijay , this is going to be an interesting phase of play . Welcome back.. . Johnson : Probably , a little bit at the end ( on being asked about conceding some extra runs ) . They played really well , particularly Jimmy ( Faulkner ) . There was a bit early on , but turned out to be a good batting deck. We have got a strong batting line-up , we bowled early up front , got a few early wickets. We need to start well , get through the initial period and go for the runs later on. That 's why he is called the finisher ( Faulkner ) , he got me this time , hopefully , I will get back next time around . Johnson then bowled a blistering spell. He troubled the batsmen with the left-armer 's angle and his perseverance bore fruit , as he snaffled the scalp of Smith. It was Hooda and Faulkner 's spark of inspired batting that helped Rajasthan to recover. Hooda clobbered Karanveer Singh for two sixes in the 15th over. The crowd certainly rejoiced and applauded the exhibition of power-hitting from Hooda 's bat. Faulkner played his part as well with a sparkling knock. In particular , he took a heavy toll of Johnson 's bowling in the 19th over by clobbering him for 19 runs. The wicket will assist Rajasthan 's pacers too. However , they need to take wickets with the new ball . James Faulkner and Deepak Hooda played a volley of powerful shots to lift Rajasthan to a good score. Earlier , Punjab landed blows at regular intervals to put the opposition in a spot bother. On a track with a good covering of grass , the likes of Sandeep Sharma , Anureet Singh and the spearhead of the attack , Mitchell Johnson , proved to be a handful. It was Anureet and Sandeep , who gave Punjab the perfect start by dismissing Ajinkya Rahane and Sanju Samson , respectively . 19.6 Anureet Singh to C Morris , 2 runs , this is a superb final over from Anureet ! Yorker on the middle stump line , Morris gets underneath and drives it wide of long-on for a brace. Rajasthan end up on 162 19.5 Anureet Singh to C Morris , no run , another excellent delivery from Anureet , slower ball and angling away from outside off , Morris throws his bat at that and misses 19.4 Anureet Singh to C Morris , no run , short and angling across the right-hander , Morris swings at that and misses Tim Southee , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.3 Anureet Singh to Faulkner , out Caught by D Miller ! ! This is turning out to be an exceptional final over from Anureet. This was another low full-toss on the stumps , Faulkner went down on his knees and slogged it towards long-on , did n't get the power behind the shot. Miller watches it all along , takes the catch , realises that he was stepping over the ropes , throws the ball in the air , settles himself and takes the rebound. Faulkner c D Miller b Anureet Singh 46 ( 33 ) [ 4s-2 6s-3 ] Anureet Singh to Faulkner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.2 Anureet Singh to C Morris , 1 run , low full-toss from Anureet , Morris does n't get hold of the lofted on-drive , does n't carry to the man in the deep 19.1 Anureet Singh to Faulkner , 1 run , that 's nicely bowled by Anureet , came from round the wicket and followed Faulkner as he backed away , Faulkner gets an inside edge towards long leg for a single Anureet Singh [ 3.0-0-19-2 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Johnson to Faulkner , 1 run , back of a length and just outside off , flat-batted it back towards the bowler , Johnson makes a half-stop , but Faulkner gets the single. 20 came from the over 18.5 Johnson to Faulkner , SIX , this is poor bowling from Johnson , length ball and on the stumps , Faulkner gets underneath and lofts it high and over square leg for a maximum 18.4 Johnson to Faulkner , FOUR , Faulkner is doing some real damage here ! This was full and well outside off , Faulkner made room , cleared his left leg and flat-batted it past mid-off for a boundary 18.3 Johnson to Faulkner , SIX , just over Maxwell ! This was full and on the stumps , Faulkner goes down on his knees and slogs it high and over mid-wicket. Maxwell was the man at the ropes , he leaps , gets his fingertip on that and parries it over the ropes for a maximum 18.2 Johnson to Faulkner , 2 runs , on a good length and on the stumps , Faulkner backs away and heaves it in front of square on the on-side. Maxwell gets across and keeps them down to a brace 18.1 Johnson to C Morris , 1 run , the slower ball from Johnson , Morris reaches out and works it past cover for a single Mitchell Johnson [ 3.0-0-14-2 ] is back into the attack 17.6 A Patel to Faulkner , SIX , that ruins the over ! Patel dropped this one short as Faulkner backed away , the batsman stands tall and pulls it high and over mid-wicket for a maximum 17.5 A Patel to Faulkner , no run , very full and just outside off , driven straight to the fielder at cover 17.4 A Patel to C Morris , leg byes , 1 run , pushed through flatter and well outside off , Morris looks to play the reverse sweep and misses , sneaks in a leg-bye 17.3 A Patel to Faulkner , 1 run , Faulkner makes room to a flatter delivery and drills it down towards long-off 17.2 A Patel to C Morris , 1 run , pushed through flatter and quicker , eased down towards long-on for a single 17.1 A Patel to Faulkner , 1 run , Faulkner makes room to a full ball and drives it towards long-off for a single 16.6 Anureet Singh to Faulkner , 1 run , Anureet goes for the yorker , turns out to be a low full-toss , clipped away behind square on the on-side for a single Back to round the wicket 16.5 Anureet Singh to C Morris , 1 run , Anureet bangs one short and well outside off , Morris pulls and just about gets enough to clear the bowler , off the mark with a single Chris Morris , right handed bat , comes to the crease Back over the wicket 16.4 Anureet Singh to Deepak Hooda , out Bowled ! ! Anureet has his man ! This was very well bowled by Anureet , full and on the leg-stump line , Hooda shuffled across on the flick , went too far across , exposed his leg-stump and missed his shot. Anureet exults , but it 's been a nice little cameo from Hooda. Deepak Hooda b Anureet Singh 30 ( 15 ) [ 4s-1 6s-3 ] Anureet Singh to Deepak Hooda , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 16.3 Anureet Singh to Deepak Hooda , FOUR , this is even better ! makes room outside leg , bends low down to a full-toss , opens the face of the bat at the last moment and gets it in the gap past point for a boundary 16.2 Anureet Singh to Deepak Hooda , SIX , Hooda is dealing in sixes here ! Length ball and just outside off , Hooda gets underneath it and slices it over long-off , does n't get hold of the shot but clears the man at long-off 16.1 Anureet Singh to Faulkner , 1 run , full toss and on the stumps , driven down towards long-on for a single Anureet Singh [ 2.0-0-6-1 ] is back into the attack Anureet is coming from round the wicket 15.6 A Patel to Deepak Hooda , no run , flatter and quicker from Patel , the arm-ball , came back with the angle , Hooda watches it all along and dabs it towards short third man 15.5 A Patel to Faulkner , 1 run , Patel floats one outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 15.4 A Patel to Deepak Hooda , 1 run , Patel tosses one on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 15.3 A Patel to Faulkner , 1 run , flighted and on Faulkner 's pads , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 15.3 A Patel to Faulkner , wide , Patel drops one well outside leg , called as a wide 15.2 A Patel to Faulkner , no run , flatter and just outside off , punched straight to the fielder at extra cover 15.1 A Patel to Deepak Hooda , 1 run , Patel darts one on the middle stump line , driven towards long-on for a single Axar Patel [ 2.0-0-20-1 ] is back into the attack 14.6 Johnson to Faulkner , no run , short of a length and on the stumps , Faulkner stays behind the line and defends 14.5 Johnson to Faulkner , no run , yorker length delivery and on the off-stump channel , dug out by Faulkner. Mitch moves across to his right and stops the ball 14.5 Johnson to Faulkner , wide , Johnson goes full and way outside off as Faulkner backed away , called as a wide 14.4 Johnson to Faulkner , FOUR , exceptional cricket from Faulkner , just a shimmy down the track , Johnson shortens his length , pulled away over mid-wicket , one bounce and over the ropes 14.3 Johnson to Faulkner , no run , fuller length delivery and in that channel outside off , lures Faulkner into the big drive and beats him on the outside edge 14.2 Johnson to Faulkner , no run , back of a length and well outside off , cracked to the right of point where Miller brings out a diving stop , saved some runs there 14.1 Johnson to Faulkner , no run , on a good length and on Faulkner 's pads , he looks to nudge it towards the on-side and misses , wants a leg-bye but is sent back as Johnson rushes across 14.1 Johnson to Faulkner , wide , short of a length and shaping away from outside off , left alone , called as a wide Mitchell Johnson [ 2.0-0-8-2 ] is back into the attack Time for a strategic break 13.6 Karanveer Singh to Deepak Hooda , 2 runs , pushed through by Karanveer , Hooda works it in front of square on the on-side for a couple of runs 13.5 Karanveer Singh to Deepak Hooda , SIX , that 's a cracking shot , flighted delivery and just outside off , Hooda takes a step down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and goes inside out over extra cover for a maximum , he has some talent , this young boy 13.4 Karanveer Singh to Deepak Hooda , no run , slower and flatter from Karanveer , Hooda pushes at that and gets an inside edge onto the pads 13.3 Karanveer Singh to Deepak Hooda , no run , what happened there ! This was fuller and just outside off , Hooda was looking to squeeze it towards the off-side , jams his bat down and misses. Saha appeals for a catch , but there 's nothing there. Hooda had slipped out of his crease , but Saha did n't notice it , could have stumped him 13.2 Karanveer Singh to Deepak Hooda , SIX , that 's much better from Hooda , comes down the track to a tossed up delivery and lofts it cleanly , clears Anureet at long-on for a maximum 13.1 Karanveer Singh to Deepak Hooda , 2 runs , poor cricket all-around , this was the googly from Karanveer , Hooda did n't read it one bit , went for the big hoick , gets a thick edge and over extra cover. Maxwell ran back , gets both hands on the skier but ca n't hold on 12.6 A Patel to Faulkner , no run , this one 's given more air , driven straight to Maxwell at cover 12.5 A Patel to Deepak Hooda , 1 run , flighted and on the stumps , chipped away towards long-on for a single 12.4 A Patel to Faulkner , 1 run , slower and just outside off , eased down towards long-off for a single 12.3 A Patel to Faulkner , 2 runs , that 's an excellent save from the man at deep mid-wicket , Sandeep , it is. Patel dropped one short and well down leg-side , pulled away towards the on-side. Sandeep gets across , puts in the dive and drags the ball back in 12.3 A Patel to Faulkner , wide , Patel drifts one well down leg-side , called as a wide 12.2 A Patel to Faulkner , no run , flatter and on off , defended back towards the bowler 12.1 A Patel to Faulkner , no run , pushed through on off , blocked towards cover Axar Patel [ 1.0-0-15-1 ] is back into the attack 11.6 Karanveer Singh to Deepak Hooda , no run , this one 's given plenty of air , driven straight to the fielder at cover 11.5 Karanveer Singh to Faulkner , 1 run , tossed up and well outside off , driven down to long-off for a single 11.4 Karanveer Singh to Deepak Hooda , 1 run , low full-toss from Karanveer , Hooda comes down the track and drives it down towards long-off for a single 11.3 Karanveer Singh to Faulkner , 1 run , Karanveer Singh drifts one wider outside off , driven down towards long-off for a single 11.2 Karanveer Singh to Faulkner , 2 runs , flighted delivery and just outside off , Faulkner pushes at that and gets a thick edge past the lone slip , back for the second run 11.1 Karanveer Singh to Faulkner , 2 runs , tossed up and well outside off , drilled past extra cover. Miller gets across from the deep and keeps them down to a brace 10.6 Johnson to Faulkner , 1 run , that 's the first run Johnson has conceded off the bat and it 's an inside edge behind square. Faulkner was looking to drive , very late on the shot and the ball dribbles behind square on the on-side Two slips in place 10.5 Johnson to Faulkner , no run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Faulkner leans forward and pushes it towards cover James Faulkner , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.4 Johnson to Binny , out Caught by W Saha ! ! Binny 's misery is finally over ! A cracker of a delivery from Johnson , on a good length and shaping away very late , Binny was committed into playing at that , gets a thick edge and it 's an easy catch for Saha. Rajasthan have lost half their side now. Binny c W Saha b Johnson 13 ( 16 ) [ 4s-2 ] Johnson to Binny , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 10.3 Johnson to Binny , no run , on a good length and shaping back in , Binny prods forward and drives it towards mid-off 10.3 Johnson to Binny , wide , fuller length delivery and right on the tramline outside off , called as a wide 10.2 Johnson to Binny , no run , Binny ca n't get bat to ball against Johnson , this was slanted across the right-hander , Binny pushes at that and is beaten Deepak Hooda , right handed bat , comes to the crease 10.1 Johnson to S Smith , out Caught by Karanveer Singh ! ! Smith had the measure of the Indians , but it 's a fellow Aussie who has his number ! This was short and went with the angle , Smith was looking to pull it towards the on-side , gets a thick top-edge towards third man. Karanveer does n't have to move an inch , straight into his palms. The umpire check for a no-ball , but Johnson 's fine on that count as well. S Smith c Karanveer Singh b Johnson 33 ( 23 ) [ 4s-5 ] Johnson to S Smith , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 10.1 Johnson to S Smith , wide , full and slanting down leg-side , Smith looks to flick and misses , called as a wide 9.6 Karanveer Singh to S Smith , 1 run , Smith comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and eases it down towards long-on for a single 9.5 Karanveer Singh to Binny , 1 run , Karanveer drops one short and well outside off , Binny makes room and cracks it square on the off-side for a single 9.4 Karanveer Singh to S Smith , 1 run , slower and wider outside off , eased square on the off-side for a single 9.3 Karanveer Singh to S Smith , FOUR , lovely shot , Smith comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball , plays against the spin and whips it past mid-wicket for a boundary 9.2 Karanveer Singh to Binny , 1 run , tossed up and on Binny 's pads , worked behind square on the on-side for a single 9.1 Karanveer Singh to Binny , FOUR , poor effort from Axar at deep extra cover ! Juicy full-toss from Karanveer , Binny comes down the track and lashes it past extra cover. Patel gets across and allows the ball to go through his legs Time for a strategic break 8.6 Johnson to S Smith , no run , aborted shout for LBW ! But there was an inside edge on that , Smith was shuffling across on the flick , the edge saved him , else he was pretty much in front of the wicket 8.5 Johnson to Binny , leg byes , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Binny 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away behind square , off the pads 8.4 Johnson to Binny , no run , Binny 's beaten again ! This was full and shaping away from outside off , Binny throws his bat at that and misses 8.3 Johnson to Binny , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Binny looks to flick and is beaten as he closed the face of the bat 8.2 Johnson to Binny , leg byes , 2 runs , that was close ! First , Binny was close to getting run-out and S Smith was struggling as he looked to steal a single , migt have just got home there. This was the inswinging yorker from Johnson , tails in very late , Binny fell over on the flick and missed , the ball rolled away towards point. Smith called for a quick single and just about beats Miller 's throw , there 's an overthrow as well 8.2 Johnson to Binny , 5 wides , whoa ! What was that ! Johnson flung one short and well outside off , it kept climbing , beats the flashing blade of Binny and Saha ca n't get a glove despite the leap. Johnson is n't happy with the umpire 's call , he thinks it was n't a wide 8.1 Johnson to Binny , no run , that cut Binny in half ! This was slightly short and nipped back in , Binny was looking to cut , the ball goes through the gate and to the keeper Mitchell Johnson , comes into the attack 7.6 Karanveer Singh to Binny , 1 run , pushed through and on Binny 's pads , nudged away behind square on the on-side for a single 7.5 Karanveer Singh to S Smith , 1 run , flighted delivery and on off , eased down towards long-on for a single 7.4 Karanveer Singh to S Smith , FOUR , that 's better from Smith , Karanveer dropped another one short and well outside off , Smith backs away and delays the cut , gets it past point and beats the man at sweeper for a boundary 7.3 Karanveer Singh to S Smith , no run , pushed through flatter and well outside off , sliced straight to the fielder at point 7.2 Karanveer Singh to Binny , 1 run , Karanveer Singh drops one short and well outside off , Binny backs away and cracks it square on the off-side for a single 7.1 Karanveer Singh to S Smith , 1 run , Smith comes down the track to a well flighted delivery and eases it down towards long-on for a single Karanveer Singh , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack Sandeep finishes with impressive figures of 1/19 from 4 overs 6.6 Sandeep Sharma to Binny , FOUR , the extra ball has cost Sandeep here ! Lovely shot from Binny , gets well forward to a pitched up delivery and eases it past cover , no need to run for those 6.6 Sandeep Sharma to Binny , wide , short and well outside off , Binny drops his wrists and lets it go , called as a wide for height 6.5 Sandeep Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , fuller length delivery and well outside off , Smith leans forward and drives it past cover for a single 6.4 Sandeep Sharma to S Smith , 2 runs , length ball and on Smith 's pads , flicked away behind square on the on-side. Sehwag gets across from long leg , puts the dive early and saves a couple of runs. Bailey is pleased with the veteran 's effort 6.3 Sandeep Sharma to Binny , 1 run , too straight from Sandeep , worked behind square on the on-side for a single 6.2 Sandeep Sharma to Binny , no run , fuller length delivery and on the stumps , Binny gets his bat in front of the pads and clips it towards mid-wicket 6.1 Sandeep Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , punched past cover-point for a single Stuart Binny , right handed bat , comes to the crease 5.6 A Patel to Nair , out Bowled ! ! That was unnecessary from Nair , very well bowled by Patel. He pushed this one fuller and quicker on the middle stump line , Nair was looking to repeat the previous shot , the ball slid underneath and pegs back the middle stump. An expensive over , but a rewarding one for Patel. Nair b A Patel 8 ( 11 ) [ 6s-1 ] A Patel to Nair , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 5.5 A Patel to Nair , SIX , nicely played by Nair , Patel is going for runs here , this was tossed up and on the stumps , Nair went down on his knees and sweeps it high and over mid-wicket for a maximum 5.4 A Patel to S Smith , 1 run , pushed through by Patel , worked in front of square on the on-side for a single 5.3 A Patel to S Smith , no run , fractionally short and just outside off , Smith makes room and cuts it straight to the fielder at cover-point 5.2 A Patel to S Smith , FOUR , this is even better ! Smith comes down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and drives it back past the bowler for another boundary 5.1 A Patel to S Smith , FOUR , that 's a shot of authority from Smith , shimmies down the track , gets to the pitch of the ball and drills it past mid-on for a boundary Axar Patel , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 4.6 Sandeep Sharma to Nair , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Nair plays with an angled bat and drives it towards mid-off 4.5 Sandeep Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , nicely bowled by Sandeep , keeps it very full and gets it to nip away late , Smith was looking to whip it towards mid-wicket , gets a thick edge past the lone slip , just a single 4.4 Sandeep Sharma to S Smith , no run , short of a length and just outside off , punched towards mid-on 4.3 Sandeep Sharma to Nair , 1 run , on a good length and well outside off , Nair leans forward and drives it to the left of point , Maxwell tumbles and makes a half-stop , saves a run for his team 4.2 Sandeep Sharma to Nair , no run , short and wide from Sandeep , Nair throws his bat at that and misses 4.1 Sandeep Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , almost cleaned up Smith ! On a good length and holding its line outside off , Smith pushes at that tentatively , gets an inside edge that rolls past leg-stump 3.6 Anureet Singh to Nair , no run , that 's a wild hoick from Nair , he 's feeling the pressure here , this was a tad short and just outside off , Nair looks to pull and misses 3.5 Anureet Singh to S Smith , 1 run , fuller length delivery and shaping back into Smith , he closes the face of the bat and works it past mid-wicket for a single 3.4 Anureet Singh to Nair , 1 run , much better from Nair , width on offer from Anureet , sliced away behind square on the off-side for a single 3.3 Anureet Singh to Nair , no run , once again in that channel outside off , once again Nair is caught in no man 's land as he poked at that and he 's beaten again 3.2 Anureet Singh to Nair , no run , that 's good pace and carry for Anureet , shortened his length and gets it to shape away , draws Nair into a loose poke and beats his outside edge 3.1 Anureet Singh to Nair , no run , short of a length and just outside off , Nair gets behind the line and defends it 2.6 Sandeep Sharma to Nair , leg byes , 1 run , fuller length delivery and on Nair 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball rolls away towards square leg for a leg-bye Karun Nair , right handed bat , comes to the crease 2.5 Sandeep Sharma to Samson , out Lbw ! ! That 's an iffy decision , but Samson has to go. Was he struck outside off ? Was the height an issue ? But Simon Fry sends Samson on his way. This was pitched up and nipped back into Samson , he was pressing across on the flick , gets struck just above the knee-roll , the impact was on off-stump. The umpire thinks for a while before raising his finger. Samson does n't like it , pensive mood in the Rajasthan camp. Samson lbw b Sandeep Sharma 5 ( 6 ) Sandeep Sharma to Samson , THATS OUT ! ! Lbw ! ! 2.4 Sandeep Sharma to S Smith , 1 run , on a length and just outside off , worked in front of mid-on for a single 2.3 Sandeep Sharma to S Smith , FOUR , Smith continues on his merry ways ! This was pitched up and held its line outside off , Smith leans forward , meets the ball on top of the bounce and caresses it past cover , two men give chase , but the ball wins the race 2.2 Sandeep Sharma to Samson , 1 run , short of a length and just outside off , Samson was looking to whip it away towards mid-wicket , gets it high on the bat and the ball rolls away in front of mid-on. Smith was late to start but makes his ground with ease 2.1 Sandeep Sharma to Samson , no run , Sandeep shortens his length and shapes one away from outside off , Samson went chasing after that and misses 1.6 Anureet Singh to S Smith , no run , tad fuller and shaping back into Smith , he shuffles across , presents the full face of the bat and defends it towards mid-on 1.5 Anureet Singh to Samson , 3 runs , fraction short and well outside off , Samson rocks back and pulls it over mid-wicket , the timing is n't great , but the batsmen run hard and come back for the third run 1.4 Anureet Singh to Samson , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Samson pushes forward and defends to cover Steven Smith , right handed bat , comes to the crease 1.3 Anureet Singh to Rahane , out Caught by A Patel ! ! Oh Dear ! Rahane has thrown his wicket away. He had faced seven deliveries , he was feeling the pressure , dances down the track , Anureet shortens his length outside off , Rahane was in no position for the shot , gets it low on the bat , gets a lot of height but not the distance. Axar waits at mid-off and gobbles the chance. Rahane c A Patel b Anureet Singh 0 ( 8 ) Anureet Singh to Rahane , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 1.2 Anureet Singh to Rahane , no run , back of a length and just outside off , Rahane stays behind the line and punches it towards cover-point 1.1 Anureet Singh to Samson , 1 run , on a good length and nipping back into Samson , he prods across and works it past mid-wicket for a single Anureet Singh , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Sandeep Sharma to Rahane , no run , fraction fuller and well outside off , Rahane goes for an ambitious drive , closes the face of the bat at the last moment and mistimes the shot towards mid-off. Just four leg-byes off the over , so it 's a maiden over against Sandeep 's name 0.5 Sandeep Sharma to Rahane , no run , another fine inswinger from Sandeep Sharma , tad fuller and nipping back into Rahane , he was looking to work it towards the on-side and is struck high on the pads 0.4 Sandeep Sharma to Rahane , no run , full and a hint of shape back into Rahane , he comes down the track , gets outside the line of off-stump and is hit high on the pads 0.3 Sandeep Sharma to Rahane , no run , on a good length and just outside off , Rahane presses across and defends it towards point 0.2 Sandeep Sharma to Rahane , no run , that 's much better , this was pitched up in that channel outside off and holds its line , draws Rahane into the drive and goes past his outside edge 0.1 Sandeep Sharma to Rahane , leg byes , FOUR , poor line from Sandeep Sharma , the big inswinger , but he ends up swinging into Rahane 's pads , he looks to flick and misses , the ball races away off the pads and to the fence , past the keeper Rahane and Samson are at the crease. Rahane is on strike. Sandeep Sharma will open the attack Rahane and Sanju Samson are the two openers. Sandeep Sharma has the ball in his hand. Off we go. . It 's time for action to start in Pune. The two teams have lined-up for a minute 's silence in respect of Richie Benaud , who passed away in his sleep today. Both teams are sporting black arm-bands as well . Teams : Rajasthan Royals ( Playing XI ) : Ajinkya Rahane , Sanju Samson ( w ) , Steven Smith ( c ) , Karun Nair , Deepak Hooda , Stuart Binny , James Faulkner , Chris Morris , Tim Southee , Dhawal Kulkarni , Pravin Tambe Kings XI Punjab ( Playing XI ) : Virender Sehwag , Murali Vijay , Glenn Maxwell , David Miller , George Bailey ( c ) , Wriddhiman Saha ( w ) , Mitchell Johnson , Axar Patel , Anureet Singh , Sandeep Sharma , Karanveer Singh Kings XI Punjab have won the toss and have opted to field Smith : " He ( Watson ) has got a bit of a bruised hip , hopefully he 'll be ready for the next one. We 've got a good squad together , hopefully it will be a good season for the Royals. He ( Maxwell ) is in terrific form , he 's a hard batter to stop as well. Hopefully we can get him early tonight. There is little bit of grass on this wicket , not too sure how it will play. The other three ( foreigners ) are Faulkner , Morris and Southee. " Bailey : " The boys have got together from all parts of the world. Everyone 's played a lot of cricket , so we should be ready to go. Most of the teams did retain most of their squads. We are very happy with their squad. We will bowl first. The wicket normally plays very good throughout , probably there will be a bit of dew later on. Hopefully the grass means it will be a high-scoring game. Maxi , Miller , myself and Johnson are the four overseas players. " Toss time ! The Australian players ( Smith , Johnson , Faulkner ) pay their tributes to Richie Benaud , who passed away earlier today . Weather Report : It 's a fine day at Pune with the day time temperatures set at around 37 degrees. It should be a cool night and with no rain on the horizon , expect a cracking contest . Head-to-Head : The two teams have met 13 times over the first seven editions of the tournament. Rajasthan Royals enjoy a 8-5 winning advantage . Rajasthan continued with their strategy of not buying any stars during the 2015 auctions. South African all-rounder , Chris Morris , was their only big buy with the team management content in picking up several unknown Indian players . If Kings XI Punjab have all-round star power , their opponents today , Rajasthan Royals , have made a name for themselves with their ability to get the best out of several unknown Indian performers. If it was Stuart Binny in 2012 , Sanju Samson was the surprise of 2013. Karnataka 's Karun Nair and Mumbai 's Pravin Tambe put in stellar shows during the 2014 season. It 's not all Indian talent though. The main thrust is provided in the form of Shane Watson , Steve Smith and James Faulkner. Rahul Dravid 's composure behind the scenes has rubbed on this talented outfit . Coming to 2015 , Punjab were dormant during the auctions but still managed to add more firepower to their batting , in the form of Murali Vijay. They also added a host of little known domestic players to bolster their bowling attack. Will 2015 turn out to be their season ? We will get to know in the coming weeks . Buoyed by some superb picks during the 2014 auctions , Kings XI Punjab proved to be unstoppable. The batting was in fine shape with Virender Sehwag , Manan Vohra , Wriddhiman Saha , David Miller and skipper , George Bailey , all in excellent form. The X-factor was provided by Australian star import , Glenn Maxwell , whose blazing knocks was one of the highlights of the season. While the batting was at its devastating best , the bowling was more than handy. Mitchell Johnson and Sandeep Sharma led the pace attack while the spin department was handled with aplomb by Axar Patel and Karanveer Singh. It needed something special to rob them of the title and it came in the form of Manish Pandey in the final . 18 : 25 Local Time , 12 : 55 GMT , 18 : 25 IST : It 's match number three of the Indian Premier League and last year 's runners-up , Kings XI Punjab , are up against Rajasthan Royals. The Punjab outfit , led by George Bailey , enjoyed a dream run in the 2014 season and were only stopped by Gautam Gambhir 's Kolkata Knight Riders , in the final. On the other hand , Rajasthan Royals , were deprived of a place in the final four after a sensational run-chase by the Mumbai Indians in their final league match . Preview : A fresh start and another chance to get it right for Punjab and Rajasthan. Two teams , with a history of attracting most number of neutral supporters , have had success elude them for a long time. While Rajasthan have tapered off somewhat after winning the inaugral edition of Indian Premier League , Kings XI have been given a new lease of life under the George Bailey-Sanjay Bangar regime and are on their way up. Unlike some of the other teams in the competition , both KXIP and RR have settled on a core group of players on whom the fortunes of the team depend and therefore played a largely subdued role in the pre-season auction. The fact that Punjab play their home game in Pune , instead of Mohali , is likely to offset any advantage they may have had going into their opening encounter.Venue : Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium , PuneDate : April 10 , 2015Time : 20 : 00 ISTWeather : Clear skies have been forecast with 68 % humidity.Kings XI PunjabKXIP have arguably the most explosive batting order in the tournament. In Virender Sehwag , Glenn Maxwell , David Miller , they have three proven match-winners with an ability to change the game on its head , especially in the T20 format. Murali Vijay 's signing adds meat to the top-order. The Test-match regular will look to put in some solid performances and get back in the reckoning for a spot in the limited overs national side as well. Manan Vohra and Wriddhiman Saha , who shared an excellent partnership , in the IPL final in 2014 complete the formidable batting line up. The Mitchell Johnson-led bowling attack creates a fine balance for the team. While emerging player of IPL 7 , Axar Patel , is a shoo-in as the leading spinner , the KXIP management face their biggest selection quandary in selecting their Indian medium pacers. Shardul Thakur , Parvinder Awana and Sandeep Sharma will fight for the remaining two places in the side.Probable XI : Virender Sehwag , Murali Vijay , Manan Vohra , Glenn Maxwell , George Bailey ( c ) , David Miller , Wriddhiman Saha ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Axar Patel , Shardul Thakur , Sandeep Sharma/Parvinder Awana Rajasthan RoyalsMuch like their opponents , Rajasthan Royals sport a fairly settled look about them. While Ajinkya Rahane 's stocks as an international cricketer has grown by leaps and bounds since the last tournament , the team 's performances will largely depend on how the troika of Shane Watson , Steve Smith and James Faulkner fare. Much hinges on where skipper Watson chooses to bat. Will the presence of an in-form Steve Smith in the middle-order force Watson to take his place at the top of the order ? RR will also hope that promising keeper-batsman Sanju Samson , who had a breakthrough season in 2013 before fading away slightly last year , has a solid season. Kiwi pacer Tim Southee will lead a bowling attack that 'll once again be dominated by medium-paced all-rounders - Faulkner , Stuart Binny and Watson. The 43-year young Pravin Tambe should once again take over lead-spinning duties. Probable XI : Ajinkya Rahane , Karun Nair , Shane Watson ( c ) , Steve Smith , Sanju Samson ( wk ) , James Faulkner , Stuart Binny , Abhishek Nayar/Rajat Bhatia , Dhawal Kulkarni , Tim Southee , Pravin TambeStats and Trivia- The RR-KXIP match is likely to feature 6 of the recently crowned World Champions , three in either side- Rajasthan Royals lead the 13-match head to head against Kings XI 8-5Quotes " It 's T20 cricket , full stop. No matter where you are playing and in what conditions , you have to use variations to challenge the batsmen. " - James Faulkner has a simple mantra for doing well in T20s - Variations . Teams : Rajasthan Royals ( From ) : Ajinkya Rahane , Karun Nair , Shane Watson ( c ) , Sanju Samson ( w ) , Steven Smith , Stuart Binny , James Faulkner , Rajat Bhatia , Tim Southee , Dhawal Kulkarni , Pravin Tambe , Abhishek Nayar , Ben Cutting , Deepak Hooda , Dishant Yagnik , Vikramjeet Malik , Ankit Sharma , Rahul Tewatia , Chris Morris , Dinesh Salunkhe , RustyTheron , Pardeep Sahu , Brainder Sran , Sagar Trivedi Kings XI Punjab ( From ) : Manan Vohra , Virender Sehwag , Wriddhiman Saha ( w ) , Glenn Maxwell , David Miller , George Bailey ( c ) , Axar Patel , Thisara Perera , Parvinder Awana , Sandeep Sharma , Murali Vijay , Mitchell Johnson , Rishi Dhawan , Anureet Singh , Beuran Hendricks , Gurkeerat Singh Mann , Karanveer Singh , Shardul Thakur , Shaun Marsh , Shivam Sharma , Nikhil Naik , Yogesh Golwalkar Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
