Graphs So , that 's all we have for you from game 1. It 's time to switch tabs and shift to the second game , where KKR are batting first against RCB . Brendon McCullum : 'It 's obviously pretty good. Today 's performance was very good from us. One guy gets a hundred and it always helps , but the partnerships were the key here. It 's been long since I made a sizeable contribution , but it 's good for me. It 's a nice start for us and it is good to have made a big contribution today. You can pretty much start from ball one on New Zealand wickets , but on these pitches , you need to get in for a little while. A partner like Dwayne Smith also helps a lot. SRH has got some really good players , but for us with 2 wins from 2 games in the start , always is good.' Brendon McCullum is the Man of the Match for his swashbuckling 100 * Dhoni : 'I think we batted really well as a unit. We got a good opening stand. Brendon was brilliant and because of him we got those 20 extra runs. ODIs are different and T20s are different , so you ca n't rate it as such. No point rating it , he just batted brilliantly ( on rating McCullm 's century against the others ) . It is always important to win at home. Every team prepares the wickets accordingly to what suits them. It is a good win for us and moreover , it looks a settled side now. The fielding was great today and the effort everyone put in was great. ' Earlier , Brendon McCullum waltzed his way to his second ton in the IPL. It was high-octane stuff from McCullum as he landed powerful blows to pummel the opposition. He cracked some belligerent strokes against both Ishant Sharma and Karn Sharma. He also played cheeky scoops to take the mickey out of the opposition. MS Dhoni too cracked a fine fifty. Other than Bopara , none of Sunrisers ' bowlers were able to stem the run flow. In the end , it turned out to be a disappointing performance from them . Chennai 's bowlers backed up a sterling effort by their batsmen to register a convincing win. On a flat deck , the likes of Dwayne Bravo , Ashish Nehra and Mohit Sharma bowled a slew of slower deliveries to put the opposition under pressure. It was Mohit , who picked up two wickets with the new ball. Mohit showed his mettle with a back-of-the-hand slower one to completely bamboozle KL Rahul and castle him. Ravichandran Ashwin , with flight and guile , was also impressive. Even David Warner struggled to make an impact against a disciplined bowling attack . SRH were never in the run-chase. David Warner was there for a long time , but could never really get doing. Their decision to hold Williamson back till the very end was also questionable. The kind of player Williamson is , he should have been batting at 3. He finishes with 26 off 18 balls and he could have been a far bigger threat , had he come earlier in the innings. CSK deserved to win this as they have completely outplayed their opponents here . 19.6 Mohit Sharma to Williamson , 1 run , that 's it ! CSK win by 45 runs ! It was almost in the blockhole there from Mohit , Williamson squeezes out the drive to long-off 19.5 Mohit Sharma to Williamson , SIX , that 's a great hit from Williamson , but a little too late in the day. It was full outside off , Williamson leans forward and dispatches the loft straight down the ground 19.4 Mohit Sharma to P Rasool , 1 run , back-of-the-hand slower ball on the stumps , Rasool pushes at it , the ball rolls away to short fine leg off the inside edge 19.3 Mohit Sharma to Williamson , 1 run , Williamson backs away a touch and digs the yorker out to backward point , the batsmen take a single 19.2 Mohit Sharma to Williamson , FOUR , short ball from Mohit , Williamson goes on the back foot and muscles the pull to the deep mid-wicket fence 19.1 Mohit Sharma to P Rasool , 1 run , length delivery outside off , Rasool dabs it towards point and gets to the other end Parvez Rasool , right handed bat , comes to the crease Mohit Sharma [ 3.0-0-22-2 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Dwayne Bravo to Karn Sharma , out Caught by Raina ! ! That 's a great catch from Raina and Bravo gets his second of the day. It was the slower full ball just outside off , Karn went for the loft but does n't get the distace , Raina from long-off runs to his right , dives and takes a great catch. Karn Sharma c Raina b Dwayne Bravo 4 ( 6 ) Dwayne Bravo to Karn Sharma , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 18.5 Dwayne Bravo to Williamson , 1 run , length delivery angling in on off , Williamson mistimes the lofted drive down to long-on 18.4 Dwayne Bravo to Karn Sharma , 1 run , banged in short and at the batsman , Karn was hurried into the pull there , the ball goes off the glove to the right of short fine , the batsmen take a single 18.3 Dwayne Bravo to Williamson , 1 run , short of length delivery from Bravo , Williamson hangs back and pulls it to deep mid-wicket 18.2 Dwayne Bravo to Karn Sharma , 1 run , bit of width on offer from Bravo , Karn opens the face of the bat and guides it to backward point 18.1 Dwayne Bravo to Williamson , 1 run , on a good length and just outside off , Williamson backs away and drives it down to long-off 17.6 Nehra to Karn Sharma , no run , slower delivery outside off , Karn has a wild swing at it and fails to make a connection 17.5 Nehra to Williamson , 1 run , full toss outside off , Williamson goes across and plays the lap sweep behind square on the on-side for a single 17.4 Nehra to Williamson , 2 runs , length delivery angled across off , Williamson knocks it through the covers and comes back for the second 17.3 Nehra to Williamson , no run , yorker on the stumps , Williamson squeezes it out 17.2 Nehra to Karn Sharma , 1 run , length delivery on middle and leg , Karn bunts it down to long-on 17.2 Nehra to Karn Sharma , wide , sprays this one down the leg-side , called a wide once again 17.1 Nehra to Williamson , 1 run , driven down to long-off off the toe-end of the bat 17.1 Nehra to Williamson , wide , bowls this one well outside the tramline , called a wide by the umpire Ashish Nehra [ 3.0-0-24-0 ] is back into the attack 16.6 Dwayne Bravo to Williamson , 1 run , slower ball yorker from Bravo , Williamson squeezes out the drive to long-on 16.5 Dwayne Bravo to Karn Sharma , 1 run , fuller delivery angling away just outside off , Karn went for the big booming drive , gets an outside edge that flies away to third man Karn Sharma , left handed bat , comes to the crease 16.4 Dwayne Bravo to Bopara , out Bowled ! ! Bravo sends Bopara back with a ripper of a delivery. It was the yorker on middle stump line , Bopara fails to squeeze it out and the ball crashes into the base of middle stump. Not a better delivery than this to bowl at this time of the innings. SRH slip further. Bopara b Dwayne Bravo 22 ( 15 ) [ 6s-2 ] Dwayne Bravo to Bopara , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 16.3 Dwayne Bravo to Williamson , 1 run , another slower one from Bravo , Williamson waits on it and pushes it towards point for another single 16.2 Dwayne Bravo to Bopara , 1 run , good slower ball from Bravo around the off-stump , Bopara defends it towards point and the batsmen cross over for an easy single. SRH know that they ca n't win it from here 16.1 Dwayne Bravo to Williamson , leg byes , 1 run , Williamson backs away and Bravo follows him , he misses the clip and the ball rolls away into the on-side off the pad , the batsmen sneak in a leg bye 16.1 Dwayne Bravo to Williamson , wide , is that a harsh call from the umpire ? Williamson was on the move when Bravo bangs it in short outside off , Williamson leaves and the umpire calls it a wide , not sure whether the height on that one was way more than the batsman Dwayne Bravo [ 2.0-0-15-0 ] is back into the attack 15.6 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , comes down the track and defends it towards cover , he will keep the strike 15.5 Ravindra Jadeja to Bopara , 1 run , Bopara wanted to go over extra cover this time , but he does n't time the flat-batted loft well , he can only get a single there 15.4 Ravindra Jadeja to Bopara , SIX , this time Bopara gives the charge and gets under the ball , he hammers it straight down the ground for back-to-back sixes 15.3 Ravindra Jadeja to Bopara , SIX , that 's a great shot from Bopara , it was tossed up just outside off , Bopara just leans forward and lofts it over the long-off fence 15.2 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 1 run , flighted delivery on the stumps , Williamson works it to long-on and gets off strike 15.1 Ravindra Jadeja to Williamson , 2 runs , slowish delivery just outside off , Williamson waits inside the crease , opens the face of the bat and guides it towards short third man , who dives to his left and half-stops it , the batsmen come back for the second Ravindra Jadeja , left-arm orthodox , comes into the attack 14.6 I Pandey to Williamson , 1 run , Williamson gets off the mark with a dab down to third man Kane Williamson , right handed bat , comes to the crease 14.5 I Pandey to Warner , out Caught by Dwayne Smith ! ! Warner is gone ! This might be the game for CSK ! It was another short of length delivery on the stumps , Warner backs away and goes for another pull , this time though he did n't get the desired elevation and Dwayne Smith at the boundary times his jump to perfection. He jumps up , takes the catch and does well to stay inside the field. The key was the jump and the transfer of the weight forward when he was coming down , he did both these things perfectly. Warner c Dwayne Smith b I Pandey 53 ( 42 ) [ 4s-1 6s-3 ] I Pandey to Warner , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 14.4 I Pandey to Warner , SIX , that 's a super strike from Warner ! It was short and just outside off , Warner fetches the pull and deposits it over the deep mid-wicket fence 14.3 I Pandey to Warner , FOUR , that 's really well played by Warner , it was a back of a length delivery angling away outside off , Warner was backing away , opens the face of the bat and guides it through the gap between short third man and backward point , who could only look at each other and see the ball run away to the fence 14.2 I Pandey to Bopara , 1 run , comes down the track to this back of a length delivery outside off , he flat-bats it to the right of sweeper cover , can only get a single there 14.1 I Pandey to Warner , 1 run , Warner goes across to this length delivery outside off , he was first lining up for a big shot on the on-side , but adjusts well and drives it to sweeper cover Ashwin finishes off his brilliant spell. He finishes with figures of 4-0-22-1. It 's also time for the strategic timeout . 13.6 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , quicker one on the stumps from Ashwin , Warner is hurried into the punch down to long-on and will keep the strike 13.5 Ashwin to Bopara , 1 run , employs the reverse sweep this time and dispatches it to short third man , can only get a single 13.4 Ashwin to Bopara , no run , Bopara goes for an agricultural shot towards the leg-side , but the ball turns in and beats his blade. Brilliantly bowled by Ashwin as he slowed it up very nicely 13.3 Ashwin to Bopara , no run , Bopara goes for a reverse swipe this time and he also fails to connect , the ball turns in and hits him on the pad , but there was no real appeal from the players around the bat as he was struck outside off 13.2 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , drifting on middle stump line , Warner works it to deep mid-wicket 13.1 Ashwin to Warner , no run , Warner goes for a switch hit but ca n't connect. It was a fuller one from Ashwin , Warner wanted to hit that through extra cover , but ca n't connect. There was an lbw appeal as well but the umpire says 'Not Out' 12.6 I Pandey to Bopara , 2 runs , short of length delivery that sits up nicely just outside off for Bopara to free his arms , he pulls it to the left of the fielder at deep mid-wicket , the fielder runs across to his left and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 12.5 I Pandey to Warner , 1 run , another short one from Pandey , this time Warner connects well with the pull and the ball goes on the bounce to wide long-on 12.4 I Pandey to Warner , no run , ohh dear ! That has hit Warner on the helmet It hit him right on the grille ! It was banged in short and at the batsman , Warner went for the pull but could n't connect. The ball hurries onto him and hits him on the grille. Warner was down on the ground , but gets up quickly as well. Luckily , Warner is fine there Pandey was into his delivery stride and pulls out at the last moment. He will have to bowl it again 12.3 I Pandey to Bopara , 1 run , Bopara was on the walk to this just short of a good length delivery on the stumps , he forehands the pull past the non-striker for a single 12.2 I Pandey to Bopara , no run , back of a length delivery on the stumps , Bopara turns it to mid-wicket 12.1 I Pandey to Bopara , 2 runs , what was Bopara trying to do here ? It was the back of a length delivery outside off , Bopara went for the flat-batted shot , but could n't time it at all. Bravo from mid-off was charging foward and the ball bounces just in front of him , the batsmen take a couple as the ball rolled away further towards the deep Ishwar Pandey [ 1.0-0-7-0 ] is back into the attack 11.6 Ashwin to Bopara , 1 run , goes down on one knee to this flighted delivery just outside off , he paddles it behind square on the on-side , Raina from square leg runs to his right , dives and keeps them down to a single. In fact , he fires the throw directly at the striker 's end , but Warner was well in 11.5 Ashwin to Bopara , no run , Bopara gets a beauty first up. It was the slower off-spinner from Ashwin , Bopara was in two minds whether to go forward or back. In the end , he misses the ball and Dhoni did n't collect it cleanly either 11.4 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , flatter and turning away on off , Warner wrists it through mid-wicket , was looking for the second but it 's not there Ravi Bopara , right handed bat , comes to the crease 11.3 Ashwin to N Ojha , out Caught by Mohit Sharma ! ! The pressure was building and Ojha perishes for the cause. It was the over-spinner from Ashwin , Ojha was down the track and wanted to go over the long-off fence , he gets height on that but not the desired distance. Mohit Sharma from long-off runs forward and to his left , completes the catch with ease. N Ojha c Mohit Sharma b Ashwin 15 ( 11 ) [ 6s-1 ] Ashwin to N Ojha , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 11.2 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , drags his length back and bowls it down the leg-side , Warner hangs back and pulls it behind square on the on-side , the fielder in the deep runs to his left , dives and keeps the batsmen down to a couple 11.1 Ashwin to Warner , 2 runs , flighted delivery from Ashwin , Warner clips it through mid-wicket and comes back for the second 10.6 Dwayne Bravo to N Ojha , 2 runs , back of a length delivery outside off , Ojha makes slight room and slices it past backward point , the batsmen come back for the second before deep point tidies up 10.5 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , 1 run , off-spinner from Bravo and on the stumps , Warner backs away , waits for the ball to arrive and knocks it down to long-off 10.4 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , no run , angles this one away just outside off , Warner looks to slog it into the on-side , but was a little too early into the shot. The ball goes past the outside edge 10.3 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , 2 runs , just short of a good length and outside off , Warner punches it to the left of long-off , comes back for the second before the ball is hunted down 10.3 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , wide , bowled well wide outside off , called a wide by the umpire 10.2 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , no run , comedy of errors ! It was bowled a touch wider this time , Warner slams it to extra cover and sets off , Ojha was also running towards the striker 's end and then decides to go back , Warner was also running towards his end and it looked as if both the batsmen will be stranded at the non-striker 's end. The fielder throws it at the non-striker 's end , Ojha reaches in time and Warner was then struggling to make his ground at the striker 's end , Bravo just does n't get the throw right and Warner makes it in easily with the dive 10.1 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , 2 runs , banged in short and just outside off , Warner flat-bats it back towards the bowler , who gets his left hand down in time to make a half-stop. Was it a drop ? Not sure about that. He takes the pace off the ball as the ball rolls away to widish long-on and the batsmen take a couple 9.6 Ashwin to N Ojha , SIX , that 's a good hit ! Finally , Ojha hits one out of the park , it was a full toss from Ashwin , Ojha just helps it over the deep mid-wicket fence with ease , first six for him 9.5 Ashwin to N Ojha , 2 runs , quicker and fuller just outside off from Ashwin , Ojha advances down the track and slices the drive through backward point for a couple 9.4 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , touch flatter from Ashwin , Warner goes down on one knee and sweeps it to deep mid-wicket 9.3 Ashwin to N Ojha , 1 run , goes down on one knee and looks to go big , but gets an inside edge as the ball spins in towards him , the batsmen take a single as the ball rolls away to short fine 9.2 Ashwin to N Ojha , no run , goes for a big slog off this slowish delivery , can only get an inside edge onto the pad 9.1 Ashwin to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , down the leg-side , Warner fails to connect with the glance , the ball clips the pad and rolls away to fine leg Time for the time-out 8.6 Dwayne Bravo to N Ojha , no run , fast and full , following the batsman as well as he moved leg-side a bit , Ojha looks to loft , but gets hit on the pad 8.5 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , 1 run , slower delivery outside off stump , Warner punches it through mid-off 8.4 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , 2 runs , sliced in the air but there is no one in the deep behind square on the off-side and it lands safely. Widish full ball from Bravo , Warner looks to drive but slices it over backward point 8.3 Dwayne Bravo to N Ojha , 1 run , friendly length ball down the leg-side , glanced away to fine leg 8.2 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , 1 run , slower ball wide outside off stump , Warner reaches out and drives it through cover-point 8.1 Dwayne Bravo to Warner , 2 runs , starts off with a slower ball wide outside off stump , Warner cuts it to the left of the man at sweeper Dwayne Bravo , right-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , waits for the ball to spin away and flicks it through mid-wicket , Warner wants two but Ojha sends him back 7.5 Ashwin to Warner , no run , what bounce for Ashwin. Again a flighted delivery from Ashwin , spinning a long way away , Warner goes for the switch-hit but misses. Dhoni does well to stick his left hand out and stop the ball 7.4 Ashwin to Warner , no run , almost bowled him. Bowled slower through the air , the ball grips and turns , Warner goes early into the sweep , the ball hits the forearm , then hits the body and rolls away past the stumps 7.3 Ashwin to N Ojha , 1 run , tossed up but the length is on the shorter side again , punched through point off the back foot 7.2 Ashwin to Warner , 1 run , too short and pulled away to deep square leg One slip in place , Ashwin to bowl round the wicket to Warner 7.1 Ashwin to N Ojha , 1 run , short and spinning back in , Ojha waits and guides it towards short third man Ravichandran Ashwin , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 6.6 I Pandey to Warner , leg byes , FOUR , Warner shuffles in the crease , Pandey goes for the yorker , but bowls a low full toss , Warner tries to tickle it away fine but the ball goes off the pad and beats Dhoni 's dive to his right 6.5 I Pandey to Warner , no run , Pandey gets away with a bad ball. It was short and down the leg-side , Warner got inside the line and tried to help it on its way but missed it 6.4 I Pandey to N Ojha , 1 run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Ojha dabs it to backward point for a sharp run 6.3 I Pandey to Warner , leg byes , 1 run , short of length delivery pitching outside leg , Warner was looking to help it behind square on the on-side , gets hit on the thigh pad and they take a run as the ball rolls into the off-side 6.2 I Pandey to Warner , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Warner guides it fine but short third man tidies up 6.1 I Pandey to Warner , SIX , that 's a rank long hop , a gift first ball. Short and asking for trouble , Warner rocks back and pulls it handsomely over deep mid-wicket to move into the 20s Ishwar Pandey , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Naman Ojha , right handed bat , comes to the crease 5.6 Mohit Sharma to Rahul , out Bowled ! ! Rahul 's struggle ends. He was n't reading a single slower ball and he 's gone now. The back-of-the-hand slower ball again from Mohit , Rahul does n't pick it , goes early into the swing across the line , misses and the ball takes the toe-end of the bat and crashes into the stumps. Second wicket for Mohit and the crowd love it. Rahul b Mohit Sharma 5 ( 8 ) [ 4s-1 ] Mohit Sharma to Rahul , THATS OUT ! ! Bowled ! ! 5.5 Mohit Sharma to Rahul , no run , a confident shout from Dhoni but not given. Good length delivery just outside off stump , Rahul looks to guide it fine to third man by opening the face , but misses. The bat hit the flap of the back pad and maybe that caused the sound 5.4 Mohit Sharma to Warner , 1 run , Warner was surprised by the extra bounce on this short of length delivery , he pushes this to mid-off and gets off strike 5.3 Mohit Sharma to Warner , 2 runs , slower ball outside off stump , Warner punches it to deep extra-cover 5.2 Mohit Sharma to Warner , SIX , this time he pulls well , but there is a fielder in the deep and it just clears him. Probably , if he was close to the rope , he could have caught it. Short ball from Mohit , Warner pulls it to deep mid-wicket , Jadeja moves back , stretches his left hand out but only manages to palm it over the boundary 5.1 Mohit Sharma to Warner , no run , the back-of-the-hand slower delivery outside off stump , Warner goes early into the pull and gets beaten 4.6 Nehra to Rahul , no run , and again , this time he almost chips it to the man at cover. Slower ball grips and bounces a bit more , Rahul checks his drive and luckily it went to the left of cover 4.5 Nehra to Rahul , no run , another slower ball not read by Rahul. He leaves the ball at the last moment but it was n't too far away from the outside edge 4.4 Nehra to Rahul , no run , short of length delivery outside off stump , Rahul slashes and misses 4.3 Nehra to Rahul , FOUR , edgedddd but just short of first slip. Slower delivery outside off stump , Rahul goes early into the drive and also plays away from the body , gets a thick edge but luckily it did n't carry to Ashwin , who was diving forward. Nehra was n't impressed with the fielder 's effort , but Ashwin had no chance , especially with lack of pace on the ball 4.2 Nehra to Rahul , no run , shortish and outside off stump , Rahul cuts it to cover-point 4.1 Nehra to Warner , 1 run , this good length delivery just nips back in a touch , Warner flicks it to the left of mid-on 3.6 Mohit Sharma to Warner , 1 run , slices the drive after making a bit of room and sends it to deep point 3.5 Mohit Sharma to Rahul , 1 run , nice way to open the account. Short and on the leg stump , Rahul pulls it to deep backward square leg Lokesh Rahul , right handed bat , comes to the crease 3.4 Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , out Caught by Ravindra Jadeja ! ! Goes for the drive but offers a simple catch. The change of pace has worked for Mohit and CSK. It was full and outside off stump , Dhawan was looking to drive over cover , but he ends up slicing it , backward point takes an easy catch. Dhawan was looking very good , but he 's thrown it away. Dhawan c Ravindra Jadeja b Mohit Sharma 26 ( 18 ) [ 4s-5 ] Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 3.3 Mohit Sharma to Warner , 1 run , good length delivery outside off stump , Warner looks to drive but gets an inside edge that escapes past the stumps to backward square leg Round the wicket to Warner as well 3.2 Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , 1 run , slower ball outside off stump , Dhawan guides it towards point 3.1 Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , FOUR , he 's looking very good here , Shikhar Dhawan. Short and on the off stump , Dhawan camps on the back foot and pulls it over mid-wicket to pick up four more 2.6 Nehra to Dhawan , 1 run , moves across a bit and works this length ball to mid-on and keeps strike 2.5 Nehra to Dhawan , FOUR , precise placement from Dhawan. Short and way outside off stump , Dhawan waits for the ball , just opens the face of the bat at the last moment to send it between backward point and short third man. Raina dived to his right , but the ball escaped 2.4 Nehra to Warner , 1 run , nice and full from Nehra , Warner punches it to the left of the bowler , Nehra puts his left hand out , but does n't grab the ball 2.3 Nehra to Dhawan , 1 run , gives the charge to the bowler and cuts the short of length delivery to sweeper 2.2 Nehra to Warner , 1 run , short of length delivery on the leg stump , Warner tucks it through backward square leg 2.1 Nehra to Dhawan , 1 run , Warner will have the strike now. Short and wide outside off stump , cut to deep point After the first ball , it 's been all Shikhar Dhawan. Warner has n't got the strike back 1.6 Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , 1 run , again that movement across the stumps from Dhawan , he punches this short of length delivery to the right of the bowler , Mohit dives to his right in his followthrough and tries to stop , but the ball escapes to mid-off allowing the run 1.5 Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , no run , drives this time , but ca n't get it past Baz at cover 1.4 Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , no run , looks like Mohit wants to cramp Dhawan for room , short of length delivery outside off stump , Dhawan pushes it towards cover Round the wicket now to Dhawan 1.3 Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , no run , in the airrrr and just short of Suresh Raina. Dhawan walks across the sticks a touch , Mohit bowls a back of a length delivery outside off stump , Dhawan cuts uppishly , Raina dives forward at point 1.2 Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , FOUR , shot , too short from Mohit Sharma , not high enough to trouble Dhawan , who rocks back and pulls it nicely over backward square leg and fine leg had no chance 1.1 Mohit Sharma to Dhawan , no run , timed sweetly again by Dhawan but straight to cover. He stood tall and punched this short of length delivery , but could n't find the gap Mohit Sharma , right-arm medium , comes into the attack Good beginning for SRH , chasing 210 . 0.6 Nehra to Dhawan , 1 run , plays with an angled bat and the ball goes off the outside half of the bat to third man 0.5 Nehra to Dhawan , FOUR , overpitched and Dhawan leans into the drive. Full and shaping away slightly outside off stump , Dhawan does n't move his feet fully forward , just leans into the drive and sent it through mid-off 0.4 Nehra to Dhawan , no run , just a hint of shape away on this length ball , Dhawan pushes with an open face and picks out point 0.3 Nehra to Dhawan , no run , short of length just outside off stump , Dhawan defends and gets an inside edge onto pad 0.2 Nehra to Dhawan , FOUR , stands tall and drives nicely off the back foot , Baz gives chase but the ball wins the race. Short and swinging away outside off stump , Dhawan waits for the ball and crashes it through cover. Great way to open the account 0.1 Nehra to Warner , 1 run , starts off with a bouncer , Warner was n't expecting it first up , but he manages to hook it on the bounce to long leg. He was n't fully in control of the shot Warner and Dhawan are at the crease. Warner is on strike. Nehra will open the attack Just a lone slip in place . Welcome back for the run chase. The players are making their way out to the middle. Warner and Dhawan will open for SRH , Nehra to take the new ball . For Sunrisers , their pacers struggled to bowl on a flat deck. Ishant had his share of problems with no-balls and looked short of rhythm. Even Karn , the leg-spinner , was taken to the cleaners by McCullum and Dhoni. It was Ravi Bopara , who rolled his fingers over the ball and bowled with good control to keep the opposition in check. The deck is flat , but after being smashed all over the park in hot and humid conditions , it wo n't be easy for the Sunrisers to regroup and chase down the target . Brendon McCullum flayed the bowlers all over the park to compose a ton and take Chennai to an imposing total. The bowlers had no answer while up against the blinding brilliance of McCullum. After starting on a good note by collecting a couple of boundaries in the first few overs , he used his feet to clout Bhuvneshwar Kumar for a six in the third over. In particular , McCullum was severe on Ishant Sharma 's bowling. In the 12th over bowled by Ishant , he played shots in a 360-degree arc. One of his strokes included a scoop that went all the way for a six. In the final over , he showed great improvisation and reached his second hundred in the IPL. MS Dhoni was in belligerent mood in the end overs and clobbered Karn Sharma for three sixes in the 18th over. He cracked a quick-fire fifty. Dwayne Smith too played a handy innings for Chennai . All the Chennai team stand up and applaud Baz for his innings. Not easy to play such an innings in such hot and stifling conditions. Takes some effort. Shows the fitness of the bloke too. Special , special effort. Nice to see Parvez Rasool and Shikhar Dhawan walk up to Baz and offer their congrats. Baz walks off with a smile , talking to Bravo and then raising the bat to all corners of the crowd . 19.6 Boult to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , there it is ! 100 for Baz ! Gets there with a drive to cover , had Warner hit at the striker 's , would 've been interesting , for Dwayne Bravo was struggling. He does n't and Brendon McCullum gets a hundred. Well-deserved too. Has no energy to celebrate as he walks off to raucous applause from the Chepauk crowd Now on 99. Can he get to a hundred ? Will he settle for a single ? I do n't think so. He stops Boult as he is n't ready 19.5 Boult to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , and again. This is an even more stunning shot. Since it was on a back of a length and following him , but Brendon McCullum has somehow dinked it over short third inside the ring , how he managed to do that , I have no idea. Pure genius ! 19.4 Boult to Brendon McCullum , SIX , the Bazscoop ! He knows his countryman inside out. Boult came from round the wicket and Brendon McCullum was already in position , shuffles across and then gets low to scoop the low full toss back over the keeper , goes all the way Dwayne Bravo , right handed bat , comes to the crease 19.3 Boult to Ravindra Jadeja , out Ravindra Jadeja Run Out ! ! Ravindra Jadeja sacrifices himself for Brendon McCullum and the team 's cause. Yorker dug out back to Boult , Ravindra Jadeja had no choice but to cross to the other end , Boult fielded it and then turned around , before rifling down the stumps. He had the option of running and flicking the bails off , but trusted his arm from a distance. Ravindra Jadeja run out ( Boult ) 0 ( 1 ) Boult to Ravindra Jadeja , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Ravindra Jadeja , left handed bat , comes to the crease 19.2 Boult to Dhoni , out Caught by Warner ! ! Hit hard , but straight to the fielder at cover. Full outside off , drilled to Warner who takes a sharp catch. End of Dhoni 's power-packed knock. Dhoni c Warner b Boult 53 ( 29 ) [ 4s-4 6s-4 ] Boult to Dhoni , THATS OUT ! ! Caught ! ! 19.1 Boult to Dhoni , FOUR , Dhoni has a smile on his face after getting to fifty. For sure he has enjoyed this innings. It was short and Dhoni toe-ended the pull , but he got it in the gap , wide of deep square leg , split the gap too. Brendon McCullum walks up and has a smile and a word with his skipper Trent Boult [ 3.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 18.6 Bopara to Dhoni , 1 run , into the shot too early , Dhoni gets a single to deep mid-wicket 18.5 Bopara to Dhoni , no run , that is a rare miss. Dhoni down the track and heaves wildly at a length ball and does n't connect. It was outside off and Dhoni missed 18.4 Bopara to Dhoni , FOUR , Dhoni has a look at his bat after hitting that. Skips out and slogs to deep mid-wicket , was n't that well-timed - I guess , as the ball goes for a one bounce boundary. Dhoni on the charge at the MA Chidambaram Stadium 18.3 Bopara to Dhoni , no run , had Bopara hit the stumps , Brendon McCullum was gone. Dhoni missed the nudge and the ball rolled back to Bopara , Brendon McCullum was halfway down and gave up , but the bowler missed , depsite having three stumps to aim at 18.2 Bopara to Dhoni , FOUR , Bopara goes short and is punished. Dhoni rocks back and murders a pull to deep square leg , beating the fielder , was hit very , very hard 18.1 Bopara to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , full and on the stumps , flicked wristily to deep mid-wicket Ravi Bopara [ 3.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack 17.6 Karn Sharma to Dhoni , SIX , massive. Huge. Humongous. Add any other similar adjectives you know of. Dhoni has just hit Karn Sharma way back into the stands at long-on. Just above the top tier. A little shimmy down the track , not too close to the pitch of the ball , allowing for a free extension of the arms , and then comes the clean swing of the bat to send the ball into orbit. He watches the path of the ball and then punches gloves with Brendon McCullum 17.5 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , shortish , Brendon McCullum rocks back and pulls to deep square leg , just a single 17.4 Karn Sharma to Dhoni , 1 run , Dhoni wants to keep the strike , it was punched wide of cover , the fielder dived across and made a half-stop , Dhoni wanted the ball to pass the fielder and then once it did , reluctantly crosses over 17.3 Karn Sharma to Dhoni , SIX , now over mid-wicket. Dhoni has got his power back. Makes me eat humble pie. A skip out and then against the spin over mid-wicket. Just a flick of the wrists and away she goes. What will Karn Sharma do now ? 17.2 Karn Sharma to Dhoni , no run , Karn Sharma drags the length back , Dhoni makes room and cuts straight to the fielder at cover. Says 'no ' to Brendon McCullum 17.1 Karn Sharma to Dhoni , SIX , into the top tier ! Down the track and to the pitch before leathering it over long-on. Not a big followthrough , but Dhoni has such strong hands and especially that bottom-hand , wow ! Karn Sharma [ 3.0-0-31-0 ] is back into the attack As Ravi Bopara showed , cutters and taking the pace off is the way to go on this wicket 16.6 Bhuvneshwar to Dhoni , 1 run , length on the stumps , Dhoni wrists it to short fine leg , keeps the strike with that single 16.5 Bhuvneshwar to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , good yorker length delivery outside off , Brendon McCullum digs it out in front of mid-off. Warner comes across from cover and dives to cut it off 16.5 Bhuvneshwar to Brendon McCullum , wide , Bhuvneshwar fires a full yorker wide of off , but it is wide of the tramline and called wide 16.4 Bhuvneshwar to Dhoni , 1 run , another cutter , on the stumps , softly turned to mid-wicket for a single. Gives the strike back to Brendon McCullum 16.3 Bhuvneshwar to Dhoni , no run , a cutter from Bhuvneshwar , outside off , Dhoni fails to cut as he misses 16.2 Bhuvneshwar to Dhoni , SIX , that is n't Dhoni at his best , but he will get six. Charged Bhuvneshwar and heaved the bowler , not well-timed at all , but the ball has enough legs to cross the ropes at wide long-on. A mini six 16.1 Bhuvneshwar to Dhoni , 2 runs , length delivery on the pads , tucked to deep backward square leg , Dhoni hares back for the second Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 3.0-0-19-0 ] is back into the attack Time-out 15.6 Bopara to Dhoni , 1 run , slower delivery on the stumps , pushed to backward square leg , for a single 15.5 Bopara to Dhoni , FOUR , low full toss outside off , Dhoni opens the face of the bat and drives in the gap , KW from sweeper has no chance and that will be Dhoni 's first boundary 15.4 Bopara to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , did that carry to KW ? KW misjudged that in the sun. Was slow out of the blocks and picked it up late too. Hit to him at sweeper cover , he is slow in coming forward and despite diving forward , the ball just about lands in front of his hands as he tried to cup it before it hit the turf. Had he been more alert , he would 've caught that 15.3 Bopara to Dhoni , 1 run , low full toss , flicked straight to the fielder at short fine leg , quick single 15.2 Bopara to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , another slower delivery , Brendon McCullum adjusts and pushes it to sweeper cover 15.1 Bopara to Dhoni , 1 run , slower delivery , sits up short and Dhoni plays a controlled forehand pull to long-on , the ball lands well in front of Boult running forward 14.6 Boult to Dhoni , 1 run , slower delivery outside off , Dhoni drives with an open face to point and takes a quick single. Brendon McCullum beats the throw from point as he sprints across All four in on the off-side 14.5 Boult to Dhoni , 2 runs , slower delivery outside off , Dhoni opens the face of the bat and chops it to the left of the diving backward point 14.4 Boult to Dhoni , no run , yorker length outside off , squeezed out to point. Four dots in a row 14.3 Boult to Dhoni , no run , slower delivery outside off , had he left it Dhoni may have got a wide , but he reaches out and finds point , sends Brendon McCullum back 14.2 Boult to Dhoni , no run , low full toss outside off , Dhoni surprisingly ca n't connect on the steer 14.1 Boult to Dhoni , no run , full outside off , Dhoni looks to push through cover , but finds Boult Trent Boult [ 2.0-0-16-0 ] is back into the attack 13.6 Bopara to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , that is unlucky for Bopara. Length delivery outside off , Brendon McCullum drives and gets an inside edge that misses the stumps and beats the short fine to his right. Cruel , cruel game this , especially this format for the bowlers Replays show that Brendon McCullum said yes to Raina first and then sent him back as he saw Rahul fielding the ball 13.5 Bopara to Dhoni , 1 run , pitched up outside off , driven to sweeper cover 13.4 Bopara to Dhoni , no run , yorker length outside off , Dhoni squirts it out to his left , off a thick inside edge MS Dhoni , right handed bat , comes to the crease 13.3 Bopara to Raina , out Raina Run Out ! ! Exceptional fielding from Rahul at point. Raina jumping down the track and punching it , the ball spun away from Rahul who was wrong-footed , but he recovered quickly , dived to his right and then flung the throw back at the stumps , even as he was still on the ground. Only one stump to aim at and he hits them. Catches the diving Raina short. Some effort to get Raina out run out , for Raina is one of the quickest between the wickets. Raina run out ( Rahul ) 14 ( 12 ) [ 4s-1 ] Bopara to Raina , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! Looks like Rahul has got Raina out. Direct hit. Raina is walking off. He is n't even waiting for the decision. Off he goes 13.2 Bopara to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , full and on the stumps , hint of reverse as well , flicked to deep mid-wicket 13.1 Bopara to Raina , 1 run , slower delivery on the stumps , Raina dabs it to short third , looks at Brendon McCullum and sets off Ravi Bopara [ 1.0-0-3-0 ] is back into the attack 12.6 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , no run , defended to the right of the bowler , peace finally 12.5 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , SIX , make that 8 for Brendon McCullum. This is a gift from Karn Sharma , dropped short and McCullum in position quickly , rocked back and pulled it flat over deep mid-wicket. The fielder was there , but he was a mere spectator 12.4 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , SIX , Brendon McCullum is generating more heat , adding to whatever that is on view at Chennai. He takes a step out , makes room and then lofts the bowler back over his head , over the sightscreen and all the way. Seventh six of the innings 12.3 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , no run , slight turn away , Brendon McCullum 's drive catches the outside half and squirts to point 12.2 Karn Sharma to Raina , 1 run , Raina uses his feet and flicks to deep mid-wicket 12.1 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , shortish and turning away , flat-batted hard to long-off Karn Sharma [ 2.0-0-17-0 ] is back into the attack 11.6 Ishant to Raina , 2 runs , short of length down leg , Raina gets inside the line and flicks to fine leg for a couple 11.5 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , that is mistimed , short of length on the stumps , Brendon McCullum 's pull does n't carry any timing to fine leg 11.4 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , SIX , the Bazscoop ! Brendon McCullum is showing off everything today at the MA Chidambaram Stadium. Low full toss on the stumps , Brendon McCullum was ready , shuffling across , on one knee and that dinky little scoop carries all the way over the keeper. The crowd go mental in the heat after seeing that go all the way Free-hit time 11.4 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , no ball , FOUR , Ishant kicks the turf in disgust after his fourth no-ball. That 's unpardonable. In this format that is. Brendon McCullum comes down the track and takes it on the full , opens the face of the bat and eases the drive , beating two men at point , inside the circle 11.3 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , SIX , full toss to Brendon McCullum and he wo n't miss out. Swung over deep backward square leg. That 's fifty for Brendon McCullum as well. He removes the helmet and has a word with Raina 11.2 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , 2 runs , low full toss on the stumps , Brendon McCullum reverse laps to short third man , Bhuvi fumbles and allows a couple Ishant is coming round the wicket 11.1 Ishant to Raina , 1 run , short of length outside off , Raina wrists it to mid-wicket Ishant Sharma [ 2.0-0-23-0 ] is back into the attack 10.6 Bhuvneshwar to Brendon McCullum , no run , a slower delivery on the stumps , Brendon McCullum makes room and cuts straight to the fielder at point. Raina does n't want the quick single 10.5 Bhuvneshwar to Raina , 1 run , Raina steps out and outside leg , Bhuvneshwar follows him , pushed to sweeper cover 10.4 Bhuvneshwar to Raina , no run , length delivery on the stumps , flicked straight to the fielder at mid-wicket 10.3 Bhuvneshwar to Raina , FOUR , class from Raina. It was a back of a length delivery outside off , Raina was forward and then opened the face , played on the rise and beats the diving point to his right. Gives third man no chance Looks like that ball has chipped the toe of Brendon McCullum 's bat. He wants a change of bat and gets one 10.2 Bhuvneshwar to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , Brendon McCullum comes down the track and takes it on the full , not hit with any timing , down to long-off In this stifling and suffocating heat , it is n't easy for someone to run and dive. But Raina made it look so easy 10.1 Bhuvneshwar to Raina , 1 run , look at Raina. He defends to mid-on and then sets off for the quick single , knows that he may be in trouble and then dives full length to make it. Committment ingrained in Raina all over Bhuvneshwar Kumar [ 2.0-0-12-0 ] is back into the attack 9.6 P Rasool to Brendon McCullum , no run , flat and outside off , Brendon McCullum mishits the cut , to cover , went too hard at it and lost all power 9.5 P Rasool to Brendon McCullum , SIX , sits back and then swings over mid-wicket. Another huge six as Brendon McCullum got under that full delivery , the crowd go berserk in hot Chennai 9.4 P Rasool to Brendon McCullum , no run , charges Rasool and hits it back to the bowler , who dives to his left and stops it 9.3 P Rasool to Brendon McCullum , no run , attempts the reverse and ca n't connect. Ojha stops the ball with his pads 9.2 P Rasool to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , dragged down very short , Brendon McCullum went back and smashed it over cover , beats Bhuvi running across and sliding at long-off. Very easy for Baz 9.1 P Rasool to Raina , 1 run , flat from round the wicket , pushed off the back foot to long-on Parvez Rasool , right-arm off break , comes into the attack 8.6 Bopara to Brendon McCullum , no run , yorker length on off , squirted out to cover. 'Wait on ' is the call from Brendon McCullum 8.5 Bopara to Raina , 1 run , Raina gets forward and punches it to long-on 8.4 Bopara to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , slower delivery on the stumps , Brendon McCullum opens the face of the bat and dabs it to the right of Boult at short third , Raina is very quick , compared to Smith and makes it easily , even as Boult misses the direct hit. Even with a direct hit , Raina would 've been in 8.3 Bopara to Brendon McCullum , no run , good take by Ojha standing up , Brendon McCullum is disappointed as he slashes at a good length delivery outside off and misses 8.2 Bopara to Raina , 1 run , low full toss on off , driven to sweeper cover , Raina is off the mark Suresh Raina , left handed bat , comes to the crease 8.1 Bopara to Brendon McCullum , out Dwayne Smith Run Out ! ! It was dabbed straight to the fielder at short third , Brendon McCullum set off , Dwayne Smith was a bit slow in getting off and that resulted in him being found short. Direct hit from Trent Boult. Smiles from the Sunrisers. Smith did n't even dive. Dwayne Smith run out ( Boult ) 27 ( 26 ) [ 4s-4 6s-1 ] Bopara to Brendon McCullum , THATS OUT ! ! Run Out ! ! A direct hit from short third and has Dwayne Smith made it ? No. He has n't. He is gone. Out by a good distance Ravi Bopara , right-arm medium , comes into the attack 7.6 Karn Sharma to Dwayne Smith , no run , Dwayne Smith is beaten on the sweep , missed the shot and the ball pitched outside leg , so ca n't be given out 7.5 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , 'catch it ' was the cry from Karn Sharma , but Brendon McCullum has hit that airy drive in the gap , Bhuvi slides to his left at long-off to keep it to a single 7.4 Karn Sharma to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , defended with a closed face to the vacant square leg area 7.3 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , leg byes , 1 run , sliding down leg , Brendon McCullum glances and the umpire has given it as leg byes. Clearly Brendon McCullum got bat on that 7.2 Karn Sharma to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , this bounces a bit extra on middle , Dwayne Smith shuffles across and tucks it to deep backward square leg 7.1 Karn Sharma to Dwayne Smith , SIX , superb hit from Dwayne Smith. He just clears his front leg and then lofts the leggie over the long-on fielder , clean hit and went all the way Time-out 6.6 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , full toss and Brendon McCullum goes over cover. In the air , but never near the reach of any fielder. Ishant wears a resigned look as he takes his cap from the umpire 6.5 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , no run , that is a wild slog and predictably Brendon McCullum does n't connect. On a length outside off , Brendon McCullum swings and misses 6.4 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , SIX , the free-hit goes for a six. Brendon McCullum comes down the track and then flat-bats the slowish delivery over wide long-on. Cue for wild cheers from the Chepauk crowd. It was a flat hit too 6.4 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , no ball , Ishant is struggling here. Another no-ball. Third in 10 balls. Oversteps by a long way too. Brendon McCullum would 've got a wide had it not been for a no-ball as it was way over the head of the Kiwi. It was dug in short by Ishant as he saw McCullum skipping out 6.3 Ishant to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , back of a length outside off , defended wide of cover and a single taken 6.2 Ishant to Dwayne Smith , no run , Dwayne Smith is beaten now by Ishant , who gets this to straighten after angling it in , hit the seam and straightened past the defensive push 6.1 Ishant to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , even the athletic Warner ca n't get there with a dive at mid-off. Long half-volley from Ishant and Dwayne Smith drills it past the Sunrisers captain. Held the pose too after playing the shot. One for the photographers 5.6 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , no run , Brendon McCullum gets forward and defends back to Karn Sharma to end the over 5.5 Karn Sharma to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , tapped to the right of the bowler and a quick single is taken even as Karn Sharma tries to run Dwayne Smith out , backhander but the Barbadian had made it easily 5.4 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , tossed up on middle and leg , Brendon McCullum gets forward and eases a drive to long-on 5.3 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , no run , Brendon McCullum closes the face of the bat a bit early on that and the soft leading edge does n't carry back to Karn Sharma 5.2 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , SIX , that is smashed. Brendon McCullum picked that easily and pulled it over deep square leg. Into the stands where there are no spectators. Just yellow chairs which are empty. Dragged down horribly by Karn Sharma and he was made to pay big time 5.1 Karn Sharma to Brendon McCullum , no run , Karn Sharma comes on and Brendon McCullum inside-edges a flick to square leg Karn Sharma , right-arm leg break , comes into the attack 4.6 Ishant to Dwayne Smith , no run , length , angling in , defended off the front foot to cover 4.5 Ishant to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , brilliantly done by Dwayne Smith. He backs away and then carves the full delivery outside off , past the diving point , beating the fielder to his right. Did n't try to overhit , just wanted to place it and did so Free-hit time and the crowd know it too 4.5 Ishant to Dwayne Smith , no ball , second no-ball from Ishant. He is rusty. That 's for sure. Bowls the slower bouncer , Dwayne Smith sways away from the line of the delivery , lets it go 4.4 Ishant to Dwayne Smith , no run , Warner claps Ishant after the bowler beats Dwayne Smith. The Barbadian charging and missing a slog to leg 4.3 Ishant to Dwayne Smith , no run , Dwayne Smith is beaten neck and crop. The ball angled in and then after it hit the seam , nipped away , beating Smith 's push. So nearly nicked it 4.2 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , well bowled. Ishant redeems himself. He bowls a yorker and Brendon McCullum 's crude slog produces a thick inside edge behind square 4.2 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , no ball , Ishant has overstepped. His familiar problem coming back to haunt him again. He beats Brendon McCullum on the swipe , but since he has crossed the line , now it will be a free-hit 4.1 Ishant to Brendon McCullum , no run , Brendon McCullum charges Ishant first ball and completely mishits it to mid-on. Wanted to go over mid-wicket and instead found mid-on Ishant Sharma , right-arm fast , comes into the attack 3.6 Boult to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , poor delivery from Boult and he pays the price. Swinging into the pads , Dwayne Smith did n't miss out as he glanced wide of short fine inside the ring. Neatly played 3.5 Boult to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , full and on the pads , flicked to deep mid-wicket , just a single 3.4 Boult to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , this time Brendon McCullum stands there and drills an airy drive over Boult 's right-hand , full on the stumps , McCullum put that away in a flash even before Boult could react Slip out. Cover in 3.3 Boult to Brendon McCullum , no run , Boult has a huge smile on his face. He beats Brendon McCullum who charged him and missed an ugly swipe to leg. The ball went in between his body and the stumps 3.2 Boult to Dwayne Smith , leg byes , 1 run , full and swinging into the pads , Dwayne Smith falls over and misses the flick. Takes a leg bye though 3.1 Boult to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of length on the stumps , Dwayne Smith stands tall and defends solidly 2.6 Bhuvneshwar to Brendon McCullum , no run , overpitched that time , Brendon McCullum drills a drive , but mid-off goes to his right to field 2.5 Bhuvneshwar to Brendon McCullum , no run , another fine yorker , outside off , Brendon McCullum digs it out back to Bhuvneshwar , may have chipped the toe of the bat there 2.5 Bhuvneshwar to Brendon McCullum , wide , back of the hand slower delivery , gone wrong , down leg 2.4 Bhuvneshwar to Brendon McCullum , no run , well bowled. Yorker from Bhuvneshwar , Brendon McCullum digs it out to cover , says no for the quick single 2.3 Bhuvneshwar to Brendon McCullum , SIX , there goes Brendon McCullum. Charges Bhuvneshwar and hoicks the length ball way over deep mid-wicket. Connected beautifully and sent it rows back 2.2 Bhuvneshwar to Dwayne Smith , 5 legbyes , direct hit and Dwayne Smith was gone. Instead he gets four extra runs. He is struck on the pads and the ball rolled close to where a silly point would 've been , Brendon McCullum pushed his partner and Bhuvneshwar had he hit at the non-striker 's would 've got the Barbadian out. Two fielders backing up got in the way of each other and left the ball to go past them 2.2 Bhuvneshwar to Dwayne Smith , wide , Dwayne Smith charges Bhuvneshwar and probably the bowler saw that , bowled it full and wide outside off , Smith missed out as he reached out , called a wide 2.1 Bhuvneshwar to Dwayne Smith , no run , short of length on off , straightens a tad , Dwayne Smith 's bat face closes a bit as he defends to mid-off 1.6 Boult to Brendon McCullum , no run , loud shout for lbw , but the height was an issue there , again appreciable inward movement for Boult , he has Brendon McCullum playing around his pad and the ball hits McCullum above the knee roll 1.5 Boult to Dwayne Smith , 1 run , inswinger , full and on the stumps , flicked to the left of short fine , where Bhuvi tumbles to stop it. Good stop 1.4 Boult to Dwayne Smith , no run , nips back in and catches Dwayne Smith on the thigh pad , Dwayne Smith fails to connect with the flick. Would 've gone down 1.3 Boult to Brendon McCullum , 1 run , quick single taken to mid-off , short of length on off , defended and Brendon McCullum was away Fine leg in , sweeper on the off-side back. Just a lone slip 1.2 Boult to Brendon McCullum , no run , that is a poor stroke. Just threw the bat at a wide delivery and did n't connect. The ball just about carries to Ojha 1.1 Boult to Brendon McCullum , FOUR , Brendon McCullum has the first blow. The width was there , and the Kiwi captain put it away. Full and wide outside off , McCullum pounced on it and flashed it wide of cover , in the air , but in the gap too This is the contest that everyone were looking forward to. Boult v Brendon McCullum 1.1 Boult to Brendon McCullum , wide , swing for Boult , but down leg , called a wide as Brendon McCullum flicks and misses Trent Boult , left-arm fast medium , comes into the attack 0.6 Bhuvneshwar to Dwayne Smith , no run , nips back in and Dwayne Smith deals with that off the back foot , defending to square leg 0.5 Bhuvneshwar to Dwayne Smith , no run , full and outside off , Dwayne Smith gets forward and defends solidly , showing the full face back to the bowler 0.4 Bhuvneshwar to Dwayne Smith , FOUR , that is a leading edge and it has gone wide of cover. Swinging in , Dwayne Smith closed the face early and the edge flew away wide of the diving fielder. Lucky , but that 's how it goes 0.3 Bhuvneshwar to Dwayne Smith , no run , nips back in and beats Dwayne Smith 's flick , rapped on the pads , but was going down and also a bit high. No real appeal for lbw from the Sunrisers 0.2 Bhuvneshwar to Dwayne Smith , no run , that was in the air , but Dwayne Smith checked his drive. Did the ball stop ? Looked like it , anyway it did n't carry to cover Two slips in place 0.1 Bhuvneshwar to Dwayne Smith , no run , immediately Dwayne Smith is beaten playing an expansive drive on-the-up , the ball was floated up on a good length outside off , Dwayne Smith drove and missed Dwayne Smith and Brendon McCullum are at the crease. Dwayne Smith is on strike. Bhuvneshwar will open the attack Bhuvi to start off. Smith to face him. Let 's go.. . A nice little tribute to Richie Benaud as the microphone is left leaning next to the stumps. KW has a smile and pats Boult as they cross the ropes after breaking out of the huddle. Out come the Chennai openers too. It is a furnace out in Chennai. Hottest ! The 4pm kick-off means it will test a lot of the players. Let 's see how they cope up with it . Shoaib Akhtar makes a very good point on air when he says that not picking Dale Steyn is a good move. He reckons Steyn is more of a Test match bowler and has n't evolved enough to bowl in the shorter formats. He mentions that Steyn has copped a lot of punishment over the years in the shorter formats. On current form , Boult over Steyn looks the right decision . The only plausible explanation for Dale Steyn not playing could be that the Sunrisers batting is a bit weak especially at 6. So that 's why they have gone in for Bopara who can double up as an all-rounder as well , bowling seam-up. Not sure whether his dibbly-dobbly stuff on a flat Chennai wicket will have any impact Big , big news. No Dale Steyn ! Ravi Bopara is playing instead of him Teams : Chennai Super Kings ( Playing XI ) : Brendon McCullum , Dwayne Smith , Suresh Raina , Faf du Plessis , Dwayne Bravo , MS Dhoni ( w/c ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohit Sharma , Ishwar Pandey , Ashish Nehra Sunrisers Hyderabad ( Playing XI ) : David Warner ( c ) , Shikhar Dhawan , Lokesh Rahul , Naman Ojha ( w ) , Kane Williamson , Ravi Bopara , Parvez Rasool , Karn Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma , Trent Boult Chennai Super Kings have won the toss and have opted to bat Warner : " It is going fantastic. Ca n't complain ( on how life 's treating him after getting married last week ) . I 'm ready to lead from the front. We have got a great bunch of lads and we are ready to go. No not at all , maybe I will be a bit more responsible in the field ( whether captaincy will change his batting ) . It is quite handy to throw the ball to any one of our bowlers. The voice of cricket. It is very sad to hear the passing of Richie. Condolences to his family. Fielding is a big part in this format and you 've got to take your catches - it 's a simple game " Dhoni : " I think we did bowl well in that game. There was a bit of help. I felt Ashwin bowled really well. He used his variations in pace to a good extent. There are still some areas of concern , hopefully it will be sorted. The one extra fielder inside in T20s has a big impact on the game. That 's one of the reason bowlers look a bit comfortable in this format. When there is grass on the wicket , it turns a bit. The way Ashwin used his pace , he got more turn than the others. We are batting first. Good wicket , the same wicket that was used in the last game " Toss time ! Toss is not far away from now. We will get you all the details from the toss in a short while from now . Weather Report : The temperatures in Chennai are expected to be around the 35 degrees Celsius mark. There 's no rain expected today and we should get a full game . Head-to-Head : As expected , CSK dominate this stat as well. These teams have met four times in the last two years , with CSK holding a 3-1 advantage over their competitors today . With Karn Sharma playing as the spinner , the fourth bowling spot should be decided between Ishant Sharma and Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Ishant missed the World Cup with an injury and he will look to make a strong comeback today , if he plays. In Bhuvi 's case , he was part of India 's World Cup squad but was kept on the sidelines for most of the time , with the pace trio of Umesh Yadav , Mohammed Shami and Mohit Sharma , preferred ahead of him . Apart from that , the ferocious David Warner will be leading the side this year. Fresh from the World Cup triumph , the aggression that Warner embodies , should rub off on his team as well. He will also open the innings with Shikhar Dhawan , who had a good World Cup and their opening pair will be the key when they come out to bat. The men from Hyderabad also have the likes of Ravi Bopara , Eoin Morgan and Moises Henriques in their squad , but in all likelihood , these three foreigners should sit out the first game . The Sunrisers probably got the best of buys from this year 's auction. With Trent Boult 's arrival , their bowling department looks extremely strong. Imagine how it 'll be like when from one end there 's Dale Steyn running in and from the other , Trent Boult will be bowling some inswinging yorkers. Their batting too looks stronger this year. Even though Williamson was mostly kept quiet during the World Cup , but one can not discount his class and he definitely adds a great deal to their batting order . 14 : 45 Local Time , 09 : 15 GMT , 14 : 45 IST : After a thrilling win over Delhi Daredevils , CSK will lock horns with Sunrisers Hyderabad at the MA Chidambaram Stadium in the first game today. Even though they had 3 international T20 captains in their ranks ( Brendon McCullum , Faf du Plessis and MS Dhoni ) , CSK 's batting in the first game looked pretty ordinary. If not for those two sixes by MS Dhoni in the last over , CSK would n't have even reached 150. As it turned out , they won by a solitary run , on account of some good bowling from the likes of Ashish Nehra and Ravichandran Ashwin . Preview Sunrisers Hyderabad 's rejuvenated bid to win their first IPL title will begin in Chennai in game one of Saturday 's Pepsi IPL 2015 double-header , and in their way will be hosts Chennai Super Kings , whom they have beaten once in four meetings . It is evident from Sunrisers ' spending at the auction this year that the management is determined to overcome the failures of 2014. They possess a very good - if not the best - bowling unit of the tournament , making a smart buy in in-form New Zealand fast bowler Trent Boult , and purchasing Kane Williamson at a steal , while Eoin Morgan bolsters their batting. Of course , as we all know from past IPLs , simply spending big bucks does not guarantee success. SRH will have to punch above their weight to contest with teams like CSK , Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kolkata Knight Riders this season . CSK 's failings with the bat in their campaign opener at home on Thursday were papered over by a fine bowling effort backed by some excellent fielding , and you can bet that MS Dhoni will have called on the team 's star batsmen to step up. CSK , as always , boast a terrific side and will be favourites at home against a rejigged SRH . Venue : MA Chidambaram Stadium , Chennai Date : April 11 , 2015 Weather : A humid day with temperatures ranging from 27 to 35 degrees Celsius . Team News : CSK The big bats did n't click - the highest score was Dwayne Smith 's 34 - but considering what the might of this line-up is on paper , do n't expect any changes. Each of the five bowlers in the first match took at least one wicket , so why change a winning unit ? Probable XI : 1 Dwayne Smith , 2 Brendon McCullum , 3 Suresh Raina , 4 Faf du Plessis , 5 Ravindra Jadeja , 6 MS Dhoni ( capt/wk ) , 7 Dwayne Bravo , 8 R Ashwin , 9 Mohit Sharma , 10 Ishwar Pandey , 11 Ashish Nehra SRH A problem of plenty in the bowling. Sunrisers have in their ranks Dale Steyn , Boult , Ishant Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Praveen Kumar , Siddharth Kaul , Ashish Reddy , Chama Milind , Karn Sharma , Parvez Rasool and Moises Henriques. From this list , count on Steyn and Boult to fill two overseas slots and legspinner Karn as the third shoo-in bowler. That leaves the management to deliberate between Bhuvneshwar and Ishant , each of whom has success for SRH , as the third pace bowler. Local talent like Ashish Reddy , who can contribute with bat and ball , should fit into the XI and young Hyderabadi left-arm quick Chama Milind , who took 17 wickets at 14.58 in the recent Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy , may also push for a spot . With Warner the third overseas player , that leaves one spot open and Morgan , Ravi Bopara , Williamson and Henriques contesting for it. Williamson , Morgan and Bopara are all coming off poor World Cups , but considering Williamson 's batting strength and the fact that he can give SRH four overs of offspin , he looks the likely pick . Probable XI : 1 David Warner ( capt ) , 2 Shikhar Dhawan , 3 Kane Williamson , 4 KL Rahul , 5 Naman Ojha ( wk ) , 6 Hanuma Vihari , 7 Ashish Reddy , 8 Dale Steyn , 9 Trent Boult , 10 Karn Sharma , 11 Ishant Sharma/Bhuvneshwar Kumar Quotes " We have a very nice bowling attack with some variety. They will be the ones who will play an important role and is one of the strengths of our side. " - Ravi Bopara " If you see the scoreboard , we won by one run. But we were always in the game , especially picking up early wickets. We knew we had to bowl well and that 's what we did. These two points , in this format , make a big difference. " - Ashish Nehra Teams : Sunrisers Hyderabad ( From ) : Shikhar Dhawan , David Warner ( c ) , Kane Williamson , Naman Ojha ( w ) , Lokesh Rahul , Eoin Morgan , Karn Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma , Trent Boult , Praveen Kumar , Dale Steyn , Laxmi Shukla , Moises Henriques , Parvez Rasool , Ashish Reddy , Ricky Bhui , Chama Milind , Ravi Bopara , Hanuma Vihari , Prasanth Padmanabhan , Siddarth Kaul Chennai Super Kings ( From ) : Dwayne Smith , Brendon McCullum , Suresh Raina , Faf du Plessis , Dwayne Bravo , MS Dhoni ( c/w ) , Ravindra Jadeja , Ravichandran Ashwin , Mohit Sharma , Ishwar Pandey , Ashish Nehra , Irfan Pathan , Andrew Tye , Matt Henry , Mithun Manhas , Pawan Negi , Samuel Badree , Ronit More , Michael Hussey , Rahul Sharma , Kyle Abbott , Ankush Bains , Pratyush Singh , Eklavya Dwivedi , Baba Aparajith Browse Archive By Seasons Season : 1870 - 1879 Season : 1880 - 1889 Season : 1890 - 1899 Season : 1900 - 1909 Season : 1910 - 1919 Season : 1920 - 1929 Season : 1930 - 1939 Season : 1940 - 1949 Season : 1950 - 1959 Season : 1960 - 1969 Season : 1970 - 1979 Season : 1980 - 1989 Season : 1990 - 1999 Season : 2000 - 2009 Season : 2010 - 2019 Season : 2011 - 2020 Season : 2012 - 2021 Season : 2013 - 2022 Season : 2014 - 2023
