-- indicates player not in top 100 Rank changes shown are of the last 30 days Career v India , Oct 06 , 2004 , M.Chinnaswamy Stadium Scorecard Last v India , 2014-12-09 , Adelaide Oval Scorecard ODI v England , Jan 19 , 2003 , Adelaide Oval Scorecard Last v New Zealand , 2015-03-29 , Melbourne Cricket Ground Scorecard T20I v New Zealand , Feb 17 , 2005 , Eden Park Scorecard Last v Sri Lanka , 2010-10-31 , W.A.C.A. Ground Scorecard IPL v Hyderabad , May 01 , 2012 , Barabati Stadium Scorecard Last v Kolkata , 2012-05-19 , Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium Scorecard Profile Michael Clarke has been Australia 's most reliable batsman since his ODI debut in 2003. With a calm demeanour and an ever-present smile , Clarke became a key member for Australia during their period when they were the World Champions. His consistency and leadership skills have also made him an integral member in a team that is now undergoing a transitional phase. His career is remarkable considering that he had a very average domestic career , averaging just below 40. Clarke was first selected to represent Australia in the VB tri-series , featuring England and Sri Lanka in 2003 . Clarke showed tremendous composure during his ODI debut against England. With Australia in a precarious position , Clarke strode out and composed an unbeaten 39 to guide the Aussies home in a low-scoring thriller. He showed that he had the abilities as a finisher when he came at No.6 and stroked unbeaten fifties to get Australia home. The selectors looked at his consistent performances in the ODIs , and rewarded him with a Test cap. He made his Test debut against India in Bangalore . In his first Test in Bangalore , Clarke showed controlled aggression and scored a century on debut. His joy and emotion after reaching the milestone was a sight to behold. Clarke played a vital hand in Australia winning their first Test series in India after 35 years and he capped it off with an astonishing bowling haul of 6/9 in the final Test in Mumbai . On returning to Australia , Clarke scored a century in his debut Test at home against New Zealand , becoming one of the few cricketers to achieve this feat. However , a slump in form during the 2005 Ashes led to intense scrutiny about his place in the squad. Clarke was dropped soon after , but not for long as he returned to the squad. He bounced back spectacularly in the return leg of the series in Australia in 2006-07. His pivotal 124 in Adelaide helped the Aussies seal a spectacular victory in that Test . He helped the team win their third consecutive World Cup in 2007 and it seemed nothing could stop Clarke. In 2009 , Clarke announced that he was pulling out the the IPL as he wanted to concentrate on international duties. However , the-then chairman of IPL , Lalit Modi , came out in the open , informing the press that Clarke had asked for a base price of 1 million dollars , an amount no franchise was ready to pay . In 2010 , Clarke left Australia 's touring party to New Zealand midway to sort out his personal problems as a report linked the move to a scandal involving his model fiancee , Lara Bingle. A couple of days later , Clarke cancelled his wedding with the model and returned to New Zealand . His lack of power-hitting abilities in T20s led to his retirement from the format. Clarke announced his retirement from T20s on Jan 7 , 2011 , to concentrate on the longer forms of the game. When Ricky Ponting stood down from the captaincy of the Australian Test and ODI sides after the 2011 World Cup , Clarke was appointed as his permanent replacement in both roles. From the end of 2011 to the start of 2013 , Clarke went through one of the most prolific run-scoring streaks in Test history. He scored eight Test tons , including three double-hundreds and a triple-hundred , and two Allan Border Medals . Just weeks before the 2013 Ashes Series at home , Clarke was requested to stand down from his role as a selector , which also coincided with the sacking of coach Mickey Arthur and the naming of Darren Lehmann as his successor. Clarke had a fantastic time as a captain as Australia went on to whitewash England 5-0 , thus regaining the Ashes series after four years in December 2013. Under Clarke 's captaincy , Australia also beat South Africa in their own den 2-1 . Clarke had a horrid time with injuries in 2014. After aggravating a hamstring injury on August 31 , Clarke was forced to leave the Zimbabwe tri-series midway. The team management then decided to rest him for Australia 's ODI games on the tour of UAE in October , but he returned to lead the Test side. Soon after , playing the home ODI series against South Africa , Clarke re-injured his hamstring and was sidelined for the rest of the series. His availability for the first Test against India in Adelaide was in doubt , but Clarke was declared fit and he led Australia at the Adelaide Oval. However , his troublesome back let him down and he had to retire hurt on Day 1 , before resuming his innings again on the second day. Later in the Test match , he injured his hamstring yet again while fielding and was ruled out for the remainder of the series . With Clarke showing good progress in his recovery , the selectors retained him as captain for the 2015 World Cup. He had an up and down series with the bat , scoring only 2 fifties , but his captaincy took Australia once again to the pinnacle. Having lost a closer encounter to New Zealand , Australia bounced back to win 6 in a row , including the final. A day before the big game , Clarke announced his retirement from ODIs and the Australian team ensured they gave a fitting farewell to their skipper. They won their 5th World Cup title with Clarke playing a significant role with the bat , he scored 74 and got out while his side was on cusp of a victory . By Cricbuzz staff
