Mohammad Amir Signed Up to Play in a Non First-Class Championship Mohammad Amir Signed Up to Play in a Non First-Class Championship Mohammad Amir was recently allowed by the International Cricket Council to resume playing domestic cricket although his five-year ban for spot-fixing ends in early September this year . Last updated on Tuesday , 03 February , 2015 16 : 02 IST Total Shares File photo of Mohammad Amir . Karachi : Pakistan 's banned paceman , Mohammad Amir has been signed up by a leading private departmental team to play in the non-first class Patrons Trophy Grade-2 Championship next month. ( Petition Filed for Life Ban of Amir ) According to an official of the Omer Associates team , Amir will play for them in the tournament whose winner every season is promoted to the first class ciruit . " Aamir has signed the contract today and we are happy to give him a platform to make his comeback to domestic cricket , " the official said . The Omer Associates team , which is owned and run by a leading businessman and cricket fanatic , Nadeem Omar features prominently in the T20 events in Ramazan and in club tournaments but has not been successful in qualifying beyond the Grade-2 Championship . " The reason for this is that the top players we employ for our T20 events are not available for us during the Grade-2 competition , " the official said . " We are hoping that the presence of Amir will lead to a change of fortunes , " he added . Nadeem Omar , well known for his philanthropy , recently donated nearly seven million rupees to help the Pakistan Hockey Federation send the national team for the Champions Trophy in India . In the Ramazan events , the Omar Associates side employes leading Pakistani players and have remained unbeaten in the major T20 events . Amir was recently allowed by the International Cricket Council to resume playing domestic cricket although his five-year ban for spot-fixing ends in early September this year . The left arm pacer played his first club match in four years time last week in Lahore capturing three wickets for his team . Story first published on : Tuesday , 03 February 2015 14 : 46 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
