-- indicates player not in top 100 Rank changes shown are of the last 30 days Career v Australia , Mar 08 , 2002 , Newlands Scorecard Last v Australia , 2014-03-01 , Newlands Scorecard ODI v Australia , Mar 30 , 2002 , Chevrolet Park Scorecard Last v Pakistan , 2013-11-27 , St George 's Park Scorecard T20I v New Zealand , Oct 21 , 2005 , The Wanderers Stadium Scorecard Last v Australia , 2011-10-16 , The Wanderers Stadium Scorecard IPL v Hyderabad , Apr 24 , 2008 , Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium Scorecard Last v Mumbai , 2011-05-04 , Dr DY Patil Sports Academy Scorecard Profile Tall , well built and known as the 'Biff ' for his ability to smash the leather off the ball , Graeme Smith was thrust into the captaincy duties at a very young age. In fact he was handed the reins at 22 - which made him his country 's youngest captain and tasked with restoring the faith of his countrymen after Hansie Cronje had ripped whatever was remaining with his immoral hand in the match fixing scandal. Smith took over the reigns from Shaun Pollock after the 2003 World Cup and immediately set about rebuilding the side . The tour of England in 2003 made Smith 's name. He made consecutive double hundreds and his 259 remains the highest score by a foreigner at Lord 's. Smith finished the series with an aggregate of 714 runs at an average of 79.33 , and ended up as the joint Man of the Series . Smith 's captaincy as well as his batting mirror his personality ; strong , demonstrative and outwardly aggressive. As with all left handers , he is strong off the pads and will punish the loose ones on the off side with equal felicity. Though he may not look elegant as most lefties do , Smith is a relentless attacker and scores his runs quickly thereby giving his side the chance to bowl out most teams . As a captain , he leads by example ; a case in point being the Sydney test in 2009 when he came out to bat with a broken hand to save the game. He failed to do so , but won unanimous praise for his act of bravery. Often standing at 1st slip , chewing away on his gum , Smith is a brash and impulsive skipper who backs his team to the hilt. He is known to be an aggressive sledger too and has in return copped a fair amount from the Aussies early on when he was new to international cricket . His crowning glory as captain came when he led his side to a famous test series win in Australia during the 2008-09 season and repeated the feat once again in the 2012-13 tour. In fact , 2012 would turn out to be his most successful year as a captain. Prior to the success against Australia , South Africa crushed the then World No.1 Test team , England to annex the mace themselves. Andrew Strauss , the then England skipper stepped aside and retired from all forms of the game. With his retirement , Smith achieved a rare feat of retiring three ( Hussain , Vaughan and Strauss ) England captains in three successive tours . Smith became the most successful Test captain of all times when he led his team to a fine victory over Pakistan at Cape Town. This was his 49th Test win as a captain , going past Ricky Ponting , who achieved 48 wins for Australia . Though he was unable to lead his side to any ICC silverware during his tenure , Smith was one of the most impressive men to have lead South Africa. His captaincy skills have been lauded and praised for the way he resurrected South African cricket after a turbulent phase . Smith quit the ODI captaincy after his side crashed out of the quarterfinals during the ICC World Cup in 2011. He still remains the test captain though and has said that he wants to guide the next generation of youngsters as he prepares to leave behind a legacy. Smith played for the Rajasthan under Shane Warne during the first three seasons of the IPL. His relationship with Warne changed as they discovered more about each other and became friends ; where once Warne and Smith had a verbal war during the latter 's early career . Smith retired from international cricket , he took the decision on the third day of the third Test against Australia in March 2014. He forwarded the news to his team-mates on the very same day. The main reason was the lack of form as he scored only 45 runs in six innings that he played in the series. Smith also said that retirement was always on the back of his mind as he had a young family and wanted to spend more time with them. However , Smith had signed a contract with Surrey last year and will continue to play for them in the upcoming County Championship . Interesting facts about Graeme Smith : Graeme Smith dated a swimsuit model , Minki van der Westhuizen in his early international days . He is married to Irish singer Morgan Deane. Together they have two kids , one daughter named Candence and a son born recently named Carter . Smith is on Twitter @ GraemeSmith49. He is very active on the social network and is constantly in touch with his team-mates . By Srivathsa and Akshay Maanay As of April 2014
