BCCI to Decide AGM Date at Its Working Committee Meet on February 8 BCCI to Decide AGM Date at Its Working Committee Meet on February 8 It has been learnt that majority of the working committee members will assemble in Chennai on February 7 , where BCCI president-in-exile N. Srinivasan may meet some of the members at an informal gathering . Last updated on Tuesday , 03 February , 2015 20 : 30 IST Total Shares File Photo : N. Srinivasan and Shivlal Yadav at the MAK Pataudi lecture . © BCCI New Delhi : The all-powerful working committee of the BCCI will meet on February 8 in Chennai to decide on date of the Annual General Meeting ( AGM ) and get an update on president-in-exile N. Srinivasan 's course of action in the coming days . It has been learnt that majority of the working committee members will assemble in Chennai on February 7 , where the Tamil Nadu strongman may meet some of the members at an informal gathering . " We have received a circular of the working committee meeting on February 8. Therefore , as of now , the informal gathering of the members in Chennai on February 5 is not happening. There is a possibility that Srinivasan might meet representatives of a select few units among the working committee members on February 7 prior to the meeting , " a senior BCCI official told PTI on Tuesday. ( Also read : Srinivasan refuses to comment on Supreme Court judgment ) He added : " The working committee also consists of units which are completely against Srinivasan. He would only like to speak to his loyalists before they go on floor next day. But so far , he has n't said anything on his future plans after the tough Supreme Court verdict that effectively rules him out of contention. " The Supreme Court , in its judgement on January 22 , had ruled that " no individual with commercial interests will be allowed to contest the elections " , meaning that Srinivasan can not contest for the post of BCCI chief until he clears himself of conflict of interest charges . The SC also served a directive to BCCI to hold its AGM and elections within six weeks of the judgement . As per norms , before announcing the date of the AGM , the BCCI needs to give three weeks ' notice to all members before the meeting. Effectively it means that Srinivasan and his associates will have to decide the date of AGM by February 12 as it has to be held within first week of March as per SC ruling. ( Timeline : Complete IPL saga ) The court ruled that Srinivasan will have to dissociate himself completely from Chennai Super Kings which is also being probed by a Court-appointed three-member committee headed by ex CJI R M Lodha. ( Top 10 developments ) With the committee being given six months time to decide on the quantum of punishment for CSK and Rajasthan Royals , it is practically impossible for Srinivasan to dissociate himself from the franchise within six weeks time and contest the BCCI polls . Story first published on : Tuesday , 03 February 2015 19 : 16 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS BCCI
