Mashrafe , Rubel run through the top order Bangladesh vs Afghanistan , 7th Match , Pool A Wed , Feb 18 2015 by CB Staff Rubel Hossain struck with the very first ball of his spell in the second over . After being embarrassed in the Asia Cup at home , Bangladesh needed to strike early to ensure their total of 267 was never challenged. Captain Mashrafe Mortaza , who entrusted himself with the new ball , struck with the last ball of the opening over to get rid of the dangerous Javed Ahmadi , before Rubel Hossain struck with the first ball of the second over by trapping Afsar Zazai plumb in front of the stumps . Afghanistan had the worst possible start to their maiden World Cup appearance , and from 2 for 2 they soon became 3 for 3 when Mortaza had Asghar Stanikzai caught at slip by Mahmudullah with the last ball of the third over of the innings. Three overs , three runs and three wickets meant Bangladesh were off to a dream start with the ball , and Afghanistan could never recover from that horrific start . Hamid Hassan led Afghanistan 's fightback in the death overs . Afghanistan claw back The World Cup debutants were being put to the sword by the Bangladesh batting duo of Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim and were staring at a total in excess of 300 , before their bowlers sparked a late fightback , limiting their Test-playing rivals to 267 by bowling them out off the last ball of the innings . A 114-run stand between Shakib and Mushfiqur had threatened to take the game away from Afghanistan , but Hamid Hassan 's delivery to bowl Shakib for 63 in the 45th over ensured Bangladesh never got away. Hassan bowled with venom and along with Aftab Alam , who appeared to fire in yorkers at will to ensure that Bangladesh , who lost Shakib at the score of 233 , could only muster another 34 runs from their last five overs . Afghanistan were dealt a blow as spearhead Shapoor Zadran did n't return to bowl his last three overs in the death , but Hassan and Aftab , along with the rest of the bowlers helped them finish on a high . Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim added 114 runs in quick time to ensure Bangladesh scored a competitive total . Shakib , Mushfiqur revive Bangladesh Despite making an encouraging start to their innings in their Pool A opener against Afghanistan , Bangladesh were n't able to impose themselves on the match , ambling at about four runs an over until Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim came together at the crease. The senior pros ensured Bangladesh did n't suffer the humiliation they did at the Asia Cup last year by adding 114 runs for the fifth wicket , setting the tone for the innings . Shakib , who has been playing in the Big Bash League in Australia prior to the World Cup , used his experience in his 53-ball 61 that included six fours and a six , while Mushfiqur settled into a partnership with Shakib , and after his dismissal began to express himself and took control of the Bangladesh innings. Mushfiqur 's knock also came in quick time , taking just 56 balls for his 71 before he was out in the 48th over . From finishing with a modest total , Shakib and Mushfiqur carried Bangladesh to a total from where they could dominate the game .
