Southee seven-fer rips England apart New Zealand vs England , 9th Match , Pool A New Delhi , Fri , Feb 20 2015 by CB Staff Tim Southee took 7/33 as England folded for 123 . Tim Southee gave an exhibition in swing bowling to blow England away in a Group A encounter at the Westpac Stadium in Wellington. He ended with figures of seven for 33 as England capitulated to a paltry 123 . On a deck where natural swing bowlers like Trent Boult and James Anderson did n't find any appreciable movement off the surface , Southee consistently got the ball to shape away late. He got his first wicket , that of Ian Bell , in his third over. The ball angled in , but shaped away to beat Bell 's defense and took the off-pole. In his next over , he set Moeen Ali up with quick short delivery. The batsman expecting another short-delivery was surprised by a full delivery that clattered the base of off-stump . At 104/4 , McCullum brought Southee on for another spell and the speedster repaid his captain 's faith by sending back James Taylor , England 's top performer against Australia , with an outswinger bowled from wide off the crease that clipped the off-stump. Jos Butler nicked one to wicket-keeper Luke Ronchi before Chris Woakes was cleaned up with another full out-swinger . Soon after , Stuart Broad got a leading edge and was caught at mid-off. Southee completed the best figures by a New Zealand bowler when he dismissed Steve Finn with a full delivery that the batsman jabbed tamely to first slip. Southee 's figures helped setup a big win for the hosts who are now three in three in the mega event . Brendon McCullum scored the fastest World Cup half-century . McCullum blitz leaves England gasping After bowling England out for a paltry 123 , New Zealand had the option of easing themselves into the chase. Not Brendon McCullum. He batted like a man who had an angry girlfriend waiting for him. En-route his manic 25-ball 77 , McCullum scored the fastest fifty in World Cup history , off 18 balls , beating his own record ( off 20 balls against Canada in St.Lucia , 2007 ) , as New Zealand coasted to an eight-wicket win under 13 overs . McCullum cut the first ball he faced , for a six over point. He followed that up with three consecutive fours off Stuart Broad , whose changes in length were proving to be useless in the face of McCullum 's onslaught. The New Zealand captain repeatedly charged at the English quicks , constantly hitting them over their heads . McCullum had reached 28 off 11 in the third over before going berserk against Steven Finn. He smashed the hapless fast-bowler for six 6 's and a couple of fours in two overs and raced away to 72 off 21. Finn gave away 49 runs in his two overs , conceding more than four runs per ball ! Looking to finish the game before the supper break , he charged at a full-toss from Chris Woakes , missed and was bowled . It was the 8th over , and New Zealand needed only 19 more to win .
