South Africa vs United Arab Emirates , 36th Match , Pool B Thu , Mar 12 2015 by CB staff David Miller forged 108 runs with AB de Villiers for the fourth wicket Drop catches and you wo n't win matches. UAE 's fielding has been their area of concern for quite some time and it was once again at its woeful best against South Africa in match 36 of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. As the Proteas completed a comfortable 146-run drubbing over their opponents at Wellington , UAE will rue the fact that they gave David Miller not one , but two reprieves . Miller and AB De Villiers then came together for a 108-run stand for the fourth wicket that played a key role in South Africa posting 341 for 6. Had either one of those chances been taken , chances were that South Africa would have fallen short of the 300-run mark. Miller and de Villiers were given the task of rebuilding the innings and the left-hander had some good fortune when wicketkeeper Saqlain Haider missed his run out on 3. Miller pushed one straight to short cover and set off , but De Villiers refused the call. The left-hander slipped while turning back , and looked gone for all money. However , the throw , a low full toss reached Haider on a half-volley , and he fumbled the take , allowing Miller time to get back in . Miller survived another chance on 20 when skipper Mohammad Tauqir failed to grasp a fairly easy chance at short cover off Fahad Alhashmi. Miller had uppishly driven towards short cover , and Tauqir , lazy in his attempt , reacted late and went to his left. He went one-handed when he could have gone with two . Behardien cracked 25 runs off the final over Behardien 's late assault and another South African 300 AB de Villiers ' 99 helped Farhaan Behardien to step on the gas in the final overs and reprise South Africa 's record of scoring 300-plus every time they batted first in this World Cup. The 100-run partnership between de Villiers and Miller did the repair work for South Africa , and once de Villiers departed , Behardien 's unbeaten 31-ball 64 ensured South Africa did not lose steam in the final overs of the innings . Behardien , replacing the injured Faf Du Plessis staked his own claim as a finisher. He is n't built strong , but his swipes and hoicks were enough to secure five fours and three sixes , including a 25-run final over. Behardien began with a full-blooded pull over midwicket off Kamran Shazad in the 45th over and followed it with 40 runs in the final two . South Africa were 301 for at the end of over number 48 and Behardien 's firework took South Africa to 341. He smashed a four and six off Naveed in the penultimate over before taking 25 off the 50th. He began the final over with back-to-back sixes off Amjad Javed , a no ball and a free-hit. Javed was able to induce a mistimed hit , but the pressure of the onslaught got the better of long-on fielder Rohan Mustafa , who spilled an easy catch. Behardien piled on some more misery on the opposition by dispatching the final two deliveries for boundaries . Rossouw plucked a couple of spectacular catches out of thin air Rilee Rossouw 's stunners There have been a few spectacular catches in the 2015 World Cup and Rilee Rossouw on Thursday , dropped in his name in contention with two incredible catches ( he took three in all ) . In the seventh over of the innings , Morne Morkel bowled a length delivery to Andri Berenger , who , trying to fend at it , lobbed the ball in the air which went towards gully. Rossouw came in from point , dove to his left , his wrong side , to swoop under the ball at the last moment before it hit the ground . His third catch was even better. Shortly after his second catch , Saqlain Haider tried to pull AB de Villiers and got a top edge as the ball went high towards between deep midwicket and sweeper cover. Rossouw charged in from deep midwicket , and dived forward to get his hands under a low offering .
