Southee , Vettori see off nerves New Zealand vs Bangladesh , 37th Match , Pool A Fri , Mar 13 2015 by CB staff With 17 needed from 13 balls , Vettori launched Nasir Hossain for a massive six down the ground , which eased off the pressure New Zealand , following their seven-wicket win over Bangladesh in match 37 of the ICC Cricket World Cup , will now head into the quarter-finals undefeated. However , the clean sheet was n't that easy in the end as the Kiwis escaped Bangladesh 's wrath by a whisker , in a match that went down to the wire. Daniel Vettori and Tim Southee were the last-minute heroes with the bat , saving New Zealand the blushes . When Ross and Taylor 's 131-run sand came to an end earlier in the innings , it was assumed that the likes of Corey Anderson , Grant Elliott and Luke Ronchi would get their side home rather comfortably , but Shakib Al Hasan 's performance with the ball - 4 for 55 , ensured New Zealand were made to stretch till the very end. Corey Anderson 's explosive 39 came in extremely handy but once Nasir Hossain cleaned him up , New Zealand seemed to make a meal of the chase . However , with 17 needed from 13 balls , Vettori launched Nasir for a massive six down the ground. Then , with nine needed off nine , Southee stepped back and hammered Shakib over long-off. The pressure was released and Southee wrapped things up with a cut through point for four . Guptill scored his first World Cup century Guptill , Taylor regain form New Zealand 's hopes of getting off to a good start , in chase of 289 , were severely dented by Shakib , who got rid of Brendon McCullum and Kane Williamson in the fifth over. But , from 33 for 2 , New Zealand fought back remarkably well to post 131 runs for the third wicket between Ross Taylor and Martin Guptill. They comfortably milked the bowlers for runs and despite a couple of good overs in between from Rubel Hossain , made sure that the overall period of play belonged to New Zealand. While Guptill hit boundaries frequently , Taylor , who was struggling to get his timing initially , has also got his eye in . Guptill scored a sublime century - not the easiest of knocks considering the position he came out to bat. His effort put New Zealand on course and even though Guptill was cramping in between , he brought up his maiden World Cup hundred. His partnership with Taylor , who scored a crucial half-century and went past 5000 ODI runs , was instrumental for New Zealand in chase . Bangladesh motored along in the middle overs with Sarkar and Mahmudullah bringing up their respective half-centuries Bangladesh recover after wobbly start Bangladesh had one of their worst first 10 overs with the bat is this World Cup. They were 27 for 2 and the hopes of putting up a good total seemed to be fading away. However , Soumya Sarkar and Mahmudullah wrested back the advantage with a 90-run stand for the third wicket. Bangladesh were 29 for 2 in 10 overs and after 16 , they are 77 without any further damage. Six boundaries came in between overs 11 to 14 and the counter punch of playing positively helped Bangladesh tremendously . Mahmudullah tucked into Boult and smacked him for three back-to-back boundaries. Yes , the same Boult , against whom the openers failed to connect bat to ball. Bangladesh continued to motor along with Sarkar and Mahmudullah bringing up their respective half-centuries. It was a tremendous effort considering the kind of start their side got off to. The pair had put on 90 runs for the third wicket before the left-hander Sarkar fell to Vettori shortly after notching up his maiden half-century in ODIs. It was an effort that set the base for Mahmudullah 's late assault
