Two drops prove costly for Afghanistan Afghanistan vs England , 38th Match , Pool A Fri , Mar 13 2015 by CB Staff Defending a relatively low score , Afghanistan needed their bowlers and fielders to be at their best . Shapoor Zadran showed that he is up for the task. After two good deliveries first up , Zadran induced Alex Hales into driving loosely and on the up. Hales hit the ball straight towards Najibullah at point , but unfortunately for the World Cup debutants , the fielder put down the chance. It was fiercely struck , true , but it was a regulation catch on this stage , and Najibullah would be disappointed having put it down . England made them punish for the drop as Hales and Ian Bell combined to smash 30 runs off the next 22 deliveries. However , Afghanistan and Najibullah had their chance to make amends . Shapoor , once again , got Hales to drive on the up. Again , it was hit fiercely. And again , it was straight at Najibullah. But the fielder went on to put down this chance too , leaving everyone rubbing their eyes in disbelief . Afghanistan openers depart in quick succession Asked to bat first , Afghanistan had a hard task at hand under swinging conditions and against one of the best swing bowlers in the modern era - James Anderson. Afghanistan 's openers Nawroz Mangal and Javed Ahmadi started in an extremely cautious manner. Ahmadi survived a close run-out chance while Mangal was lucky not to edge behind on many occasions. The pair were only successful in adding 16 runs off the first six overs , and they would have been desperate to get a move on . England , however , were not in the mood to let advantage slip. Anderson struck with the third ball of his fourth over. Nawroz had no answer to an outswinger and could only edge the ball behind. Joe Root completed an easy catch to give England their first wicket . Stuart Broad capitalised on the opening in the very next over , getting Ahmadi to edge behind - Joe Root once again took the catch at first slip . England had asserted their dominance , and they never let that slip for the rest of the game .
