Stunning stand takes India through India vs Zimbabwe , 39th Match , Pool B Sat , Mar 14 2015 by CB staff At 92/4 in the 23rd over , India were under some serious pressure. Zimbabwe were threatening to upset the apple cart and needed someone to rescue them. Enter the old hands of Raina and Dhoni. Both have played countless games together and have done this in the past but the pressure remained. Zimbabwe 's slow bowlers were making it difficult to score boundaries even on a small ground. The initial moments of their partnership saw Raina and Dhoni struggle for momentum. They rely heavily on running between the wickets but even that suffered a bit early on with some nervy calls under pressure. They saw through those tough periods though and kickstarted once the batting powerplay was taken. Shifting gears has never been smoother. Both batsmen suddenly began to find boundaries at will and reverted the pressure back on Zimbabwe , who began to wilt. Eventually both of them remained unbeaten and the stand was worth 196 - the highest 5th wicket stand for India in World Cups. Not surprisingly , it resulted in India 's highest successful chase in the World Cups as well . Brendan Taylor turns it on Taylor was 57 off 74 balls at the end of 32 overs and Zimbabwe were 134/4 at that stage. It did n't look likely that they would get close to 250 given that there was not a lot of batting left to come. However , Brendan Taylor decided to switch gears at that point. He was already well set and had a feel of the conditions. He proceeded to whack the bowlers all around the park for the next 34 balls and scored 80 off them. Zimbabwe got the surge just when they needed it. Taylor also became the first batsman to score a ton against India in this World Cup. That directly influenced Zimbabwe registering the highest score against India in this tournament as well. That Zimbabwe eventually posted 287 was almost entirely due to Taylor 's brilliant innings and attack towards the end. It helped them put India under pressure later on .
