Starc stars at the start and finish Australia vs Scotland , 40th Match , Pool A Sat , Mar 14 2015 by CB Staff Mitchell Starc picked up two early wickets and then returned to take Scotland 's last two as well . Among the Mitchells in this tournament , Mitchell Starc has been the most devastating of them all and he was in his elements against Scotland as well. Starc , who opened the attack , picked up a couple of wickets in his first spell to leave Scotland on 36 for 2 after seven overs. Shane Watson and Mitchell Johnson picked up a wicket apiece after that while Pat Cummins bagged three . With rain playing hide and seek with Australia , it was surprising that skipper Michael Clarke did not get the left-arm quick back into the attack in the 10 to 20-over period and bowl out Scotland quickly. When Glenn Maxwell was given an extended spell , Kevin Pietersen took to twitter to express his surprise over Clarke 's decision. " NOOOOOO ! No spin ! Pls can someone in Hobart get a msg to Pup and ask him to put Starc or Cummings back on ! # cheers , " Pietersen said . Rain left Australia playing a waiting game and after a rain break for 30 minutes with Scotland eight down , Clarke decided to bring back his pace spearhead in this World Cup. Josh Davey , who was playing a defiant knock much to the impatience of Australia , was promptly sent back by Starc in the first over after the rain break , while No 11 Iain Wardlaw also had no answer to a full delivery as he saw the ball crash into the stumps. Scotland were bowled out for 130 in 25.4 overs with Starc finishing with figures of 4.4-1-14-4 . Starc 's bowling performance helped Australia finish things off in a jiffy and ensured that the hosts avoided a clash against South Africa in the quarter-final. Not only that , the left-arm pace bowler also equalled Mitchell McClenaghan 's record of taking four-wicket hauls in his first appearance against six countries . Rain threatened Australia 's victory march at the Bellerive Oval a couple of times . Rain gives Australia some nervous moments As soon as Michael Clarke won the toss and decided to bowl first against Scotland , his decision was met with boos as the Australian crowd preferred to see the hosts bat first and put up a huge total. However , with rain predicted during the day , Clarke felt trying to bowl out Scotland as early as possible and then getting to the target quickly was a wiser option . Against the Scotland attack , it would n't have been difficult for Australia to rake up a huge score and give their batters some more match time ahead of the knock-outs. However , Clarke decided to insert Scotland in because if the match was abandoned due to weather , Australia would move down to third on the points table , which would mean that the formidable South Africans would be their opponents in the quarters , and possibly New Zealand in the semis. The Australian captain chose to play it safe . Rain did come down while Scotland were losing wickets in a heap and it forced the players off the field in the 25th over of the first innings with Scotland eight down. While it was not too heavy , there was an unnecessary delay for 30 minutes before play resumed. Scotland were bowled out immediately , finishing with a paltry 130. While Australia were racing towards the target , they did have some nervous moments as it rained again , and play was halted for more than an hour this time with Australia 39 away. Soon after the resumption , David Warner and James Faulkner wasted no time , taking just 12 deliveries to get the required runs , which probably revealed how keen Australia were to avoid a clash against South Africa .
