Javed-Aziz stand symbolizes UAE 's fighting spirit West Indies vs United Arab Emirates , 41st Match , Pool B Sun , Mar 15 2015 by CB staff Amjad Javed followed his half-century with figures of 2 for 29 Ahead of West Indies ' must-win game against UAE , there were chances of Cyclone Pam affecting the game. So in overcast conditions , West Indies skipper Jason Holder decided to bowl , rolled UAE over for 175 and then saw his batsmen chase down the total in 30.3 overs. The outcome now ensures them a place in the quarter-final unless the Pakistan-Ireland encounter ends in a tie . West Indies could n't have hoped for better start. Jason Holder and Jerome Taylor , inside the first ten overs , had shared five wickets and reduced UAE to 26 for 5. A lowest World Cup total seemed to beckon but then came a gritty partnership between UAE 's No. 7 and No. 8 , which made the West Indies stretch till the 48th over of the innings . Amjad Javed and Nasir Aziz realised that West Indies ' fourth and fifth bowlers were n't as threatening as Holder and Taylor and struck a 107-run partnership for the seventh wicket - the highest by UAE against a Test playing nation. Their determination not only frustrated the Windies fielders , but they seemingly lost interest in the game. Holder 's rotation of bowlers did n't help his case - Darren Sammy was taken of the attack just after one over left the former skipper fuming , and it was very evident that the West Indies were rattled . Both batsmen grew in confidence and Marlon Samuels ' inability to turn the ball made their life easier. Dwayne Smith 's medium pace was handled without fuss and both batsmen raised their maiden fifties and helped push UAE almost almost till the 50th over before a late implosion knocked them off for 175 . Javed became the first UAE batsman to reach double-figures. He got his eye in and brought up his fifty in 91 balls. Aziz , playing his maiden ODI for UAE , was struggling initially and even survived a drop catch on 11 from Holder. But once set , he got more comfortable and scored 40 of his 60 runs on the leg side. In the end , their effort was tremendous , but one of them needed to carry on. They followed each other in the change room as UAE lost their last four wickets for 22 runs .
