Ireland collapse after Porterfield 's century Ireland vs Pakistan , 42nd Match , Pool B Sun , Mar 15 2015 by CB Staff Ireland lost wickets in a heap after Porterfield 's hundred . Despite losing early wickets , Ireland were put back on course none other than their captain William Porterfield. The left-handed opener drew on his experience and nullified the early advantage Pakistan had gained through their fast bowlers , and built a strong platform from where Ireland could dominate the proceedings , until Pakistan struck back with quick wickets late in the innings . Looking to accelerate in the last 10 overs , the Irish captain , however , perished when he spooned a catch off Sohail Khan to Shahid Afridi. Ireland still had five wickets in hand , but lost the momentum after losing their skipper as they could manage just 55 runs in the last 10 overs . Porterfield did n't get much support with no other batsman passing 29 , but the lack of partnerships did n't deter him from staying there as late as he could. Eleven fours and a six punctuated his innings as he reached his seventh ODI hundred in perhaps Ireland 's most important match to date , even though it ended up coming in a losing cause . Sarfraz 's determination to get to the three-figure mark showed in his application in the middle . Sarfraz leaves it late After defeats to India and West Indies , Pakistan needed to arrest the slide and get back on the horse to stay in the contention for the knock-out stages of the competition , and slight changes in personnel have proved to help their team achieve that target. Sarfraz Ahmed 's inclusion in the side as wicketkeeper has kept the goof-ups behind the stumps to a minimum and his form with the bat has lifted the side immensely . Sarfraz had established himself as the team 's No 1 Test wicketkeeper-batsman , but announced himself in the World Cup with his maiden century that took Pakistan home in a chase they were in complete control of. With Ahmed Shehzad he built a strong platform and negotiated the middle overs with his captain with aplomb . No Pakistan batsman had scored a century in World Cups since Imran Nazir in 2007 , and Sarfraz 's determination to get to the three-figure mark showed in his application in the middle. Umar Akmal could have finished off the game early but with Sarfraz nearing his first ODI hundred , he left it to his partner to get to the landmark before smashing the winning runs himself. His century ensured Pakistan made it to the quarter-finals , and got a huge monkey off their backs ahead of a crunch game against Australia . Ahmed Shehzad and Sarfraz Ahmed put up the team 's first 50-plus stand in the tournament . Openers give Pakistan a rousing start A target of 237 in a virtual knock-out game could have proved to be tricky and Pakistan were in the need for a good opening stand to be on course to secure a place in the last eight of the competition. Openers Ahmed Shehzad and Sarfraz Ahmed took it upon themselves to lay the platform as their 120-run stand was the factor that took the game away from Ireland . In crying need of a stable opening partnership after the failure of Nasir Jamshed , Pakistan opted to go with wicketkeeper-batsman Sarfraz to partner Shehzad at the top and the move paid rich dividends as the pair put up the team 's first 50-plus stand in the tournament .
