Duminy hat-trick strangles Sri Lanka Sri Lanka vs South Africa , 1st Quarter-Final Wed , Mar 18 2015 by CB staff Duminy became the second South African bowler to take an ODI hat-trick after Charl Langeveldt One of the biggest anomalies in cricketing history was erased on Wednesday : South Africa won a World Cup knockout game and sealed their spot in the semi-final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. Their quarter-final game against Sri Lanka was supposed to be the most evenly-contested of all the four games , but the eventual result highlighted something else - Proteas ' nine-wicket win was n't just their first ever knockout win , but also the largest in terms of balls remaining ( 192 ) in any World Cup knockout . On a day when South Africa finally got the monkey off their back and waved a farewell to the 'C ' word , another first embraced the Proteas : An unlikely source bagged a rare feat by his own standards. JP Duminy became the first South African bowler to register a World Cup hat-trick and second overall for his country in ODIs. Charl Langeveldt was the first , achieving the accomplishment in 2005 against West Indies at Barbados . South Africa 's decision of introducing both their spinners , Duminy and Imran Tahir , was rewarded with the wicket of Lahiru Thirimanne. Tahir once again troubled Mahela Jayawardene , who had a hard time reading the legspinner and ended his innings with a leg-before dismissal in what eventually turned out to be the veteran batsman 's final ODI . Coming in at 81 for 4 , the onus was on skipper Angelo Mathews to steady the ship with Kumar Sangakkara. He did that for a bit , adding 33 with the left-hander and seeing off the middle burst by Abbott and Morkel. The last delivery of the 33rd over bowled by Duminy saw Mathews clip the ball straight to midwicket. Next over , Tahir removed Thisara with a straighter delivery and on the next , first ball of the 35th , Kulasaekara offered Quinton de Kock a faint edge. Duminy did not realise it that very moment , but when he trapped debutant Tharindu Kaushal lbw next ball , the hat-trick was achieved . De Kock justified the continued faith that the tour selectors showed in him De Kock back among the runs Heading into the quarter-final , South Africa had every box ticked , except for Quinton de Kock , who had n't made any significant contribution. But now as they get set to face either New Zealand or West Indies in the first semi-final on March 24 , the lingering question over the left-hand opener has disappeared. De Kock shrugged off his poor form with an unbeaten 57-ball 78 as South Africa needed just 18 overs to boot Sri Lanka out of the World Cup . Chasing 134 , South Africa started well and de Kock and Amla got their team to 40 before the latter became the first wicket to go down. De Kock , who was under pressure for having scored just 53 runs this World Cup , played an aggressive knock , aggressive considering he was South Africa 's weakest link , who had finally come good. He smacked Nuwan Kulasekara for three boundaries in the fourth over to signal his intent and never really slowed down. He hit a two-four over twice more , making it difficult to believe that this was the same batsman who was done in inside the first ten overs . There were concerns whether he would be able to play debutant offspinner Kaushal , but he looked authoritative in his approach. The only little chance Sri Lanka had to get him came in the 15th over , when Thisara Perera nearly pulled off a sensational diving catch at deep midwicket , but only succeeded in punching it to the rope for four more. His fifty came with a single , a pull towards deep backward square , followed by a momentary acknowledgement from the South African camp. He received a slower ball from Lasith Malinga which he caressed through the covers to shoot South Africa into the semi-finals .
