Bangladesh vs India , 2nd Quarter-Final Thu , Mar 19 2015 by CB staff Rohit 's hand came off the bat handle and he lobbed a catch straight to deep midwicket , but the umpire declared it a waist-high no ball Rohit Sharma scored his first World Cup century against Bangladesh in the second quarter-final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. It can surely be regarded as one of his better ODI hundreds , considering the kind of situation in which it was scored. Unlike his previous centuries , Rohit 's innings at the MCG was more well-paced and subdued. He responsibly anchored the innings after India lost Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli in the space of nine balls and then Ajinkya Rahane . However , as Rohit slowed down in the middle while batting cautiously , Rohit had the luck of the green going his way. India had already taken the Batting Powerplay and the first 4.3 overs had yielded 41 runs when Rohit lobbed a full toss straight down deep midwicket 's throat. But just as the bowler , in this case Rubel Hossain began to run towards the fielder to celebrate his second wicket , Bangladesh were in for a horror call from umpire Steve Davis , who declared it as a waist-high no-ball. Replays showed that Rohit had connected the ball in front of his stance , but the ball was on its way down . Clearly , it was a legitimate ball and the umpire erred big time in hurrying with a call like that. Rohit was on Rohit was 90 off 101 when he was reprieved and India were 196 in the 40th over. India amassed 106 runs in the final ten , with Rohit eventually falling for 137. He hit five boundaries and two sixes after that and considering no other batsman could get really going after his dismissal , barring Jadeja 's quick 10-ball 23 , the importance of those crucial 47 runs can not be undermined . Suresh Raina scored his second half-century of the tournament. He already has a century against Zimbabwe Raina helps India break shackles Prior to the match at the MCG , Suresh Raina did n't mind being called a floater and said he will bat at whatever position his team wants him to. On Thursday at the MCG , Raina proved exactly why he is India 's most crucial cog in the middle order. Rohit was playing a composed knock and with Bangladesh having reduced India to 115/3 in the 28th over , they seemed to have taken control heading into the final 20 overs of the match. Out walked Raina and the entire complexion of the game changed within a dime . Raina played a hurting knock of 65 off 57 balls. The gap between his first and second boundary took five overs , but once those shackles were broken , he and Rohit took a toll on Bangladesh , especially in the batting Powerplay. Raina was aided by Mashrafe Mortaza 's gentle speed , hitting him for two fours in the first over of the Powerplay. A six and four followed in the next over and with both batsmen coming into their own , the left-hander took 46 balls to notch up his half-century . The only close call during Raina 's innings came in the 34th over when he was batting on 10. He got a little too across as the ball wrapped his front pad. Mortaza went up in appeal straightaway. Umpire Steve Davis did n't appear much interested , but the Bangladesh skipper was adamant that he had his man and went for the review. The replays , however , showed that it was close call than what many would have expected. There was no bat involved and the ball tracking showed that it was pitching marginally outside of leg - it looked as if just over half the ball had hit that margin and the call was withheld . Dhawan safely pouched the catch on the third attempt Dhawan 's juggling act The 2015 World Cup has seen a few sensational catches being taken and it was finally India 's chance to add to that list. This one particular effort from Shikhar Dhawan though , was n't exactly a screamer and instead one that required application and awareness. Mohammed Shami had bowled a short ball to Mahmudullah in the 17th over , and the batsman went for a pull. However , the ball flew off his top edge and sped towards the long-leg fielder. Dhawan pulled off a magnificent juggling act merely an inch inside the rope. The ball popped out of his hands and he regrouped quickly to pouch in on the second attempt . But in the process , his left leg was about an inch away from touching the rope. He needed to throw the ball back into the field of play , which he eventually did well and then stepped back in to pick up the catch. The umpires went up but much to Bangladesh 's disarray , India had another decision going their way .
