The Wahab Riaz-Shane Watson face off Australia vs Pakistan , 3rd Quarter-Final Fri , Mar 20 2015 by CB Staff Australia have lost their top-three and desperately needed a good stand to help recover. Pakistan have dismissed Australia 's top-three and desperately needed another wicket of two to assert their dominance . Shane Watson was up against a fiery Wahab Riaz with the pacer notching up speeds of over 150. There were here-smell-this bouncers , vicious yorkers , tempting freebies , dropped catches and the whole lot. In the end , Watson , with luck on his side , managed to hold firm and push his side towards a hard-fought victory . Wahab continuously peppered Watson with bouncers , and the Australia struggled to get them away. With the left-armer taunting the Australia batsman after every ball it was only a matter of time before Watson attempted to break the shackles . When he eventually lost patience and tried to pull Wahab out of the ground , Pakistan had their golden opportunity. However , Rahat Ali , standing at fine-leg , grassed a very simple chance to let Watson off the hook. It turned out to be the chance Watson needed , as he put his head down and slammed a fifty to take Australia through to the semis . Pakistan were only left to rue what would have been if Rahat Ali had taken the catch . Pakistan left to play catch-up Opting to bat first , it was always going to be imperative for Pakistan 's openers to get off to a solid start against the likes of Mitchell Starc , Mitchell Johnson and Josh Hazlewood. Sarfaraz Ahmed had been in superb form coming into the game , and much depended on him to get his side off to the kind of start his side needed . For Australia , it was a matter of getting off to an attacking start to put the high-flying Pakistanis on the back foot. Starc and Hazlewood combined to give their side exactly that . The homeside started in disciplined fashion , not giving away any freebies to the Pakistan openers , and they were rewarded for their hard work soon after . Starc let rip with a delivery that was over 150kmph , Sarfaraz Ahmed could only edge the ball. Watson completed a fine catch at slip to give his side their first breakthrough. Capitalizing on the opening provided by his more experienced partner. Hazlewood struck with his first delivery of the next over , getting Ahmed Shehzad caught by Michael Clarke to leave Pakistan in deep trouble . The trouble could have been so much more had it not been for a huge slice of luck Pakistan and their captain Misbah ul Haq enjoyed. Misbah saw Hazlewood clean bowl him , but the bails , luckily for Misbah , failed to come off .
