Samuels ' costly drop hurts West Indies New Zealand vs West Indies , 4th Quarter-Final Sat , Mar 21 2015 by CB staff Samuels ' error was made the most of by Guptill , who went on to register the highest individual innings in World Cup Martin Guptill 's epic unbeaten 237 has sealed New Zealand a place in the semi-final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. The New Zealand opener played a brutal knock , shattered many records and went on to register the second-highest ODI score of all time , after Rohit Sharma 's 264. Guptill 's 237 was the second double century of the tournament , and once he overtook Chris Gayle 's 215 to score the highest individual score in World Cup history , West Indies were never in with a chance to gun down New Zealand 's total of 393 in the fourth quarter-final in Wellington . Catches win matches , goes an old saying , and if only had West Indies abided by it , the outcome of the match could well have been different. Almost 650 runs were scored in the day , 237 of which came from one man. But as it turned out , Marlon Samuels ' drop catch , when Guptill was on 4 , in the very first over of the match , turned the entire course of the match inside out . Guptill received a life two balls after he had cracked Jerome Taylor for a boundary through mid-on off the first ball. It was a half-volley on a middle-leg line and Guptill mistimed a flick straight , a bit low , to Samuels at square-leg , but the Jamaican , looking a bit lost with the ball coming towards him , grassed the offering and Guptill made the West Indies pay with his barbaric 163-ball knock which laced with 24 boundaries and 11 sixes . Vettori 's one-handed stunned provided the Westpac crowd a moment to savour Vettori 's one-handed screamer Daniel Vettori may not be the youngest campaigner in the New Zealand line-up , but one particular effort from him at Westpac Stadium has the tendency to give a 25-year-old a run for his money. As the series of stunning catches continue to embrace the World Cup , Vettori took , what the commentators called a 'one-handed miracle ' when he jumped in thin air and pouched a jaw-dropping one-handed offering to get rid of Marlon Samuels . Samuels , guilty of having dropped probably the costliest catch of his career , needed to contribute with a significant score. He was silent for the first eight balls he faced , scoring six , but immediately shifted gears in the ninth over of the innings bowled by Tim Southee. He put him away for three fours and a six before the 33000-odd Cake Tin faithful were treated to the moment of the match . Trent Boult ran in and dropped the first ball short , to which Samuels gave himself room and upper-cut it. The ball seemed to soar off the bat and looked like clearing Vettori , positioned at deep point. But New Zealand 's most-capped ODI player executed a spectacular jump and , in mid-air grabbed the ball one-handed much to the delight of the fans . " Oh I did n't give Dan a chance. You saw the reaction from the boys , the way the boys ran from all over the field , " New Zealand skipper Brendon McCullum said of Vettori 's catch .
