Fitting finale for Michael Clarke New Zealand vs Australia , Final Sun , Mar 29 2015 by CB staff It was fitting that Steven Smith hit the winning runs for Australia in the World Cup final. He scored his fifth consecutive 50-plus score of the tournament before that. All the three fifties in the knockouts should surely count for a little more as well. The swiveled pull to the boundary in the 34th over gave Australia their fifth World Cup crown . Michael Clarke could not have asked for a better final game. In front of a record crowd of 93000 at the MCG , the skipper finished as the highest scorer and walked out to a rousing standing ovation . The entire Australian team was waiting just beyond the ropes as Australia inched closer to victory and ran out in unison as Smith pulled one to the fence. Winning a World Cup in front of a home crowd was one of the most special feelings for the team and there was unbridled celebration thereafter. Coach Darren Lehmann was dumped with an ice-bucket even as he was giving an interview on TV. Brad Haddin promised to share a drink with all the Aussie fans at the ground. Deserving victory for a team that played like champions right through the tournament . Faulkner tilts it in Australia 's favour At the beginning of the 35th over , New Zealand were reasonably well-placed at 150/3. Both Grant Elliott and Ross Taylor had got their eyes in. The batting powerplay was about to kick in. New Zealand were in the mood to get a move on and get to a score in excess of 250. However that upward surge was soon to be culled by James Faulkner. Coming back into the attack after having bowled four overs , Faulkner struck immediately to end a 111-run association between Taylor and Elliott. The former went chasing after a wide slower ball and edged it to Haddin. New Zealand were still looking to fight back through Anderson and Elliott. The left-handed Anderson could have been a dangerous player in the last fifteen but Faulkner shot him out with a pitch-perfect yorker. Two wickets off the first three balls of the powerplay. There was no coming back after those strikes. The last seven wickets fell for just 33 runs as New Zealand crumbled under pressure. Half the battle was already won for Australia after dismissing them for just 183 . Starc draws first blood As soon as Brendon McCullum opted to bat it was clear that the skipper will be coming out to make a statement of intent. Facing up against Mitchell Starc , who had destroyed New Zealand 's batting order in the previous group game , McCullum seemed very keen to set the tone right from the outset. The first ball that he faced from Starc was full and close to the off-stump. McCullum swung out at it but the ball missed the inside edge. McCullum dances down the track next ball but Starc spotted him. The inswinger misses the inside edge and shoots past the leg stump. The cat and mouse game had begun. There was no time being wasted to stamp one 's authority and Starc landed the third ball right on the money. Full , pacy and right at the base of the off stump. McCullum 's bat came down too late and an ecstatic home crowd let out a huge roar. The skipper had fallen. The signs were right and Starc was on top. Australia never took a backward step after that first break .
