Diminutive Rahim plays big innings Bangladesh vs Afghanistan , 7th Match , Pool A Wed , Feb 18 2015 by CB staff Mushfiqur Rahim 's 71 was instrumental in Bangladesh 's win . Looking at Mushfiqur Rahim 's frail physique , you wo n't put your money on him to hit big shots. But what he lacks in the big-hitting department , he makes up for with his ability to take singles and doubles at will and that 's what he displayed in Bangladesh 's opening ICC World Cup match against Afghanistan on Wednesday . Bangladesh were in a big spot of bother at 129 for 4 in the 30th over. It looked like Afghanistan , on their ODI World Cup debut , might do what Ireland did to West Indies a couple of days ago . There were reasons for a Bangladeshi supporter not to feel good about his team 's chances. Just last year , in a World T20 encounter at home , they were stunned by minnows Hong Kong. However , the way Rahim batted in the first few minutes of his stay he gave a lot of assurance . He ran hard for singles and doubles and now and then , whenever an opportunity presented itself , he made the most of it by picking up fours. The fifth-wicket 114-run partnership with Shakib took the team out of the jam . Big-hitting may not be Rahim 's forte but now and then he could really dispatch the ball into the stands. His six off Aftab Alam in the 41st over corroborated that. By the time he fell for 71 ( 56 balls , 6x4s , 1x6s ) in the 48th over , there were enough runs to put the wind up Afghanistan , who in reply to Bangladesh 's 267 were eventually bowled out for just 162 . Rahim was rightly chosen the Man of the Match. He was effusive in the post-match presentation. " At the end , the team won , so it is a great feeling now. I think credit also goes to the openers , they did n't get the runs , but up front it is not that easy. Me and Shakib , we just knew that if we stayed on the wicket , it was good to bat on. We just made a plan to bat till the 45th or 48th over , " he said . " Thanks to the crowd , they have come all over from Australia and also back home. My father and my uncle are also here. Hopefully , the boys will carry the momentum , " he added .
