New Zealand vs England , 9th Match , Pool A Fri , Feb 20 2015 by CB Staff Tim Southee loves playing England. He sparkled on Test debut in Napier in 2008 by taking a five-wicket haul and smashing a 40-ball 77 , including nine sixes. From his solid beginning , Southee has become the leader of the New Zealand attack. His accuracy and his ability to generate swing consistently has benefited the team immensely. However , on February 20 , in the World Cup clash against England in Wellington , Southee produced a master-class which enhanced his reputation and blew England away . England chose to bat and Southee was on the money in his first over. He generated good swing in the air and kept it in the channel just outside off. After a poor second over , he struck in the first ball of his third over when he cleaned up Ian Bell with a wonderful delivery. He stayed wide of the crease and angled in a full ball on off stump which swung away late and the batsman saw his off-stump pegged back . Southee set up Ali brilliantly in his fourth over. With the first ball , he pushed Ali back with a bouncer and landed the second ball on a length. With the third ball , he bowled a yorker that curved back in late and Ali was bowled. With his tail up , Southee bowled at pace and continued to generate swing to finish his first spell with figures of 5-0-23-2 . Eoin Morgan and Joe Root revived England with a 47-run stand for the fourth wicket but Daniel Vettori broke the stand when Morgan was brilliantly caught by a diving Adam Milne at long-on. McCullum decided to go for the kill and brought back Southee and the bowler responded splendidly. With the first ball of his second spell , he beat James Taylor 's outside edge with a delivery that swung away. In the second ball , he went wide of the crease and angled in a yorker on middle stump. However , the ball swung away at the last moment and Taylor was sent packing. New Zealand had found the opening . Southee decided to follow three simple steps. He decided to be accurate , bowl at pace and generate swing on a consistent basis just outside the off stump channel. By using the crease cleverly and employing a mixture of cross-seam and straight seam deliveries , he proceeded to dismantle England 's batting clinically. In the seventh over , he bowled a full outswinger outside off stump and Jos Buttler edged it to the keeper to depart for 2. In the fourth ball , going wide of the crease , Southee swung the ball away late and Chris Woakes ' off stump took a beating. Stuart Broad looked spooked in his short stay and he tamely lobbed a full ball to mid-off to depart for 4. Southee completed the humiliation when Steve Finn edged an outswinger to first slip. In his second spell , he had figures of 4-0-10-5 and thanks to this spell , England lost seven wickets for 19 runs . Southee 's figures of 9-0-33-7 was the best figures by a New Zealand bowler in ODI history. This was the third-best haul in World Cup history. Thanks to the efforts by Southee , New Zealand romped home by eight wickets with 226 balls to go. It was a day where everything went right for Southee while for England , everything that could go wrong went wrong .
