Russell leaves Pakistan at sixes and sevens Pakistan vs West Indies , 10th Match , Pool B NewDelhi , Sat , Feb 21 2015 by CB staff Andre Russell followed his 13-ball 42 with figures of 3 for 33 , his second-best bowling performance in ODIs . West Indies needed a special effort to overcome the Ireland defeat , and it came from Andre Russell , whose all-round performance gave the side a much-needed win. He produced an emphatic performance with both bat and ball as West Indies completed a 150-run rout of Pakistan at the Hagley Oval on Saturday . Russell , known as one of West Indies ' brutal stroke-makers , has only recently started living up to his reputation. Who could forget his blazing match-winning fifty against South Africa last month ? On Saturday , the allrounder looked threatening again. In the first innings of the match , he almost broke Brendon McCullum 's record for the fastest half-century in World Cup history and then followed it with his second-best ODI bowling figures. Although it was Jerome Taylor who did the damage up front , Russell 's dismissal of Umar Akmal put the result of the match beyond doubt . West Indies did well to recover well from 28 for 2 to go to 194 for 4 before the allrounder took centre stage. Lendl Simmons and Darren Sammy had already set the platform with a 65-run partnership and the situation was ideal for Russell to fire with 17 balls remaining. And that 's exactly what he did with a ballistic 13-ball 42. It featured three crunching sixes off Sohail Khan - who finished with 5 for 55 against India - in the 49th over and another one off Wahab Riaz , that gave West Indies plenty of runs to work with . Russell punished every little error in length by Pakistan. He kept clearing his front leg and swinging , with Pakistan helping him by not bowling yorkers. They instead bowled length balls , predictable bouncers and the slower ones , allowing the allrounder to run amok . Then he made noise with the white Kookaburra. Taylor had already decimated Pakistan 's top-order , and sent three of Pakistan 's top four batsmen without opening their account. Russell made the most of that situation , picking up 3 for 33. One of his victims was the dangerous-looking Akmal , who , along with Sohaib Maqsood , had accounted for 80 runs for the sixth wicket. Shortly after Akmal had got to his fifty , Russell bowled a straighter line , which went straight down the throat of the fielder at deep-midwicket . Russell 's performance comes at the right time for West Indies. However , they will need more such performances if they are to spring a surprise and last the distance .
