Incredible Riaz keeps Pakistan alive Pakistan vs Zimbabwe , 23rd Match , Pool B Sun , Mar 01 2015 by CB Staff Riaz made 54 * and took four wickets in Pakistan 's first win . Wahab Riaz is mostly known for his bowling exploits , but in a crunch match against Zimbabwe in the 2015 ICC World Cup on Sunday he displayed his all-round side and sparkled in a 20-run win , Pakistan 's first win in three matches. If Pakistan managed to beat the African team despite scoring a sub-standard 235 for 7 , they had Riaz to thank . Choosing to bat at the Gabba in Brisbane , the Pakistan batsmen 's dismal show in the tournament continued and when Sohaib Maqsood departed as the sixth wicket with just 155 runs on the board , even reaching 200 looked like a Herculean task. In walked Riaz , and he took the bull by the horns straight away . His dominance could be gauged from the fact that in the seventh-wicket 47-run stand with captain Misbah-ul-Haq , he did the bulk of the scoring and made 30. That Pakistan managed to get something to bowl at was solely because of Riaz who also scored 24 in his unbeaten 33-run stand with Sohail Khan. In his innings of 54 * off 46 balls , he hit six fours and a six . For the first time in his career , Riaz made a fifty. He previous best was 47 not out against Ireland in 2013. Riaz reached the milestone by taking two off Tinashe Panyangara in the last over. He took 10 runs from the last three balls and looking at the margin of defeat one could imagine how crucial those runs were . The 29-year-old left his imprint while bowling too. He was the one who got rid of Zimbabwe top-scorer Brendan Taylor who made 50. Craig Ervine , Tawanda Mupariwa and Elton Chigumbura were also his victims. It was a fitting conclusion to the match when he had Chigumbura caught behind to seal an important win. It was the first time since Abdul Razzaq 's 63 * and 4 for 53 against Australia in Perth in 2005 , that a Pakistan pacer scored a fifty and took four wickets in a match . It was no surprise that Riaz was chosen Man of the Match. He was pleased as punch at the post-match performance. " The discussion was to play all 50 overs. If we need to take any chances , we will do it in the last few overs. I think , at the start , I was not enjoying. The ball was n't coming onto the bat , " he talked about his batting experience . " Credit goes to the whole team and finally we won the game. We always expect him to take early wickets. He bowled really well. I want to dedicate this award to my dad and mom , I am sure they will be very happy , " he added .
