Dhawan 's red-hot streak boosts India India vs Ireland , 34th Match , Pool B Tue , Mar 10 2015 by CB Staff In cricket , openers play a pivotal part in the success of the team. If an opener gets the team off to an aggressive start , the entire team benefits. Successful opening combinations dictate terms to the opposition and their consistency can help the team win big moments in a pressure situation . The key to India 's successes in recent ICC tournaments has been the form of the openers , most notably Shikhar Dhawan. In the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy , Dhawan 's 363 runs at an average of 90 with two centuries were crucial in India 's march to the title. In fact , the trend was that whenever Dhawan contributed significantly at the top , India rarely lost . Heading into the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup , Dhawan 's poor form was the main talking point but his magnificent 73 and 137 against Pakistan and South Africa respectively have India 's campaign on the right path. His performances in this World Cup have been like the Dhawan of old - where he would dismantle the opposition with his aggressive strokeplay . Against Ireland in Hamilton , Dhawan displayed these qualities wonderfully. India 's bowlers had done well towards the fag end of the innings and they restricted Ireland to just 259. Dhawan started off the chase well by smashing John Mooney for a boundary. On 5 , Mooney dropped Dhawan off his own bowling and on 10 , he was again dropped by William Porterfield at point. These two lives proved to be costly and Dhawan decided that it would be his day . He targetted Alex Cusack by cutting him for a boundary and driving him straight down the ground. He decided to go after Stuart Thompson and duly smashed him for a four and a six in the first two balls. The introduction of the spinners made no difference as Dhawan maintained an aggressive streak by going after George Dockrell. He hit him for two fours while Paul Stirling was deposited over the fence at wide long-on for a big six . He was primarily dealing in fours and sixes and the Irish bowling wilted. Another six off Dockrell and two more fours off O'Brien followed and in the fifth ball of the 27th over , Dhawan nudged the ball to square leg to bring up his eighth ODI century off 84 balls. The knock included 11 fours and five sixes and it was his second World Cup century . Thanks to Dhawan 's knock , India cruised home by eight wickets with 13.1 overs to spare. Once again , his century resulted in an India win and thanks to this great form , India are looking like the team to beat in this World Cup. His confidence can be summed up the quote he gave after the end of the match. When the question was asked , " How much does Shikhar Dhawan rate himself ? " He replied , " I always mark myself 10 out of 10 " . That is Dhawan in a nutshell .
