AB de Villiers - batsman , bowler and fielder South Africa vs United Arab Emirates , 36th Match , Pool B Thu , Mar 12 2015 by CB staff AB de Villiers displayed yet another masterclass with the bat A certain line from Sanjay Manjrekar on air summed it up nicely : " By the time AB de Villiers retires , he might show us how to bat left-handed as well. " This was after de Villiers had picked up his second wicket , that of Amjad Javed against UAE during the 36th match of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. He now has four wickets in this World Cup - more than Shahid Afridi , Staurt Broad , Rangana Herath and Shakib Al Hasan. Add to that an innings of 99 earlier in the day and there is no denying the fact that ABD is a modern-day freak . De Villiers recently claimed that his side was the best in the tournament , that came after South Africa suffered a loss at the hands of Pakistan. There , he had waged a lone battle - a 58-ball 77 as the rest of the South African batsmen struggled , leading to the Proteas falling 29 runs short of a D/L revised target . At the SCG on Thursday though , things were better , but at the same time , not too different. De Villiers was out there once again , just that this time he adjusted well as wickets fell , discovered gaps in the field more frequently and built his innings at a gradual increase in pace , something that has become far too usual now. He was briefly tied down initially - 32 off 41 balls. But once the 29th over was completed , runs started coming thick and fast during the middle overs and both de Villiers and David Miller built a base for a good score with a 108-run stand for the fourth wicket . De Villiers notched up his 45th ODI fifty as the batting Powerplay was taken. In the 38th over , de Villiers was dropped on 63 by Javed off his own bowling and the batsman responded by depositing the next ball to deep midwicket. He thumped two fours off Naveed and smashed another six and four off Javed to motor into the 90s. South Africa scored 42 for 1 in the Powerplay and at 240/4 in the 40th over with de Villiers on the rampage , another 400-plus score looked possible . A fifth century in the last 25 innings beckoned , but de Villiers sliced Kamran Shazad 's medium pace to short third man. He became the third player after Adam Gilchrist and JP Duminy to be dismissed for 99 in a World Cup - his first 99 in 178 innings. De Villiers capped off a perfect day with a catch of Mohammad Naveed off Vernon Philander .
