Brendan Taylor signs off in style India vs Zimbabwe , 39th Match , Pool B Sat , Mar 14 2015 by CB staff In their final game of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , Zimbabwe intended to put up a commendable performance against India in order to give Brendan Taylor a fitting farewell , and even though the result of the match was n't the one they desired , Taylor himself ensured that he went out on a high. Playing his 167th and final match or Zimbabwe , the wicketkeeper-batsman signed off in grand style , scoring his 8th century and in process , becoming the country 's highest run-scorer in ODIs . It was the kind of innings that had an element of everything - application , intent , skill and muscle. Once India skipper MS Dhoni put Zimbabwe in , his seamers - Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma , struck a wicket each. Zimbabwe stuttered and were soon 33 for 3 as Solomon Mire was out caught behind. The new pair of Taylor and Sean Williams then wrested back advantage in Zimbabwe 's favour by adopting a safer approach for the next few overs. Taylor bided his time and got his eye in before launching an all-out attack on the Indian bowlers . The partnership made steady progress and once it gained momentum , Taylor began to open up. His chips down the ground were perfect , and he often reverse-swept the spin due of Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja - he took Ashwin for 42 runs off 27 balls , and Jadeja for 44 off 31. Zimbabwe 's fourth-wicket stand had accounted for 97 runs before Williams lobbed a return catch to Ashiwn for 50 . His wicket made Taylor circumspect , but he still managed to score at a strike-rate of over 90. He brought up his century , ramping a Shami bouncer over the ropes and became the first Zimbabwe player to notch up back-to-back World Cup hundreds. On crossing the three-figure mark , Taylor went into overdrive , taking Jadeja for 25 runs in the 41st over , during which , he also became the first Zimbabwean to go past 400 runs in a World Cup . Taylor had scored 70 runs off his last 29 balls before perishing for a 110-ball 138. His middle-over assault set up the perfect platform from where Zimbabwe could accelerate go on to score above 300 , but a strong comeback from the Indian seamers , all three of whom took three wickets apiece , restricted them 13 short of the mark. India had conceded their highest total this World Cup and it was mainly due to Taylor 's heroics in his final outing for his country. Several Indian players ran up to him to shake his hand as the Auckland crowd gave him a sound reception .
