Shivlal Yadav Front-Runner to Replace N. Srinivasan as BCCI President Shivlal Yadav Front-Runner to Replace N. Srinivasan as BCCI President In a private gathering of the N. Srinivasan faction , the Tamil Nadu strongman has expressed his desire to see one of his close confidants Shivlal Yadav being supported by the East Zone units - Bengal , Assam , Jharkhand , Odisha , Tripura . Last updated on Saturday , 07 February , 2015 23 : 01 IST Total Shares File Photo : N. Srinivasan and Shivlal Yadav at the MAK Pataudi lecture . © BCCI Chennai : Former India off-spinner and interim president of BCCI Shivlal Yadav in all likelihood is the front-runner to replace N. Srinivasan as the full-time president of the Board at the next Annual General Meeting. ( BCCI to Decide on AGM Date on Sunday ) In a private gathering of the N. Srinivasan faction in the city on Saturday , the Tamil Nadu strongman has expressed his desire to see one of his close confidants Shivlal being supported by the East Zone units -- namely Bengal , Assam , Jharkhand , Odisha , Tripura . " We have been with Srinivasan for a long time and if he wants us to support Shivlal , then we will probably toe the line , " a member of one the east Zone units told PTI . In fact Jagmohan Dalmiya , who was harbouring ambitions of becoming president as Srinivasan has been barred by Supreme Court , decided to skip the evening get-together of the Srinivasan faction probably having seen the writing on the wall . " Mr Dalmiya should have got the drift when Srinivasan , who was present at the Pataudi Lecture in Kolkata told him in person that they are considering him for a " prestigious post " . That was a clear indication that Dalmiya was not in contention for becoming a president. Probably , that 's why he skipped the dinner party but will attend tomorrow Working Committee meeting , " a senior BCCI official from East Zone said. ( Timeline : Complete IPL saga ) As of now , if there is no election , then Yadav , a former off-spinner with more than 100 Test wickets , may become head of BCCI unopposed. ( Top 10 developments ) Story first published on : Saturday , 07 February 2015 21 : 45 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Nandlal Shivlal Yadav
