Hazlewood 's four limits Pakistan to a modest score Australia vs Pakistan , 3rd Quarter-Final Fri , Mar 20 2015 by CB staff Australia 's decision to swap Pat Cummins with Josh Hazlewood reaped good rewards Josh Hazlewood , on his recall to the Australian side , picked up 4 for 35 against Pakistan in the third quarter-final at Adelaide. Playing only his third game of the tournament , Hazlewood replaced Pat Cummins as Australia 's third medium-pacer and his four wickets played a key role in limiting Pakistan to 213 , which was chased down by Australia to book themselves a place in the semi-final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Australia have shuffled with Cummins and Hazlewood right through the tournament giving both medium-pacers two games each. Hazlewood struggled in his outing Australia 's heavy win over England in the World Cup opener - 0 for 45 from 6.5 overs - and after being left out of the loss to New Zealand , he claimed 2 for 25 off eight overs against a lowly Afghanistan side. Cummins , on the other hand , picked up five wickets in Australia 's two warm-up games and followed it with figures of 2 for 38 and 3 for 42 against New Zealand and Scotland respectively . Hazlewood admitted in a radio interview this week it 's been hard , at times , not knowing whether the National Selection Panel would opt for him or Cummins in the line-up. However , for the crunch quarter-final , the 24-year-old was given the nod and he did not disappoint. His first spell read : 5-0-7-1. He landed the ball in the right areas and kept the Pakistan batsmen on their toes. The pressure built by the early wicket of Sarfraz Ahmed was evident on Pakistan , and the line and length both Hazlewood and Mitchell Starc operated on , did not allow the opposition to get away with - Pakistan were 38 for 2 in 11 overs . Hazlewood 's first wicket was that of Ahmed Shehzad , who fell to a loose shot outside off. The ball shaped away nicely and Shehzad paid the price of playing away from his body with no movement of his feet whatsoever. The ball took the outside edge and landed safely in the hands of skipper Michael Clarke at second slip . The New South Wales bowler returned in the 32nd over and struck with the wicket of Shahid Afridi , who miscued a pull to Aaron Finch at deep midwicket. With two overs remaining up his sleeve , Clarke got him to bowl in the final ten of the innings , and Hazlewood was on the money once again claiming the wickets of Sohaib Maqsood and Sohail Khan. While Maqsood connected well to find Mitchell Johnson and deep cover , Sohail , the last Pakistan wicket to fall , got a massive top edge which was taken by Brad Haddin , running all the way to gully . Hazlewood would have ended with a five-for when he almost cleaned up Misbah-ul-Haq. But the batsman was lucky to have his bail remain intact despite the ball kissing the stumps. The White Kookaburra clipped Misbah 's thigh pad , clipped the stumps and the lights flashed , but the bail remained undisturbed because it is heavier than ones normally used. His performance fetched him a much-deserved Man-of-the-Match award .
