New Zealand vs West Indies , 4th Quarter-Final Sat , Mar 21 2015 by CB Staff Scoring a double century in ODIs is becoming all too easy in the modern era. For the first 2961 ODIs , the thought of scoring an individual double ton was considered the stuff of dreams. However , in the 2962nd ODI , Sachin Tendulkar created history by smashing the first double century in ODIs against South Africa in March 2010. 682 ODIs later , there have been five scores of over 200 , with Martin Guptill becoming the latest entrant into the 200-club . Guptill had returned to form following knocks of 57 and 105 against Afghanistan and Bangladesh. It was time for him to deliver on the big stage. Against West Indies in Wellington , Guptill started off in style with a boundary by punching Jerome Taylor to long-off. However , in the third ball , Marlon Samuels dropped Guptill and he made them pay , big time . He hit a couple of sweetly-timed boundaries off Taylor and got into a zone where he scored runs comfortably. After getting to his fifty off 64 balls , Guptill was tied down for a bit by some tight bowling from Darren Sammy. He hung in and brought up his seventh ODI century off 110 balls. With the introduction of the batting Powerplay and with Guptill on 100 , it was time for some carnage . He went after Sammy by depositing him into the second tier at wide long-on for a six and then proceeded to whack Suleiman Benn for a couple of fours. Guptill 's aggression went up a notch and he thumped 16 runs off one Taylor over and he raced to 150. It had taken him just 24 balls to go from 100 to 150 and the stage was set . In the space of two overs , Guptill smashed five sixes and he became the first New Zealand batsman to score a double hundred when he clobbered Andre Russell down the ground. His foot remained on the accelerating pedal and he deposited Russell out of the Cake Tin. Towards the end , Guptill remained unbeaten on 237 off 163 balls , with 24 fours and 11 sixes. Even after the end of the match , Guptill said there was still some room for improvement. " The 237 has not sunk in. We still have a lot of work to do , so ca n't dwell too much on this , " he said. That sums up Guptill and New Zealand 's journey in this World Cup so far . Guptill broke a whole host of records in this knock. Here is the list of records which Guptill smashed . - Guptill became the first New Zealand player to score a double ton in ODIs and he became the fifth player to score a double century in ODIs . - His score of 237 is the highest individual score by a batsman in World Cups while his score was also the highest in a World Cup knockout match . - During the course of his knock , Guptill smashed 24 fours and 11 sixes. He has hit the most number of fours by a New Zealand batsman in an ODI innings while he has hit the second-most sixes in an innings , the most being Corey Anderson who smashed 14 sixes against West Indies in Queenstown in 2014 . - Guptill now holds the highest individual score by a New Zealand player in ODIs , breaking his own record of 189 * which he hit against England in Southampton in 2013 . - Guptill 's 237 is the second highest score in ODIs behind Rohit Sharma 's 264 against Sri Lanka in Kolkata. His knock is the fourth-best in all of List-A , behind Alistair Brown 's 268 , Rohit 's 264 and Shikhar Dhawan 's 248 . This updated table is the list of highest individual scores for New Zealand in ODIs . NAME
