Steven Smith pummels his 'favourite ' opponent Australia vs India , 2nd Semi-Final Thu , Mar 26 2015 by CB staff Steven Smith scored his maiden World Cup century and set Australia up for a late surge A certain line from Harsha Bhogle on air summed up Australia 's dominant batting display. " India would be sick of bowling to this man " , with the reference going to Steven Smith , who , after pounding India in the Test series , enjoyed another enjoyable outing against his 'favourite ' opponent in the semi-final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Smith seized the moment at the historic Sydney Cricket Ground with a sublime century , his fourth overall and first in World Cup. Australia had a dodgy start , when David Warner produced a leading-edge to Rohit Sharma off Umesh Yadav 's second over. They were 15 for 1 and India had the perfect beginning. But soon they thwarted that advantage as out walked Steven Smith , who put on a partnership with Aaron Finch that proved to be the difference between the two sides . Ever since his promotion to the No. 3 spot , Australia have looked a completely different unit and once again , Smith proved that theory right. On a surface that was two-paced to begin with , Smith seemed to be in a different zone altogether. He took the attack to India , taking a special liking to the short delivery , which the Indian medium-pacers had used effectively prior to this game . He took Umesh for four boundaries in the tenth over and followed it with a full-blooded pull off Virat Kohli 's gentle military-medium pace. With exemplary footwork , often jumping down the track and manufacturing shots in the crease at the same time , he was able to find gaps without breaking much sweat. Smith and Finch added 182 runs in 31 overs and every time the Australian opener struggled for timing , Smith 's free-flowing run-scoring made up for it . He struck two sixes during the course of his innings , a pull off a good length delivery from Ravindra Jadeja , and a giant heave over midwicket off Mohammed Shami before reaching the three-figure mark off 89 balls with another boundary off Shami. He eventually lost his wicket for 105 ( 93 balls ) during the Batting Powerplay ( which yielded 64 runs ) , a mistimed pull off Yadav which landed straight into the hands of Rohit. But it was all too late for India , who were given some serious hammering by Shane Watson and Mitchell Johnson towards the end of the innings .
