Dhawan rises to occasion again India vs South Africa , 13th Match , Pool B Sun , Feb 22 2015 by CB staff Shikhar Dhawan scored a career-best 137 . In a matter of days , Shikhar Dhawan has rejuvenated his ODI career. In the run-up to the ICC World Cup , he was one Indian player nobody would put their money on to do well in the quadrennial tournament. The reason was his form had deserted him : after scoring 167 runs in three Tests against Australia he could only accumulate 49 runs in four matches in the following tri-series. He got a fifty in a warm-up against Australia but you do n't start backing a player on the basis of his performance in a warm-up , do you ? But in a span of two weeks or so , Dhawan has regained his form and is India 's highest-scorer after the first two matches against arch-rivals Pakistan and South Africa. Against Pakistan , he had made 73 and his stand with Virat Kohli had laid the foundations for a 76-run win. The confidence gained from that match burgeoned on Sunday against South Africa , and in front of almost 87,000 spectators - mostly Indians - Dhawan played a heck of an innings. His career-best 137 turned out to be difference between the two sides . Dhawan 's approach at the start of the Indian innings showed he had come in with a plan. He was willing to leave the ball , play with a straight back and punish bad deliveries. Over-aggression has often been Dhawan 's bane in the past but today he batted like a man possessed. South Africa could have sent him back on 53 but Hashim Amla 's bungle at backward point meant he would go on to score his second ton against South Africa , seventh overall . After scoring his first fifty off 71 balls , the left-hander became a bit aggressive and fetched the next fifty off 50 balls. However , it was after reaching his century , that Dhawan really cut loose and picked up two sixes in back-to-back overs bowled by Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel. He eventually fell to Wayne Parnell , but by that time , India were on course for a very good total on a pitch expected to help bowlers under lights . The significance of Dhawan 's innings could be gauged from the fact that all South Africa could mange in their reply was 177 all out. The 29-year-old was a relieved man at the post-match presentation where he was given the Man-of-the-Match award . " It was very important. I will say that of course ; when a batsman scores a century it 's a great feeling , more than that it was important that the partnerships kept going for the team. That was our plan and that 's what we stuck to. We lost an early wicket , AB with the great run-out. We wanted to stay on the wicket , their bowlers bowled well with the new ball , we took time to settle down , " Dhawan said . " I was in by the 25th over , I was playing on the merit of the ball. I knew I would get the loose deliveries to put it to the boundary. Virat played really well and we two provided some stability to the team. Ajinkya [ Rahane ] then played well , allowed me to take my time. This sets the tournament up for us , getting two wins is a good thing. We are looking forward to the rest of the tournament. Thankful to the crowd for supporting us all the way , " he added .
