A year of controversies Tue , Dec 30 2014 , by Himanshu Shekhar From ICC chairman N Srinivasan to Kevin Pietersen , from the Big Three to CSK , from chucking to political statements , cricket saw it all in 2014 . As the year draws to a close , it became clear that cricket and controversies could never be separated. From the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) chairman N Srinivasan to Kevin Pietersen , from the Big Three to Chennai Super Kings , from chucking to political statements , cricket saw it all in 2014 . Here , we take a look at the major controversies that hit cricket this year : Srinivasan , CSK & RR wait for New Year with bated breath India 's Supreme Court has reserved its order on the high-profile case featuring BCCI , its president N Srinivasan , its golden baby IPL against the nondescript Cricket Association of Bihar , fronting for former IPL chairman Lalit Modi. The Justice Mukul Mudgal Committee , appointed by the Supreme Court to probe the allegations , submitted two reports this year , both leaving cricket officials red-faced. It became worse as the SC waded into Srinivasan 's claim that he had nothing to do with his son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan 's betting on IPL matches involving his team , CSK and that he had no conflict of interest. For a good part of the year , Srinivasan was reduced to being BCCI president in abeyance after stepping aside because of pressure from the SC. CSK and Royals ' future looked bleak as the year drew to a close while cricket fans have been left hoping that the sport would emerge cleaner . ECB ends KP 's international career After 277 appearances in England colours which saw him make a record 13,797 runs , including 32 centuries , the exciting Kevin Pietersen could not stop the ECB from suddenly bringing the curtain down on his career. As England decided to make some forward movement , Pietersen was unceremoniously sacked in the wake of their Ashes whitewash in Australia. Despite both parties being bound by confidentiality provisions , a full-blown war followed his dismissal. But public support could not convince ECB managing director Paul Downton to revisit the decision. Few charismatic cricketers have been at the receiving end with such disdain as KP , who was reduced to a T20 specialist . ICC cracks the whip on bowlers with suspect action The ICC 's Cricket Committee , chaired by former India captain Anil Kumble , recommended that chucking be curbed and what followed was a nightmare for bowlers with suspect actions. After claiming 178 wickets in 35 Tests , Pakistan offspinner Saeed Ajmal came under the scanner officially and banned from bowling until he underwent remedial action. He was the biggest 'catch ' in a list that keeps growing by the month. Even though the West Indies ' limited-overs star Sunil Narine was reported in the Champions League Twenty20 in India , the West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) pulled him out of the squad ahead of the India tour . West Indies pull out of India tour West Indies cricketers pulled out of their tour of India without completing their engagements. Not satisfied by the revised pay structure agreed upon the West Indies Players Association and the WICB , the players left the tour after the fourth ODI in Dharamsala. The BCCI sought $ 42 million as compensation from the WICB and contemplated freezing bilateral ties with West Indies . Sachin Tendulkar sets the cat among pigeons Tendulkar continued to make news a year after his retirement. In his autobiography , Playing it My Way , Tendulkar revealed that the then India coach Greg Chappell had approached him to take over captaincy by replacing Rahul Dravid. " Just months before the World Cup , Chappell had come to see me at home and , to my dismay , suggested that I should take over the captaincy from Rahul Dravid , " Tendulkar wrote. Cricket 's most prolific batsman also revealed that he was shocked by Dravid 's decision to declare the Indian innings when he was batting on 194 against Pakistan in the Multan Test of 2004. It would be unfair to say that these little episodes in his book helped him sell the book that set a record for having pre-booked 150,000 copies before launch . Moeen Ali 's political wristband invites ICC wrath England 's Moeen Ali wore wristbands with 'Save Gaza ' and 'Free Palestine ' messages on them during the third Test against India in Southampton. The ECB had no issues with that but ICC match referee David Boon disagreed , citing the rule book. It caused a furore and rekindled the debate whether sportspersons are mere entertainers without being a part of the society in which they ply their trade . Mankading haunts the international stage Sri Lanka 's Sachithra Senanayake removed the bails as England 's Jos Buttler backed up too far at the non-striker 's end in the final ODI at Edgbaston. It led to bad blood spilling over in to the Test series after skippers Alastair Cook and Angelo Mathews were involved in a war of words . James Anderson-Ravindra Jadeja spat England fast bowler Anderson and India allrounder Jadeja made headlines during the first Test match in Nottingham. The Indians lodged a formal complaint , alleging that Anderson had abused and pushed Jadeja. The ECB lodged a counter complaint and the ICC brought in a Judicial Commissioner Lewis Gordon , who found Anderson and Jadeja not guilty. The decision left neither party satisfied . Steven Smith 's smart move to catch Fawad Alam Big Three take control of the ICC The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) , England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) and Cricket Australia ( CA ) gained immense power within the restructured ICC. The Big Three , as they came to be known , assured themselves of permanent places in two important ICC panels - the Executive Committee and Financial & Commercial Affairs Committee. They also took greater share of the revenue pie while promising more revenue to all members and hung out a carrot to the Associate members , offering them the chance to start playing Test cricket with Full Members. The changes were ushered in but only after Cricket South Africa , Sri Lanka Cricket and the Pakistan Cricket Board registered their dissatisfaction . Smith moved from slip to catch left-handed Alam 's sweep off Xavier Doherty at leg slip in the third Pakistan-Australia ODI in Abu Dhabi on October 12. After standing his ground for a while , Alam walked off. He was unaware that the ICC had changed the rules , which allowed a close-in fielder to make significant movements if the batsman premeditates his shot ( before the ball reaches the striker ) and gets into a position early . Features
