Tue , Dec 30 2014 , by Feroz Khan Cricbuzz takes a look at cricketers who made a memorable debut in 2014 . Taijul Islam ( Bangladesh ) The left-arm spinner made his Test debut against West Indies in September and though he ended up on the losing side , he had a memorable game , picking a five-for. The 22-year-old took 5 for 135 in West Indies ' first innings , including the wicket of double-centurion Kraigg Brathwaite. Later in the year , he became the first bowler in ODIs to take a hat-trick on debut as he spun Bangladesh to five-wicket win over Zimbabwe , finishing with 4 for 11 . Jimmy Neesham ( New Zealand ) Allrounder Neesham made his Test debut against India at Wellington in February and was out for 33 in New Zealand 's first innings. However , he scored a brisk 137 in the second dig to help his team to a mammoth total and guide them to safe shores. Neesham followed that with a century in his second Test , the opposition this time being West Indies , becoming only the eighth cricketer to the record of scoring two centuries in his first two Tests . Taskin Ahmed ( Bangladesh ) On a lively Mirpur track , 19-year-old fast bowler Ahmed made everyone sit up and take notice as he decimated the Indian line-up with a five-wicket haul on ODI debut. Unable to cope with his pace , the visitors were bundled out for 105 in the second match of three-ODI series in 25.3 overs as Taskin took 5 for 28 in eight overs. It 's another fact that Bangladesh fared worse after being shot down for a meagre 58 . Jos Buttler ( England ) In July , Buttler nearly became the second wicketkeeper-batsman from England to score a century on debut as he punished a listless Indian bowling attack to score 85 off 83 after coming in to bat at No 7 in the third Test at Southampton. He also took six catches in the match as England won by 266 runs to level the five-Test series 1-1 . Michael Lumb ( England ) At 34 , Lumb became one of the oldest England cricketers to make an ODI debut in February against West Indies , and he celebrated the occasion with a century , the second Englishman and the ninth overall to do achieve the feat. The left-hander scored 106 off 117 but could n't prevent his team from a 15-run defeat . Dane Piedt ( South Africa ) A spinner , Piet is something of a rarity in South African cricket. He picked a wicket with the first ball of his Test career to join 18 others to have achieved the feat. He made his debut against Zimbabwe in the one-off Harare Test and collected eight wickets on a spin-friendly track to lead his side to victory. His match figures of 8 for 152 in 49 overs will be seen in a positive light by a side that has failed to produce a world class spinner for a very long time . Stiaan van Zyl ( South Africa ) Watched by his family and close friends from the stands , the 27-year-old van Zyl made a long awaited debut for South Africa against West Indies in December. Coming in to bat at No 6 , he grabbed the opportunity with both hands to score a stroke-filled unbeaten 101 in South Africa 's first innings of 552 for 5 declared. An innings victory in his maiden Test , in which he made a significant contribution , was the icing on the cake for van Zyl . Rilee Rossouw ( South Africa ) Rossouw had a horrible start to his international career with he four ducks in his first six ODIs including one on debut. However , his maiden Twenty20 international brought him much comfort. Rossouw 's 50-ball 78 guided South Africa to a seven-wicket win over Australia at Adelaide Oval in November. He though survived a scare during the start of his innings when another debutant , Nathan Reardon , dropped him when he was batting on seven. However , he capitalised on the chance and made his mark . John Nyumbu ( Zimbabwe ) Nyumbu discovered he could bowl an effective off-break by chance during his teenage years and then polished it to the effect that the Zimbabwe selectors took notice and gave him a chance against a top-ranked South African Test team in Harare. He immediately made impact , taking 5 for 157 to bowl out the opposition for 397. The 29-year-old , who slogged in domestic cricket for a decade , left viewers and critics impressed including the South African batsmen who praised him for his accuracy . Yasir Shah ( Pakistan ) Drafted into the Pakistan Test side in place of the banned Saeed Ajmal , Yasir did n't let his country 's leading bowlers absence be felt as he helped fashion a 221-run victory over Australia in Dubai. The leg-spinner , in conjunction with Zulfiqar Babar , left the Australian batsmen befuddled in picking seven wickets in his first Test. He then took five more in the next as Pakistan completed a 2-0 whitewash . Josh Hazlewood ( Australia ) A former national javelin champion , Hazlewood has been a highly rated pace bowler in Australian domestic cricket. He made his Test debut against India at the Gabba and proved his backers right by picking a five-wicket haul in the first innings. His figures of 5 for 68 included the scalps of Cheteshwar Pujara , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , MS Dhoni and R Ashwin. The 23-year-old also picked two wickets in the second innings , ending with match figures of 7 for 174 as Australia won the Test by four wickets . Alex Doolan ( Australia ) Against the likes of Dale Steyn , Vernon Philander and Morne Morke , Doolan scored a patient 89 to help Australia survive a testing phase after they had lost an early wicket in the Centurion Test in February. He missed out on a century on debut but his knock helped settle nerves that set Australia on course for a 281-run victory . Matt Henry ( New Zealand ) Henry , a medium-pacer , registered the third-best figures on ODI debut by a New Zealand bowler when he took 4 for 38 against India at Wellington in January to help his side seal a 4-0 series win. The 23-year-old has played six ODIs in 2014 and collected 19 wickets at a brilliant average of 15.26 . Mark Craig ( New Zealand ) The off-spinner condemned West Indies to a 186-run defeat in the Kingston Test in June , finishing with match figures 8 for 188. He took 4 for 91 in the first innings and then demolished the hosts middle order to finish with 4 for 97 as the they were bowled out in 47.4 overs for 216 , while chasing 403. In six Tests so far , besides taking 25 wickets , the 27-year-old also has two fifties to his name . Features
