18th January 1972 Birth of Vinod Kambli A talented left-handed batsman , tipped for big things but failed to last the distance , Vinod Kambli was born on this day. Kambli first came into limelight in February 1988 , with a world record 664-run partnership with Sachin Tendulkar during the semi-final of the Harris Shield tournament , an inter-school competition , playing for Shardashram Vidyamandir School against St. Xavier 's High School. The duo were stopped by their coach Ramakant Achrekar , who forced them to declare the innings. He made his first-class debut during the 1989-90 season , playing for Mumbai . His stroke-play impressed the national selectors and he made his ODI debut in 1991 , against Pakistan in Sharjah. He was also part of the 1992 World Cup side. Kambli hit a gritty hundred , his first in ODIs , against England in 1993 , but India lost the game off the last ball. He was in good touch in 1993 and 1994 , registering 10 scores of 50 or more. Kambli made his Test debut in 1993 against England , against whom he hit his maiden double-hundred , in just his second Test match. He followed it up with another double-hundred against Zimbabwe in the next match , before scoring a hundred against Sri Lanka to make history by becoming the only cricket to score 100 + in three innings against three different opponents. Although he had a bright start to his career , Kambli failed to do justice to his talent , managing to play only 17 Tests . Kambli continued to play in the domestic circuit and in 2002 , followed the footsteps of Pravin Amre by joining South African domestic side , Boland. Eventually , he announced in his retirement from all forms of cricket in 2011. The same year , Kambli controversially revealed on national television that he doubted the way in which India played the 1996 World Cup semi-final. He alleged that it was decided in the team meeting that India would bat if they won the toss , but captain Mohammad Azharuddin chose to field. Kambli joined politics and contested in the 2009 Vidhan Sabha Elections , but lost it. he also supported Anna Hazare 's campaign , India against Corruption. Kambli has also acted in two Hindi films , Annarth and Pal Pal Dil Ke Ssaat. He has also appeared in a few reality shows . © Cricbuzz
