World Cup 2015 : Sri Lanka Skipper Hails 'Brilliant ' Dilshan and Sangakkara World Cup 2015 : Sri Lanka Skipper Hails 'Brilliant ' Dilshan and Sangakkara Sri Lanka have four points from three games while Bangladesh have three with both sides in the top four in the group and well-placed for a quarter-final slot . Last updated on Thursday , 26 February , 2015 18 : 56 IST Total Shares Dilshan and Sangakkara flattened Bangladesh © AFP Melbourne : Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews hailed century makers Tillakaratne Dilshan and Kumar Sangakkara as " brilliant " after they lifted the 1996 champions to a 92-run win over Bangladesh on Thursday . Dilshan smashed an unbeaten 161 off 146 balls -- the ninth highest score in World Cup history -- while Sangakkara marked his 400th one-dayer with 105 not out as Sri Lanka whipped butter-fingered Bangladesh at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. ( Match Report ) Sri Lanka piled up 332 for one that proved too much for Bangladesh , who folded up for 240 with three overs to spare. ( Sangakkara Marks 400th ODI With Ton ) " Dilshan and Sangakkara were brilliant , they batted us through , took calculated risks and it was a great effort by the three batters , " said Mathews , also reserving praise for opener Lahiru Thirimanne for his 52 . " We were slightly sloppy in the field and could have done better , but once you 've got 300 on the board your bowlers can take chances. We 're all ready for the England game , " added Mathews in reference to their next Pool A game in Wellington on Sunday . Sri Lanka have four points from three games while Bangladesh have three with both sides in the top four in the group and well-placed for a quarter-final slot . " Our bowlers were n't up to the mark and hopefully in the next match we will improve , " said Bangladesh skipper Mashrafe Mortaza . " Dilshan and Sangakkara played well and showed their character today. I hope our next game will be our best in the tournament. " Bangladesh next face Scotland in Nelson next Thursday . Dilshan said he was relieved to be back in the runs after being dismissed off the first ball against Afghanistan last time out . " I am really happy with today 's innings after getting out first ball in the last game , " said Dilshan , named man of the match . The 38-year-old , who made his ODI debut back in 1999 , added : " I am enjoying my cricket and when I cross the line I do n't think about my age . " I dropped a catch and it is all a part of the game . " But I am happy with our performance and we are getting back to a rhythm. This was a good game for us before we move on to the bigger games. " Story first published on : Thursday , 26 February 2015 17 : 48 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
