Australia news January 13 , 2015 Rogers pondered retirement after helmet hit ESPNcricinfo staff shares 8 Chris Rogers was struck while fielding at the Gabba © Getty Images Opener Chris Rogers has said he considered retiring from cricket after being struck in the helmet during the second Test against India at the Gabba . Rogers was fielding at short leg when he turned to avoid a sweep from Rohit Sharma and was hit on the back of the helmet , appearing shaken and avoiding the team doctor Peter Brukner , who came on the field to assess him . Coming so soon after the death of Phillip Hughes , who was hit on the neck below where the protection of his helmet ended , Rogers naturally had thoughts of what could have happened. He said " It was an interesting time after what happened with Phil , " Rogers told SEN. " There are a lot of guys who are finding it pretty hard. Mortality had n't really been an issue in the game. I fielded at short leg on the last day in the Test when Michael Clarke got injured in Adelaide , and I took one on the hip there , and I did n't do very well [ with the bat ] , so I was n't happy with my own form . " Then we went up to Brisbane and day one I was under there and Rohit Sharma swept one and he hit me in the back of the helmet , and it 's only inches away from where Phil got hit. So you just have different thoughts go through your head. That night I was pretty upset so I just was n't sure which way to go. I had to speak to a few people close to me. " However , Rogers returned to batting form with a pair of half-centuries at the Gabba , the start of a run of six straight fifties to close out the series against India. On Wednesday he will captain the Prime Minister 's XI against England in Canberra , and it is likely that the same opposition will provide his Test swansong on this year 's Ashes tour . " You never say never , but it might be a nice way to round my career out , " Rogers said of the Ashes campaign. " I 've played a lot over in England , it would mean a lot to me. But also , I think , looking forward for the Australian side , there 's got to be a time when they start to rebuild the side , and maybe with the Tests that are on next summer there might be a little bit less pressure and it might be the ideal time for a younger guy to come in and get some experience . " I can see the writing on the wall with that as well , but also I think time is nearly up for me. I 'm getting on and maybe there 's other things to do in life. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
