Jagmohan Dalmiya Returns as BCCI President , Anurag Thakur is New Secretary Jagmohan Dalmiya Returns as BCCI President , Anurag Thakur is New Secretary Veteran Bengal cricket administrator Jagmohan Dalmiya has returned as the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India after a decade. Anurag Thakur edged out Sanjay Patel to become board secretary Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 19 : 41 IST Total Shares File photo of Jagmohan Dalmiya . © AP Veteran official Jagmohan Dalmiya has been elected head of Indian cricket 's governing body , replacing the sport 's world supremo Narayanaswami Srinivasan following a corruption scandal. This is the second term for the Cricket Association of Bengal president. Anurag Thakur , who was joint-secretary before has become the new secretary after edging out Sanjay Patel 15-14 . In other positions , TC Matthews was elected one of the five vice-presidents , while Amitabh Chaudhary ( Jharkhand ) and Anirudh Chaudhary ( Haryana ) were elected joint-secretary and Treasurer respectively. ( Supreme Court Issues Show-Cause Notice to Meiyappan , Kundra ) Amitabh won a closely contested fight against Chetan Desai and sailed through on the chairman Shivlal Yadav 's casting vote. Anirudh defeated Rajeev Shukla , who was a BCCI vice-president from the central zone. Both Amitabh and Anirudh are Srinivasan loyalists. Effectively , Srinivasan 's camp has wrested most of the top positions from the Sharad Pawar camp. ( Srinivasan Sorry for Attending BCCI Meet ) Dalmiya , a former head of the International Cricket Council , emerged as the front-runner amid backroom negotiations for votes at elections on Monday for the BCCI. ( Supreme Court 's January 22 Order ) Dalmiya , 74 , was the " consensus candidate " among rival factions for BCCI president , a position he held a decade ago . The Supreme Court barred Srinivasan from standing as a candidate for BCCI chief , although he can cast his vote , following its probe into a betting and fixing scandal surrounding the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) . The court in January found Srinivasan guilty of a conflict of interest for having commercial dealings in the sport by owning an IPL franchise while he was also BCCI head . Srinivasan is the current International Cricket Council ( ICC ) chief. Dalmiya served as ICC president for three years from 1997 to 2000 . Dalmiya was ousted by rivals as BCCI chief in 2005 after a more than decade-long reign over the powerful and faction-ridden board . The 74-year-old , who hails from Kolkata , is credited with helping to turn the game into a lucrative global sport. He twice brought the World Cup to the Indian sub-continent , in 1987 and 1996 . ( With inputs from Amitoj Singh ) Story first published on : Monday , 02 March 2015 10 : 40 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
