Australia news January 25 , 2015 Gilchrist and Ryder join Hall of Fame ESPNcricinfo staff 22 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 22 When Adam Gilchrist retired from Test cricket in 2008 , he held the world record for most Test wicketkeeping dismissals © AFP Adam Gilchrist and Jack Ryder will become the newest inductees into the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame at the Allan Border Medal ceremony in Sydney on Tuesday. Gilchrist 's on-field exploits were sufficient for his inclusion , while Ryder benefited from the Hall of Fame 's recent decision to expand its criteria to include a player 's impact off the field after retirement . Gilchrist played 96 Tests and briefly held the world record for most Test wicketkeeping dismissals with 416 , but it was his batting that made him an iconic player. Gilchrist 's explosive hitting was enough to turn a match in a few overs , and he finished his career with 5570 Test runs at 47.60 , as well as 9619 at 35.89 in ODIs . " Adam Gilchrist and Jack Ryder made enormous contributions to Australian cricket in different ways , " Hall of Fame chairman David Crow said. " Gilly epitomised the cricketer we all loved to go and watch. He lightened up the game. We all wanted to go to see Gilly because he was such a high quality entertainer. He was able to combine his explosive batting with brilliant wicketkeeping. " Gilchrist said : " It 's a tremendous honour. I 'm thrilled to be given the opportunity to join such illustrious company , childhood heroes and icons of the game from previous eras which you grow up hearing about. No one sets out to earn these accolades. You play the game because you love it , so acknowledgements like this go beyond the thrill of playing for Australia. " Gilchrist also captained Australia in six Tests ; Ryder was the 18th man to captain Australia and led the country in five Tests in 1928 and 1929. He played 20 Tests and scored 1394 runs at 51.62 , but it was off the field that Ryder made his major contributions , including as a national selector from 1946 to 1970 . " That 's where Jack excelled , " Crow said. " He made a fantastic contribution to the game over seven decades at national , state and club level. He had an amazing commitment. " The pair will take the Hall of Fame tally to 41 members , including its first female inductee , Belinda Clark , who joined the list last year . Hall of Fame inductees Warwick Armstrong , Richie Benaud , John Blackham , Allan Border , Sir Donald Bradman , Greg Chappell , Ian Chappell , Belinda Clark , Alan Davidson , George Giffen , Adam Gilchrist , Clarrie Grimmett , Neil Harvey , Lindsay Hassett , Ian Healy , Clem Hill , Bill Lawry , Dennis Lillee , Ray Lindwall , Charles Macartney , Rod Marsh , Stan McCabe , Glenn McGrath , Graham McKenzie , Keith Miller , Arthur Morris , Monty Noble , Bill O'Reilly , Bill Ponsford , Jack Ryder , Bob Simpson , Fred Spofforth , Mark Taylor , Hugh Trumble , Victor Trumper , Charlie Turner , Doug Walters , Shane Warne , Mark Waugh , Steve Waugh , Bill Woodfull . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
