Australia news January 30 , 2015 Clarke set for grade cricket return shares 4 Michael Clarke appears to be on track to return for Australia 's second World Cup game © Getty Images Michael Clarke will play grade cricket for Western Suburbs in Sydney this weekend and Cricket Australia is confident he is on track to be fit for Australia 's second World Cup match against Bangladesh on February 21. Clarke will play as a batsman only during the Saturday-Sunday grade fixture , with his return to limited fielding duties set for late next week . Clarke has been pencilled in to play for a Cricket Australia XI against Bangladesh 's World Cup squad in a practice match at Allan Border Field in Brisbane on Thursday next week. If he comes through the grade game with no adverse reaction , he will play in the practice game against Bangladesh " as a batsman and in a limited fielding capacity , " Cricket Australia said in a statement . Clarke had surgery on his right hamstring after injuring it during the opening Test of the summer , against India in Adelaide in December. Australia 's selectors named him as captain of the World Cup squad but set him a deadline of having to be fit to play by Australia 's second match on February 21 , or else he would be replaced in the squad . " Michael is making good progress following his injury and the subsequent surgery six weeks ago , and the fixture in Sydney this weekend when he will play only as a batsman , and next week 's match in Brisbane , where he will play as a batsman with a limited fielding role , are all part of a gradual return to competitive action , " the team physio Alex Kountouris said . " We are determined to maintain a conservative approach to the management of Michael 's recovery but should he come through these matches without any adverse reaction , he remains on target to return as per our original schedule , for the second match of Australia 's ICC Cricket World Cup campaign , against Bangladesh in Brisbane on 21 February. " Clarke 's grade cricket return will take place at Chatswood Oval against Gordon , and given the Saturday-Sunday fixturing there will be no contrivance of a declaration in an effort to ensure Clarke bats , as there was during a controversial grade game in November. He said he was happy to be able to play , but he would also respect his daily programme and would not rush things . " I am really happy to be playing for my grade club this weekend and regard this as a positive step on my road to a return to full fitness , " Clarke said. " It is exciting to be at this stage where I can consider walking onto a cricket field again and so , thanks to the guidance of the Cricket Australia medical staff and with the work I have put in , the signs are positive . " But at the same time I know I have to respect the fact that I am on a daily programme and there is no point in us getting too far ahead of ourselves. I know I need to take things one step and one day at a time and so , for now , all I am doing is focusing on things day by day and with a belief in a positive outcome. " Brydon Coverdale is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ brydoncoverdale © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
