Australia news February 2 , 2015 Harris to rest until Ashes tour ESPNcricinfo staff shares 23 Ryan Harris was Australia 's best player on the 2013 Ashes tour of England © AFP Fast bowler Ryan Harris will rest from the remainder of the Sheffield Shield season , with Australia effectively placing him in cotton wool until the Ashes tour of England. Cricket Australia has also confirmed that Harris will miss the Test tour of the West Indies in June so he can be at home for the birth of his first child , meaning he will have no serious game time before the England trip . Instead , Cricket Australia has put together a structured plan of rest and strengthening for Harris , who will gradually increase his bowling workload over the next five months. The plan is for Harris to take part in centre-wicket practice matches with the Cricket Australia National Performance Squad in the build-up to the Ashes campaign . " With Ryan , our number one priority is to ensure he is 100 % fit and available for this winter 's Ashes series , " Cricket Australia 's performance manager Pat Howard said. " He has had a heavy bowling workload over the past couple of months and actually bowled more balls from November to January this summer than in the corresponding period 12 months earlier . " It has already been documented that Ryan will miss the tour of the West Indies as his wife prepares to give birth to their first child , and by giving him this structured programme to rehabilitate his knee , improve his physical conditioning and gradually build his bowling workload , we can ensure he is absolutely ready for the Ashes tour . " Ryan is keen to play as much cricket as he can but he knows his body better than anyone else and he is fully understanding and appreciative of the thought that has gone into this decision. Queensland Cricket is also completely supportive of the decision that has been made with the interests of the national team front and centre , and we are very grateful for everyone seeing that bigger picture. " Harris , 35 , was Australia 's Player of the Series during the 2013 Ashes in England , where he collected 24 wickets at 19.58 and was the leading fast bowler from either side. Although Harris has missed only three of Australia 's past 18 Tests , Cricket Australia remains wary of pushing him too hard , especially after he had surgery on his knee following last year 's tour of South Africa . " Ryan 's performances in each of the last two Ashes series mark him out as a key performer for us as we seek to win a series in the United Kingdom for the first time since 2001 , " national selector Rod Marsh said . " We looked at various options around him playing Sheffield Shield cricket during the rest of this summer but on the basis that he is nearer the end of his career than the beginning we want to ensure that he bowls as many balls as possible in international cricket and we believe this programme ahead of the Ashes is the best way to achieve that goal. " Harris said : " I want to play as much cricket as I can as I know you are a long time retired but I recognise this is the best approach to ensuring I am absolutely right for the Ashes. I have huge ambitions to help us win a series in the United Kingdom and that goal is something that will drive me on over the coming months. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
