Australia news February 3 , 2015 Scans show side strain for Faulkner ESPNcricinfo staff shares 75 James Faulkner was Australia 's leading ODI wicket taker in 2014 © Getty Images Allrounder James Faulkner will receive " intensive treatment " over the next two weeks after scans revealed he suffered a side strain during Australia 's win over England in the tri-series final in Perth on Sunday . Faulkner remains in Australia 's World Cup squad and a decision on whether he can take any part in the tournament may not be made until Cricket Australia 's medical staff assesses his progress over the coming fortnight. He will travel with the World Cup squad to Adelaide on Friday to continue the treatment on his right side . " Scans on James Faulkner 's injured side have confirmed a moderate grade abdominal muscle strain which is consistent with a 'typical ' fast-bowing side strain injury , " team physio Alex Kountouris said. " He will receive intensive treatment for the next two weeks before we can determine when he can return to batting and bowling. " Coach Darren Lehmann said that Faulkner would be out of the first game of the tournament at least , though he is not facing the deadline that Michael Clarke must make . " Not at the moment because we really do n't know the extent of the injury until it settles down , " Lehmann said. " It 's not a re-occurring injury like Michael 's , time will tell , we 'll wait and see . " I think that would rule him out of the first game , but I 'm hoping he 'll then be right to go. Fingers crossed , he 's an important player. We need to make sure the next 10-12 days go well for him. " Australia 's World Cup campaign begins on February 14 when they meet England at the MCG and it is possible they will have only 13 fit players to choose from , if Faulkner and captain Michael Clarke retain their places in the squad but are initially unavailable. Their second match against Bangladesh on February 21 is Clarke 's deadline to have recovered from his hamstring injury . Faulkner suffered the injury while bowling in the win over England at the WACA and should he be ruled out of the World Cup it would be a significant blow , given his finishing ability with the bat. Faulkner was also Australia 's leading ODI wicket-taker in 2014 and has finished in the top three in their ODI Player of the Year award for the past two seasons . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
