Australia news April 1 , 2015 Lehmann defends Haddin sledging 116 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 116 Lehmann : " We like to play our game , no one got reported out of the game , so we must have played it fair " © Quinn Rooney/Getty Images Australia 's coach Darren Lehmann has mounted a defence of the vice captain , Brad Haddin , saying his aggressive antics towards New Zealand in the World Cup final were in accordance with the team 's plans for the tournament decider . Haddin has been roundly criticised for being the ringleader of several send-offs to departing New Zealand batsmen in Australia 's comfortable victory , something he later put down to feeling " uncomfortable " at how " nice " the same opponents had been during an earlier pool match in Auckland . Speaking to Adelaide radio station 5AA , Lehmann said the Australians had played the final the way they wanted to , and admitted the team plans had called for a " really aggressive " approach towards New Zealand to throw them off their rhythm. He also noted the lack of ICC code of conduct reports out of the game , and was dismissive of complaints about the team 's alcohol-soaked celebrations . " He 's copped a bit , has n't he ? " Lehmann said of Haddin. " We like to play our game , no-one got reported out of the game , so we must have played it fair. It was a little bit disappointing , but people are entitled to their opinions and you 're going to have good and bad times. You accept that and you move on . " We 're happy with the way we played obviously. We knew we wanted to be really aggressive against them , and look , sometimes it works , sometimes it does n't . " You 're supposed to enjoy it , enjoy it in the right way and look after yourself and look after everyone else , that 's the main thing. Everyone 's entitled to their opinions. " More critical than Haddin 's actions , Lehmann felt , was the first over dismissal of Brendon McCullum by Mitchell Starc , a moment that had the previously confident and fearless New Zealand side retreating into themselves with tentative play typified by Martin Guptill 's dismissal by Glenn Maxwell . " You like it when a plan comes together do n't you , especially so early in the game and it sets the tone , " Lehmann said. " It was interesting once that happened they went into their shells a bit New Zealand , which was surprising , so allowed us to control the game. James Faulkner... when they just looked like they were getting into the game he came through with that spell in the Powerplay. " Running his eye over Australia 's West Indies and Ashes squads , Lehmann said he was looking forward to seeing the wrist spinner Fawad Ahmed acquitted himself , selected ahead of Adam Zampa and Cameron Boyce for reasons of experience - ditto Adam Voges ahead of Joe Burns . " He gives us that added variation you might need in the West Indies and England , with the off spinner in Lyon and the bloke who takes it away in the leg spinner who we rate highly , " Lehmann said. " We went with experience more than anything else , someone who 's been around for a bit. Adam Zampa and Cameron Boyce in Queensland we felt just fell away a bit towards the back end of the season with their bowling. " Lehmann and the team staff will now enjoy a brief holiday before reconvening in Brisbane to prepare for the dual tours of the West Indies and England , in contrast to Lehmann 's entry into the Australian job on the day the 2013 Ashes tour began , in place of Mickey Arthur . " The preparation [ for the 2013 Ashes ] was n't quite there as I would have liked , I got thrown into it just before they all met up , " Lehmann said. " We 've got a lot more planning to do this time , which is nice , and I think we 've got a great mix in that squad . " We meet up in mid-May for the West Indies tour so looking forward to that. You move on pretty quickly , you enjoy what it is and what it was , a pretty special seven weeks in all our lives , the fifth time Australia won the World Cup , but you also have an eye to the future to work out what you 've got to do to get moving again. " Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
