Richie Benaud tributes April 10 , 2015 'Best in the business bar none' ESPNcricinfo staff Tributes for Richie Benaud , who has died at 84 shares 18 Play 03 : 13 'He played the pause outstandingly ' - Harsha Bhogle " Our country has lost a national treasure. After Don Bradman , there has been no Australian player more famous or more influential than Richie Benaud. " - Cricket Australia chairman Wally Edwards " Since way back in 1977 Richie has been a much loved member of the Nine family. More than that , he sat at the head of our table. We shall miss him dearly , but we 'll forever treasure his indelible memory and all the marvellous values for which he stood. " - Channel 9 chief executive David Gyngell " You did n't have to know Richie to love him. Everything about him. Best in the business bar none. We will miss him the way you miss loved ones. And at the same time we will thank our lucky stars he came our way at all. " - Channel 9 head of sport Steve Crawley " Some people would say to me 'I wish Richie had a sense of humour'. They were wrong , of course. He was as dry as they come. " - Ian Chappell " As a cricketer , commentator and as a person , you were the best there 's ever been and to top it off , an absolute gentleman... For me it was an honour and a privilege to call you a close friend and mentor , we had so many wonderful times together , talking cricket and in particular , our love and passion of leg spin bowling. " - Shane Warne " The standard he set has been tremendous for cricket , has been tremendous for television and if any young cricketer wants an example of how to behave and perform , I think Richie Benaud is the man. " - Bill Lawry " He did n't take himself or the game as seriously as people thought. He enjoyed the game. He saw it as a form of entertainment. " - Mark Taylor " He has been the most influential , revered and respected person in the game for 50 years. As Australian captain he never lost a series. As a commentator he was precise , authoritative and deliciously understated. " - ABC radio commentator Jim Maxwell " Wonderful personality who was always warm and encouraging. Had great insights on the game. Fondly remember our discussion on the art of legspin along with Shane Warne in Sharjah. Last spoke to him late last year. Was not well but full of enthusiasm. Great loss to the world of cricket. Heartfelt condolences to Richie 's family and friends. " - Sachin Tendulkar " He was a great assessor of the game. With Richie , it was never a risk but always a calculated decision to do something. " - Alan Davidson " He was a great player and a great captain ; a wonderful leader of men and he continued that off the field. He loved winning. He helped the Australian team have the attitude where they wanted to win. He played the game the right way. " - Michael Clarke " He set an incredibly high standard on the field. The fact that Australia never lost a series under his captaincy says so much. And those standards were just as high when he turned his attention to calling the game. " - Darren Lehmann " Richie Benaud is irreplaceable to Australian cricket and an enormous loss. He was unique as he covered all facets of the game , as a player , a commentator , an administrator and a writer. His views were researched , balanced and fair. His legacy to the game will always live on. " - Steve Waugh " Richie was very positive in his cricket , he was very positive in anything and everything he did. His attitude to the game and players of the game as a journalist and a commentator was always positive. He was an inspiration as a player and was a mentor to many of us , myself included , since his playing days. " - Greg Chappell " He was quite simply peerless. Nobody else had his authority , popularity and skill. If you speak to any broadcaster from any sport , they will point to Richie as the standard-bearer. " - Jonathan Agnew " Richie sums up all that is great about our sport. He was a true gentlemen with a real insight into the game , he made heroes of the players he commentated on and his enthusiasm for the sport made you want to get off the sofa and play. He will be sorely missed. " - Peter Moores I grew up with his voice in my ears,on my 1st trip to Aus he was the man I was most nervous to meet. # RIPRichieBenaud - Graeme Smith " There would be very few Australians who have not passed a summer in the company of Richie Benaud. He was the accompaniment of an Australian summer. " - Australia Prime Minister Tony Abbott © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . OLDEST KakabellyEsq on April 11 , 2015 , 4 : 46 GMT An elegant and knowledgeable commentator , but most of all a true gentleman , fair through and through. May you forever rest in peace and may your legacy of FairPlay live on ! amazonhn on April 10 , 2015 , 23 : 42 GMT This was the man who made 53 runs in 1961 at the end of the innings responsible for the Tied Test,very fair commentator a wonderful man , this is the first time i ever posted a comment , may God bless his soul . on April 10 , 2015 , 19 : 31 GMT From the 30 minute highlight capsules shown on DD , " We pick up play in the 3rd ball of the 2nd over- Kapil Dev bowling to Chris Tavare " ... what a pleasant voice...what understated elegance ! RIP Richie ! johnthekiwi on April 10 , 2015 , 17 : 21 GMT @ Leigh Meyer : BULLSEYE ! ! ! ! Perfectly stated . BlueJayBanter on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 01 GMT A household name to all those who celebrate this beautiful game. Richie , with his soft and easy voice , added commentary to the game in which only he knew how to. I am too young to have seen him play but when the greats of the game praise Richie 's game and spirit in the manner that they do , I wish I was able to see those characteristics for myself. His voice will be in cricket folklore forever , RIP Richie . cloudmess on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 06 GMT It may seem strange to say that a man 's passing at 84 feels premature , but it does with Richie. Before his car accident , he seemed to be moving serenely towards his 90s , and perhaps even a century. He was the ultimate all-rounder : a complete cricketing nerd who was endlessly fascinated by stats and analysis , while also - as a world class leg-spinner , capable batsman and one of the great 20th century captains - fully at home with all the psychologies and nuances of the international game. His commentary style mixed Aussie directness with British understatement , and was completely unique. He will be missed by so , so many across the world . ian_rob70 on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 39 GMT Great commentator , always , fair , constructive and forward looking , never negative for the sake of it. The best ever bar none . on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 04 GMT He did n't tell me what I knew or could see , he told me about what I could not deduce from my own assessment. I always listened to what he said , it was never a waste of time . Foxswoop on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 00 GMT I am too young to see him play but as a commentator , he was the best. Summer has n't been the same the last couple of years since he has been off the airwaves but it will now never be the same again . sgang on April 10 , 2015 , 8 : 35 GMT It 's sad that His Master 's Voice will not be heard by the countless cricket lovers around the world ! You 'll always remain with us dear Sir ! Remain in peace. Love you Sir . KakabellyEsq on April 11 , 2015 , 4 : 46 GMT An elegant and knowledgeable commentator , but most of all a true gentleman , fair through and through. May you forever rest in peace and may your legacy of FairPlay live on ! amazonhn on April 10 , 2015 , 23 : 42 GMT This was the man who made 53 runs in 1961 at the end of the innings responsible for the Tied Test,very fair commentator a wonderful man , this is the first time i ever posted a comment , may God bless his soul . on April 10 , 2015 , 19 : 31 GMT From the 30 minute highlight capsules shown on DD , " We pick up play in the 3rd ball of the 2nd over- Kapil Dev bowling to Chris Tavare " ... what a pleasant voice...what understated elegance ! RIP Richie ! johnthekiwi on April 10 , 2015 , 17 : 21 GMT @ Leigh Meyer : BULLSEYE ! ! ! ! Perfectly stated . BlueJayBanter on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 01 GMT A household name to all those who celebrate this beautiful game. Richie , with his soft and easy voice , added commentary to the game in which only he knew how to. I am too young to have seen him play but when the greats of the game praise Richie 's game and spirit in the manner that they do , I wish I was able to see those characteristics for myself. His voice will be in cricket folklore forever , RIP Richie . cloudmess on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 06 GMT It may seem strange to say that a man 's passing at 84 feels premature , but it does with Richie. Before his car accident , he seemed to be moving serenely towards his 90s , and perhaps even a century. He was the ultimate all-rounder : a complete cricketing nerd who was endlessly fascinated by stats and analysis , while also - as a world class leg-spinner , capable batsman and one of the great 20th century captains - fully at home with all the psychologies and nuances of the international game. His commentary style mixed Aussie directness with British understatement , and was completely unique. He will be missed by so , so many across the world . ian_rob70 on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 39 GMT Great commentator , always , fair , constructive and forward looking , never negative for the sake of it. The best ever bar none . on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 04 GMT He did n't tell me what I knew or could see , he told me about what I could not deduce from my own assessment. I always listened to what he said , it was never a waste of time . Foxswoop on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 00 GMT I am too young to see him play but as a commentator , he was the best. Summer has n't been the same the last couple of years since he has been off the airwaves but it will now never be the same again . sgang on April 10 , 2015 , 8 : 35 GMT It 's sad that His Master 's Voice will not be heard by the countless cricket lovers around the world ! You 'll always remain with us dear Sir ! Remain in peace. Love you Sir . on April 10 , 2015 , 7 : 53 GMT " Richie Benaud is irreplaceable to Australian cricket and an enormous loss. " Only one thing wrong with what Steve Waugh says here. Richie is irreplaceable to ALL cricket , not just Australian. And I say that as a Pom. Richie was always scrupulously fair in his commentary His was the voice of summer as I grew up , and beyond. Mourning everyone . Sangana8 on April 10 , 2015 , 7 : 21 GMT Along with Tony Greig and Bill Lawry , Richie Benaud made commmentary their own. Huge loss to cricketing world. May his soul rest in peace. We miss you Mr. Benaud . IndianInnerEdge on April 10 , 2015 , 6 : 29 GMT True legend , classy , understated yet efficient and at the forefront of all changes that affected the game...he did all this with style and dignity and as PADDYNAIRBLR rightly said below - without any sledging , his commentary was a reflection of the person himself , ....RIP Richie on April 10 , 2015 , 5 : 53 GMT Channel Nine Is Poorer Through The Loss Of Its Best Commentator ! It Was Just Smarting Over The Loss Of Tony Greig , Its Most Colorful Persona , But Now , Not Only Channel Nine But The Whole Cricket & Its Commentating Fraternity Has Lost The All Time Best Cricket Commentator ! His Was A Unique & Soulful Voice With A Difference , Which None Could Match After Him ! Profound Grief ! RIP ! PaddynairBlr on April 10 , 2015 , 4 : 58 GMT I think there is very little doubt as to who was the greatest commentator of all time.Even the Englishmen ( who always nominate their own ) seem to acknowledge Benaud 's overwhelming presence.Add to this,his formidable skills as a cricketer itself,and you have a person who has influenced the game like no other ( barring maybe Bradman and perhaps Gary Sobers ) .Indians would always remember him as covering their most famous cricketing moment ( Kapil Dev 's super catch of Richards ) - " Good shot-perhaps not so good " When one avoids the hype and looks at pure substance,one reflects on a life of phenomenal achievements-all done with grace,flair & NO SLEDGING ! on April 10 , 2015 , 4 : 36 GMT A true gentleman and a legend , a great commentator of the game and some one who we relate cricket in the 80s and 90s with. A huge miss for all the lovers of the game . Bunk_JC on April 10 , 2015 , 3 : 05 GMT Very very sad news. RIP . SanjivSanjiv on April 10 , 2015 , 2 : 23 GMT RIP Richie. Your 'Master 's Voice ' will reverberate in our ears forever . No featured comments at the moment . SanjivSanjiv on April 10 , 2015 , 2 : 23 GMT RIP Richie. Your 'Master 's Voice ' will reverberate in our ears forever . Bunk_JC on April 10 , 2015 , 3 : 05 GMT Very very sad news. RIP . on April 10 , 2015 , 4 : 36 GMT A true gentleman and a legend , a great commentator of the game and some one who we relate cricket in the 80s and 90s with. A huge miss for all the lovers of the game . PaddynairBlr on April 10 , 2015 , 4 : 58 GMT I think there is very little doubt as to who was the greatest commentator of all time.Even the Englishmen ( who always nominate their own ) seem to acknowledge Benaud 's overwhelming presence.Add to this,his formidable skills as a cricketer itself,and you have a person who has influenced the game like no other ( barring maybe Bradman and perhaps Gary Sobers ) .Indians would always remember him as covering their most famous cricketing moment ( Kapil Dev 's super catch of Richards ) - " Good shot-perhaps not so good " When one avoids the hype and looks at pure substance,one reflects on a life of phenomenal achievements-all done with grace,flair & NO SLEDGING ! on April 10 , 2015 , 5 : 53 GMT Channel Nine Is Poorer Through The Loss Of Its Best Commentator ! It Was Just Smarting Over The Loss Of Tony Greig , Its Most Colorful Persona , But Now , Not Only Channel Nine But The Whole Cricket & Its Commentating Fraternity Has Lost The All Time Best Cricket Commentator ! His Was A Unique & Soulful Voice With A Difference , Which None Could Match After Him ! Profound Grief ! RIP ! IndianInnerEdge on April 10 , 2015 , 6 : 29 GMT True legend , classy , understated yet efficient and at the forefront of all changes that affected the game...he did all this with style and dignity and as PADDYNAIRBLR rightly said below - without any sledging , his commentary was a reflection of the person himself , ....RIP Richie Sangana8 on April 10 , 2015 , 7 : 21 GMT Along with Tony Greig and Bill Lawry , Richie Benaud made commmentary their own. Huge loss to cricketing world. May his soul rest in peace. We miss you Mr. Benaud . on April 10 , 2015 , 7 : 53 GMT " Richie Benaud is irreplaceable to Australian cricket and an enormous loss. " Only one thing wrong with what Steve Waugh says here. Richie is irreplaceable to ALL cricket , not just Australian. And I say that as a Pom. Richie was always scrupulously fair in his commentary His was the voice of summer as I grew up , and beyond. Mourning everyone . sgang on April 10 , 2015 , 8 : 35 GMT It 's sad that His Master 's Voice will not be heard by the countless cricket lovers around the world ! You 'll always remain with us dear Sir ! Remain in peace. Love you Sir . Foxswoop on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 00 GMT I am too young to see him play but as a commentator , he was the best. Summer has n't been the same the last couple of years since he has been off the airwaves but it will now never be the same again .
