OLDEST on April 12 , 2015 , 15 : 54 GMT a very deserving moving tribute to a great al rounder the first ever to achieve cricket double ic 200 wickets 2000 runs from the great est all rounder sir gary sobers ; 'to tihnk that they achieved this much in short spanof ti me what with 4 yrs gap beween series and rare co ntest es no modern protective gears surviving on their instinct and intuition ' ; no wo rds just st umped ; rest iin peace sir on April 12 , 2015 , 1 : 46 GMT What class had Richie. There 'll never be another so loved , for his grace , humility. fighting spirit , fairness , friendliness , kindness and honesty. What an example he set for living life in the right way. If the world was full of Richie Benauds what a beautiful place it would be. Thank you Richie and thank you Daphne . johnnybox on April 12 , 2015 , 0 : 28 GMT Does anyone have the names of all the players in the above photo ? sixesandfours on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 33 GMT Richie we miss you. Cricket lost the friend and you will be remember in all the cricket lovers and viewers throughout the world for your wonderful sense of presentation and taking cricket in to viewers heart with your presentation. You and Tony made the fans throughout the world. We miss you both. We love you and Rest in Peace Richie ! condolences to family and close friends. God Bless you Richie and God Bless you Tony ! ! ! dgdp on April 10 , 2015 , 23 : 42 GMT really without par in any aspect of cricket.....when watching game with his commentary i made a point of putting up sound only when RICHIE was on air....and recording for lots of playbacks.....phenomenal knowledge with amazing presentation......a legend forever on April 10 , 2015 , 19 : 40 GMT So sorry to hear of the passing of certainly one of Australia 's greatest cricketer...he will certainly be missed not only for his great cricketing ability which was executed with such elegance and dignity , but his latter commentating years..Rest in Peace Richie ! condolences to family and close friends.. . on April 12 , 2015 , 15 : 54 GMT a very deserving moving tribute to a great al rounder the first ever to achieve cricket double ic 200 wickets 2000 runs from the great est all rounder sir gary sobers ; 'to tihnk that they achieved this much in short spanof ti me what with 4 yrs gap beween series and rare co ntest es no modern protective gears surviving on their instinct and intuition ' ; no wo rds just st umped ; rest iin peace sir on April 12 , 2015 , 1 : 46 GMT What class had Richie. There 'll never be another so loved , for his grace , humility. fighting spirit , fairness , friendliness , kindness and honesty. What an example he set for living life in the right way. If the world was full of Richie Benauds what a beautiful place it would be. Thank you Richie and thank you Daphne . johnnybox on April 12 , 2015 , 0 : 28 GMT Does anyone have the names of all the players in the above photo ? sixesandfours on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 33 GMT Richie we miss you. Cricket lost the friend and you will be remember in all the cricket lovers and viewers throughout the world for your wonderful sense of presentation and taking cricket in to viewers heart with your presentation. You and Tony made the fans throughout the world. We miss you both. We love you and Rest in Peace Richie ! condolences to family and close friends. God Bless you Richie and God Bless you Tony ! ! ! dgdp on April 10 , 2015 , 23 : 42 GMT really without par in any aspect of cricket.....when watching game with his commentary i made a point of putting up sound only when RICHIE was on air....and recording for lots of playbacks.....phenomenal knowledge with amazing presentation......a legend forever on April 10 , 2015 , 19 : 40 GMT So sorry to hear of the passing of certainly one of Australia 's greatest cricketer...he will certainly be missed not only for his great cricketing ability which was executed with such elegance and dignity , but his latter commentating years..Rest in Peace Richie ! condolences to family and close friends.. . No featured comments at the moment . on April 10 , 2015 , 19 : 40 GMT So sorry to hear of the passing of certainly one of Australia 's greatest cricketer...he will certainly be missed not only for his great cricketing ability which was executed with such elegance and dignity , but his latter commentating years..Rest in Peace Richie ! condolences to family and close friends.. . dgdp on April 10 , 2015 , 23 : 42 GMT really without par in any aspect of cricket.....when watching game with his commentary i made a point of putting up sound only when RICHIE was on air....and recording for lots of playbacks.....phenomenal knowledge with amazing presentation......a legend forever sixesandfours on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 33 GMT Richie we miss you. Cricket lost the friend and you will be remember in all the cricket lovers and viewers throughout the world for your wonderful sense of presentation and taking cricket in to viewers heart with your presentation. You and Tony made the fans throughout the world. We miss you both. We love you and Rest in Peace Richie ! condolences to family and close friends. God Bless you Richie and God Bless you Tony ! ! ! johnnybox on April 12 , 2015 , 0 : 28 GMT Does anyone have the names of all the players in the above photo ? on April 12 , 2015 , 1 : 46 GMT What class had Richie. There 'll never be another so loved , for his grace , humility. fighting spirit , fairness , friendliness , kindness and honesty. What an example he set for living life in the right way. If the world was full of Richie Benauds what a beautiful place it would be. Thank you Richie and thank you Daphne . on April 12 , 2015 , 15 : 54 GMT a very deserving moving tribute to a great al rounder the first ever to achieve cricket double ic 200 wickets 2000 runs from the great est all rounder sir gary sobers ; 'to tihnk that they achieved this much in short spanof ti me what with 4 yrs gap beween series and rare co ntest es no modern protective gears surviving on their instinct and intuition ' ; no wo rds just st umped ; rest iin peace sir
