Australia v India , 3rd Test , Melbourne , 2nd day December 27 , 2014 Smith 192 helps Australia pull away 209 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 209 India 1 for 108 ( Vijay 55 * ) trail Australia 530 ( Smith 192 , Harris 74 , Rogers 57 , Haddin 55 , Watson 52 ) by 422 runs Play 03 : 13 'India did not learn at all' On Christmas Eve , it was pointed out in a local newspaper that for all Steven Smith 's recent achievements he had yet to conquer the MCG. Not once had he passed 50 in a Test match at Australian cricket 's colosseum . On a day of blue skies , a raucous crowd of 51,566 , and some dreadful Indian fielding and bowling , Smith put that particular matter to rest. His 192 was a masterpiece of light and shade , determination and dominance , pace and patience. Smith was happy to play a minor role in no fewer than three significant partnerships on the second day , but in showing when to stick and when to twist he guided his side to 530 . Having hoped to be chasing somewhere in the region of 300 when Australia 's fifth wicket fell at 216 on Boxing Day Afternoon , India were bereft of ideas against Smith , and were fortunate to reach stumps as tidily placed as 1 for 108. Shikhar Dhawan was winkled out by Ryan Harris , and Cheteshwar Pujara survived only through an untidy miss by Brad Haddin from the accuracy of Josh Hazlewood . M Vijay at least maintained his command of India 's top order , passing 50 for the fourth time in five innings and weathering some searing overs late in the day from Mitchell Johnson , who charged in with the crowd baying expectantly behind him. They had been roused to life early by Haddin 's free-spirited start alongside Smith . Stands of 110 with Haddin and 50 with Johnson set the scene for a rollicking union of 106 between Smith and Ryan Harris , who posted his highest Test score. In the end only the lure of a double-century before tea tripped up Smith , bowled when attempting to ramp Umesh Yadav to fine leg with last man Josh Hazlewood looking on . All India 's bowlers conceded centuries of their own , and none could find a way past Smith , who is finding exceptionally rare territory with his current glut of runs. Chris Rogers had ranked him alongside AB de Villiers on the first evening , and said it was " scary " how good Smith may yet become. In front of an appreciative MCG crowd , Smith scared the living daylights out of MS Dhoni . This was his third hundred in as many matches , making him the first Australian to pass three figures in each of his first two Tests as captain. Smith and Haddin looked assured as stumps neared on the first evening , and they resumed as though the interval had been only a few minutes rather than a night 's sleep . Haddin was untroubled by India 's short-ball fixation , playing one neat hook shot and another more outlandish overhead , cross-court forehand. This convinced Shami to revert to over the wicket , but when he did Haddin delivered the shot of the morning : an iron-wristed punch through point for which there was no need to run . A brace of boundaries in the following over from Ishant Sharma took Haddin to 50 - his first in 15 innings and a reassuring sight for the Australian selectors . Smith had announced his intent for the morning by gliding Shami through cover for three in the day 's second over , and a flurry of boundaries through cover , point and midwicket took him to the cusp of another century. Shami was obliging with a leg-stump offering that Smith flicked fine of long leg , and he cast his eyes on Phillip Hughes and the heavens upon notching his first Test hundred at the MCG . Haddin did not last much longer , snicking Shami behind while trying to leave one alone , but Johnson showed plenty of verve and power in a racy 28. A dance down the wicket to R Ashwin had Johnson stumped after a stand of precisely 50 , and there was time for Harris to deliver one boundary of his own and Smith to pass 500 runs for the series before lunch arrived . Harris and Smith set a cracking pace in the afternoon , the No. 9 batsman briefly putting his captain in the shade with a series of hefty blows that reaped the majority of a hundred stand. A towering six over midwicket took Harris to his Test best , but next ball he was lbw to Ashwin just as spectators began thinking of a Harris hundred . Smith resumed the dominant posture in adding a riotous 48 with Nathan Lyon in 38 balls , and it was only in attempting a stroke of outrageous intent that the captain met his end. Given how well Smith had played to this point , it was hard to blame him . Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
