PCB is Interested in Reviving Indo-Pak Series : BCCI Secretary Anurag Thakur PCB is Interested in Reviving Indo-Pak Series : BCCI Secretary Anurag Thakur Pakistan Cricket Board chief Sharyar Khan and BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur met in New Delhi on Tuesday . Last updated on Thursday , 12 March , 2015 18 : 58 IST Total Shares Anurag Thakur is seen flashing the victory symbol on the day of BCCI elections in Chennai. He defeated incumbent Sanjay Patel by just one vote at the AGM . © PTI Mumbai : Newly-elected BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur on Thursday said Pakistan Cricket Board chief Sharyar Khan was interested in reviving the India-Pakistan series during their meet earlier this week . " During our talk , we raised the issue of the Pakistan-India series. We just initiated the talks and he initiated his view point and he talked about the discussions held with the previous office bearers. So we have not finalised anything as of now. He was just interested in starting the Indo-Pak series , " Thakur told reporters here . Asked if the BCCI had finalised a replacement for coach Duncan Fletcher , whose term ends after the World Cup , he said , " no discussion took place for the new coach or for the appointment of the new coach. We are still in the initial stages of forming committees and giving various responsibilities. As far as the appointment of the new coach is concerned the decision has not been taken yet. " Recent media report had suggested that the BCCI and the Anti-Corruption and Security Unit ( ACSU ) may ban players from giving autographs but Thakur said it was not true . " It was cleared on the day one. No such instructions has been given by the BCCI or the ACSU. And the gentleman ( K S Madhavan , a BCCI officer with the anti-corruption unit ) concerned has resigned from his post , " he said . On the Rajasthan Cricket Association , Thakur said , " The matter is sub-judice and I 'm in no position to comment on that. But let the court decide. From our side the RCA is a suspended body. " Story first published on : Thursday , 12 March 2015 17 : 51 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
