Australia v India , 4th Test , Sydney , 2nd day January 7 , 2015 Smith unaware of Starc send-off Play 04 : 15 'Vijay will be kicking himself' Australia 's captain Steven Smith admits he did not see Mitchell Starc 's send-off to the Indian opener M Vijay in the first over of the visitors ' innings on day two of the Sydney Test , but agrees the practice should be ended . Both David Warner and Virat Kohli had stated before this match that the concept of celebrating or gesturing in the face of a departing batsman was an ugly part of the game and should be stopped , following on from the angry scenes in Adelaide that followed one such episode between Warner and Varun Aaron . However , Starc has fought his own battles lately , facing criticism from Shane Warne for perceived poor body language during the Brisbane Test. When he coaxed an edge from Vijay in a first over that was fast and fiery , Starc vented his frustration by screaming provocatively in the face of the dismissed batsman . Smith was celebrating with the catch-taker , his vice-captain Brad Haddin , at the moment Starc aired his emotions , and was not informed about it by either of the standing umpires , but said the concept in general needed to end. " The umpires never said anything so I do n't see any issue there at this stage , " he said. " I do n't think it 's a good part of the game to send batters off. I did n't see what Starcy did to be honest , I was busy celebrating myself. I think it 's not a part of the game that needs to go ahead , I 'm sure our players will stay pretty calm when we get wickets from now on. " Starc , Ryan Harris and Josh Hazlewood had all been in contention to take the new ball ahead of the match , following Mitchell Johnson 's withdrawal due to a sore hamstring. Smith eventually settled on Starc to open up from the Paddington End , and his speed , hint of swing and disciplined line were all features of a striking display . " I think that 's the way Mitchell bowls his best , " Smith said. " The way he bowled in the Big Bash , his short spells and bowling up around 150kph it 's never comfortable to face. For him it 's about bowling short spells and hopefully he can come back and keep doing it in his other spells. We 're looking for that aggression again from him tomorrow. " Among other topics Smith made it clear that he was merely keeping the Test match captaincy seat warm for Michael Clarke. He was also unwilling to criticise Clarke 's choice to commentate on the team as he recovers from related back and hamstring ailments in time for the World Cup campaign . " Whatever he wants to do with his time while he is out injured is up to him , " Smith said. " With him not being in the team he has n't really been around us , he has left it up to me and I have really enjoyed the responsibility of taking control of the team in his absence , it is nice to have some success at the same time and hopefully we can close out this Test match in a good fashion. " Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
