Though lazily typecast as the dour counterpoint to Warner 's pyrotechnics , Rogers has shaped many an innings to fit the prevailing circumstances shares 19 Play 02 : 11 Agarkar : Rogers gets the job done every time Do n't it always seem to go , that you do n't know what you 've got til it 's gone.. . Joni Mitchell 's line from Big Yellow Taxi has echoed down the years , often dredged up whenever a cricketer of some esteem chooses to retire. Two years ago , Australia 's selectors , coaches and players felt that very sensation when they stumbled and shambled their way through an India tour following the dual exits of Ricky Ponting and Michael Hussey . In the case of Chris Rogers , however , the team is getting an extended glimpse of what they are losing due to his decision to flag his impending retirement early. Having set out a plan to continue until the end of the Ashes in England later this year , Rogers will leave plenty of reminders of his value at a time when Rod Marsh 's panel have not quite yet lost his services , affording them time to assess who might be best placed to take up his role at the top of the order . Rogers ' final Test innings in Australia provided another marker of his value. India 's innings had lingered deeper into the match and eaten further into the hosts ' lead than desired. R Ashwin took the new ball and found enough purchase - both bounce and spin - to dismiss David Warner , a master of third innings assaults , in his first over. Australia 's lead was a mere 103 and that wicket could have led to a period of stagnation , further wickets and a precarious position. It could have , but it did n't , and Rogers was a central reason why . Apart from his highly logical and functional technique , where every movement has a sound reason for taking place , every step or weight transfer rooted in practical experience , Rogers has shown a great degree of situational awareness in his 20 Tests. Though lazily typecast as the dour counterpoint to Warner 's pyrotechnics , Rogers has shaped many an innings to fit the prevailing circumstances . He quickly recognised a friendly pitch and fast outfield at Old Trafford during the 2013 Ashes , picking gaps in Alastair Cook 's off-side field to imbue confidence in a batting order shaken by a hiding at Lord 's. In Brisbane during the second innings of the return Ashes series , he battled his own lack of form to keep Warner company long enough to take the shine from the new ball and in Melbourne he throttled up to attack a fourth innings chase with rare urgency . Last month , Brisbane saw another example of that proactive streak during another pursuit , this time on a pitch playing enough tricks to make batsmen nervous if the scoreboard was not pushed along. In Melbourne , Rogers dug in on the first day following Warner 's departure to a ball that seamed and bounced ominously , creating the platform for Steven Smith 's monumental 192 . Chris Rogers complements David Warner well , and has shown he can hike his pace up when needed © Getty Images Once more in Sydney , Rogers followed up his first innings 95 by responding to the needs of the moment. Realising Ashwin 's threat , he used the crease adroitly , driving the offspinner when he floated the ball and responding to the natural correction in length by back cutting for another boundary. Further crisp strokes off Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Mohammed Shami quickly stretched Australia 's lead , ensuring Virat Kohli did not have the chance to stifle the innings. Suddenly , Rogers had motored past 30 at better than a run a ball , the lead a more substantial 150 . The rest of the innings was not quite so fluent , as Rogers took a back seat to the continuing glut of runs being made by Smith - another wise situational adjustment. Joe Burns , with whom Rogers has spent a little time with during these past two Tests , emphasised the value of those early runs to ensure there was a lead the middle order could feel confident about building on without worrying about unnecessary risk . " I think all the batters have batted really well during the Test match , " Burns said. " To get into the position we did , to get that platform first and foremost and then build from there was crucial , so it was a great effort by the boys and I felt the wicket did turn quite a bit , so you had to give yourself some time to get in and to have Bucky [ Rogers ] and Steve be out there for long periods helped the guys coming in . " The wicket spun and it will only get harder to bat on as the game goes on , so it 's a great position for Australia to be in at the end of day four. With the spin in the wicket I 'm sure spin will play a major part , but we also saw some variable bounce and reverse swing. We 'll come out tomorrow and I 'm sure we 'll create 10 opportunities , it 's just a matter of taking all 10. " So who in Australian cricket might have the right combination of skills , character and intelligence to replace Rogers ? Ed Cowan is an obvious contender on recent results , but would have to first find a more expansive game and secondly figure out a way to operate in the team as neither senior nor junior player but somewhere in between. The same can be said of Usman Khawaja whenever he returns from knee surgery . Other top-order batsmen of the requisite skill and temperament include the likes of Jordan Silk - though he has struggled so far this summer - and the eloquent Ryan Carters . After a breakout season for New South Wales in 2013-14 , Carters found the going harder at the start of this summer 's Sheffield Shield , but a substantial 198 against Queensland at the SCG showed an ability to go on to a major score. His ability to shift gears between stolid top-order innings and nifty " closing " innings for the Blues in limited overs contests has also been notable . Whichever way the selectors go , they will not be able to call on anyone with the runs nor hundreds that Rogers had tallied before his belated recall to the team for last year 's tour of England. But at least they have time to observe Rogers and ask the question - who might be able to do this job ? Or , to borrow from Mitchell once more , who might be more paradise than parking lot ? Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
