Australia v India , 4th Test , Sydney , 5th day January 10 , 2015 India hold on for tense draw 465 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 465 India 475 ( Kohli 147 , Rahul 111 , Starc 3-106 ) and 7 for 252 ( Vijay 80 ) drew with Australia 7 for 572 dec ( Smith 117 , Warner 101 , Rogers 95 , Shami 5-112 ) and 6 for 251 dec ( Smith 71 , Burns 66 , Rogers 56 , Ashwin 4-105 ) Play 03 : 46 'Lyon no longer just a support bowler' Three wickets needed , a wearing SCG pitch , the light fading , India trying to cling on for a draw - it could have been the 2008 finish all over again. But Michael Clarke was in the commentary box this time , not out in the middle with ball in hand , and Ajinkya Rahane and Bhuvneshwar Kumar held their nerve , and held off the Australian charge. Steven Smith 's side instead had to settle for a draw and a 2-0 series victory . At tea on the final day , India needed 189 for an unlikely win with eight wickets in hand ; Virat Kohli and M Vijay were at the crease. But both men fell soon after the resumption , and with the ball reverse-swinging , the pitch providing variable bounce for Nathan Lyon , and the momentum with Australia , they were followed inside by Suresh Raina , Wriddhiman Saha and R Ashwin . But then came the match-saving partnership between Rahane and Bhuvneshwar , who survived for nearly 12 overs. Bhuvneshwar handled the final one of the match from Lyon , confident enough to even drive the first delivery to the long-off boundary with all the fieldsmen up , and India reached safety. It was a draw , but after their loss in similar circumstances in Adelaide , it was also an achievement . Both men showed impressive calmness , Rahane doing his best to take most of the bowling himself , Bhuvneshwar able to keep Lyon 's sharp offbreaks down instead of flying to the assortment of men close-in on the leg side. Smith tried all four of his frontline bowlers in the dying stages , but it was to no avail ; India finished on 7 for 252 , with Rahane on 38 and Bhuvneshwar on 20 . Notably , Australia did not break through in the final 10 overs of the match , after Smith took the new Kookaburra. He might later have reflected that a reverse-swinging bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. Hazlewood , in particular , was getting the old ball to tail in to India 's right-handers. Starc proved a handful with it as well , but they were unable to get the new ball to talk . The session had started with all results possible , although India 's victory chances required a change in approach after they seemed focussed on the draw for most of the day. Vijay had twice taken Lyon for 16 in an over earlier , but when he tried to lift the tempo against Hazlewood 's pace his attempted cut resulted in an easy take for Brad Haddin , and he was out for 80 . Kohli followed on 46 when Starc got one to straighten and caught the edge through to Shane Watson at first slip , and thus started a mini-collapse that had the Sydney crowd roaring. Raina completed a pair in his first Test for two and a half years , trapped lbw when Starc moved a ball back in , and India 's 2 for 178 had become 5 for 203 . It was 6 for 208 when Saha was done by a Lyon offbreak that stayed perilously low and struck him directly in line with middle stump. The last hour began with Australia four wickets from victory , and they claimed one when Ashwin , who had held out for 22 balls for his single run , was lbw when Hazlewood reversed the old ball in late and struck him in front . But then came the new ball , and as it turned out , new hope for India. Hazlewood and Starc had been miserly all day , both conceding less than two an over. That helped to build the pressure as Lyon toiled at the other end , but for the first four hours of the day India handled the situation well , losing only one wicket in each session . Occasionally India , or more specifically Vijay , went on the attack. Sixteen runs came from Lyon 's penultimate over before tea , as Vijay used his feet to lift a six and a four down the ground , and swept another boundary. Another 16 had come in a Lyon over before lunch , including a lofted six over midwicket from Vijay , although in the same over Vijay edged a ball that ricocheted off Haddin and lobbed just out of reach of Watson at slip . It was that kind of day for the Australians , half chances falling just out of reach and , on occasion , being dropped. Shaun Marsh at short cover put down a tough when Vijay had 42 and the bowler , Ryan Harris , responded in frustration next delivery when Vijay pushed the ball back to him and Harris hurled it at the stumps , only to see it bounce in the footmarks and over the head of the wicketkeeper Brad Haddin for four overthrows . In the next over , Rohit Sharma pushed at Watson and edged wide of slip , where Smith hurled himself to his right to clutch a stunning one-handed catch . The only other wicket to fall in the first two-thirds of the day was KL Rahul 's , who advanced to Lyon but failed to get to the pitch of the ball and was caught off his glove at backward short leg . Australia nearly made it two from two deliveries when Rohit 's first ball resulted in a perilously close stumping chance ; the TV umpire decided that there was enough doubt as to Rohit 's foot position to reprieve him. At that point , India were all about defence , trying to get themselves into a solid position before any thoughts of victory entered their minds . Not surprisingly , Australia had declared on their overnight score and set India 349 to win. For the third time in the series , the match went down to the last hour of the fifth day. There was no repeat of the dramatic Australian win in Adelaide , but nor was it the tamer draw of Melbourne. This result was somewhere in between , thrilling in its way , but with neither side coming out on top . And in the end , 2-0 seemed a fitting scoreline in a series in which Australia were more consistently strong all round , but India fought hard and showed impressive resolve . Brydon Coverdale is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ brydoncoverdale © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
