Test awards for McCullum and Johnson Rohit , Malinga , Hales and Herath take ODI and T20 prizes ESPNcricinfo staff February 19 , 2015 Brendon McCullum 's 302 helped New Zealand retain their series lead against India © Getty Images related links Other links 2014 Awards home Brendon McCullum 's match-saving 302 against India in Wellington has been voted the top Test batting performance of 2014 at the eighth annual ESPNcricinfo Awards , announced on Thursday. The Test bowling award went to Australia 's Mitchell Johnson , for his 7 for 68 against South Africa in Centurion . Rohit Sharma , who broke a world record with his monumental 264 against Sri Lanka at Eden Gardens , took the award for the best ODI batting performance. The top ODI bowling performance was Lasith Malinga 's 5 for 56 , which helped Sri Lanka beat Pakistan in the Asia Cup final in Mirpur . The ESPNcricinfo Awards honour the best batting and bowling performances across the international formats of the game for the calendar year. They were decided by a jury of former players - among them , Ricky Ponting , Ian Chappell , Martin Crowe , Michael Holding , Graeme Smith , Daryll Cullinan and Mark Butcher - and ESPNcricinfo 's senior writers and editors . McCullum became the first New Zealander to score a triple-century in Tests , which came when New Zealand looked in danger of surrendering their 1-0 lead in the two-Test series. McCullum , in partnership with BJ Watling ( 124 ) and Jimmy Neesham ( 137 ) ensured the series stayed with the hosts , following a high-scoring draw . Johnson 's spell against South Africa came straight after the Ashes in Australia , the series in which he rediscovered himself as a fast bowler. His savagery in Centurion bundled out South Africa for 206 in the first Test and set Australia on the path to a Test and series win. It was his second ESPNcricinfo Award in the category in consecutive years . Rohit 's innings in Kolkata came in his return match from injury. He began cautiously , was fortunate to be dropped in the outfield early in his innings , and went on to score his second ODI double-hundred , smashing 33 fours and nine sixes. Incidentally , his first double-hundred in the format won the ODI Batting award for 2013. Malinga too is a former ESPNcricinfo Award winner. Other previous winners include Dale Steyn , Virender Sehwag , Shahid Afridi and Kumar Sangakkara . In the T20 category , England 's Alex Hales took the award for the best batting performance with his unbeaten 116 against Sri Lanka in the World T20 in Bangladesh. In the same tournament , Rangana Herath 's 5 for 3 against New Zealand was the jury 's choice for the best bowling performance . Sri Lankan players have figured prominently across award categories in 2014 , including the Statsguru Awards , which recognises consistency in performances. Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews swept three awards - Batsman of the Year , Best Test Batsman and Most Consistent Test Batsman. It was reward for aggregating more than 1200 runs each in Tests and ODIs. Herath was named the Best Test Bowler . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
