Bangladesh news January 7 , 2015 Selectors defy call for legspinner Play 02 : 05 'Our main goal is to qualify for the second round ' - Hathurusingha Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha would have preferred having a legspinner in his World Cup squad but his suggestion to pick Jubair Hossain was not taken into consideration as the selectors went for an all left-arm spin attack . He was present in the last-minute discussions with the three selectors on last Sunday , which delayed the announcement by two hours. Later BCB president Nazmul Hassan said that the discussion was about two bowling spots and one of them was the legspinner . Jubair was a net bowler when the selectors and coaches recognised his talent and put him in the preliminary squad for the West Indies tour. Soon , he made his first-class debut against Zimbabwe A , after which he made his Test and ODI debut against Zimbabwe. But he is a virtual unknown in domestic cricket , and played only a single game for Abahani in the Dhaka Premier Division Cricket League . Arafat Sunny and Taijul Islam are the two left-arm spinners picked ahead of Jubair. Arafat has taken 16 wickets in 8 ODIs including two successive four-wicket hauls against Zimbabwe , while Taijul replaced him in the same series and took a hat-trick on his ODI debut. Jubair took 11 wickets in the three Tests and four wickets in two ODIs . Chief selector Faruque Ahmed had said at the press conference in which the squad was announced that they did n't want to risk Jubair 's development as a legspinner. Hathurusingha however said that legspinners are sought after in Australian conditions , but he would have to balance the team with the resources made available to him . " I would love to have Jubair in the team , " Hathuruinsgha said. " Legspinners in Australia are very effective. In my experience in the last four years in Australia , every state team tries to get a legspinner in the team. They are the wicket-takers. It 's true that I was asking for him and he was in our plans as an attacking option to get wickets , but that 's where it is. He is not in but we will try to do what we can with the players we have . " As I said , the legspinner could have given us a good attacking option. And since Shakib is there , having two left-armers it 's very unlikely to play all three in one team. It 's a tough decision. The two left-armers selected are very good players but I would have loved to have a different option. " Jubair Hossain was left out of Bangladesh 's World Cup squad © AFP But Hathurusingha remained unrevealing when asked if he would prefer to have a vote in selection , rather than just give suggestions. Currently , the Bangladesh selectors pick the squad while the team management , which includes the coach and captain , pick the eleven. The two groups are expected to consult each other . " As a coach you have the plans with the other coaches , senior players , and captains. Most of the cases the selectors communicate with the coaching staff and have a discussion. In that sense if you have a say in selection it would be helpful , but then again it 's the communication that you need , " he said . The other talked-about pick was Soumya Sarkar 's. Hathurusingha was said to be a fan of the young batting allrounder , and is looking to use him primarily as a batsman. " Soumya has been in the runs and the report that I am getting is that he can bat from one to seven in the batting order . " He is a decent seaming option so we are definitely looking at his batting first and then if he can contribute with the ball that is a bonus. We are not expecting him to bowl ten overs unless he has a good day , we are having him as a batting option who can bowl , " he said . Hathurusingha was not overly concerned about the injuries to Tamim Iqbal ( knee ) and Mushfiqur Rahim ( shoulder ) , but wanted to ensure the pace bowlers to remain healthy for the team to go forward in the World Cup . " The fast bowlers we have all bring different attributes to the team. Some have swing and some have pace. I hope they will do well. I am happy with the mix that we have . " It is all about staying fit because it is a long tournament. The conditions in Australia are hard. They have to put in a lot more effort. Keeping them healthy and fit is the key for us. " Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
