Bangladesh news January 24 , 2015 Tamim recovery on track for World Cup shares 4 Tamim Iqbal : " I am playing all kinds of shots against all sorts of bowling " © AFP Tamim Iqbal 's recovery towards full fitness is right on track to play in the World Cup , starting in three weeks. For the first time since his December 29 operation , he played pace bowling in the nets after he had only taken throwdowns and played against the bowling machine over the past week . While the rest of the Bangladesh team leaves for Brisbane on Saturday evening , Tamim will depart for Melbourne on Sunday. He has an appointment with orthopaedic surgeon Dr David Young followed by his third platela rich plasma ( PRP ) injection on January 27. He hopes to start training on January 29 . Tamim complained of pain on his left knee which was later diagnosed as a grade one tear on his meniscus , after which Dr Young performed the arthroscopic evaluation and surgery on his left knee on December 29 . He is pinning his hopes now on the PRP injection as well as a running session in Brisbane which he hopes will underline his return to fitness . " I do n't think there is a major problem with my knee , " Tamim said. " I am playing all kinds of shots against all sorts of bowling. My next sprint session in Australia is the most important to me. I had some pain sprinting before the operation , so if my pain goes away while sprinting , the fitness would have improved. But I have to be in rehab even during the tournament . " I will get my injection on the morning of January 27 , and I will meet a physio in the evening. They will give me the following week 's instructions. I have completed two of the three injection courses in Australia. I will complete the last one now. I will join the squad on January 28 and start practice the next day. " Coach Chandika Hathurusingha had said on Thursday that Tamim would only be picked if he is 100 % fit . " I do n't think anyone would want to play an unfit player , and especially not in a big tournament , " Tamim said. " I hope to play with 100 % fitness. I do n't want to be a burden to the team , so I am putting equal importance to my fielding. The next 10-12 days in Brisbane is the most important phase of our preparation . " If we can use this time well , we wo n't have many problems going ahead. I missed a few good sessions here , so if I can use the next two weeks properly , I will be happy. Of course I should be able to play at least two practice matches. I will try to play the warm-up matches in Brisbane since I have heard that wickets there are one of the toughest in Australia. " The recovery has not dampened Tamim 's spirits , as he spoke about his goal for this World Cup campaign and explained how he had missed out on his personal target in 2011. Tamim has only two fifties in World Cups , both against India. The first of these , in 2007 , was his famous onslaught on the India bowlers , but overall he averages just 21.93 in 15 matches of the tournament . " There are no centuries for Bangladesh in the World Cup so I hope I can be the first to do that , " Tamim said. " If I ca n't do it , I would hope someone from this team gets to do it. I did n't set any goals in the 2007 World Cup. I was too happy to be playing against the big teams . " In the next tournament , I had set myself some goals but I could n't reach them. We played at home but I would n't say it was a great World Cup for me. I have n't started well in this campaign , with the injury. But I hope to finish it nicely. " Tamim trusts that the Australian conditions will suit his style of batting , as there will be true bounce. He also felt that in Bangladesh , those conditions are being overplayed. Overseas , Tamim has a slightly better average than at home though he has only three fifties in nine matches in Australia and New Zealand . " My batting style goes with those wickets , " he said. " I think wickets in Australia and New Zealand are perfect for stroke-makers. I think we have become too concerned about wickets there. We should think about how we can win matches . " If you look at history , you will see that Asian batsmen have done well there. India scored heavily in the Test series. There is no need to think so much about the wicket. I think Australia is best for batting. I do n't think wicket will be a big issue. " Still , he would like to start cautiously in both Australia and New Zealand , particularly against the two new balls. Since the introduction of the new rule on October 1 , 2011 , Tamim has averaged 30.60 in 31 innings and has had only two substantial scores with a strike rate above 100 . " It would be tougher in Australian conditions now that there are two new balls , " Tamim said. " We are the sort of team that has to rely on a good start and good finish , and you can see that in our past . " We have to start more carefully than teams like Australia in their conditions. It would be tough to hit out from the start , but spend six to seven overs which would make it easier for us. " Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
