Bangladesh news October 14 , 2014 Tendulkar unveils new Dhaka club Play 01 : 00 Tendulkar unveils Dhaka club - Legends of Rupganj Sachin Tendulkar 's presence at the logo unveiling ceremony of Legends of Rupganj , a newly-named Dhaka Premier League club , gave a much-needed image boost to the domestic one-day competition. He praised club owner Lutfar Rahman Badal for his efforts to form championship-winning clubs and said role models are necessary to produce new stars in Bangladesh . Legends of Rupganj was previously known as Gazi Tank Cricketers , who are the defending champions of the Dhaka Premier League. BCB 's requirements say that a renamed club has to play one season with the former name after which it can apply for a change. Rupganj is the hometown of Badal , a businessman and a cricket official. He has been in charge of Dhaka Premier League winning campaigns of Mohammedan and Victoria Sporting Clubs . The Dhaka Premier League is the country 's oldest and most prestigious professional cricket competition. Wasim Akram , Arjuna Ranatunga , Sanath Jayasuriya , Ajay Jadeja , Neil Fairbrother and recently Ravi Bopara , Eoin Morgan and Ryan ten Doeschaete have featured in the competition , held among 12 Dhaka-based cricket clubs . Sachin Tendulkar : " You need role models to produce more Shakibs and Tamims " © AFP Badal 's Gazi Tank had two county stars - Morgan and ten Doeschate - as well as Jacob Oram as they won the title last season. This year he has already roped in Shakib Al Hasan and Tamim Iqbal , and a strong on paper Bangladeshi contingent to boot. Tendulkar said that the image of Shakib and Tamim will help find newer talents . " I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate my friend Badal for starting Legends of Rupganj , " Tendulkar said. " We have shared several ideas. All three clubs that he has run have won , which shows his commitment. Also Tamim and Shakib playing for his club is a boost for the club and youngsters. You need role models to produce more Shakibs and Tamims. " Upon arriving in Dhaka in the morning , he was taken by a helicopter to Rupganj , a sub-district of Narayanganj. There Tendulkar attended a health awareness programme organised by Unicef at a local high school . Tendulkar also reminisced some of his achievements in Bangladesh. He played 23 international matches in the country , averaging 74.86 with seven centuries across formats. His highest Test score of 248 not out was against Bangladesh in 2004. It was his 34th century , and Sunil Gavaskar , whose record he equalled , greeted him at the boundary. Tendulkar remembers the innings fondly , as well as the 100th century in international cricket , made in the 2012 Asia Cup . " Visiting Bangladesh has always been special for me , " Tendulkar said. " I have had many great memories here since 1998. The crowds have always been wonderful , I especially remember scoring my 34th hundred here ( in 2004 ) when I equalled Mr Gavaskar 's record. They gave me a great reception. I also made my 100th hundred here , and to be acknowledged by the Prime Minister was a huge honour. All these memories are everlasting. " Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
