Bangladesh news January 18 , 2015 Mominul versus the Short Ball shares 4 Mominul Haque has been practising his cuts and pulls ahead of the World Cup © AFP The Bangladesh batsmen have been posed with a string of set scenarios in their batting sessions at the Shere Bangla National Stadium for the past week. After the usual net session , they bat against the bowling machine on a marble slab to test their skills against the short ball and off the back foot. Later , they play on the natural turf with license to hit aerial shots or place them in gaps against spinners . Mominul Haque has gone through similar drills , sometimes twice a day. He also does n't take day-offs , ensuring a seamless stretch of net sessions. Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusinghe recently told him that honing his back-foot play would help him in Australia , so presently he is working on that regularly. Like most of his teammates in the World Cup squad , Mominul is going to play his first major tournament and at the same time , his career is heading towards a juncture where he has to also secure a permanent place in the ODI team . While his Test average hovers in the sixties , it stands at 25.66 in ODIs. All of his focus now , on and off the field , is on batting well in Australia and New Zealand . " Australian wickets have bounce so I am trying to adjust to the bounce , " Mominul said. " I am trying it against the bowling machine , outside in the nets , wherever possible. I am trying to work on batting off the back foot , playing the cut and pull shots. Batsmen from the subcontinent all have initial problems , but they get adjusted later on. We will also try to do that as soon as possible. " Mominul said he is taking inspiration from batsmen with similar build , particularly when it comes to handling short deliveries. He is also bracing to bat in any position deemed suitable by the team management . " You can learn a lot from watching others bat , " he said. " There have been plenty of short batsmen who played well on bouncy wickets. I will also try to do the same , play the short ball properly . " I do n't have a problem batting wherever the team wants me to bat. I really do n't have a personal choice. I will try to play a big innings if I am asked to bat at No 3. If I bat lower down , I have to increase the run-rate. That 's about it. " But when asked if the coach or anyone in the team management discussed his role in the World Cup , Mominul said : " We have n't talked about it. " And this is where Mominul 's big challenge lies. He has been given opportunities at No. 3 for 13 months from May 2013 to June 2014 , barring one innings. He struck three fifties during this time , but did n't quite nail down the position. He was dropped during the ODI series against India after just one slow innings , but even in two more innings in the same position , against Zimbabwe , he only made 31 and 15 . Mominul has batted lower down the order a few times but big hitting does n't come naturally to him. In his own words , he would have to build a long innings from No. 3 but given the pressure of modern cricket , he is unlikely to be allowed such a luxury. For now , he just wants to make most of any opportunity he gets at the World Cup . " I have no personal goals in the World Cup , " he said. " I just want to make full use of an opportunity to play at a big stage for my country. I will definitely try to do something that I have n't done before , and improve on my performance. " Mominul also has to get over the confusion about his ability to handle the short ball. In his centuries against New Zealand and Sri Lanka , he handled the short ball quite well and attacked it. But in West Indies , there were murmurs that the team management was n't convinced he could handle the bounce . That feeling was suppressed the moment he took on West Indies with confidence in the Test series , but with cricket to be played down under , the concern has resurfaced , magnified daily as he works on his back foot play. For now , he said he will leave it to his audience to judge this particular ability . " You will be the judge whether I play the pull shot properly or not. But I am not concerned about proving my ability to play the pull shot. " Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
