Australia Pick Fawad Ahmed , Adam Voges for West Indies Tour , Ashes Australia Pick Fawad Ahmed , Adam Voges for West Indies Tour , Ashes World Cup 2015 winners James Faulkner and Glenn Maxwell failed to make the cut. Australia play two Tests in the West Indies from June 5 , with their five-Test Ashes series starting in England on July 8 . Last updated on Tuesday , 31 March , 2015 07 : 42 IST Total Shares File photo of Australian leg spinner Fawad Ahmed © AFP Legspinner Fawad Ahmed , batsman Adam Voges and wicketkeeper Peter Nevill were all called up by Australia Tuesday for upcoming tours of the West Indies and England . But there was no room in the 17-man squad for all-rounders James Faulkner and Glenn Maxwell , who were part of Australia 's one-day World Cup winning side . Joe Burns was also overlooked , despite scoring two half-centuries in Australia 's last Test , against India in January . Paceman James Pattinson missed out with a hamstring injury , opening the door once again for Peter Siddle . Australia play two Tests in the West Indies from June 5 , with their five-Test Ashes series starting in England on July 8 . Pakistan-born Ahmed , who sought asylum in Australia in 2010 , got the nod ahead of Ashton Agar as the second spinner behind Nathan Lyon after a stellar Sheffield Shield season in which he took 48 wickets . Voges won his place on the plane for similar reasons , with the 35-year-old Western Australian captain smashing 1,358 Shield runs to be the season 's highest scorer and player of the year with an average of 104.46 . New South Wales keeper Nevill was picked as Brad Haddin 's understudy , preferred to Matthew Wade . National selector Rod Marsh said the Test team had performed very well in recent times , and the big challenge was to maintain the form away from home . " We believe this squad has sufficient depth for these important Test matches against the West Indies and England and will give us the best chance of success , " he said . - 'Sensational seasons ' - Marsh said selectors could not ignore Ahmed and Voges after " sensational seasons " at domestic level . " They thoroughly deserve their call-up and the opportunity to be a part of this squad. We believe that both can play important roles in the side if required , " he said . " Adam had one of the great seasons in Sheffield Shield history. He is an experienced player and quality character who will add talent and leadership to the touring party . " Fawad has worked incredibly hard on his game and has demonstrated throughout the season that he can be a consistent wicket taker . " Peter Nevill has been on our radar for some time and deserves his opportunity through weight of runs and performances behind the stumps , " he added . Fast bowler Ryan Harris was included in the squad , but will only play the Ashes series , remaining in Australia throughout the West Indies tour for the birth of his first child . Ahmed and Voges were selected despite missing out on Cricket Australia contracts for the 2015/16 season . CA announced on Tuesday it had contracted 19 players , one more than last season. Emerging fast bowlers Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood and allrounder Mitchell Marsh won contracts . Dropping off the list were Siddle , despite being named for the Test tours , and deceased batsman Phillip Hughes . Australia depart for the West Indies on May 19 and play their first Test on June 5. The opening Test of the Ashes series starts on July 8 . Michael Clarke ( capt ) , Steve Smith , Fawad Ahmed , Brad Haddin , Ryan Harris ( Ashes only ) , Josh Hazlewood , Mitchell Johnson , Nathan Lyon , Mitchell Marsh , Shaun Marsh , Peter Nevill , Chris Rogers , Peter Siddle , Mitchell Starc , Adam Voges , David Warner , Shane Watson . Story first published on : Tuesday , 31 March 2015 06 : 20 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
