Bangladesh news January 27 , 2015 Gazi quietly confident of reworked action Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares Sohag Gazi on his bowling action : I could n't fix it because I was too busy playing for the national team. Now I have the time , so I will work on it © Bangladesh Cricket Board Sohag Gazi is cautiously confident of his reworked action getting a green light after an official test in Chennai last Saturday . " I was a bit nervous at the start , but after I spoke to Ehsan sir and everyone else it became slightly easier , " he said. " One of those who were in Cardiff was also there in Chennai. It was a similar test , but I had to bowl fewer overs. They said everyone is bowling a bit side-on. I have been bowling with more comfort than before. I was bowling between 60 to 72 kph , which I thought was a good thing. " But past experience has taught Gazi not to get his hopes too high . " I think I went up to 25 degrees previously. This time , I personally felt that it [ elbow extension ] is around 5-6 degrees , which is the minimum you need to spin the ball , " he said. " Everyone said that it looked like I have worked hard on my action. They were positive , so I felt hopeful. But they said similar stuff in the past and the result was n't great. " Gazi was reported for a suspect action in Bangladesh 's second ODI against West Indies in August 2014 and was suspended from bowling in October after his test in Cardiff . Earlier this month , Gazi said that the biggest change in his bowling action was the delivery stride. Now he adds that if he had known about the kinks earlier , he might not have been reported in the first place . " If I had worked on my footing and landing [ sooner ] , then I would n't have fallen into these problems , " he said. " I would have gone with the World Cup team. I could n't fix it because I was too busy playing for the national team. Now I have the time , so I will work on it. " Gazi wants to play in Barisal Division 's second National Cricket League match , against Khulna Division from February 1 and hopes his performances would get him back into the Bangladesh team . " I will play the next NCL round , and then the Bangladesh Cricket League. I think it will be helpful if I keep playing. I am waiting for the test results. I want to do well in the NCL , and try to play as hard as I did before getting I got into the national team . " I do n't think there will be anything negative [ about the results of the reworked action ] , but if it comes out like that , I would n't have anything to do. " Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
