Pakistan in Bangladesh 2015 April 2 , 2015 Our best chance to beat Pakistan in ODIs - Shakib 131 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 131 Shakib Al Hasan : " We have proved that we can beat any team at home. We beat New Zealand seven times , and they are the World Cup runners-up. " © AFP Bangladesh allrounder Shakib Al Hasan believes his side should start as favourites in the ODI series against Pakistan later this month , and said it was their best chance to beat the side on home soil . Shakib , who left for Kolkata on Thursday , will be playing the first two games of IPL 2015 for his franchise Kolkata Knight Riders before returning home to play against Pakistan. Pakistan are likely to arrive in mid-April with a new-look side , without the retired Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi . " I will start training from tomorrow , " Shakib said. " I will only play two matches in the IPL so the Pakistan series will be on my mind. If I do well in the two matches , that confidence will work in my favour . " I think we should be starting as favourites to win the ODI series against Pakistan. I think this is our best chance to win against Pakistan. Everyone in the team believes so , too. We have proved that we can beat any team at home. If we play our best cricket , we can do well against any side. We beat New Zealand seven times , and they are the World Cup runners-up. " Bangladesh have won only one in 32 games against Pakistan , with the sole victory coming in the 1999 World Cup. The teams have played two bilateral ODI series in Bangladesh previously , apart from a single game in 1999 , with Pakistan winning all the matches. The forthcoming tour , involving two Tests , three ODIs and a T20 , has had its share of controversies with an impasse between the concerned boards over revenue-sharing . According to Shakib , 2015 will be a critical year for Bangladesh 's ODI prospects , especially with a 10-team World Cup looming on the horizon. Bangladesh are currently ranked ninth with 76 points , after gaining only one point following the World Cup. They are scheduled to take on Pakistan , India , South Africa and Australia this year . " It is a very important year for us since it will be a 10-team World Cup next time. We need to go up the rankings , " he said. " If we can win against higher-ranked sides , we will get more points . " Ultimately we have to stay within the top eight to play in the World Cup. We have been around No 9 and 10 for a long time. We got up to No 8 for a brief period , but now we have to get to that level and stay there. " Shakib also felt his performance in the World Cup could have been better as the tournament wore on , after he made two fifties in the first three games but only totaled 35 runs in his last three innings. He also took eight wickets at an average of 37.25 , giving away runs at 5.16 per over ( compared to an overall rate of 4.30 ) . He was impressed with the Bangladesh newcomers and urged them to keep performing rather than learning at the highest level . " There is no end to performing better. I think I did well in the World Cup. If I could have ended the tournament like I had started , it obviously would have been better , " Shakib said. " Still , I do n't think I should be disappointed about the numbers next to my name in this World Cup . " I thought the new players did well. The team performed , which is the most important thing. Soumya , Sabbir and Taskin played well. The senior players were also up to the mark. The team is in good shape. The young players have to perform , not to be taught. " Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
