New ECB Chairman Colin Graves Considers Four-Day Test Matches New ECB Chairman Colin Graves Considers Four-Day Test Matches Colin Graves , the incoming England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) chairman would like Test matches to start on a Thursday and end on Sunday with 105 overs being played each day . Last updated on Wednesday , 01 April , 2015 13 : 49 IST Total Shares ECB to propose 4 day Test matches © AFP London : Incoming England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) chairman Colin Graves confirmed on Tuesday that he is considering tabling proposals to shorten Test matches from five days to four . " Personally , I think we should look at four-day Test cricket and play 105 overs a day starting at 10.30am in the morning , and finish when you finish as all the grounds now have lights , " Graves , who takes up his role in May , told the Marylebone Cricket Club ( MCC ) website. ( Kyle Mills Retires ) The ECB could not itself introduce four-day Test matches , but it could push for changes to the Test format in international negotiations. ( Peter Siddle Dropped From Australia 's Contract List ) Expanding on the idea , Graves added : " Every Test match would start on a Thursday , with Thursday and Friday being corporate days and then Saturday and Sunday the family days . " From a cost point of view , you ` d lose that fifth day , which would save a hell of a lot of money from the ground ` s point of view and the broadcasters. I would look at that. " The proposals first came to light earlier this year after an ECB document entitled ` Strategy Conversation Summary ` was leaked . Reacting to the leak , the ECB revealed that it was " in the early stages of formulating a long-term strategy for the game in England and Wales , which we anticipate will take a year to complete " . Graves and new ECB chief executive Tom Harrison have also held initial talks about future proposals for the English county championship and a possible ` English Premier League ` Twenty20 competition . Story first published on : Wednesday , 01 April 2015 11 : 10 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
