Mohammad Hafeez to Undergo Reassessment of Bowling Action Mohammad Hafeez to Undergo Reassessment of Bowling Action Mohammad Hafeez 's action was deemed illegal after a biomechanical test at Loughborough University in England last December . Last updated on Wednesday , 01 April , 2015 19 : 11 IST Total Shares File photo of Mohammad Hafeez . Karachi : Pakistan all-rounder Mohammad Hafeez will undergo a reassessment test on his bowling action in India on April 9 to try to revive his struggling career , a statement said Wednesday . The 34-year-old off-spinner 's action was deemed illegal after a biomechanical test at Loughborough University in England last December. ( Mohammad Hafeez fails unofficial test on his bowling action ) He was reported during a Test against New Zealand last November , badly hitting Pakistan 's preparations for the World Cup which ended with Australia 's triumph on Sunday . Before Hafeez , Pakistan 's ace spinner Saeed Ajmal was also suspended for an illegal bowling action . Hafeez was selected for the World Cup purely as a batsman but had to be withdrawn after injuring a calf muscle . The Pakistan Cricket Board said Hafeez would go to India for a re-test following approval by the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) . " On PCB 's request for retesting on Hafeez 's bowling action , the ICC has set April 9 as the date , with Sri Ramachandra University , Chennai , India being the venue , " said a statement . Hafeez 's elbow extension exceeded the 15 degree level of tolerance permitted by the ICC regulations and was thus declared an illegal action . He underwent remedial work with former Pakistan spinner Saqlain Mushtaq and also reportedly cleared an unofficial test in Chennai in January . Hafeez has 43 Test wickets and 122 in one-day internationals as well as 46 in Twenty20 internationals . Ajmal passed his reassessment test in January and will be available for selection for Pakistan 's tour of Bangladesh later this month . Pakistan are due to play two Tests , three one-dayers and a Twenty20 international . Javeria Wadood , a member of the Pakistan women 's cricket team , will also appear for a separate re-test of her bowling action . Javeria , who has played 59 one-dayers and 56 Twenty20s , was suspended in 2010 . The ICC launched a crackdown on bowlers with illegal actions in June last year , suspending nine in the next six months in an attempt to clear the game of chuckers . Story first published on : Wednesday , 01 April 2015 17 : 58 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
