Memory heightens the sense that things used to be better in sport © Getty Images Enlarge I spent a fair bit of the football World Cup in Brazil last summer eating Japanese food with Barney Ronay , so the tone of his review of the tournament in the Guardian amid all the end-of-year retrospectives did n't come as a great surprise. He spoke of the excitement of the early rounds , the tremendous flair and skill and unpredictability of the group stage , and of the sense of disappointment as a more familiar , more cautious football took over ( with the glorious exception of Germany 's 7-1 win over Brazil in the semi-final ) . I broadly agreed with his sense of weariness , with the feeling that there was something anti-climactic about the final fortnight. The below-the-line commenters , those unacknowledged arbiters of rectitude , though , were even more apoplectic than usual. Somebody , apparently , had decided that this was a great World Cup - it was , comfortably , the best since 1998 - and that meant that criticising it was anathema . The vast majority of the bile - and there is something quite distressing about the levels of vitriol people reach for because somebody did n't enjoy something as much as they had - was ludicrous , but I did wonder whether journalists who cover tournaments like the World Cup end up conditioned to frustration because of the sheer exhaustion inherent in covering them . I recognise that covering a World Cup , whether in football or in cricket or any other sport , is a dream job and that I 'm hugely privileged to be able to do it. But working at a World Cup is unbelievably hard. In football , you 've just finished the season , the climax of the league finale , and the FA Cup and Champions League finals are barely over before you 're bashing out preview material. Then the tournament begins and , for six weeks , you 're working 18 hours a day , with no time to eat , exercise or sleep properly . By the time you reach the quarter-finals , you 're exhausted and , even worse , you 've already written everything there possibly is to be said about the teams that are still in the tournament. All you want to do is have a healthy meal at a normal time of day , maybe go for a run and have eight hours sleep , preferably without Argentinian fans singing " Brasil , decime qu é se siente " outside the window till 4am. So maybe it is the case that we 're by the latter stages inclined to dyspepsia ; we need something like the 7-1 to get going . We do experience things differently as children. There is less sense of consequence : there is just sport , happening , often somewhere exotic This is purely a World Cup phenomenon. I love tournament football. I 've been to six African Cups of Nations , three European Championships , three World Cups , a Copa America , an Asian Cup and an Under-20 World Cup. The sense of being in a bubble , in which nothing but the tournament matters , can be invigorating. It 's just that the World Cup takes six weeks , not four , and so fatigue has set in by the end. What a strange thing , then , that football 's authorities - and cricket 's are even worse in this regard - have designed a tournament so bloated that some of the sport 's most devoted followers , whose job it is to follow the sport and tease out its nuances day by day , find the final stages indigestible . Amid the dross , one comment stood out. " You , " it said , " just want the World Cup to reproduce the magic of your childhood. " At first it seemed weird that that should be a criticism : how outrageous that somebody should want something to be as good as it used to be. But then it occurred to me that , whether by design or not , the sentiment had a profundity. We do experience things differently as children. There is less sense of consequence : there is just sport , happening , often somewhere exotic ( admittedly this was n't true of the first cricket World Cup I really appreciated , in 1983 ) and we know it matters. We dip out , we come back. We 're probably not entirely clear on the structure of the tournament or who 's expected to win ; nothing is bogged down by narrative and so we do n't get that sense of ennui in the knockout stages . And perhaps that is part of the appeal of World Cups , that they do take us back to a time when we watched them just for the sport and the thrill of competition , unencumbered by the complexities of context. That attempt to recapture the past , though , is doomed to failure ; it 's impossible as adults to watch sport as we did in childhood , particularly given the nature of modern sports coverage ( it may be in fact that the naivete with which we watched sport as children in the '80s and before is simply no longer possible ) . Memory heightens the sense that things used to be better : we remember the great goals and the great games , the great players and the great innings , and forget the drabness in between. And so modern tournaments will always to fail to live up to past editions , our memories functioning essentially as romanticised highlights reels . That 's why World Cups , almost whatever the sport , come always with a sense of anti-climax - although it might help if modern World Cups , seemingly in every sport , did n't feel like such a chore . RELATED LINKS
