Tweet | " Think about it - we could be down the pub , or auditioning for Strictly Come Dancing , or helping management devise a new dietary regimen. Anywhere but here " © Getty Images Enlarge After a comprehensive defeat in the first ODI of the tri-series against hosts Australia , England let out a big sigh and today announced they " just could n't be bothered " going to the World Cup. Despite hopes the so-termed " Newish Era " under recently appointed captain Eoin Morgan might be more successful , head coach Peter Moores confirmed the side would be withdrawing from the game 's premier tournament because " having consulted widely with supporters who do n't use social media , we 've concluded that as a country we simply do n't give a monkey 's about ODIs and have n't done so for 20 years. " Some analysts have suggested that large parts of the British cricketing public snootily looking down on the one-day format for so long may have contributed to the national side 's perpetually poor performances . Although the news was greeted with disappointment and consternation in some quarters - not least in the countries due to face England in the pool stages - back home it was met with a combination of sadness and apathy , but , in the main , apathy. Speaking from atop a couple of bar stools in The Dog and Duck in Norwich , two regular patrons summed up the national mood : " Hear we 've pulled out of the cricket World Cup , Dave ? " " Oh , have we , Nige ? Which one 's that ? " " The ODI one , Dave. " " Oh , all that pyjama rubbish , Nige. " " Yeah , all that pyjama rubbish. I liked that Freddie Flintoff. Is he still playing , Dave ? " " Nah , Nige. He retired ages ago. You wo n't see him getting involved in all that pyjama rubbish. " " No , Dave , absolutely. What time does the football start ? " Morgan himself said his side would fulfil their current tri-series obligations - insisting that his team were " desperately trying to work out a way to deny India the bonus point " - but , with typical frankness , admitted the decision to withdraw from the World Cup was probably for the best : " Let 's be honest. Even after we rejigged an entire international schedule so we could be better prepared , we 're still going into the tournament with a side about as settled as the stomach of a man who 's just eaten a four-day-old burrito and washed it down with a pint of pineapple liqueur. " ECB sources later suggested the England captain was " outside cricket and a bit foreign " . The move - while being termed by many as " the kindest thing " and " a dignified , cricketing euthanasia " - has thrown the World Cup into chaos and initiated a frantic search for a substitute for England with just a few weeks to go until the tournament starts. A premier Associate team who failed to qualify such as Netherlands could be asked to fill the void , but the ICC has hinted that , in light of the decision to play the 2019 tournament only between India , Australia and England , such an invitation could " set a worrying precedent about cricket being a global meritocracy " . As such , a number of other replacements for Morgan 's side have been suggested. These include : Eleven traffic cones Kevin Pietersen and ten tattooists David Ginola The cast of Birdman ( Michael Keaton to open , due to being regarded as one of the leading batmen of his generation ) The ICC was yet to confirm which one would get the nod , but in a tweet showcasing a new tongue piercing in the shape of the Melbourne skyline , Kevin Pietersen insisted he was " 100 % ready to not play for England at the World Cup. " Alastair Cook was unavailable for comment , but was possibly shaking his head forlornly somewhere . RELATED LINKS
