Gayle and de Villiers : it 's like watching Benjamin Button © AFP Enlarge Actions speak louder than words , but Sulieman Benn has used words to describe an action. Not sure where that leaves us . — Like many others , Benn 's team-mate Chris Gayle was also impressed by AB de Villiers ' fastest hundred in one-day international. He paid the South African what is presumably an even bigger compliment than donning a hat in order to remove it . — Unusually , Instagram does n't provide us with evidence , but that was almost certainly done with a bit of a twinkle in the eye . But what about another famously modest West Indian ? This self-regard seems rather more heartfelt . — Amazed and saddened by his own omission . But , of course , there 's another West Indian speedster who 's fond of talking himself up. On this occasion , he 's most impressed with his own belongings . — Little point throwing him to the wolves though for this kind of thing though . — In the end , we just have to accept that Twitter provides a means for cricketers to express who they are. For some of them , that requires countless tweets , as they construct a minute-by-minute mosaic of their character and motivations . Then again , Twitter 's all about brevity and you 've got to respect a man who can boil everything down to an eight-word synopsis . — Shane Warne 's probably in the other camp. He likes to share. However , it 's important to him that he 's the one doing the sharing . — Yes , if anyone 's going to bore the crap out of people with news of Shane Warne 's personal life , it 'll be Shane Keith Warne . Middlesex 's Ollie Rayner , however , finds something rather different to be " boring " . — It 's interesting to note that not many Al Qaeda follow him - but he thinks that some do . As a cricketer , he should perhaps stick to taking the positives. For example , Dimuth Karunaratne 's got an uplifting message for you . — While England are even taking the positives out of jetlag . — It was certainly a memorable innings. Rather reminds one of an older AB de Villiers . RELATED LINKS
