South Africa won by 5 runs 19 Aus : 181/10 Eng : 133/10 Aus : 165/10 Eng : 207/10 Australia won by 6 runs These Tests also follow the previous group of Tests for the reason that when the last ball was bowled , all four results were possible. These are wins by runs. As such the tenth wicket was captured off the last ball of the Test. I have selected matches in which the winning margin was what the losing teams could have cleared with a single stroke. Just to be on the safe side I have made sure that in the last two matches no run was scored off the last ball. So a six instead of a dismissal would have won the game for Australia and England respectively . The first is a famous Test in which the West Indian pacemen , led by Curtly Ambrose , dismissed Australia for 184 when one more run was needed for a tie. The interesting part of this match was that Tim May and Craig McDermott had already added 40 runs for the tenth wicket. One more run would have put them in the first group of Tests , and two more , in the previous group. Surely one of the greatest Test matches of all time : the word " great " used as it should be . Twelve years later there was another classic . After two big first innings , Shane Warne spun out England for 182 and Australia needed 282 to win. They were in real trouble at 137 for 7 , at 175 for 8 and at 220 for 9. Each time they found someone : Warne , Brett Lee and Michael Kasprowicz. Finally Kasprowicz fell two runs short. Do I use the word " great " again ? Maybe no need to gild the lily . Now come two three-run wins : as different as chalk and cheese. The recent Test saw three scores of 284 , 287 and 294 , and that meant that 292 were needed to win. Australia fell three runs short despite the last-wicket partnership of 70 runs. Another match that could have moved on to other groups : 80 years back , a totally different match was played. Two good first innings were followed by the Australian innings of 86 , leaving England only 124 to win. They were 97 for 4 and it looked like an easy win. Then Hugh Trumble happened and England fell three runs short. Victor Trumper and Stanley Jackson scored two contrasting hundreds : the first in two hours and the second in five . This is the last article on Tests for a couple of months. The next few articles will cover the World Cups held so far and the 2015 edition : all from point of view of Ratings and new concepts such as HSI , ISV and Innings Index. I can assure you that these will offer insights fto the readers . Just a few sobering thoughts for all non-South African teams. The difference in strike rate between AB de Villiers ' record-breaking innings and the next best fastest completed hundreds is 21.5 % ( de Villiers 345.5 and Anderson 278.7 ) . The difference in balls required by de Villiers to reach 100 differs by 16.1 % ( 31 and 36 ) . The frequency of sixes by de Villiers : once every 2.75 balls. De Villiers ' scoring rate for an innings of 149 is the highest for any ODI fifty. The number of runs scored in the last ten overs by South Africa : 173. The number of runs scored in the last 20 overs by South Africa : 277 . Bradman memorabilia An unusual team photograph during the 1928-29 Ashes series - the debut series for Bradman. The intriguing point about this photograph , taken just before the second Test , for which he was dropped , is that Bradman , a single Test old , is sitting down and many experienced players are standing up. This is completely different to what normally happens everywhere else. Maybe Australian readers can contribute their insights : Possibly Murray , who is likely to be better-informed than the others. To view this , please click HERE . RELATED LINKS
