Tweet | How would you feel if you were to find a letter from the man himself lying around your house ? © Getty Images Enlarge Good things tend to happen when you least expect it. It happened with me around 10 years ago. An engineering student then , I had come back home for a vacation and was helping shift stuff from one room to another because the house was being whitewashed. I agree , that 's not a very exciting thing to do , but it does give you an opportunity to have a look at the old stuff lying around untouched for years and stir up memories. Sometimes it 's even better when you find something precious , which you did not even know existed . This precise thing happened to me when an old envelope lying among other documents caught my attention. The envelope had a faded appearance , like its colour had changed from white to cream. The envelope was addressed to Mr VN Varma ( my father ) , and had a stamp on top right corner. The stamp said the envelope was from Adelaide and was posted in 1969. Adelaide ? To the best of my knowledge , we did n't have any relative in Australia . Inside the envelope there was a greeting card and a small note. The note said : " Dear Mr Varma , I thank you for your kind letter. Unfortunately no photo is available. Your father was very charitable in his judgment of me. I only hope he is right. " At the end there was a signature , which I did n't recognise. I asked about it and to my utter surprise , turned out the letter was signed by none other than Sir Donald Bradman . Something as priceless as this was found while shifting things around to colour our walls. I was amused , curious , happy and angry at the same time. But curiosity outweighed all other emotions , and I asked my father to tell me the story behind it . It so happened that my father was quite inquisitive in nature during his teen years. His father , an avid reader , told him about exploits of Bradman. My father somehow found Bradman 's address , and wrote a letter to him asking for his signed photograph. And then came the reply from the master himself . Although it 's not rare to write to your hero and get a reply from him/her via email/Facebook/Twitter today , it was totally a different thing in that era. That my father had the enthusiasm to find Bradman 's address and write a letter to him and that Bradman had the generosity to reply to a fan in India was incredible. The letter - you can view it below - is with me since then , and is one of my most prized possessions . © Vaibhav Verma © Vaibhav Verma Enlarge If you have a submission for Inbox , send it to us here , with " Inbox " in the subject line . RELATED LINKS
