Buy my book , check out my instructional video , hire me to play in your T20 side © Getty Images Enlarge Grand Slam tennis champ Andy Murray had what was generally accepted as a bad year last year , undergoing surgery on his back , losing his coach , Ivan Lendl , and then restructuring his " backroom team " , apparently after they found it hard to accept Lendl 's replacement , Amelie Mauresmo. Murray 's assistant coach and his fitness coach took their leave . Considering that Murray travels the world with his girlfriend and sometimes his mother , also a distinguished coach , his career has the dimensions of a mini-business - lucrative , sure , yet dedicated to the kind of fine margins that separate the very best players from the pack. Murray has won more than $ 34m in prize money , so his investment in micro-management is worthwhile . It 's a situation that occurs regularly in golf too. At the time of Justin Rose 's US Open win two years ago , he credited his caddy , his swing coach , his manager , his psychologist and his wife as vital members of his entourage. Rose has won more than $ 41m in his career to date . These vast sums exceed those currently available to elite cricketers , but you wonder how long it will be until the truly freelance player begins to build something similar around their career . Kevin Pietersen finds himself in such a position , not retained by Surrey and perhaps restrained by the salary cap in finding another county. His immediate future is one of jet-hopping to franchise tournaments , a slave to their calendar. How should he manage a lifestyle no longer geared to consistency ? The maintenance and improvement of his skills falls beyond the usual support systems of a central contract or a county set-up. Essentially he is on his own until he gets to his franchise , where he may or may not have worked with the coaching staff before . Pietersen noted how hard he found playing in England 's T20 Blast last season , where he batted just once a week and most of his team-mates were engaged in other competitions in the meantime . It 's easy to step a little further into the future , when such players are perhaps younger and the money on offer in franchise cricket is more substantial , and see the idea of an individual coaching set-up beginning to emerge . T20 is a specialist game , and as its roles become increasingly defined , the specialist freelance - a guy who rocks up and bowls four overs at 95mph , for example , or a dedicated finisher - may envision a career where he arrives at his franchise as a fully realised package , his training , fitness , match planning and preparation all part of the service he offers . Such specialist coaches , attached to a single player rather than a group , could mean a deepening of technical thought in very specific areas , resulting in the kind of marginal gains that separate the great from the very good and the merely good . Golfers and tennis players carry entourages because they believe that they will pay for themselves in the end. Individual sports have always been lonely places too , a constant grind of travel , hotels , training , preparation , play , and the long hours of waiting. While the franchise cricketer may not be quite as isolated , constant team-hopping makes its own demands ; endless adjustments to new regimes. The stable base of a permanent coaching environment may improve performance too. And where else should the franchise player turn in the event of injury , especially long-term ? Ultimately such a notion would come down to finance. It seems fanciful at the moment. Yet when a tournament catches the public imagination , as this year 's Big Bash has , the sums available to a match-winner will begin to escalate. It may make sense for both players and franchises to provide and buy off-the-shelf solutions . Now maybe I 'll set up a management company to kick it all off . RELATED LINKS
