Headingley to Become First Cricket Stadium With Retractable Roof Headingley to Become First Cricket Stadium With Retractable Roof Although the cost of construction has not yet been revealed , the work is expected to be completed in time for the ICC Cricket World Cup in 2019 . Last updated on Thursday , 02 April , 2015 15 : 52 IST Total Shares Sights like these may soon vanish from Headingly as the stadium gets set to build retractable roof to allow cricket to be played even during rainy conditions . © Getty Images Cricket may soon erase Duckworth and Lewis from its memory. Rain stoppages and abandoned matches too may become part of distant memory. All this if Yorkshire 's plans to build a retractable roof over Headingly spreads to cricket stadiums all over . According to a Cricinfo report , Yorkshire have planned to install the world 's first retractable roof over a cricket stadium at Headingly - at a cost which has not yet been revealed. The roof is said to cover the entire playing field and will prevent wet conditions from hampering the passage of play. Called the All Sip Roof system , the cover is expected to be put into place by the 2019 World Cup and the Ashes Test against Australia . Headingley has a rich cricketing legacy with the first Test here being played in 1899. Home to the Yorkshire County Cricket Club , the venue has seen several matches being either interrupted or abandoned due to inclement weather. The latest project though may put a permanent end to these . While Headingley will become the first cricket venue with such a system in place , it will surely not be the first sporting venue to get such a lift. The center court at Wimbledon and the Rod Laver Arena in Melbourne have retractable roofs in place. Several larger venues - particularly for field sports - also feature a cover. The list includes AT&T stadium in Texas which boasts of a capacity of 105,000 . Story first published on : Thursday , 02 April 2015 11 : 41 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
