The perfect World Cup format ? Anil Joseph Adding an Eliminator into the existing format could solve a lot of problems © ICC Enlarge Over the last few weeks , several cricket commentators on ESPNcricinfo and elsewhere , including greats like Rahul Dravid , have questioned the merit of the existing World Cup format. But not many have been able to come up with an innovative schedule that meets the needs of all stakeholders . The drawbacks associated with the current and previous formats are summarised below : Existing format ( also used in 1996 and 2011 ) : The group stages has little meaning as anyone with a rudimentary knowledge of cricket could predict who the eight quarter-finalists will be , barring the unlikely upset. Then it is a straight shootout between the teams , who are fairly evenly matched . This meant that there was not too much riding on whether you finish first or fourth in the group stage. This problem was best exemplified by South Africa , who brushed aside every opposition in the group stage in 1996 , before they were beaten by West Indies in the quarter-finals. West Indies , who suffered three losses in the group stage , including a 73-run defeat to Kenya , stepped up to knock South Africa out through Lara 's brilliance . Super 6 format ( used in 1999 and 2003 ) : Probably the best format till date , but it suffered two major drawbacks : it was a long-winded and the non-qualification of a big team for the knockouts left sponsors unhappy . Super 8 format ( used in 2007 ) : Endlessly long tournament , which put most enthusiasts to sleep . 1992 format : Highly competitive format , where all nine teams played each other before the semis , but it had one major flaw - the Associates had no representation. Such a format would not favour the globalisation of cricket . I would like to propose a format which will , through minor tweaking , ensure that all the flaws listed above are eradicated . Group stages : No changes to existing format Knockout stages : Teams that finish third and fourth in Group A play an Eliminator each against teams that finish third and fourth in Group B with the winners progressing to the quarter-final . The team that finishes second in each group directly progresses to the quarter-final , and plays the winner of the two eliminators . The top team in each group gets a direct entry to the semi-finals , and plays the winner of the two quarter-finals . © Enlarge This format has the following benefits : There is a massive incentive to top the group since the team that finishes first earns a direct entry to the semis. With the second-placed one given a direct entry to the quarter-finals , every game in the group stage will be crucial. This will ultimately translate to increased interest from fans and broadcasters . Failure to finish in the top two does not necessarily mean the end as the teams will still have a chance provided they do well in the Eliminator. This might help teams with substantial commercial interests remain part of the tournament . It will also ensure that Associates like Ireland , through an upset or two , can make the quarter-finals . Viewer fatigue can be avoided . Hence , a format like this will be more meritocratic , where the importance of each game is preserved. Fans , sponsors and broadcasters will stay interested , while the Associates will be provided with enough opportunity . If you have a submission for Inbox , send it to us here , with " Inbox " in the subject line . RELATED LINKS
