Australia have been the only side in the last 15 years to have had consistently dominant left-handers in their batting order © Getty Images Enlarge In cricket , being left-handed comes with some peculiar advantages ( and disadvantages ) . Bowlers , on the whole , tend to be right-arm bowlers and find it difficult to get lbws against left-handers if the ball is n't swinging. On the other hand , this same predominance of right-arm bowlers means that lefties invariably face a massive rough outside their off stump as a Test match progresses . The desire for a left-right batting combination has produced many a change in batting orders. Commentators often argue that in ODI cricket , left-right combinations might find it easier to score quickly , as the bowler has to keep adjusting his line and length and bowl to different fields if the strike is rotated regularly. This increases the chance that the bowler may bowl a bad ball. To take a hypothetical case , should this extend to promoting JP Duminy ahead of Faf du Plessis to join Hashim Amla at the wicket ? Is there any evidence to suggest that left-right stands are more prolific than others ? © Kartikeya Date Enlarge I looked at all ODI partnerships since 1979 in ODI games featuring only Test teams ( excluding Bangladesh and Zimbabwe ) . I have considered the top seven batting positions only. For most of the 1980s and early '90s , one out of four batsmen in the top seven was a left-hander. Starting in the late '90s , this has increased to one in three . Except for a short period in the late '90s , there has been no significant difference in the run-scoring abilities of left- and right-handers in ODI cricket. From the start of 1995 to the end of 2000 , 70 left-handers batted in the top seven of an ODI innings in matches featuring only the top eight Test teams , and averaged 33.6. In these games , 199 right-handers averaged 29.3 batting in the top seven. You can imagine the names - Ganguly , Bevan , Kirsten , Jayasuriya , Lara , Gilchrist , Thorpe , Knight , Twose , Fleming - every team had a top left-hander , if not two , in those years . © Kartikeya Date Enlarge Now that we have some idea of how left- and right-handers have performed over the years , let 's see if the partnership record is a variance. In other words , if , despite the overall quality of left- and right-handers being more or less equal , left-right stands are more prolific , perhaps there is something to the idea that teams should try and play left-right combinations whenever possible , even if it means shuffling the batting order at short notice . © Kartikeya Date Enlarge First , let 's look at how frequently the three types of partnerships occur - two right-handers , two left-handers , and left-right pairs. In the 21st century , two right-handers have been as likely to bat together in an ODI as a left-right pair. This change from the 1980s , when right-hand pairs predominated , is understandable given the overall increase in number of left-handers in international teams . Next , let 's look at partnership averages. The evidence suggests that left-right partnerships have done better than right-right partnerships only during periods when left-handers have been better than right-handers overall ( prominently so in the late 1990s ) . In the 21st century , two right-handers have batted together 5984 times in for the top six wickets in an ODI and produced 35.3 runs per stand. Two left-handers have batted together 1317 times and averaged 34.4 runs per stand. Left-right pairs have batted 6767 times and averaged 36.3. So left-right pairs have done two runs better than two left-handers , and one run better than two right-handers. During this time , 154 left-handers have averaged 32.8 in ODIs , the same as the 341 right-handers have. So perhaps there is some minor benefit to left-right pairs. If you look at median stands , the median left-right stand in the 21st century has been worth 23 runs. The median left-left and right-right stands have been worth 22 runs each . © Kartikeya Date Batting Average against each bowling opponent in the 21st century OPPONENT
