Kevin Pietersen 'not on England Radar ' , says Coach Peter Moores Kevin Pietersen 'not on England Radar ' , says Coach Peter Moores Incoming England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) chairman Colin Graves has suggested that Kevin Pietersen may yet be able to resurrect his England career , having been frozen out of the national set-up a year ago . Last updated on Thursday , 02 April , 2015 22 : 25 IST Total Shares File photo of Kevin Pietersen . © AP London : Kevin Pietersen " is n't on the radar " for an England recall , coach Peter Moores told reporters on Thursday as his squad prepared to fly out to the West Indies . Incoming England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) chairman Colin Graves has suggested that Pietersen may yet be able to resurrect his England career , having been frozen out of the national set-up a year ago . The South Africa-born batsman agreed a return to Surrey last week in a bid to enhance his chances of a recall , but Moores says that his entire focus is on the three-Test series in the Caribbean. ( Would Love to Play for England Again : Pietersen ) " For me , Kevin 's not on this trip , so I do n't need to focus on Kevin at all , " Moores told a media conference at Gatwick Airport . " My focus is to support ( captain ) Alastair ( Cook ) as I always would and the 16 players on this tour . " At the end of that summer ( 2014 ) we 'd gone through a tough summer , and started to play the sort of attacking cricket people like , and we like. That 's our focus at the moment . " From my point of view , Kevin is n't on the radar. So he ca n't be in my or Cooky 's focus at all. " Moores also expressed " frustration " that speculation about Pietersen was overshadowing the fact that players such as Yorkshire batsman Adam Lyth were in line to make their Test debuts . " It 's not about me getting personal ; it 's about the focus on the England team , " he said. " The frustration for me is that people whose dreams are being made by going on this tour are n't being mentioned . " They are not getting any air time and it 's frustrating. We 've got some very , very good players. That 's very exciting. I understand Kevin 's a huge subject , but I do n't think we can be drawn into that. " - Lyth 'in tears ' - Skipper Cook echoed Moores 's concerns . " I was with Adam when he got his phone-call in Dubai , and it was such a refreshing thing to see , " said Cook. " He was in tears talking to his mum , a gritty Yorkshireman . " To be standing in the airport in his England suit for the first time , he 'll remember this forever. We 've got our first team meeting in half an hour and that 's what we 'll want to talk about . " To be honest with you , contrary to a lot of what guys read in the media , I 'm a long way from that decision ( about Pietersen ) . " We 've got these 16 guys going to the West Indies who are desperate to turn around England cricket. We need to get back to winning ways , and that 's all these 16 guys and support staff are focused on. " Moores also said that there was no ill-feeling between himself and Cook after the Essex batsman expressed disappointment over his omission from England 's World Cup squad . " We can look back at everything and me and Cooky have spoken a lot all the way through , " said Moores. " Alastair was disappointed not to be involved , but we 've got to look forward now . " There 's a lot of noise and emotion around English cricket -- that 's understandable -- but we 've got 16 players here , to go to the West Indies to fight to win a Test series. " Story first published on : Thursday , 02 April 2015 14 : 55 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
