Boss man : Gayle has shown us the future © Getty Images Enlarge Like Schrodinger 's cat , West Indies cricket is either alive or dead depending on exactly when you lift the lid of the box and take a look. If it happened almost any time since their benighted tour of India then the answer has been clear , and negative. Not any more though , and at the head of their latest resurrection is the coolest cat of all , Christopher Henry Gayle , a man who seemed to have used up all of his nine lives a long , long time ago . Asked yesterday what had changed , which switch he had flicked to turn himself from the scratchy simulacrum of a once-great player back into the awesome Gayle Force of 215 from 147 deliveries , he gave the immortal answer : " Cut down on the parties " . He now holds a unique , almost unthinkable triptych : Test match triple-century ( two in fact ) , ODI double-hundred , T20I ton - and you can throw in T20 cricket 's all-time highest score too . It 's a record that demands reappraisal of his place in the game. Perhaps only Lara 's first-class quintuple century and Test match 400 stand above it as feats of sustained scoring . Gayle , unlike Lara , is not conventionally great. In fact he is hardly conventional at all. Technically , tactically , conceptually , he has been a shaping force , an avatar of cricket 's coming age. It 's time to consider him in that light . There was a time , during Gayle 's dominant years in the IPL when he looked like he had been dropped into the crease via time machine : a glistening metallic helmet , mirrored reflector shades and satin headscarf ; the shimmering uniform of gold patches and sponsors ' logos stretched over a Terminator 's physique ; in his hands a bat designed for cleaving and carving through hoards and legions ; million upon million tuned in on TVs and smartphones and laptops to watch him . Here , you thought , was the player of the future , here is how the game will look . Gayle , unlike Lara , is not conventionally great. In fact he is hardly conventional at all. Technically , tactically , conceptually , he has been a shaping force , an avatar of cricket 's coming age. It 's time to consider him in that light Gayle batted like it too. You will be hard-pushed to find any media outlet where he has spoken openly about his mindset and his methods , but there is a deep sporting intelligence behind his approach to T20 cricket. What seemed superficially to be berserk and uncontrolled feats of hitting were in fact reasoned , mathematical assaults that loaded the bases in his favour as far as anyone could. Risk was first eliminated - his 128 not out from 62 deliveries for Royal Challengers Bangalore against Delhi Daredevils in 2012 , for example , saw him score 1 from his first eight deliveries and with 10 runs from the first 17 - and then embraced. Gayle hits one in every nine balls he faces in T20 cricket for six . It would be fascinating to hear him talk about it , but Gayle is deeply enigmatic. He understands that mystery simply adds to his appeal , and so his Twitter stream is an endless flow of emoticons and laconic humour. The " World Boss " lifestyle that he likes to project is carefully cultivated. He tweets pictures of himself smoking cigars and surrounded by women ; he is assiduous in the promotion of his Triple Century sports bar , a new outpost , you imagine , of the Playboy Mansion with " Henry " as its 21st-century Hef . The persona can be funny , sure , but Gayle uses its capacity to infuriate , too. On the pitch he has been a white-ball Bradman , reinventing the possible. Off it , he has been equally revolutionary , the first truly freelance player. His earning capacity has undone the ties to international cricket , and it has come at a time of fracture in West Indies. It is a new kind of relationship , and again Gayle is ahead of the curve in having it . His moods can seem capricious , but that is another by-product of his implacable persona. No one watching his Gangnam dance after the World T20 win could doubt his joy. Similarly , it 's hard to ignore the whiff of revenge about this week 's 215 , given his discontent over the non-selection of Kieron Pollard and Dwayne Bravo for the World Cup and the idiotic retweeting of Whycliffe " Dave " Cameron . He can sometimes seem out of love with the game itself , but as he hinted in his post-match interview , injury has taken its toll. Such brutal power comes with a physical cost. The quick single he took to raise his fifty against Zimbabwe was the sprightliest he has looked in some years . As with most things about Cool Chris , he leaves us to fill in the gaps. Will he smash South Africa and spearhead the least likely World Cup win since 1983 ? Will he make a 30-ball duck ? Will he spend the rest of his life in a Jacuzzi ? Your guess is as good as mine , and probably as good as his too. But whatever happens next , Gayle has played some transcendent innings during which he has suggested a future that is almost here. He has been great . RELATED LINKS
