" We 've already secured Rudolph as the brand ambassador for our bail lights " © AFP Enlarge In an innovative move , the ICC today announced the 2023 World Cup will be staged in Lapland during winter. Drawing inspiration from FIFA 's decision to shift their Qatar 2022 tournament to December , chief executive Dave Richardson said the idea of holding the event in a country synonymous with the festive season was , as he put it , " a logical way for cricket to build on the immense public approval football has received for playing its World Cup final in a desert at Christmas " . Given the daylight hours in Lapland at the time the competition is due to be held , Richardson also said it was an exciting opportunity to showcase the first ever night-night ODIs . The news has understandably drawn ire from numerous quarters , however , with many suggesting Lapland may have rigged the selection process by bribing senior ICC officials with presents , although this allegation has been firmly denied. Speaking from a gold-plated sedan lined with husky fur and mounted on a troupe of reindeer , one official denied anything improper had taken place : " My new elf-shaped diamond cufflinks are mere baubles , " he explained . Some critics have also said that holding the tournament in Santa 's backyard may see a decline in the behavioural standards of players , with an increase in sledging being cited as a particular worry . Despite these qualms , the plan has been welcomed by some leading figures in the game , with a number of offspinners apparently delighted the sub-zero temperatures will mean everyone has to wear long-sleeved tops. ECB analysts were also quick to point out that playing cricket in wintry conditions , where the rather moist and melty outfield made hitting boundaries a near impossibility , " completely vindicated England 's approach to ODIs in the last few years " . Scepticism nevertheless remains , and the ICC has conceded that holding the tournament in the Arctic Circle may necessitate a number of changes to playing conditions , which at this stage could include : - All players to wear skis when batting , but skis which " are n't too long " as this may affect the delicate balance between bat and ball by giving hitters an " unfair advantage when straining to get home for a quick single " . The edges of skis worn by MS Dhoni and AB de Villiers will come under particular scrutiny to ensure they 're " not too thick " . - Umpire Kumar Dharmasena to be replaced at one end by a snowman ( quite a popular move with players ) . - Umpire Kumar Dharmesena to be replaced at square leg by a snowman ( ditto ) . - Hot Spot to be discarded. Slightly Mild Spot will be used instead . - All post-match interviews to be conducted by polar bears , despite fears over player safety. " Do n't worry about that , though , " an ICC spokesman said reassuringly. " Cricketers are used to being quizzed by Ravi Shastri , so being interviewed by a hairy creature roaring questions at them in a slightly aggressive manner should n't be too much of a problem. " FIFA itself has lauded the move , with president Sepp Blatter especially praising the work of Richardson in bringing the World Cup to Lapland. " This decision shows once again that both football and cricket are run by evenly matched geniuses , " he said . RELATED LINKS
