Aravinda de Silva saved his best for the 1996 World Cup © Getty Images Enlarge Aravinda de Silva was Sri Lanka 's first international cricketing superstar. Before Sanga , before Mahela , before Murali , before Sanath , there was Aravinda. Diminutive , effortlessly graceful , equally adept in Test and ODI arenas , he was a batsman for the ages. His tale , like those of so many of cricket 's artists , is not captured by facts and figures alone. He did score 6361 Test runs , the fourth-highest aggregate for a Sri Lankan , including 20 centuries. He also has 9284 ODI runs and over a hundred ODI wickets. But the true measure of his career is in the memories he has left us . Aravinda was born to play cricket. " Cricketer was written all over him - in his walk , in the way he took guard , in his stand at the wicket , " wrote PG Wodehouse of the eponymous hero of his novel Mike at Wrykyn. " On the cricket field , he could not have looked anything but a cricketer if he had turned out in a tweed suit and hobnail boots. " Those words could have been written for Aravinda de Silva . A short man - he was 5ft 4in - Aravinda 's bat always looked disproportionately long , as if he had borrowed his big brother 's when he was n't looking. But what magic he conjured with it. Like most men of his stature , Aravinda was an expert puller and cutter. But allied to these power shots were late cuts of the utmost delicacy , leg glances of indescribable finesse , rapier-like cover drives , impossibly angled square drives. Aravinda scored all round the wicket without slogging : classically correct cricket shots executed with precision and panache. He was the RK Narayan of cricket. Narayan 's liquid prose is so smooth , so polished , it feels like a miracle of nature. Aravinda at the crease was Narayan in Malgudi . Throughout his career , Aravinda 's instinct was to attack early and often. When he first came into the national side , he had a predilection for attractive but doomed cameos. But as he matured , he constructed a series of innings full of beauty and swagger , bravura and subtlety , which can be tucked away in the memory to savour through the years. Aravinda made a speciality of taking the fight to the bowlers. Against Pakistan in Sharjah , he hit the fearsome Waqar Younis back over his head , pulled Wasim Akram dismissively , and then played the most exquisite late cut off Mushtaq Ahmed. At the Gabba , of all places , he took on an Australian pace attack boasting Carl Rackemann , Merv Hughes , Geoff Lawson and Terry Alderman , scoring 167. In 1991 he carved his way to a career-best 267 against New Zealand. But two of his limited-overs innings burn brightest in my memory . He is the RK Narayan of cricket. Narayan 's liquid prose is so smooth , so polished , it feels like a miracle of nature. Aravinda at the crease is Narayan in Malgudi I am particularly fond of his century for Kent against Lancashire in the 1995 Benson and Hedges Cup final , not least because it considerably brightened up a dreary on-call Saturday. He put all his wares on display , warming-up with two pulled sixes , culminating in a succession of inside-out lofted cover drives , each the result of twinkle-toed footwork , all immaculately placed. The stroke of the day was a one-handed square drive which came off the bat like a pistol shot. Even in a losing cause , Ian Botham named him Man of the Match . Aravinda 's most enduring performance was in that triumphant 1996 World Cup final in Lahore. Truly he danced with the gods that night. He was always in the match , and took 3 for 42 and pouched two catches , but mere statistics do not reveal the size of his contribution. Australia , overwhelming favourites , made steady progress to 137 for 1 , with all the imperious inevitability of a dreadnought. Aravinda made the critical breakthrough , taking the crucial wickets of Mark Taylor and Ricky Ponting , ending their century stand in the process . When Sri Lanka batted , he came to the wicket with the score on 23 for 2. With Asanka Gurusinha , he took the fight to an Australian attack consisting of Glenn McGrath and Shane Warne. His innings was a characteristic mixture of power and delicacy , of blistering cuts and the finest leg glances. He even produced another one-handed square drive. But as he demonstrated in a duel against Warne , he was not only a master strokemaker , he was a master of placement. He cut Warne to the point boundary , penetrating a circle of three fielders between short cover and point. Warne reinforced the field with a fourth fielder. Impossibly , next ball Aravinda smote a back-foot drive past all of them . Perhaps his greatest achievement that night was the resolve he showed. His innings was not to be a pretty cameo. There was steel in his eyes. After Gurusinha fell , he guided the innings home in the company of captain of war Arjuna Ranatunga , with almost four overs to spare. Aravinda the stylist had become Aravinda the match-winner. His 107 in 124 balls made him the third man after those two great West Indians Clive Lloyd and Viv Richards to score a hundred in a World Cup final. The choice for the Man of the Match was never in doubt. Nor is his place amongst cricket 's immortals . RELATED LINKS
