Saeed Ajmal Returns to Pakistan Squad for Bangladesh Tour Saeed Ajmal Returns to Pakistan Squad for Bangladesh Tour Saeed Ajmal , who missed World Cup 2015 due to ICC 's ban for illegal bowling action , has been recalled in Pakistan 's squad that will play two Tests , three ODIs and one T20Is in Bangladesh this month . Last updated on Friday , 03 April , 2015 17 : 48 IST Total Shares Saeed Ajmal has been picked in all three squads - Tests , ODIs and T20Is . © AFP Pakistan off-spinner Saeed Ajmal was on Friday named in the Pakistan cricket team for all three formats for the tour of Bangladesh starting April 17 . Ajmal was not in the national squad for the World Cup as he was undergoing remedial treatment after he was banned for illegal bowling action in September last year. His action has since been cleared by the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) . The 37-year-old has taken 446 wickets in 209 matches in all three formats of the game . Wicket-keeper batsman Umar Akmal was dropped from all the three formats while opener Ahmed Shehzad was left out of the One-Day-Internationals ( ODI ) and Test squads , reports ESPNcricinfo . Veteran batsman Younis Khan was rested for the ODIs . Fast bowler Mohammad Irfan , who was injured during the World Cup , was not part of any of the squads . Pacer Junaid Khan returned to the Test and T20 squads after he missed the World Cup due to injury , while all-rounder Mohammad Hafeez , who also missed the World Cup , was picked for all three formats . Opener Nasir Jamshed was also dropped for the ODIs after he played three matches in the World Cup , making scores of 4 , 1 and 0. He last scored an ODI fifty in July 2013 . The tour will begun with a three-match ODI series starting April 17 followed by a Twenty20 match ( T20 ) on April 24 and a two-match Test series . The first Test begins on April 28 with the second match scheduled to start on May 6 . Pakistan Test squad : Babar Azam , Mohammad Hafeez , Sami Aslam , Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , Asad Shafiq , Azhar Ali , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Saeed Ajmal , Yasir Shah , Zulfiqar Babar , Sarfraz Ahmed , Wahab Riaz , Junaid Khan , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali Pakistan ODI squad : Sarfraz Ahmed , Mohammad Hafeez , Asad Shafiq , Fawad Alam , Azhar Ali ( capt ) , Mohammad Rizwan , Haris Sohail , Sohaib Maqsood , Sami Aslam , Saeed Ajmal , Yasir Shah , Wahab Riaz , Rahat Ali , Ehsan Adil , Sohail Khan Pakistan T20 squad : Ahmed Shehzad , Sarfraz Ahmed , Mohammad Hafeez , Mukhtar Ahmed , Sohaib Maqsood , Haris Sohail , Mohammad Rizwan , Saeed Ajmal , Shahid Afridi ( capt ) , Sohail Tanvir , Saad Nasim , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Umar Gul , Junaid Khan . Story first published on : Friday , 03 April 2015 16 : 29 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
