England news January 10 , 2015 Pietersen wants to face England ESPNcricinfo staff shares 31 Kevin Pietersen has enjoyed himself at the BBL © Getty Images England were pleased to put 2014 behind them as they arrived in Australia , but the central figure of much of the angst and controversy of last year remains well within earshot as Kevin Pietersen said he wants to face his former team-mates after a spot opened up in the Prime Minister 's XI . Michael Hussey was due to captain the PM 's XI in Canberra on Wednesday but injured his hamstring in the Big Bash League meaning the side need a replacement batsman. Pietersen put his hat in the ring while he was on the microphone during the Melbourne derby between the Stars and Renegades on Saturday . " In the Prime Minister 's game on Wednesday , Mr Michael Hussey 's missed out. Jeez , I fancy that,' ' Pietersen said while batting for the Stars . Adam Gilchrist , commentating for Channel Ten , asked : " Are you telling us you 're available ? ' ' Pietersen replied : " Mate , I 'm always available.'' Pietersen hit a run-a-ball 49 for the Stars , before falling to Ben Stokes , continuing his good run of form in the BBL which has included two half-centuries , although he was overshadowed by Glenn Maxwell 's 66 off 44 deliveries . Andrew Flintoff , who is playing for Brisbane Heat , suggested there would be no shortage of England bowlers keen to run in at Pietersen. " If @ KP24 plays for the prime ministers XI they 'll need a turnstile at the bowlers end , they 'll be queuing up,' ' he tweeted . The PM 's XI match is England 's second , and final , warm-up fixture before the tri-series begins against Australia at the SCG on January 16. Their first hit out comes on Monday when they face an Australian Capital Territory XI . Ian Bell , who was dropped after two ODIs in Sri Lanka , was given the chance to bat alongside Moeen Ali in the nets during an early training session which may offer a clue as to how England are considering lining up. In Sri Lanka , it was the sight of Moeen batting alongside Alastair Cook at training which indicated that would be the opening pair . If Bell is given the chance to open it would appear to be another blow to Alex Hales ' hopes although there is a chance Hales could be slotted in at No. 3. However , James Taylor enjoyed success in that position after being recalled in Sri Lanka , making scores of 90 and 68 , to secure his passage to the World Cup . Taylor has now admitted how much pressure he was under going into his first innings of that series - which was just his third ODI - following the suspension of Alastair Cook due to a slow over-rate which opened up a spot in the team . " It was up to me to take that opportunity and I did it in those couple of games , " Taylor said. " I knew from the outside I was put in a massively pressurised situation - if I did n't score runs I was n't going to the World Cup. But I did n't really think about it , I jumped straight into the game situation and tried to focus on that as much as I could.'' " Obviously it 's been a massively frustrating few years of not getting those consistent runs in the side but this winter has been a great opportunity to show what I can do to the selectors , coaches and the guys around the team.'' © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
