England v India , Carlton Mid Tri-Series , Brisbane January 19 , 2015 A question of confidence for visitors Start time 1320 local ( 0320 GMT ) Both India and England must restore confidence shaken by Mitchell Starc and Australia © Getty Images Big Picture Having both been beaten with some comfort by Australia , England and India will seek to regroup at the Gabba , scene of a pair of heavy defeats for them in the past two Test matches at the same venue. Brisbane seldom holds happy memories for touring teams , but both visitors will on Tuesday find conditions conducive to aggressive cricket , with the pitch hard , the outfield fast the and the weather warm . India have much the better record over England in recent times , their batting power overwhelming the more conservative English approach in encounters including the 2013 Champions Trophy final , which seemed to be going the way of the team then led by Alastair Cook until a late flurry of wickets at Edgbaston. But the variation in conditions between India , England and Australia is vast , meaning different shades of each player will be revealed to one another , just as the methodical ways of Cook and Andy Flower were found wanting down under last summer . The greatest issue for England and India following their recent losses may well be confidence to attack. Eoin Morgan sounded particularly downcast following his opening defeat , while MS Dhoni 's batting in Melbourne showed a level of anxiety his calm visage before the press could never reveal. Given that this tournament features only four pool games each , there is little time to pick up the sense of purpose after its early shake at Australian hands . Form guide England LLLWL ( completed matches , most recent first ) India LWWWW In the spotlight After taking a catch late in Australia 's chase on Friday , Ian Bell tossed the ball away with visible frustration. England would lose , and Bell had made a golden duck , albeit one shaded by the strong suspicion of an inside edge to Mitchell Starc 's first ball of the match. On a Gabba pitch expected to offer useful pace to work with , Bell 's correct method and ability to score off both front and back foot may be critical in allowing England to make enough runs to keep pace with India 's blazing top order . MS Dhoni has committed to batting No. 6 in this series and the World Cup beyond. He seems to be playing without his usual freedom , responsibility weighing heavily on the captain 's mind and his choice of shots. Until Ravindra Jadeja is back fit , or Axar Patel shows himself to be a lower-order player of merit , Dhoni will need to strike a better balance between attack and defence than he showed in Melbourne . Team news James Anderson is set to return in place of Steven Finn after sitting out England 's opener against Australia , while the tourists are set to retain faith in the batting order chosen for the SCG despite an awful start against Starc . England ( possible ) 1 Ian Bell , 2 Moeen Ali , 3 James Taylor , 4 Joe Root , 5 Eoin Morgan ( capt ) , 6 Ravi Bopara , 7 Jos Buttler ( wk ) , 8 Chris Woakes , 9 Chris Jordan , 10 Stuart Broad , 11 James Anderson India may keep an unchanged side , given the fact that neither Ishant Sharma nor Jadeja are fully fit and Axar bowled tightly to Australia 's middle order . India ( possible ) 1 Shikhar Dhawan , 2 Rohit Sharma , 3 Ajinkya Rahane , 4 Virat Kohli , 5 Suresh Raina , 6 MS Dhoni ( capt & wk ) , 7 R Ashwin , 8 Axar Patel , 9 Bhuvneshwar Kumar , 10 Mohammed Shami , 11 Umesh Yadav Pitch and conditions The Gabba typically offers a fast but even tempered ODI strip , with the added promise of swing in the humid Brisbane air. The surface can occasionally also get a little more lively under lights . Stats and trivia India have defeated England at home and away in their two most recent bilateral ODI series James Anderson will become the leading wicket-taker in ODI matches between England and India should he claim a trio of victims on Tuesday Quotes " He 's got masses of experience , he 's a big part of the dressing room , and can only strengthen our squad. He 'll swing it. He 's bowled at the death a lot , he 's got a lot of skills , and in these conditions , on this wicket , he 'll be hard to come up against. " Joe Root is happy to have James Anderson ready to play " I am not sure about the statistics but I have felt that the openers have been doing a good job. They did well in the Champions Trophy. There will be the odd series here and there where when you are playing the best bowlers in the world in helpful conditions , we will lose the odd wicket. But overall I am quite happy with their performance. " MS Dhoni defends the out-of-form Shikhar Dhawan Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
