Mustafa Kamal 's Resignation Wo n't Affect Ties with India : Bangladesh Cricket Board President Mustafa Kamal 's Resignation Wo n't Affect Ties with India : Bangladesh Cricket Board President Former ICC president Mustafa Kamal was critical of " controversial " umpiring decisions in the Bangladesh-India World Cup quarter-final match on March 19 in Melbourne . Last updated on Friday , 03 April , 2015 17 : 41 IST Total Shares File photo of Mustafa Kamal Dhaka : Bangladesh Cricket Board president Nazmul Hassan said on Friday that he does not believe compatriot Mustafa Kamal 's quitting as International Cricket Council ( ICC ) president will affect cricketing ties between Bangladesh and India . Hassan said the event of Kamal 's stepping down was " unfortunate " and that it would have been better if it had not happened , reports bdnews24.com . Kamal was critical of " controversial " umpiring decisions in the Bangladesh-India World Cup quarter-final match on March 19 in Melbourne. ( ICC Wanted Kamal to Present Trophy ) He had called the International Cricket Council an " Indian Cricket Council " and said he would step down as president , if needed , after the match. ( India-Bangladesh Tour Under Threat After Kamal-Srinivasan Row ) Then a massive spat erupted between Kamal and ICC chairman Narayanaswami Srinivasan , after the Indian presented the World Cup to winners Australia at Melbourne on March 29 . Kamal quit his position in the ICC on his return to the country . It is believed the move may affect the cricket ties between the two countries. Hassan , however , ruled that out . " I ca n't find any reason ( for this to rupture the relation of India and Bangladesh ) . We are not complaining against any specific country. We have spoken about umpiring. We stressed why technology was not used when it was readily available , " he concluded . Story first published on : Friday , 03 April 2015 16 : 31 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
