Australia v England , Carlton Mid Tri-Series , Hobart January 20 , 2015 Warner rested , White and Marsh called up shares 54 David Warner will not play in Hobart on Friday © Getty Images David Warner will sit out of Friday 's one-day international against England in Hobart , with Shaun Marsh and Cameron White both called into the squad. The two batsmen will replace the resting Warner and George Bailey , who has been suspended for Australia 's poor over rate during Sunday 's game against India . Cricket Australia has also confirmed that Steven Smith will captain the team against England , as expected after his impressive leadership in the recent Tests against India. Josh Hazlewood will also rest due to minor soreness in his left heel , while Mitchell Johnson will not make the trip for personal reasons , leaving Smith in charge of a squad of 12 . Warner has been at the centre of a sledging controversy from Australia 's win against India at the MCG on Sunday , and he was fined 50 % of his match fee for his stoush with Rohit Sharma. However , Cricket Australia said in a press release for the Hobart game against England Warner was " resting following the hamstring soreness he reported at the start of the series " . The absence of Warner and Bailey provides a chance for both Marsh and White to stake their claims to the first-choice backup batsman for the World Cup if a place opens up due to injury. Marsh last played ODIs during last summer 's home series against England and has not played a List A match of any sort since the Australia Day ODI in Adelaide nearly a year ago . White last played an ODI nearly four years ago , during the tour of Bangladesh that followed the 2011 World Cup , but he was the fourth-leading run scorer in the Matador Cup this summer with 354 runs at 59.00 and has averaged 52 in List A games in the past two years. In 2011 , White also became Australia 's 19th ODI captain ; Smith will become the 22nd . " Steven 's appointment was a straightforward decision given the excellent impression he made in charge of the side during the Test series when he stepped in for the injured Michael Clarke , " chairman of selectors Rod Marsh said. " It is unfortunate for George Bailey that he will miss the match in his home state but in Steven we have a dynamic player who leads from the front , by example , and we look forward to him doing so again on Friday. " Australia squad Aaron Finch , Shaun Marsh , Shane Watson , Steven Smith ( capt ) , Cameron White , Glenn Maxwell , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , James Faulkner , Mitchell Starc , Pat Cummins , Gurinder Sandhu , Xavier Doherty . Brydon Coverdale is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ brydoncoverdale © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
