Australia v England , Carlton Mid Tri-Series , Hobart January 21 , 2015 Haddin 'comfortable ' with aggressive approach ESPNcricinfo staff Play 02 : 00 'We know the brand of cricket we want to play ' - Haddin Brad Haddin has said the Australians remain comfortable with their aggressive attitude despite the public reaction to David Warner 's stoush with Rohit Sharma in Melbourne on Sunday. The ICC fined Warner 50 % of his match fee for the altercation in which he approached Rohit and asked him to " speak English " , and the incident led to widespread debate about sledging and Australia 's attitude . Cricket Australia CEO James Sutherland said he had told Warner to stop looking for trouble on the field after the India match. However , in Hobart ahead of Friday 's ODI against England , Haddin said Australia would not be changing the way they play and he said they always respected their opponents and the game . Sledging can be smart - Anderson James Anderson does not buy into the suggestion that major action is required over player behaviour , saying that when done cleverly sledging can add to the spectacle . Anderson is known as someone who likes a few words when in the middle and was involved in the ICC disciplinary process last year , which came with the threat a four-game ban after becoming involved in an exchange with Ravindra Jadeja , although that occurred inside the pavilion at Trent Bridge , and he was was subsequently cleared . " I do n't think it should disappear from the game. I think it 's quite entertaining when it 's done in the right manner,' ' he said. " I think guys have got to use their heads a little bit and be a bit smart about what is said on the field , if anything is said at all. But you do n't want to take away the aggression from teams. " And neither is he enthused by the prospect of red and yellow cards , as proposed by Martin Crowe in his ESPNcricinfo column , instead preferring to leave punishments in the hands of the ICC match referee . " I 'm not sure about [ a card system ] . At the moment if you cross that line the umpires are within their rights to give either a fine or a ban. For me , I do n't want to get fined or banned so I 'm more than happy with that rather than cards. " " We have a clear message of where it 's all at , " Haddin said on Wednesday. " We know the brand of cricket we want to play and Davey 's no different to all of us. We 're out there to compete. The umpires are there to do their job and they 'll adjudicate on anything they see that 's unfit and not in the spirit of the game . " Every Australian team I 've played in respects the game of cricket and respects the opposition. We 're pretty comfortable with the way we 're playing. " Australia have won both of their matches so far in the tri-series and will be looking to continue their winning run under a new captain , with Steven Smith to lead the side in Hobart due to George Bailey 's suspension for Australia 's slow over rate. Warner has also been rested , meaning some significant shuffling of the batting order . Shaun Marsh and Cameron White have joined the squad and will both be candidates to open alongside Aaron Finch , although Haddin himself and Shane Watson also have plenty of ODI opening experience. Haddin said there would be plenty of players putting their hands up to walk out with Finch to face the new ball . " I know both of those guys will be keen to be up the top because traditionally it 's the best place to bat here , " Haddin said of Marsh and White. " It could be Whitey , it could be Marshy , it could be me. There 's a few options we have. If I get the opportunity to open , I 'm equally as comfortable there If the team needs it for balance I 'm happy to go up there but I 'm pretty content where I am. " There could also be a change in the attack , with Tasmanian Xavier Doherty a chance to be included on his home ground at Bellerive Oval. Doherty has taken 49 List A wickets at 26.53 at the venue and he would also help Australia improve their over rates , after Glenn Maxwell bowled the only two overs of spin during their slow performance on Sunday . " It 's always good to get guys a game in their home state , " Haddin said. " I know he 'd definitely love an opportunity. He knows this wicket as good as anyone. He 'd help with the overs as well. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
