Play 01 : 17 'Could bat guys in different positions ' - Lehmann Mitchell Johnson sought to regain the pace he has been missing for much of this summer in a private bowling session at the SCG nets on Saturday evening , to help Australia 's coaches gauge his readiness for an immediate return to the team in Monday 's ODI against India . Having flown back into Sydney ahead of the team , which arrived from Hobart on Saturday afternoon after sealing a spot in the triangular series final , Johnson and the bowling coach Craig McDermott wasted little time getting back to work . Johnson has been away from cricket since he left the team 's Sydney hotel ahead of the final Border-Gavaskar Test against India. While it was originally explained that Johnson had a sore hamstring , his return home to Perth was in fact for reasons unrelated to cricket that were kept private even from members of the team . Originally set to return to the squad in Hobart , Johnson was given extra time at home before he travelled alone to Sydney on Friday evening. On his arrival , Australia 's coach Darren Lehmann said Johnson 's readiness for a rapid return needed to be figured out before Monday , though he hoped the break had allowed Johnson time to freshen up and look for the extra 10kph or so of speed he had been missing during the india Tests . " I would think he 'd be fine now with that sort of break , I 'm excited to see how he 's bowling , " Lehmann said. " Hopefully he 's back to full fitness and full pace. For us it 's about getting him right to play now and back with the lads and enjoying the game of cricket. " Before his departure , Johnson had said he hoped to get back to the short bursts of speed he utilised against England and South Africa last summer. " I 've been bowling longer spells , " Johnson said before the Sydney Test. " That 's been at the back of my mind where I know I 'm going to be bowling four , five , six over spells that I ca n't be flat out every ball. It has dropped off a little bit. It 's been a big 15 months as well so it 's tough cricket . " We go out there day in and day out and we work really hard and to be able to bowl 150 [ kph ] every game I 'd be dreaming if I could do that. But I 'd like to be going back to bowling shorter spells again. " Apart from Johnson 's return , the Australians also have to monitor the fitness of Michael Clarke and Mitchell Marsh , on their way back from hamstring strains , as well as David Warner and Shane Watson , who were both precautionary absentees from the team in Hobart. Marsh bowled for Western Suburbs in Sydney grade cricket on Saturday , while Josh Hazlewood joined Johnson and McDermott in the SCG nets . Lehmann said Australia 's qualification for the final meant there would likely be a few changes to the team and perhaps the batting order on Monday , though the demands of the occasion would also be a factor. " Could be changes again , and could bat guys in different positions this game. It 's a big game , everyone wants to play Australia Day , so we 've got to make sure we 're up for it again , " he said. " Winning becomes a habit and for us that 's really important. " Looking over Australia 's displays in three unbeaten matches so far , Lehmann said he had been delighted by the improvement of the team 's fielding - which has coincided with the return of Mike Young - but wanted to see improvement in the consistency of the bowlers across 50 overs and also the a ruthless streak in batting that so far has been largely the preserve of Steven Smith . " Probably being consistent with the ball more often and being ruthless with the bat , " Lehmann said , of the World Cup lessons for his side thus far. " I think our fielding 's been outstanding , we do that and pick up that extra 20 per cent with the batting and bowling we 'll be okay . " That 's the best we 've bowled at the back end of an innings for a long time. The start was probably the worst we 've bowled for a long time to be honest. So that 's the challenge for a young group , trying to get them consistent right through , pleased with the way they fought back. " Lehmann also noted the recent travails of Glenn Maxwell , who looked notably more focused at the start of his innings at Bellerive before squandering a start with an ill-advised stroke just when he and Smith appeared to be in total control. Smith has been one of several team members trying to help Maxwell improve his concentration . " He played beautifully last night and he 's been getting to that sort of 25-30 mark really well , then probably not playing the shot he should play in the circumstances , " Lehmann said. " He 's just got to get that done and finish a game off for us - once he does that then I think we 'll have a developed player. Last night he probably let himself down a little bit , he knows that , it did n't cost us the game and that 's important as well . " I think they [ Smith and Maxwell ] were speaking a lot out there and it just happened. We speak about it and try to teach them the game the best we possibly can all the time , and the players like Steve Smith are out there batting with them , always reinforcing what we 're trying to do. " Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
