England v India , Carlton Mid Tri-Series , Perth January 29 , 2015 England and India prepare for knockout 'Game day focus will be crucial ' - Morgan Match facts Start time 11.20am ( 0320 GMT ) Big Picture There is no need for complicated maths to work out the possible permutations from this game , no reason to worry about bonus points and net run-rates. The equation is simple. Whichever team wins on Friday will play Australia in the tri-series final on Sunday. In case of a tie or a wash-out , England go though and India miss out. Perhaps it 's a good warm-up for both sides ahead of the World Cup , which features two knockout phases before the final. On recent form , England deserve to go in as favourites , after crushing India in their only previous meeting in this series , when India were skittled for 153 at the Gabba . England 's side seems fairly settled , while India appear unclear about their preferred combinations on the eve of the World Cup. India have used 15 players so far in the series compared to England 's 12 , and the fitness of Rohit Sharma has necessitated changes at the top of the order. Rohit is back close to full fitness , but India have decided to not risk him so close to the World Cup . Their wash-out in Sydney against Australia robbed them of time in the middle , but has also ensured they remain alive in the tournament. But for one of these teams , Friday 's game will be their last ODI before the World Cup . Form guide ( last five matches , most recent first ) England LWLLL India LLWWW In the spotlight Seven wickets from the past two games has been a strong return for Steven Finn , who looms as an important man for England in the World Cup , given the conditions. He will find few venues in the world that offer him the kind of bounce available at the WACA , but he should not expect the pitch to do all the work for him , and finding the right length will be his challenge . Ajinkya Rahane has made starts in all three games so far , but 33 is his best score. In Sydney he was at the crease on 28 when the match was abandoned , and he is coming off a highly encouraging Test series in which he showed he could handle the Australian conditions. With Shikhar Dhawan struggling for form , a big score as opener would really make Rahane hard to move down the order during the World Cup . Team news England 's side is reasonably settled and there is no reason to expect changes in a knockout match . England ( possible ) 1 Ian Bell , 2 Moeen Ali , 3 James Taylor , 4 Joe Root , 5 Eoin Morgan ( capt ) , 6 Jos Buttler ( wk ) , 7 Ravi Bopara , 8 Chris Woakes , 9 Stuart Broad , 10 James Anderson , 11 Steven Finn . With Rohit not playing on the Friday , India are likely to go with the same XI that played , or hoped to play , in Sydney . India ( possible ) 1 Shikhar Dhawan , 2 Ajinkya Rahane , 3 Ambati Rayudu , 4 Virat Kohli , 5 Suresh Raina , 6 MS Dhoni ( capt , wk ) , 7 Stuart Binny , 8 Ravindra Jadeja , 9 Axar Patel , 10 Mohammed Shami , 11 Ishant Sharma . Pitch and conditions The WACA usually provides some extra bounce and pace , and the forecast for Friday is for a possible shower or storm and a top temperature of 37C . Stats and trivia England and India have met only once before in Perth , in the 1992 World Cup , when England won by nine runs Ian Bell is the leading run scorer in the tournament , with 229 from just three games India 's leading run scorer in the series is Rohit Sharma , who has played only one match for 138 Quotes " I think it is important to win this game given the lack of success we 've had before this tour. We 've built a confidence in our preparation , in the game in Brisbane and in performances leading into the start of this series. So as momentum and confidence goes I think it 's quite a big game. " Eoin Morgan " They had the psychological advantage in ODIs in England as well. " MS Dhoni makes light of the suggestion that England might have the psychological advantage after their win over India in Brisbane Brydon Coverdale is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ brydoncoverdale © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
