England v India , Carlton Mid Tri-Series , Perth January 30 , 2015 Dhawan ends a month-long boundary drought ESPNcricinfo presents the Plays of the Day from the match between England and India in Perth shares 13 After 33 days , two Tests and three ODIs , Shikhar Dhawan finally muscled a four © Getty Images The wait In the sixth over of India 's innings , Shikhar Dhawan got a short ball that was wide enough for him to throw his arms at it. He did so , and managed to get it to the third-man boundary. It must have felt great , as the last time he hit a four was a month and three days ago , on day two of the Boxing Day Test. In the second innings there , Dhawan scored a duck. Then he was dropped for Sydney. And in the three ODIs that followed , he scored 2 , 1 and 8. In the interim , India had a few nets sessions. You ca n't hit fours there. Dhawan would hit three more fours - one off an inside edge - before toe-ending one to Jos Buttler. Not quite an end to what has been a wretched summer for him . The repeat Suresh Raina is a scratchy starter , especially when India are in a bit of a strife. It was a little surprising to see him walk out at No. 4 when India had lost two in relative hurry , and when Moeen Ali was on and in rhythm. The Brisbane dismissal was on observers ' minds when he just walked past one under pressure. Four balls into his innings , under pressure of having scored just one , Raina proceeded to produce a near replay of the Brisbane dismissal. Same premeditated move down the wicket and away from the line of the ball , beaten in the flight , and for a change this time , he played a limp shot as opposed to looking to defend when completely out of position as he did in Brisbane. This shot just brought a thick edge , and another quick dismissal . The variable bounce In the 43rd of India 's innings , MS Dhoni faced the kind of delivery that has built the legend of the WACA Ground. This Anderson delivery was pitched just short of a length , and had no right rising so steeply that it missed the hands Dhoni put in front of his face to fend , and then hit him flash on the badge on his helmet. The expected reaction then was for Dhoni to hang back a little , but later in the over , when Anderson pitched one a little shorter than previous delivery it stayed low enough to be hitting the middle of the stumps. Good luck surviving that. Dhoni did n't . The catch Ian Bell 's brilliant catch to end Stuart Binny 's innings - a sharp , full-length diving effort , far to his right at first slip off the bowling of Steven Finn - was reflective of England 's improving ODI cricket. A few weeks ago , Bell , who also took a sharp catch to account for Axar Patel , was unable to retain his place in the side and but for the decision to drop Alastair Cook , would probably not be playing now. Would Cook have taken such a catch ? Perhaps , but there is little doubt that Bell 's return has improved England in the field . The speed Until a year or so ago , any description of Chris Woakes would invariably include the description " lacks a yard of pace " . Not any more : Woakes has consistently been the quickest member of England 's attack in recent times and one delivery in his first spell reached 145.7kph , which translates to 90.5mph. And , if it the WACA 's characteristic bounce encouraged him to bowl just a little short in that first spell , his second spell ( 1 for 7 off three overs ) was excellent. It was further evidence of Woakes ' increasing importance to this England side . Sidharth Monga is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo , George Dobell is a senior correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
