Carlton Mid ODI Tri-Series 2014-15 February 1 , 2015 A rope too long for Bailey ? Melinda Farrell Australia have continued to persist with George Bailey despite modest returns. He undoubtedly brings leadership to the table , but can the team find the right balance with him , Steven Smith and Michael Clarke all in the same side ? shares 27 Play 00 : 48 'Not hitting them as well as I would 've liked ' - Bailey Twenty-four hours before walking out to the crease , his side stuttering after losing both openers early , George Bailey was toiling for an age in the nets. Bailey was struggling , unhappy with his own form , and - ever the professional -unwilling to leave the nets until he felt fully prepared for the match ahead . Australia 's current ODI captain admitted he found it difficult to prepare on match day with the extra responsibilities of finalising the team , tossing the coin and fulfilling media obligations . When the time finally came , he proved to be anything but prepared. While Steven Smith tried to push Australia 's run-rate from one end , Bailey was leaden at the other. He took 16 balls to get off the mark and , during the batting Powerplay , went 12 balls without scoring . When the end came , it looked decidedly uncomfortable ; Bailey flinched at a short ball from Stuart Broad , awkwardly fending to give James Taylor the simplest of catches at short leg. It took Bailey 's average from his past 15 ODIs to 16.78 . With his smiling and laid-back demeanor , Bailey rarely appears ruffled. So it was something of a surprise to see him bristle in the pre-match press conference when a journalist suggested he might be hoping to find form at a ground where he 's had plenty of success. It was , of course , at the WACA Ground during his modest Test career that he bludgeoned a tired Jimmy Anderson for 28 runs off a single over . " Get some runs , you mean ? I 'm out of form ? " was his terse reply. The smile remained intact , just as it does when he is sledging on the field , but it belied a defensive tone. His recent scores suggest it was a fair question ; he has made a fifty only once in his past 14 ODI innings and on that occasion , he was dropped three times . Bailey 's reputation in the 50-over format has been largely built on his outstanding tour of India in 2013 , during which he averaged 95.60. But his subsequent returns have been far more modest. In the 20 innings he 's played since punishing the Indian attack on low , slow wickets , Bailey has notched a half-century on just two occasions , neither of them match-winning . Bailey is generally seen as a likable and easy-going character - that smile again - with an apparent lack of ego that has allowed him to gracefully step up to the captain 's role and then down again , depending on Michael Clarke 's availability . He has dealt with the uncertainty of his role admirably , admitting he could feasibly be captain of Australia 's World Cup side one day , and watching from his lounge room the next ; it 's difficult to see how Clarke , Bailey and Steve Smith could all fit into one side . Cricket Australia has long valued Bailey for his leadership skills and his contribution to a healthy team environment , even when his numbers were not setting the world alight. They kept faith with him when they could easily have installed Smith as ODI captain for the World Cup . But it was perhaps telling that when Jos Buttler fumbled before clumsily removing the bails to end Smith 's innings , the Fox Sports Cricket Twitter account tweeted , " Smith stumped ! Reaction time of the Aussie skipper falters for the first time this summer ! " In fact , the Aussie ODI skipper - although Smith has captained the ODI side once this summer - has faltered in all but one innings this series ; a half century in the first match against South Africa . In the same press conference in which he 'd dismissed the notion of being out of form , Bailey was asked about the importance of Clarke to Australia 's World Cup hopes. Bailey described the question as " weird " . " I still think we can win it without him , " he said , the smile still firmly in place. " But I 'd certainly prefer to win it with him. " There may be some very long net sessions in store before February 14 . Melinda Farrell is a correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
