Suresh Raina Wedding : MS Dhoni , N. Srinivasan , Dwayne Bravo , Fleming Among Who 's Who Suresh Raina Wedding : MS Dhoni , N. Srinivasan , Dwayne Bravo , Fleming Among Who 's Who A stream of celebrities , including Mahendra Singh Dhoni , N. Srinivasan and Virender Sehwag lit up Suresh Raina 's wedding in New Delhi . Last updated on Saturday , 04 April , 2015 00 : 05 IST Total Shares Suresh Raina all set to tie the knot in New Delhi . Suresh Raina 's wedding with childhood friend Priyanka Chaudhary saw the Who 's Who of the cricketing world descend on the Indian capital. Indian team and Chennai Super Kings skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni arrived with his wife Sakshi while International Cricket Council Chairman N. Srinivasan , Virender Sehwag , Raina 's CSK teammate Dwayne Bravo and coach Stephen Fleming were also in attendance . India vice-captain Virat Kohli and his Bollywood girlfriend Anushka Sharma , along with the entire Indian cricket team are also said to be on the VIP guest list. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already sent his good wishes. ( Galaxy of stars light up Suresh Raina 's wedding ) Even as preparations for the wedding were under way in Delhi and Ghaziabad , Raina was busy training with the Super Kings in Chennai. Raina , who is the leading run-scorer in the IPL with 3325 runs , flew into Delhi only hours before the ceremony. ( Suresh Raina reveals mum 's role in fixing important innings of his life ) CSK are scheduled to play their first Indian Premier League match next week on April 9. That leaves no time for a honeymoon and Raina is learnt to have postponed those plans after IPL . Priyanka 's family has been close friends with the Raina 's for a long time now. Her father was reportedly Suresh Raina 's sports teacher in Ghaziabad. The bride-to-be works in the Netherlands . Story first published on : Friday , 03 April 2015 18 : 59 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
