ODI Hero Martin Guptill Recalled to New Zealand Test Squad ODI Hero Martin Guptill Recalled to New Zealand Test Squad Martin Guptill , the leading run scorer in the recent World Cup , has not been required for Test duty since playing the last of his 31 internationals on the New Zealand tour to England in 2013 . Last updated on Saturday , 04 April , 2015 09 : 07 IST Total Shares A multiple exposure sequence of Martin Guptill of New Zealand hitting a six vs West Indies during World Cup 2015 . © Getty Images Wellington : The return of World Cup star Martin Guptill and a call-up for fast-bowler Matt Henry headlined the New Zealand Test squad named on Saturday for the series against England starting next month . Guptill , the leading run scorer in the recent World Cup , has not been required for Test duty since playing the last of his 31 internationals on the New Zealand tour to England in 2013. ( Also read : Martin Crowe hails brave Guptill ) He has two centuries to his name , including a highest score of 189 and has a batting average of 29.62 . " Martin 's a classically-styled batsman and there 's really no reason why he ca n't be as influential in the longer game as he is in the short , " coach Mike Hesson said when naming the team . However , although included in the 15-man squad , the ODI opener is not assured of breaking into the starting XI and Hesson said he would have a chance to stake his claim in warm-up games against Somerset and Worcester . " This is a stable , established Test side but there will be opportunities for contenders , " Hesson said , with Hamish Rutherford and Tom Latham the incumbent openers . Henry , who was thrust into the World Cup squad for the last two games following injury to Adam Milne , breaks into the Test squad through injury to James Neesham . " It 's another step up for Matt but we 've been impressed by the maturity and skill-set he 's already shown in the ODI format , " Hesson said . Given conditions expected in England in May and June , Mark Craig is the sole specialist spinner selected . Following the retirements of Daniel Vettori and Kyle Mills after the World Cup , in which New Zealand were beaten by seven wickets by Australia in the final , all-rounder Mitchell Santner is the one-newcomer to the ODI squad , with Milne also returning . The 23-year-old Santner averaged 36.22 with the bat during New Zealand 's recent domestic season and took 11 wickets with his left-arm orthodox spin . Wicketkeeper BJ Watling will captain the side in the warm-up games while Brendon McCullum completes Indian Premier League commitments . Story first published on : Saturday , 04 April 2015 08 : 03 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
