This week 's theme for Fanfare : Where in the world did you watch the World Cup shares 5 To have your entry featured here , send them in to fanfare @ cricinfo.com . Pictures are welcome The cricket world will be glued to Australia and New Zealand in a few days ' time , where will you be ? © Getty Images Vignesh Santhanam I watched 2011 in Warsaw , Poland. I could n't get access to a proper stream online given the load of users logged in and the commonwealth population in Eastern Europe being rather low. Thankfully , a good samaritan in the form of a Mexican Cafe owner streamed the India-Pakistan semi-final on a big screen. We had a reasonable mix of people from both countries present and I could n't help but punch the air when Sachin 's lbw of Ajmal was reversed by HawkEye. And yes , handshakes were exchanged at sub-zero temperatures when Pakistan were bowled out . Nirmal S Rao One thing every 90 's-born cricket-mad kid remembers is the echoes of " Indiaaa … Indiaaa " off the television sets. All the more vividly when they met Pakistan at the SCG in 1992 and I kept thinking " I want to be there next time. " The years flew by. I grew from a college brat to a corporate brat in the UAE , all the while never forgetting my dream and finally I won a ticket to watch the final in 2011. But I had to tend to a last-minute family emergency . Time flew by again , but when the 2015 tickets were announced and I saw a fixture between India and Pakistan , I booked the tickets without thinking twice. It 's been a 23-year dream and now I realise that in a few short days , I will be there . M Bilal Ali Watched the 2011 tournament in Baghdad on a 60 ' screen. I had to get my satellite from a shady website since we were not allowed to go to the main market. To my surprise , it actually came through and the only sports channel it received was the one I wanted. It was well worth the risk though when the guards who were also watching the semi-final looked baffled to see me getting wildly animated over Sachin 's lbw overturn. Great memories . Adrian Kirby I spent the 2007 World Cup in a small apartment in Osaka , Japan , staying up until the wee hours abusing the refresh button on my phone and swearing at disappointing New Zealand performances in the knockouts. At least I got used to having my heart broken , considering I had to watch New Zealand go down to Sri Lanka , again , in Wellington in 2011 . Ankit Shah I was in my second year of engineering college in 2011 and our class was attending a practical examination when India met defending Champions Austrlaia in the quarter-final . Luckily , it was in a computer lab and me and my friends had hacked the admin password and to watch live streaming on the one of the PCs . Despite tempting the lab assistant and the professor to watch the game with us , we were asked to push off after the first innings and tore down the stairs to get home before the match resumed. But judging from a mob that had gathered around the canteen , we realised we were too late. So we just joined in and enjoyed the entire match in canteen right up until everyone 's favourite Yuvi got the Man of the Match . Kevin Elder I was in Bangkok about four years ago , and having just stepped off a long flight and checked into my hotel room , I pulled out the laptop to check on how Canada were doing . I was n't expecting much. We were coming off an embarrassing 175-run defeat to Zimbabwe and were playing Pakistan. Then the scorecard appears and I could n't believe it : Pakistan all out for 184 ! ? We could do this ! The chase began well , our run rate was lower than what was required but we had Rizwan Cheema , who could boost it if he gets in. My excitement was contagious and my wife , who is not a big cricket fan , also began following what I hoped would be our biggest World Cup victory since we beat Bangladesh in 2003 . The hundred comes up for Canada , only 85 more needed in slightly more than 17 overs with seven wickets in hand. Including Cheema . Then we got Afridi 'd. He took three wickets in successive overs , including Cheema 's , and Canada get bowled out for 138 . It was still a great performance , and we carried on beat Kenya three days later as my wife and I were boarding the plane for home . Rayhan Arif It was Friday. March 11 , 2011. I was hanging out with my friends , playing cards and having reckless fun and almost forgot there was a match. Bangladesh v England , and only when we heard a torrent of noise coming from our campus at Dhaka University that we realised what we were missing . We scrambled away immediately to the giant screens that had been set up on and when we joined Bangladesh had already have lost six wickets while chasing a 226. But we had not lost hope yet. At least not until Bangladesh lost their eighth wicket on 168. Thankfully , Shafiul Islam and Mahmudullah had other ideas . They knocked off the remaining runs in an unbeaten partnership of 58 runs off 56 balls and turned the campus into a party palace. I would never ever forget that stunning two-wicket victory and Safiul 's best innings as a batsman . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
