Pakistan 's Mohammad Irfan Recommended Six-Week Rest Pakistan 's Mohammad Irfan Recommended Six-Week Rest Mohammad Irfan was not considered for Pakistan 's tour to Bangladesh - scheduled for later this month - because of a hairline pelvis fracture which also forced him out of the World Cup quarter-final against Australia last month . Last updated on Saturday , 04 April , 2015 13 : 37 IST Total Shares File photo of Mohammad Irfan . © AFP Karachi : Pakistan 's top pace bowler Muhammad Irfan has been told to rest for another six weeks as part of his rehabilitation from a hairline stress fracture of the pelvis . The 7 feet tall Irfan was not considered for Pakistan 's tour to Bangladesh later this month because of the injury which also forced him out of the World Cup quarter-final against Australia last month . " We are keeping a close watch on Irfan but he requires atleast another six weeks rest under the rehabilitation program give to him by the medical panel , " chief selector Haroon Rasheed said . The former Test batsman said that even when Irfan recovers from his injury , the selectors would work out a schedule for him since he was injury prone . " He is an attacking bowler and he will not be played in all matches. We would like to keep him fit for the important games , " Rasheed said . On the selection of off-spinner , Saeed Ajmal who after being suspended from bowling in international cricket since last September has made a comeback with a modified action , the chief selector said Bangladesh would be a very important series for the spinner . " Saeed has been our leading bowler for the last few years and the team missed his guile and experience in the World Cup . We are hoping he can make a strong comeback to international cricket with his corrected action although it will not be easy for him , " Rasheed said . " If he comes good and is comfortable bowling with his modified action in Bangladesh it will be a big boost for Pakistan cricket , " he added . Story first published on : Saturday , 04 April 2015 12 : 33 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
