Loading comments bigscore215 on February 7 , 2015 , 18 : 58 GMT I feel Australia , Southafrica and NewZealand have very good chance of winning the worldcup. if india gets their team and captaincy right at critical moments of the game , they will be close to win the world cup again . on February 6 , 2015 , 2 : 21 GMT Sledging is now apart of game. Boycott mentions that it 's a modern day curse and it never use to be like this and that 's fair , but he fails to realize or accept Cricket as a whole has changed. It 's mindless rambling , at least Martin Crowe actually made an educated and well thought out point. Competitive sport is constantly evolving to keep things fresh and interesting , with Cricket we see it in batsmen who create new shots or bowlers finding new ways to deliver the ball. Sledging is one of those aspects , we see it in sport all around the world and you ca n't deny the majority of fans enjoy it. I think once sledging is regularly reported as abuse rather than banter ( which is all it truly is ) , that 's when things should change . on February 6 , 2015 , 0 : 47 GMT Beware very open WC..that sums up. He is spot on when he says there is no clear favourite for this WC . wapuser on February 5 , 2015 , 18 : 18 GMT Aus and NZ are favourites hands down , with their form , familiarity with grounds , and oh... great home support ! ! I think SA can give them a good go however . wapuser on February 5 , 2015 , 12 : 09 GMT Yes Aus and SA are favourites. But need to add NZ to this lust. Not as dark horse but truly as a favourite knowing the local conditions and the talent they possess. So Aus SA and NZ are the top three on February 5 , 2015 , 10 : 07 GMT o , please , South Africa are far from being favourites ..... they have 3/4 match winners ( AB , Amla , Steyn and De Kock ) if any of them fire. And they would have to fire in every game , right through . Australia have WAY more match winners , and THAT 'S what the difference will be wapuser on February 5 , 2015 , 9 : 43 GMT Anything can possible in this game. you just required 3 good days to win world cup . Popular Videos
