If Dhoni Tells Me to Jump From the 24th Floor , I 'd Readily do it : Ishant Sharma If Dhoni Tells Me to Jump From the 24th Floor , I 'd Readily do it : Ishant Sharma India pacer tells mid-day about the kind of support skipper MS Dhoni gave him when he was down and out after missing the 2015 World Cup due to a knee injury . Last updated on Monday , 06 April , 2015 13 : 13 IST Total Shares An injured Ishant Sharma missed out the World Cup 2015 action . © AP Ishant Sharma understands the frustration of speed breakers constantly obstructing a smooth ride. For , every time his career seems to gather pace , it hits a roadblock in the form of injuries . While India played 44 international matches ( 12 Tests , 30 ODIs and 2 T20Is ) between June 2014 and March 2015 , the 26-year-old lanky pacer from Delhi managed to play in only 10 of those outings , courtesy his frequent breakdowns. ( Also read : Ravi Shastri , in column , introduces a brave new Indian team ) The latest was a knee injury which sent him back home from Australia days before the World Cup kicked off in February . Now , fit and raring to go in the Indian Premier League-8 , Ishant , in a candid chat with mid-day yesterday , opened up on coping with the disappointment after missing out on his maiden World Cup berth , his plans as far as managing workload is concerned and why he thinks Sunrisers Hyderabad have the best pace attack of all IPL teams . Excerpts : On missing the World Cup : It was very difficult to accept , but at some stage you had to accept it. In 2011 , I did not get picked in the World Cup squad. In 2015 , I had a good chance. I was in the team and everything was going well for me but I still had to miss it because of the ( knee ) injury. It was tough to accept. The support staff and Mahibhai ( MS Dhoni ) handled me very well at a time when I was emotionally down. You want to be a part of such a team.If captains like Mahibhai tell you that you have to jump from the 24th floor , you would readily do that without thinking even once. Mahibhai helped me a great deal to cope with the disappointment . On the frequency of injuries : Sometimes it is , but honestly , I ca n't do much about it. I am doing whatever I have to do... I am training regularly ; I 'm disciplined to become a successful bowler. There are a few things one can not control. I know what to do to avoid injuries - to train hard which I have been doing. Nobody likes getting injured , but some things you can not control , so no point worrying about them . On managing the workload : I love bowling. Even when I am not playing a match , I keep bowling... I keep practising. Now , every physio has told me to monitor my workload. I have been told not to bowl more than 10 overs in a day , but I have been bowling more than that. It is something I can not control. I know I have to keep a tab on my workload to avoid getting injured frequently. I am just 26. I do n't think I need to cut down on any cricket . On whether he is rushing his return : I am not rushing my return. I gave a proper fitness test at the NCA ( National Cricket Academy , Bangalore ) and after getting all clearance , I decided to play in the IPL. If I am not fit then I will not cause any disadvantage to my team to a point where they say , 'look , he is not fit , but he 's still playing'. I am not one to play despite injury. If I can miss the World Cup then I can surely miss the IPL as well. Nothing is bigger than the World Cup . On experts , who believe T20 cricket is hampering him : Everyone is entitled to a view. Maybe , these experts think like this because they never played Twenty20 during their time. For me , whatever you get from cricket , we should respect it and play instead of saying , 'T20 is stealing cricket'. No point in saying all these things. Whatever is happening , it is for the betterment of players . On coming back after a two-month injury lay-off : It all depends on your mind. If you are confident , it does n't matter whether you have played matches or not. I am pretty sure about myself - that I am fit enough to play any form of the game. I am pretty happy with my bowling . On his IPL-8 goals : I do n't set any goals because you tend to put pressure on yourself. It is better to play according to the situation. I have been playing for so many years now , so I know what to change and what I need to do in certain situations . On Hyderabad 's strong bowling attack : We have the best pace attack , no doubt about it. Adding Trent Boult , PK ( Praveen Kumar ) gives us more options. Everybody knows what a Dale Steyn and Bhuvi ( Bhuvneshwar Kumar ) can do. I am pretty sure we will do well in this IPL. Bhuvi is also bowling well in the nets. He played one match in the World Cup , but the wickets did not suit his bowling in Australia. I am sure he will get help from the conditions here . On missing Kevin Pietersen for the league matches : Everyone will miss someone like KP. He was not with us for the first two years , but we still managed to win matches. In the end , that is what matters. In ( Eoin ) Morgan , ( Ravi ) Bopara , we now have more options in the batting than last year . Story first published on : Monday , 06 April 2015 11 : 39 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
