Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav Lauds Indian Gramin Cricket League Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav Lauds Indian Gramin Cricket League Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav said the government was working to bring youths of rural areas forward . Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 08 : 30 IST Total Shares Akhilesh Yadav during the inauguration of Indian Gramin Cricket League . © PTI Lucknow : Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said that the state government was making efforts to take forward village and city simultaneously. ( Click here for latest on Indian Premier League ) " The events like Indian Gramin Cricket League ( IGCL ) will help talent at village , town and district level and will help in getting recognition at state level , " Akhilesh said after inaugurating IGCL at K D Singh Babu stadium here . He said that instead of organising events like IPL or any other higher level cricket tournament , the government was working to bring youths of rural areas , who were lagging behind due to different reasons , forward . Appreciating IGCL , he said that it would develop sporting spirit in rural areas . Akhilesh said that it would help in new and better techniques of cricket and display their talent at bigger platform . In a veiled attack on BSP supremo Mayawati he said that public related programmes being organised by the government were not going good with some political parties , while referring to National Cycling and green ride competition . The CM said that his government believed in Samajwadi ideology and therefore it was promoting cycle which was a cheap and easily available mode of transport for poor , farmer , working class , youths and students . He said that it not only protect environment , but also beneficiary for health . Akhilesh , while replying to those criticising promotion of cycle by the state government , said that cycling was considered to a sign of prestige in developed countries . He said that the government was promoting other sports as well adding that he recently played football with the UP team which won 13th Rajiv Gandhi Slum National Championship . Story first published on : Tuesday , 07 April 2015 07 : 26 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
