Mohammad Hafeez Confident Ahead of Bowling Assessment Test in Chennai Mohammad Hafeez Confident Ahead of Bowling Assessment Test in Chennai Mohammad Hafeez was suspended from bowling in international cricket last November by the ICC after failing a bio-mechanics test . Last updated on Tuesday , 07 April , 2015 21 : 35 IST Total Shares Mohammad Hafeez confident of clearing bowling assessment test Karachi : Pakistan all-rounder Mohammad Hafeez is confident of clearing his bowling assessment test , to be held in Chennai on April 9. Hafeez , who has been named in all three formats for the Bangladesh tour , is due to leave for Chennai on Wednesday. ( Cricket Captain Shot Dead in Tribal Region of Pakistan ) " I am confident I can clear the test and my bowling action will be cleared as I have worked hard to remove any chinks , " Hafeez told reporters in Lahore on Tuesday. ( Bangladesh Announce Pakistan Tour Dates ) Hafeez , 34 , who has taken 122 one-day wickets in 155 matches besides scoring over 4542 runs , was suspended from bowling in international cricket last November by the ICC after failing a bio-mechanics test . Hafeez had to return home before the start of the World Cup due to an injury. The all-rounder said Pakistan were favourites to win the upcoming series in Bangladesh and insisted he was keen to resume bowling as it was important for the national team. ( Dhoni Gets a Mouthful from Yuvraj Singh 's Father , Again ) Asked about Bangladesh 's seasoned player Shakib-al Hasan having declared his team favourites for the ODI series , Hafeez said he obviously wanted to boost the morale of his team . " But if you look at the records of matches between these two countries , we have not lost to them since the 1999 World Cup upset at Northamptonshire , " Hafeez said . " We have not lost to them at any venue and under any condition , so I think we should win this series as well . Although we are without senior players , we are still a better outfit than them. " Hafeez admitted that the team is missing seniors like Misbah-ul-Haq , Shahid Afridi and Younis Khan in the training camp , currently underway in Lahore . " Misbah and Afridi have been with us for such a long time that obviously we are missing them. But I guess one has to move on and it is time to give the youngsters a chance and I hope they prove better players than us , " he said . Story first published on : Tuesday , 07 April 2015 20 : 23 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
