Yuvraj Singh Steers Clear of Dad Yograj Singh 's Outburst Against MS Dhoni Yuvraj Singh Steers Clear of Dad Yograj Singh 's Outburst Against MS Dhoni Yuvraj Singh 's father Yograj Singh had lashed out at MS Dhoni again on Tuesday , saying the Indian skipper 's image was a media hype and that he does n't deserve the accolades he gets . Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 16 : 30 IST Total Shares Yuvraj Singh and MS Dhoni were at the crease when India lifted the World Cup 2011 © Getty Images India 's World Cup 2011 hero Yuvraj Singh sidestepped his father , Yograj Singh 's fresh tirade against Mahendra Singh Dhoni , maintaining that he enjoyed playing under India 's most successful skipper . Yograj made scathing remarks against Dhoni , saying that his image has been created by the media and that the cricketer has never really deserved his accolades. Yograj also claimed that he knows several Indian cricketers who talk lowly of Dhoni. ( Dhoni Fined for Violating Traffic Rules ) Yuvraj however , distanced himself from his father 's comments . Iv got nothing to do with statements coming out in the media ! As iv said before enjoyed playing under dhoni no issues at all — yuvraj singh ( @ YUVSTRONG12 ) April 7 , 2015 Yuvraj also went on to say that he was looking forward to meeting Dhoni and congratulating him on fatherhood . I look forward to meet msd and congratulate him on becoming a father ! — yuvraj singh ( @ YUVSTRONG12 ) April 7 , 2015 This was not the first instance when Yograj has lashed out at Dhoni. On the day Yuvraj fetched a record-fee of Rs 16 crore in the IPL 2015 player auction , Yograj blamed Dhoni for Yuvraj 's absence from the Indian squad for World Cup 2015 Down Under . While Yograj continues to rant , Yuvraj remains defiant and Dhoni stays mum , the true dynamics of the relationship between two of India 's chief architects of the World Cup 2011 win will remain under wraps . Story first published on : Wednesday , 08 April 2015 15 : 21 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
