Kumar Sangakkara Named Wisden 's Leading Cricketer in the World Kumar Sangakkara Named Wisden 's Leading Cricketer in the World Kumar Sangakkara had a stellar 2014 that saw him score a record 2,868 international runs in the calendar year , including a triple century. He joins India 's Virender Sehwag as the only two players to be named as Wisden 's Leading Cricketer in the World for a second occasion . Last updated on Wednesday , 08 April , 2015 16 : 50 IST Total Shares Kumar Sangakkara had a dream run in 2014 © AFP London : Sri Lanka great Kumar Sangakkara has been named as the Leading Cricketer in the World in the 2015 Wisden Cricketers ' Almanack. ( Complete IPL Coverage ) Meanwhile Australia 's Meg Lanning has been chosen as the cricket 'bible 's ' inaugural Leading Woman Cricketer in the World -- the first time the England-based annual has bestowed such an award in 152 editions of continuous publication dating back to 1864. ( Pujara Banks on Yorkshire Stint ) But editor Lawrence Booth was stinging in his criticism of the England and Wales Cricket Board for their " mishandling " of the Kevin Pietersen affair that saw the star batsman axed from the England set-up . Sangakkara joined India 's Virender Sehwag as the only two players to be named as Wisden 's Leading Cricketer in the World for a second occasion. ( Umesh Yadav Finds 'Big Fan ' in Dale Steyn ) The 37-year-old left-handed batsman and wicketkeeper won the award after a stellar 2014 that saw Sangakkara score an all-time record 2,868 international runs in the calendar year , including a triple century . His feats , which added to an already brilliant career , included a man-of-the-match performance in Sri Lanka 's World Twenty20 final win over India last year . Sangakkara also scored his first Test hundred at Lord 's last season , a century which came during Sri Lanka 's Test series win over England . He later confirmed Wisden 's judgment by scoring a record four successive hundreds at the recent World Cup in Australia and New Zealand . In a tribute to Sangakkara , set to retire from all international cricket later this year , Booth said : " Choosing ( him ) just felt natural. And his four consecutive hundreds at the World Cup confirmed we 'd chosen the right man . " We 'll miss him when he 's gone. " Lanning , who at the age of 21 became the youngest person ever to captain Australia , led her side to the World Twenty20 title and finished 2014 at the top of both the women 's one-day international and Twenty20 batting rankings . Wisden 's Five Cricketers of the Year is an award dating back to 1889 and is generally based on a player 's performances in the preceding English season . By tradition , it can only be won once in a career and the 2015 list included Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews , England rising stars Moeen Ali and Gary Ballance and two notable county players in Adam Lyth and Jeetan Patel . Booth 's critique of the ECB was broad and scathing , the Wisden editor writing : " A few wins might have deflected attention from a charge sheet that would include the mishandling of the Kevin Pietersen affair , worrying Test attendances outside London , a head-in-the-sand attitude to the one-day team , and -- not yet a decade after the 2005 Ashes had presented English cricket with a golden chance to attract a new generation to the sport -- a fall in the number of recreational players . " National selector James Whitaker had called ( Alastair ) Cook 'our exceptional leader ' ; Paul Downton , the ECB 's new managing director , hailed [ Peter ] Moores as the 'outstanding coach of his generation ' ; chairman Giles Clarke trumpeted Downton as a 'man of great judgment'. It was a nexus of self-preservation -- yet , as the wagons circled , the wheels kept threatening to come off. " Story first published on : Wednesday , 08 April 2015 15 : 41 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
