Chris Gayle will be Somerset bound for part of the NatWest Blast and ESPNcricinfo offers this useful guide to some new places to chill out during his stay shares 2 Chris Gayle may have to try some new chilling places during his stay in Somerset © WICB Media Glastonbury Festival The Glastonbury Festival would have been Gayle 's perfect spot. We could have imagined him touching up his street cred at Worthy Farm , lolling around the VIP area as he exchanged stories with Kanye West , this year 's headliner - and maybe Kim Kardashian too. Careless that by then he will be at the Caribbean Premier League , a fixture clash that has prevented him from donning the most photographed pair of celebrity wellies . The Thermae Bath Spa , Bath Where better to ease that bad back after a bout of six-hitting than at the trendy Thermae Bath Spa ? The Romans recognised the healing power of Bath 's waters more than 2,000 years ago , and Gayle can follow their example at this mineral-rich spa favoured by Bath 's cool crowd. Groups of 12 can party at the rooftop heated pool. Any takers ? Bruton You mean you 've not heard ? Oh , do catch up. It will take Gayle an hour 's drive to reach the oh-so-cool , tiny market town , set in the prettily rolling pastures of east Somerset. Any number of film makers , musicians and fashion designers will be aching for Gayle to grace them with his presence. Vogue has even dedicated seven pages to the town in a recent issue. " Notting Hill in the early days , " if you believe the irresistible self-promotion of London 's exiled country folk. Chill pills all round . Exmoor If Gayle fancies a lifestyle detox , he can enjoy some of the best walking in the country on Exmoor. There are Exmoor ponies , hidden villages offering cream teas , the famous Tarr Steps where you can walk across the River Barle ( and , err walk back again ) , a climb up Dunkery Beacon where you can see Wales - yes , Wales ! - on a clear day and the Coleridge Way were you can yomp along in the footsteps of the famous poet. Gayle might not need the designer shades , though . Beer and Skittles at the Lamb & Flag Inn We like the thought of Gayle chillin ' at a traditional Somerset beer and skittles night and where better than the Lamb & Flag Inn on Blagdon Hill , only five miles from the County Ground. The skittle alley at the rear of the pub can even be turned into a disco for a private gathering. Traditional music with occasional live music and a welcoming clientele. He will be long gone by the time of the cider and sausage festival on July 13 . David Hopps is the UK editor of ESPNcricinfo @ davidkhopps © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
