Play 01 : 24 Croft : Somerset are in for a big treat Somerset have made the most high-profile signing to date for this year 's NatWest T20 Blast by agreeing a short-term deal with Chris Gayle between his IPL and CPL commitments. Gayle could play as many as six games in a three-week period in May and June . One of the most feared batsman in the T20 format and scorer of the fastest hundred , Gayle will arrive at Somerset after his IPL stint with Royal Challengers Bangalore is over - possibly in time for Taunton 's first night of the Blast , on May 22 , if RCB do not make the knockout stages. His final appearance is scheduled to be at Cardiff on June 13 . Gayle has been battling a back injury , which has ruled him out of West Indies ' Test series against England next month , but he seems to have little difficulty with T20 commitments. West Indies were eliminated at the quarter-final stage of the World Cup , giving Gayle a couple of weeks ' rest before the IPL , which will be followed by his Somerset spell and then the Caribbean Premier League with the Jamaica Tallawahs . Somerset have already brought in Sohail Tanvir and Corey Anderson for the Blast - the latter for the second half of the competition. Abdur Rehman will also be available , although his primary role is expected to be in Championship cricket . Somerset 's director of cricket , Matt Maynard , said : " Signing a world-class player of the quality of Chris Gayle is tremendously exciting for the club. He will be a tremendous addition to our already extremely strong squad. He is an inspirational character and we are delighted to be bringing him to Somerset. We have a number of overseas players on the roster for the 2015 campaign and Chris ' arrival and registration will give us a number of options which we will look at as we approach each competition. " Chris Gayle made the World Cup 's first double-hundred last month © Getty Images Gayle previously signed for Somerset in 2012 , at a time when he was involved in a stand-off with the WICB , but pulled out of the deal in order to return for West Indies. His arrival should help reinvigorate Somerset , where Maynard took charge over the winter , after last season 's Blast , when they failed to reach the quarter-finals for the first time since 2008 . " I 'm excited about joining Somerset for the NatWest T20 Blast this year , " Gayle said. " Many of the club 's members and supporters will know that I came close to playing for the county in 2012 and I have always felt that , if I was able to , I wanted to honour that commitment to Somerset. I 'm looking forward to coming to Taunton and scoring some runs. " As well as hitting the fastest T20 ton - off 30 balls - last month Gayle became the first player to score a World Cup double-hundred. Overall , Gayle has made 13 T20 hundreds , more than twice as many as the next player on the list , David Warner ; from 195 matches , he averages 42.01 at a strike rate of 147.18 . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
