Matt Coles has made a sudden return to Kent , where he is eager to banish the suspicion of unprofessionalism for good and remind people of his England potential shares 5 Matt Coles has returned to Kent after a season with Hampshire © Ady Kerry , AK Pictures There is one fact that the casual cricket follower knows about Matt Coles . He was the one sent home from the England Lions tour to Australia in 2013 with Ben Stokes for persistent late-night drinking. Stokes is now seen by many as the aggressive allrounder England need. Coles , designed along similar lines , remains a man striving for a new image - and new headlines . Since England made their displeasure clear , Stokes has a defiant Ashes hundred to his name and mention of his World Cup omission sends many incandescent. As for Coles , an attempt to refashion his career at Hampshire has not worked out and he has returned after only one season to his native county , Kent , in search of the environment that will allow his considerable talents to flourish . He has since seen Stokes change perceptions and he wants to use his sudden return to Kent do the same. " I know people are saying there 's got to be something else to it , " says Coles , speaking about his career for the first time since rejoining Kent. " But there is n't. I can assure you right now I have n't got a drinking problem. " Andy Flower , at that time England 's team director and a stickler for behaviour , was the man who pulled the trigger to send him home two years ago. There was a certain irony therefore that on the day Coles spoke to ESPNcricinfo about a reputation he is determined to banish , Flower was at Kent to talk over the county 's latest prospects : Sam Billings and Adam Riley . Just six months ago , Coles had a new career path planned. He had determinedly left the county that nurtured him since he was 10 to help bowl Hampshire to promotion . Except soon after the champagne toast , the experience fell flat. Just a year into his three-year deal , Coles ' Hampshire career was over. A cryptic club statement said the 24-year-old had not " settled as he , or we , would have liked " . The terseness of the explanation set tongues wagging. It was drink again , the know-it-alls presumed. Except it was n't . " If I was drinking every day then fair enough , " he says. " I would n't be pitching up to a game , I 'd be too busy in bed. How can someone perceive me as having a drinking problem when you do n't do it every day ? " If Coles is determined to promote a cleaner image , Kent 's protective instincts are equally sharp. Rob Key , Kent 's captain and a close friend , is thrilled by his return , adamant that Coles retains England potential and that his cricketing skills can be central to a promotion push . But the traps are apparent from the moment that Coles drives back into Kent 's Spitfire Ground St Lawrence. The place is named after the Spitfire ale , a product of the club sponsors , Shepherd Neame. It 's probably best , given any tags on Coles ' head , for one potent local brew to stay away from another . " I know I 've done wrong in the past but there 's no reason why that should still be put above my name now. I want to prove to a lot of people that this perception is not real life " Matt Coles The dangers continue. Coles was the first of the players to have their photo taken for promotional posters in Kent 's new strip , with Spitfire emblazoned on it. Some of the staff had to pose with bottles of the stuff too. Wisely , Darren Stevens was given the nod for that . It would be easy for Coles to shy away from the most searching questions. Impressively , he does n't. He faces them head on. He bats them away with purpose. The same purpose that saw him reach his maiden first-class century in 2012 with a reverse-sweep for six off Adil Rashid . " I do n't think anyone has ever faulted my cricket. I think they 've faulted the perception that people have got of me. It 's frustrating when people pigeonhole you that you go and drink every day - I do n't. I know I 've done things wrong in the past but there 's no reason why that should still be put above my name now. " For those needing a reason for Coles ' abrupt about turn , try homesickness. The issue , Coles says , was leaving his hometown of Maidstone. He describes himself as " a family man " . Deciding in 2013 to say goodbye to loved ones was hard. Living without them every day was harder. He talks only fondly of Hampshire and the support they gave him . " I 'd been struggling missing my family and friends. The only people round me were cricketers , 24/7. The stress of that has been quite tough. I 'd been thinking from the end of the season that there was now a chance to prove myself in the top division. I was n't thinking I would be on my way . " But you need your escapes. Down here , I 've got my shooting with Keysie , my fishing with my brother , I can go and see my nephews , I can go for dinner with my mates. You can be a little bit more relaxed. My friends back home do n't care that I play cricket. They like me to be their mate and be around them. Being away from these people was tough. " Coles took 41 wickets in Hampshire 's Division Two title win. Only James Tomlinson returned more. He struck the county 's quickest 50 , off 18 balls , against Essex in the T20 Blast. Here was the reason why Key pushed so hard for Kent - frustrated by Coles ' departure first time around - to bring him back . The pair are good pals. Coles ' face lights up when he mentions they 've been clay pigeon shooting twice since he 's been back. The skipper has got Coles working hard as well - helping the builders on his house. " I 've been Rob Key 's personal labourer and skivvy , " he joked. " I 'm not sure if he 's going to give me any money ! " Key has 18 years of experience in county cricket behind him , and an active mind outside the game. Coles could ask for no better mentor. And if they ever raise a glass after a job well done , they should feel able to take pleasure in it . Coles admits he has made mistakes. He describes being sent from that Lions tour as " upsetting " . He concedes it weighed him down in 2013 , that he bottled his emotions up and that has led to stress that could have affected him in Hampshire. But Stokes turned around , and so can he . " Ben was the young player of the year that year - it shows that perceptions can be changed , " he says. " That 's my aim : to show that the perception that people may or may not have of me is wrong. To show I can get back to where I should be. That motivates me. It 's frustrating when people perceive you 're doing things the wrong way . " I do n't think I 'm hard to manage , coach or captain. I just like people being honest and I 'll be honest back. I try to give as much as I can on the pitch , which is what I 've always done and always will do. The only way to stop me playing cricket is if my arm or leg falls off . " People will be thinking 'he 's a loose cannon , he does all this and that'. I 'll have people criticising me for all sorts of little things. It 's how people are perceived and it 's not how I am. I know I 've done wrong in the past but there 's no reason why that should still be put above my name now. I want to prove to a lot of people that this perception is not real life. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
