England needs to learn the right lessons from the Big Bash and not turn to a franchise system that would freeze our thousands of committed fans shares 26 Play 00 : 41 Dobell : Do n't be seduced by overseas leagues Twelve years after a launch so spectacular that it was dubbed " The summer of love , " English cricket is suffering from existential angst about its Twenty20 competition. Envy of the IPL is one thing but jealously of the Big Bash League is quite another . How can it be that a country with less than half the size of England can put on such an attractive T20 competition even while Australia 's stars are detained by Test duty ? To many the solution for English T20 begins and ends with the f-word : franchises. To suggest that these might not represent a panacea for England 's T20 competition is to be labelled a Neanderthal . There are , broadly speaking , two franchise models. The first is the Indian model : franchises being leased from the BCCI on a ten-year period , giving the BCCI a short-term financial boost but franchise profits going to private investors. The second , more plausible in England , is the Australian model . Here , franchises are owned by Cricket Australia ( who offered a 33 % stake to private investors , though no one has taken up the offer ) with all profits pumped money back into the sport. The Australian model would certainly be more palatable to English traditions . Tomorrow in our T20 debate Simon Barnes : Quality holds the key Freddie Wilde : What the inventor now thinks George Dobell and Mark Butcher : Video debate But neither model would increase the reach of domestic T20 cricket in England. While there is much that England can learn from the success of the Big Bash - the importance of cheap ticket prices , free-to-air television coverage and games coinciding with the school holidays - the notion that the appeal of domestic T20 can be transformed by slashing the number of teams is fool 's gold . England needs to ensure that it learns the right lessons from the Big Bash. It should not forget that , far from halving the number of teams , as supporters of a franchise system advocate , Cricket Australia increased the number of teams playing in its T20 competition . Under the old Big Bash , run on traditional state lines , Victoria and New South Wales played just three home games a season each. The success of the revamped tournament has been to recognise that allowing Sydney and Melbourne so few matches when both have populations of over four million , was a mistake . The Big Bash 's solution was the antithesis of that argued for English T20 : not reducing the number of teams but instead expanding them. By having two teams in each of Melbourne and Sydney , the Big Bash guarantees Australia 's two biggest cities eight matches each . For all the romance of Australia as the nation from the outback , it is one of the most urbanised countries in the Western world. The six cities that host Big Bash teams have a total population of 14 million - 61 % of the total Australian population. If demographics are destiny , the demographics of Australia are ideal for a city-based T20 competition. England 's , sadly , are not . While English cricket needs to search for new supporters , it can not afford to be contemptuous of its existing ones While the Australian franchise model extended the reach of cricket to more people , an English model would , perversely , have the opposite effect. The most likely franchise system would have ten sides covering nine cities , with London having two . Let us assume that the eight other cities would be Leeds , Manchester , Nottingham , Southampton , Birmingham , Bristol , Cardiff and Durham ( and even include Newcastle 's population for good measure , on account of its proximity to Durham ) . These ten teams would be based in cities that accounted for only 22 % per cent of the population in England and Wales - a third the figure of the Australian franchises . So this is the problem that the ECB is confronted with. It has to design a T20 competition for the population it serves - not the urbanised Australian population that it would be much easier to please . It would be a perverse approach to extend cricket 's appeal by making it harder to watch domestic T20. A franchise system played in a block , as many favour , would only be a success if those who do not currently attend matches would be prepared to travel further to watch teams in midweek . That seems a fantastical assumption , especially as the struggles of the previous T20 structure in England showed that teams can not attract fans to return for several games a week . A franchise system would reduce the supply of match tickets to below the level of proven demand for them , which is hardly a sane recipe for success . Consider Essex fans. They would be expected to travel to the Oval or Lord 's , but these grounds already sell-out regularly for domestic T20 - so , within the area that Essex , Surrey and Middlesex currently represent , fewer people would easily be able to see games than now . For all the difficulties facing English domestic cricket , it is too readily forgotten that support for first-class cricket in England is the envy of the rest of the cricketing world - Australia included . While English cricket needs to search for new supporters , it can not afford to be contemptuous of its existing ones. A warning of the dangers of doing so comes from the Conservative Party and Labour , who have long ignored the wishes of their core voters in search of trendier ones. They have lost the former without gaining many of the latter ; their combined support is now down to as low as 60 % . English cricket can not afford to deprive those fans who sell-out T20 games at Hove and Taunton of a team to support . Essex , seen here in the guise of Mark Pettini , might get no cricket under a franchise system © Getty Images If the rationale is to entice fresh supporters , we already know a guaranteed way of doing so : traditional county rivalries. Think not just of Middlesex-Surrey but the Roses game , which has sold-out Headingley for the last two years , albeit that one of the matches was abandoned without a ball being bowled . In 2014 , the attendance at Edgbaston was 6,000 higher when Warwickshire ( albeit playing under the moniker of the Birmingham Bears ) played Worcestershire than that achieved against any other team . Two years ago , Bristol sold-out its ticket allocation against Somerset six weeks early. Had it not been for ground redevelopment limiting the capacity , Gloucestershire could have sold far more than 7,500 tickets. Yet there was little of the same buzz ahead of the fixture at Bristol in 2014 , which was played in front of only 6,500. The difference ? Last year the game was played on May 16 , but in 2013 it had been played on July 26 . When this year 's T20 competition begins in chilly weather in front of middling crowds , we can expect another bout of hankering for the Australian model. But making it harder for people to watch domestic T20 cricket - the opposite of Australia 's approach - would not solve anything . The shame of England 's T20 competition is not the number of teams that compete in it - indeed , even with 18 teams , it is lamentably difficult for fans in Dorset , Cornwall and Norfolk to see live cricket. The problem is that the T20 competition is lumbered with a schedule that does n't give it a chance to engage new fans , and is hidden behind pay TV . Rather than try and create a phoney imitation of the Australian model , the ECB would be better off giving the Blast in its current guise a proper chance . Tim Wigmore is the joint author of a collaborative book on Associate cricket , out in January 2015 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
