shares 17 Kevin Pietersen might yet make a dramatic return to county cricket © PA Photos Kevin Pietersen has been offered an unlikely route back into English cricket after an audacious bid from Leicestershire . ESPNcricinfo understands the club has offered Pietersen the chance to represent them in the NatWest Blast T20 competition. While Leicestershire are one of the most financially challenged clubs in the county game and are without a win in first-class cricket since September 2012 , they have recently appointed a new chief executive in Wasim Khan who has ambitious plans for the future . While Pietersen 's camp initially declined the offer citing his lack of availability - he had been expected to play a full season of IPL and Caribbean Premier League - there is a possibility of a rethink . He is currently without a county after leaving Surrey by mutual agreement at the end of last season , although there have been stirrings of interest from several counties other than Leicestershire . " I approached his agent about his T20 availability , " Wasim said. " But he said it was unlikely he would play any T20 due to his full CPL commitments. " With his England career seemingly over , Pietersen had originally planned to maximise his opportunities in T20 leagues. But with Colin Graves having raised the possibility of an England recall if Pietersen impresses in county cricket , it remains possible that he could revise his plans and spend more time in England. Aged 34 , it is probably a case of now or never . Such a decision will depend on the outcome of talks between Pietersen and the key figures in England cricket as he seeks clarification on his position . If Paul Downton , the managing director of England cricket , and James Whitaker , the head selector , are as encouraging as Graves , it would be no surprise if Pietersen plays far more county cricket than had been envisaged . Pietersen later tweeted : " I 've had quite a few offers over the last few days...lots of interest ! Wait & see... " He has never disguised his desire to return to the England side , but it would be entirely understandable if he took some convincing that this latest carrot is genuine . If he does return , it remains unlikely that Leicestershire would become his new home. While Surrey have - publically , at least - played down the chances of re-signing Pietersen , the relationship between the club and the player remains good . He was not sacked at the end of last year , as has been claimed elsewhere , but had his registration cancelled in a mutually agreed deal that allowed both parties freedom at a time when his outspoken autobiography was about to be published. Surrey have subsequently signed Kumar Sangakkara , which has taken them close to the salary cap limit , but conversations with Pietersen continue . It would certainly send a strong statement of Pietersen 's intent if he gave up part or all of his deal with Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL or St Lucia Zouks in the CPL . Substantial obstacles would remain to an England return - there were sections of his book that would make for some awkward dressing room situations - but it remains just about possible that there could be another chapter in Pietersen 's international story to come . George Dobell is a senior correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
