shares 36 Ravi Bopara speaks at the launch of " Chance to Shine Street " © Getty Images Ravi Bopara has claimed " the culture of English cricket " must change if the international side is to enjoy success in global limited-overs events. Bopara , a member of the England squad jettisoned from the World Cup in the group stages , believes the side were inhibited by a " sense of fear " and that they had to " stop being so English " if they were to improve . In particular , Bopara felt that England 's batsmen were never able to bat with the freedom required to prosper in the modern limited-overs game and reasserted is belief that they would benefit from more exposure to foreign T20 leagues such as the IPL . " We should change our culture , " Bopara said. " We should develop braver players and stop fearing. We knew we had to score well above 300 to win games , but we did n't go out and play like that. And I do n't think 300 is enough for us , if I 'm honest. It may be enough for other teams , but it 's not enough for us. We need 350 on the board to win games. So we need to develop our games to that level . Gatting criticises England management Mike Gatting , the former England captain , has criticised the management of the current team , suggesting they destabilised the side on the eve of the World Cup . Gatting , the ECB 's cricket partnerships ambassador , was particularly perplexed by England 's decision to move James Taylor from the No. 3 position - where he batted in the tri-series tournament against Australia and India - to No. 6 , with Gary Ballance drafted into the side to bat at No. 3 and Ravi Bopara dropped . " It was strange , having played a settled team for six weeks before the tournament , that we changed it for the first match of the World Cup , " Gatting said. " What you need going into a competition is stability and consistency. It makes it harder when you 're not consistent . " No. 3 is a very important position and having stability in a team is very important going into a big competition. So it was a bit strange to change at that stage . " It was frustrating to see talented cricketers not perform at the level they can. We 're not that far away. The talent is there , but the freedom is n't. " Gatting captained England in the 1987 World Cup final and was , until recently , the ECB 's managing director of cricket partnerships. His new role will see him work for the organisation for 50 days a year . " But there 's a sense of fear in the team that we need to get rid of. We need to change the culture and be freer as players , stop worrying about the consequences. We need at times to stop being so English. We are very , very English and it feels quite institutionalised . " I could n't tell you how much that six-week period playing in the IPL in 2009 improved my cricket. I felt on top of the world. It was such a positive environment and I came back without any fear and I scored those Test centuries against West Indies. But then you get caught up in the system. Things are a bit cagey. You become the people you 're with. " But while Bopara felt most of the problems in English cricket were " institutionalised " he also had some thinly veiled criticism for the team management at the World Cup , suggesting that changes made to selection and plans on the eve of the tournament destabilised the side . Bopara played for England throughout the tri-series event against Australia and India , but was then dropped for the first game of the World Cup. Indeed , for all the talk of continuity of selection in recent years , Bopara admitted he never felt more than a couple of games from being dropped in his spell in the international team . " I 've been dropped a million times , " he said. " If I do n't score runs for a couple of games , I can feel it coming. It does n't help you to play freely at all . " We were ready to go into the World Cup. We had a settled team , we were quite chilled. We did lose to Australia in the tri-series tournament , but there 's no shame in that and we beat India twice. But then all of a sudden things were changed. I was told I was not playing because they were n't going to use my bowling. It felt like there was a fear of failure. You start thinking about negatives ; about the bad things that can happen . " I thought I 'd play in the Sri Lanka game. We had lost badly against New Zealand and Australia , so I thought they 'd have to make changes. But I had no opportunity to make an impact on the World Cup. None at all. I 'd have rather had a shocker than not played. It 's so frustrating. I was angry. Very angry . " When I 'm playing for Essex I know I 'm not going to be dropped. You know you 're not going to get dropped and it 's funny as that 's the best way to play as you score runs like that and put fear in bowlers . " I have to start playing like that when I go out and put an England shirt on. That 's how I have to play. That 's what I have told myself and promised myself I will do from now on. The IPL is perfect place to start. " Lycamobile supports " Chance to Shine Street " as part of its mission to bring communities together www.lycamobile.com George Dobell is a senior correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
