England news March 31 , 2015 Graves lobbies for four-day Tests Play 05 : 53 Are four-day Tests feasible ? Colin Graves , the incoming ECB chairman , has voiced his personal approval for four-day Test cricket in a move that signals nothing is sacred as he prepares his attempts to modernise professional cricket in England . Graves chose to reveal all to one of the bastions of traditionalism - the MCC website - as he proposed the first of what will be several radical proposals which he believes will reinvigorate English cricket , make it more financially viable and put it more in tune with the culture of the times . The suggestion of four-day Tests was floated in a wide-ranging ECB discussion document that was exclusively revealed by ESPNcricinfo last month , but this is the first time that Graves has admitted he personally supports what would be the biggest change to international cricket in modern times . English Test crowds still remain relatively healthy , but increasingly there are disturbing signs that the virus of dwindling Test attendances is beginning to eat into Test attendances outside London . Graves told the MCC website , lords.org : " Personally , I think we should look at four-day Test cricket and play 105 overs a day starting at 10.30 in the morning , and finish when you finish as all the grounds now have lights , " he said . " Every Test match would start on a Thursday , with Thursday and Friday being corporate days and then Saturday and Sunday the family days . " From a cost point of view you 'd lose that fifth day , which would save a hell of a lot of money from the ground 's point of view and the broadcasters. I would look at that. In reality , there 's not many people who turn up and watch it on the fifth day. " Graves ' ambitions for 105 overs a day would lose only 30 overs on the current five-day minimum of 450 overs , but they sound somewhat idealistic. Although a rate of less than 18 overs an hour in a six-hour day seems just about feasible , even for the modern game , Test matches routinely expand into overtime just to complete 90. An ODI , which pretty much feels as long as cricket can manage , stretches to 100 . A preponderance of pace bowlers , lengthy stoppages for tactical discussions , drinks breaks running overtime , donning of protective equipment on the field , and a generally dilatory approach all contribute to a Test over rate that has been around 15 overs an hour now for a generation . The revelation that the ECB was even mooting four-day Tests from Test purists worldwide. But whether such a move would make Tests more profitable , and would receive a favourable reaction from a greater number of spectators , remains relatively unexplored . Cricket would also lose one of its enduring charms : the gradual deterioration of a pitch that only really begins to turn sharply on the final two days . Graves , whose five-year term begins on May 15 , will begin to promote his views when he is a guest at the MCC World Cricket Committee , where he has been invited to speak this July . His determination that cricket moves with the times , and does not become isolated from the culture of the nation , is also seen in his driving forward of discussions about a more high-profile Twenty20 tournament in England that would be a real competitor to the IPL and the Big Bash League in Australia . " Let 's look forward , let 's look at what the public wants because we are in the entertainment business and that 's what we 've got to remember , " he said . It is a message that he will ram home repeatedly in the coming months . Four-day Tests remain likely to be a battle that Graves loses - at least in the short term - but his willingness to think radically , based on an assessment of what the public wants , displays a willingness to embrace change , at 67 , that has long been beyond the ken of cricket administrators in England . David Hopps is the UK editor of ESPNcricinfo @ davidkhopps © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
