Wisden 2015 April 8 , 2015 English cricket 'losing touch' 55 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 55 Suited and booted : England 's 2014 left Peter Moores , Paul Downton and Alastair Cook with plenty to ponder © Getty Images If it was not already abundantly clear that cricket in England has endured a difficult 18 months , then the publication of the 2015 Wisden Almanack this week hammers the point home with a resounding thud. Its editor , Lawrence Booth , has characterised the past year as one in which the game " repeatedly lost touch " and criticises the ECB for a litany of failings , from overseeing the decline of the England team , to mismanaging the sacking of Kevin Pietersen and failing to effectively promote the sport to a new generation . The greatest fear , voiced in a section about the fall in participation figures at recreational level , is that 10 years after the 2005 Ashes became a national fixation " cricket is loitering at the edges of the conversation " . To use the phrase coined at the beginning of last year as the ECB dug its trenches in the Pietersen stand-off - one which has still not been resolved - it seems rather more people are currently " outside cricket " than is good for the health of the game . Change is already afoot , with Colin Graves set to take office as ECB chairman and a new chief executive , Tom Harrison , working on a wide-ranging review. They will find their mandate strengthened by Booth 's assessments - Wisden is a weighty tome , more than 150 years old , and its " Notes by the editor " carry a similar level of authority . Wisden 2015 © John Wisden & Co " In 2014 English cricket repeatedly lost touch - not just with things it wished had never happened , but with the basic idea that the national team belongs to us all , " Booth writes . " A few wins might have deflected attention from a charge sheet that would include the mishandling of the Kevin Pietersen affair , worrying Test attendances outside London , a head-in-the-sand attitude to the one-day team , and - not yet a decade after the 2005 Ashes had presented English cricket with a golden chance to attract a new generation to the sport - a fall in the number of recreational players . " But the wins were too few. Starting with the drubbing in Australia , England lost nine full series out of 11 across the formats in 2014 , to say nothing of their defeat by the Netherlands at the World Twenty20. In all , they lost 28 games. Only once had this been surpassed in a calendar year by one of the eight major teams - the dysfunctional 2010 Pakistanis. " Despite that record of failure , only one member of the hierarchy lost their job - and the removal of Alastair Cook from the one-day captaincy was another ECB clanger , described by Booth as " the correct decision , but several months too late " . Of those charged with reviving England after the 2013-14 whitewash in Australia , he is equally scathing . " The power brokers indulged in mutual backslapping. National selector James Whitaker had called Cook 'our exceptional leader ' ; Paul Downton , the ECB 's new managing director , hailed Peter Moores as the 'outstanding coach of his generation ' ; chairman Giles Clarke trumpeted Downton as a 'man of great judgment'. It was a nexus of self-preservation - yet , as the wagons circled , the wheels kept threatening to come off. " This was never more apparent than with Pietersen , whose PR team ran rings around the ECB in a dance that is yet to reach its conclusion ; Graves has hinted at a way back and Pietersen will play county cricket for Surrey to try and force his case . If that promises to further prolong the " fiasco " , at least it is a more transparent position than the clandestine manoeuvring of the last year . Booth writes : " Their comments on the fallout with Pietersen should have been clear and concise : if you 're widely regarded as a pain , it helps if you 're scoring lots more runs than anyone else. Instead , England botched the PR battle. They hinted that some darker truth about his behaviour would emerge once a confidentiality agreement expired in October. Yet the lull merely prolonged the fiasco. And , when the dirt failed to materialise , the ECB looked rudderless. " Anger at the state of the English game is preferable to indifference , however , and the ECB 's own figures for 2014 , which calculated the loss of more than 50,000 recreational cricketers , were cause for widespread alarm. With England and the county game behind a TV paywall , Booth , for the second Wisden running , has called for the ECB and Sky to arrange for some games to be broadcast free-to-air - a move that has been proposed with increasingly regularity a decade after cricket 's glorious last hurrah on terrestrial television . Five Cricketers of the Year Moeen Ali Angelo Mathews Jeetan Patel " The fall in numbers did not nullify the ECB 's claim that their deal with Sky had brought more money into the sport , nor the work that money has enabled the board to do , especially in women 's and disability cricket. But the maths queried the claim 's relevance , " Booth writes . " The hubbub around the Big Bash at the start of 2015 , broadcast in Australia on free-to-air television , was a reminder of a basic truth. Give people the chance to tune into live cricket , and it has a fighting chance of entering the national debate. Ten years on from the greatest Test series of the lot - broadcast to all by Channel 4 - cricket is loitering at the edges of the conversation. If you can remember the celebrations in Trafalgar Square , be sure to tell your grandchildren. " This year 's Almanack features Moeen Ali , one if its five Cricketers of the Year , on the front cover. His success prompts Booth to observe that more should be done to bring through Britain 's Asian players : " It is perverse to be so reliant on ( white ) southern Africans and smash-and-grab raids across the Irish Sea , and so ignore the more natural solution on our doorstep. " On a more positive note , there is also room for a leading cricketer award in the women 's game. Australia 's Meg Lanning is the inaugural winner , while Kumar Sangakkara picks up the now-established men 's award for a second time . Alan Gardner is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ alanroderick © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . OLDEST thefountain on April 11 , 2015 , 6 : 20 GMT I remember the early nineties - a dark period of English cricket , the blame was on no cricket in schools , video games , Football , weather. A poll at the time had cricket as the eighth most popular sport in the country - rounders and darts were higher on the chart. 10 years later England would produce probably the best attack post the West Indian glory days of Hoggard , Jones , Flintoff and Harmison. If those players could be produced during that era of excuses where is the next crop of great players ? thefountain on April 10 , 2015 , 21 : 50 GMT If you were 10 years old in 2005 you would be 25 now. Where is the " generation " inspired by that Ashes series ? I see no exciting bats or fast , aggressive pace bowlers on the horizon. ECB needs to stop with this army of administrators and consultants and spend some money on grass roots. Stop blaming Margaret Thatcher and start getting people playing the game ! yorkshire-86 on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 56 GMT Theres a big difference between Sky getting football and cricket. Firstly , a football game lasts 90 minutes. You can just go down the pub. If you went down the pub to watch a Test , you would be stone drunk every game - plus few pubs show cricket. Secondly football on Sky is not exclusive - if a game is not broadcast on Sky , such as many cup and internationals , terrestrial tv can buy the rights. With cricket , if Sky have the rights to a game but choose not to broadcast it , terrestrial cant then get the rights themselves . on April 10 , 2015 , 7 : 58 GMT In 2005 , cricket briefly challenged football as the people 's sport. It was never likely to overtake football in popularity in the long term of course , but it certainly should have firmly re-established itself as the national summer sport. Instead the ECB went for the maximum short term financial gain at the expense of the future health of the game. Although the performances on the pitch for the last 10 years have been far from perfect , there have been some very notable achievements in that time , yet for all the euphoria among fans and administrators , the Sky paywall meant these were barely noticed by the wider public. Now suddenly the ECB is waking up to the fact that cricket is dying in this country at the very time that we have a transitional England team largely devoid of personality and very difficult to market. No wonder they 're contemplating the ( possibly counterproductive ) resurrection of KP . on April 10 , 2015 , 5 : 19 GMT Eng hype themselves and then get carried away. Reality is that game has gone far ahead of their conservative mindsets and would take a few dynamic administrators and a dynamic leader to start calling spade and spade and turn things . on April 9 , 2015 , 21 : 12 GMT No taylor , Moin Ali , KP y Juiceoftheapple on April 9 , 2015 , 20 : 49 GMT What I would do to resurrect mass participation in cricket in England. All down to the ECB of course. 1. Erect 20,000 vandal proof all weather public nets and 2,000 all weather pitches in public parks from Carlisle to St Ives. 2. Subsidise very cheap good quality cricket gear in major retailers on a 1 item per sale basis , with a regularised age range grading for the equipment. 3. Rip up the sky deal and sit down with channel 4 and sky and hammer out a terrestrial TV county highlights programme , a sunday one day match show , a Friday night T20 show , and weekend test match show , the rest goes back to sky if they want it. 4. Develop a standardised junior cricket format , not kwik cricket - i.e. based on 1 batsman , and the rest rotating bowlers/fielders . DavetheRave on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 28 GMT As someone who twice saw Bradman live , including his brilliant 173 n.o. at Headingley in the " Invincibles " Test when the Aussies chased a fourth innings total of 404 to win ( the record at that time ) I can say that those who try to minimise his enduring impact on the game simply do n't know what they are talking about , so just look up his record. The new generation of the masters of English cricket , whoever they are from one day to the next , MUST look to the future and ignore the siren calls to select yesterday 's men just for the sake of short-term , seemingly impressive success. The Australians would not tolerate the farce which has prevailed in England since the gloss of 2005 wore off. I was at the MCG and the SCG in 2013/14 and England were simply a laughing stock. It was embarrassing , and expensive to be there as a supporter . Clyde on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 04 GMT The articles about the administration of cricket are frustrating in that they do n't describe how it translates into the mentalities and techniques of players. All I gather after the commencement of the Peterson debacle is that dreary , faceless bureaucrats have somehow blighted the field of play like phyloxera . baghels.a on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 54 GMT I wish everyone blaming Sky realise except them they were no takers for Cricket meaning others wanted the TV rights for peanuts , i might sound irrational but somebody needs to clips the wings of juggernaut that is English Premier League , they threaten to not only devour Cricket but Rugby Union ,Rugby League,all other sports.It was obscene and ridiculous to see Sky and BT Sports pumping in 6.5 billion Pounds for 3 years of EPL rights , English football team fail to get out of group stages of WC , PL Clubs with there teams composed exclusively of highly paid Foreigners fail to reach the last 8 of CL , when will English media and people start giving importance to other sportspersons who have achieved much more , we all saw how British athletes performed brilliantly at London Olympics with little support and exposure in the press. Okay my rant is over now . thefountain on April 11 , 2015 , 6 : 20 GMT I remember the early nineties - a dark period of English cricket , the blame was on no cricket in schools , video games , Football , weather. A poll at the time had cricket as the eighth most popular sport in the country - rounders and darts were higher on the chart. 10 years later England would produce probably the best attack post the West Indian glory days of Hoggard , Jones , Flintoff and Harmison. If those players could be produced during that era of excuses where is the next crop of great players ? thefountain on April 10 , 2015 , 21 : 50 GMT If you were 10 years old in 2005 you would be 25 now. Where is the " generation " inspired by that Ashes series ? I see no exciting bats or fast , aggressive pace bowlers on the horizon. ECB needs to stop with this army of administrators and consultants and spend some money on grass roots. Stop blaming Margaret Thatcher and start getting people playing the game ! yorkshire-86 on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 56 GMT Theres a big difference between Sky getting football and cricket. Firstly , a football game lasts 90 minutes. You can just go down the pub. If you went down the pub to watch a Test , you would be stone drunk every game - plus few pubs show cricket. Secondly football on Sky is not exclusive - if a game is not broadcast on Sky , such as many cup and internationals , terrestrial tv can buy the rights. With cricket , if Sky have the rights to a game but choose not to broadcast it , terrestrial cant then get the rights themselves . on April 10 , 2015 , 7 : 58 GMT In 2005 , cricket briefly challenged football as the people 's sport. It was never likely to overtake football in popularity in the long term of course , but it certainly should have firmly re-established itself as the national summer sport. Instead the ECB went for the maximum short term financial gain at the expense of the future health of the game. Although the performances on the pitch for the last 10 years have been far from perfect , there have been some very notable achievements in that time , yet for all the euphoria among fans and administrators , the Sky paywall meant these were barely noticed by the wider public. Now suddenly the ECB is waking up to the fact that cricket is dying in this country at the very time that we have a transitional England team largely devoid of personality and very difficult to market. No wonder they 're contemplating the ( possibly counterproductive ) resurrection of KP . on April 10 , 2015 , 5 : 19 GMT Eng hype themselves and then get carried away. Reality is that game has gone far ahead of their conservative mindsets and would take a few dynamic administrators and a dynamic leader to start calling spade and spade and turn things . on April 9 , 2015 , 21 : 12 GMT No taylor , Moin Ali , KP y Juiceoftheapple on April 9 , 2015 , 20 : 49 GMT What I would do to resurrect mass participation in cricket in England. All down to the ECB of course. 1. Erect 20,000 vandal proof all weather public nets and 2,000 all weather pitches in public parks from Carlisle to St Ives. 2. Subsidise very cheap good quality cricket gear in major retailers on a 1 item per sale basis , with a regularised age range grading for the equipment. 3. Rip up the sky deal and sit down with channel 4 and sky and hammer out a terrestrial TV county highlights programme , a sunday one day match show , a Friday night T20 show , and weekend test match show , the rest goes back to sky if they want it. 4. Develop a standardised junior cricket format , not kwik cricket - i.e. based on 1 batsman , and the rest rotating bowlers/fielders . DavetheRave on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 28 GMT As someone who twice saw Bradman live , including his brilliant 173 n.o. at Headingley in the " Invincibles " Test when the Aussies chased a fourth innings total of 404 to win ( the record at that time ) I can say that those who try to minimise his enduring impact on the game simply do n't know what they are talking about , so just look up his record. The new generation of the masters of English cricket , whoever they are from one day to the next , MUST look to the future and ignore the siren calls to select yesterday 's men just for the sake of short-term , seemingly impressive success. The Australians would not tolerate the farce which has prevailed in England since the gloss of 2005 wore off. I was at the MCG and the SCG in 2013/14 and England were simply a laughing stock. It was embarrassing , and expensive to be there as a supporter . Clyde on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 04 GMT The articles about the administration of cricket are frustrating in that they do n't describe how it translates into the mentalities and techniques of players. All I gather after the commencement of the Peterson debacle is that dreary , faceless bureaucrats have somehow blighted the field of play like phyloxera . baghels.a on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 54 GMT I wish everyone blaming Sky realise except them they were no takers for Cricket meaning others wanted the TV rights for peanuts , i might sound irrational but somebody needs to clips the wings of juggernaut that is English Premier League , they threaten to not only devour Cricket but Rugby Union ,Rugby League,all other sports.It was obscene and ridiculous to see Sky and BT Sports pumping in 6.5 billion Pounds for 3 years of EPL rights , English football team fail to get out of group stages of WC , PL Clubs with there teams composed exclusively of highly paid Foreigners fail to reach the last 8 of CL , when will English media and people start giving importance to other sportspersons who have achieved much more , we all saw how British athletes performed brilliantly at London Olympics with little support and exposure in the press. Okay my rant is over now . on April 9 , 2015 , 6 : 38 GMT It took nothing more for me to understand how far removed the english structure has made the game than for me to be in london the week of the world cup semis ans final. Being in a hotel , there was no place for me to watch the cricket. I tried a few pubs and they were all showing local/league football. The premiere event in world cricket , albeit , minus tbe english , and its nowhere to be found. No wonder interest for the game is dwindling. Contrast that to aus/nz , where I was months earlier and not just their national teams are being shown , but WI/SA was watched with equal interest. Suddenly the results are not such a surprise . on April 9 , 2015 , 6 : 09 GMT Um , I would n't have thought the England team of the late 60 's early 70 's was the best team of its era , let alone of all time. I 'd back South Africa to clean them out pretty comfortably. England had a strong side then , no question , but I do n't think it would have been a match for the likes of Graeme and Peter Pollock , Richards , Procter et al . Kolpak1989 on April 9 , 2015 , 5 : 36 GMT Lovely to see Adam Lyth and Jeetan Patel recognised in the Almanack . TANAmesh on April 9 , 2015 , 2 : 58 GMT What a cricketer Kumar sangakkara , Legend of world cricket and True gentleman. Hats off... My salute to you Sanga. . on April 9 , 2015 , 2 : 17 GMT @ BRADMANBESTEVER- sorry mate you do n't know your cricket then. The England team of 1928/29 , the England team of 1954/55 , and the England team of the late sixties early seventies were up there with the best teams of all time . on April 9 , 2015 , 2 : 13 GMT Bradman would be at home playing any form of cricket. There simply has n't been anyone else in the history of the game to equal his dominance. In relation to the ECB ( I follow England ) every team goes through a rebuilding phase. If there is no players to rebuild with , then England will go the way of the West Indies. And that wo n't be good for cricket full stop . rk_ks on April 9 , 2015 , 1 : 01 GMT When were they in touch or when is the last time they dominated world cricket like Australia and West Indies. England is one of the most overhyped sporting teams in the world. Even the fans know that . tests_are_great on April 9 , 2015 , 0 : 52 GMT How many potential Wasim Akrams or Virat Kohlis has English cricket lost over the years through over coaching , over complicating and a lack of understanding. It 's clear that Asians in Britain play cricket in a different way to the slow,boring fashion that seems to be encouraged from a young age in this country . HenryPorter on April 8 , 2015 , 22 : 53 GMT Finally a female cricketer of the year award - and a most worthy inaugural winner ! cloudmess on April 8 , 2015 , 22 : 47 GMT In all , this dark little period in English cricket is the ultimate legacy of the malodorous Giles Clarke : with ECB staff , coaches , and captains appointed on amenability rather than ability , and with short-term financial greed constantly given precedence over the longer-term interests of the game . cloudmess on April 8 , 2015 , 22 : 38 GMT I 'm so relieved to see this article placed in a prominent place in a prominent publication. Certain journalists have been guilty of protecting the establishment in the past year or so - issuing ridiculous apologia for certain ECB actions and seeking to create logic-defying truths : that England was a stronger team without KP at the WC , that Cook is a great captain , that Moores was the best available coach in the world , that Sky looks after the game 's longer-term interests . Mervo on April 8 , 2015 , 22 : 35 GMT Correct Andrew Schulz. I have a bat that Bradman used in England in 1948 and it is tiny ! The bats they use today make poor batsmen look like world beaters . electric_loco_WAP4 on April 8 , 2015 , 22 : 02 GMT @ Iddo555-Eng were upstaged by a fiesty SL and managed to save some face by beating a poor Ind later in the summer.That too not before the debacle @ Lords,blown away by Ishant ! Besides Eng have been soundly thumped by SA in a couple of home series recently . Juiceoftheapple on April 8 , 2015 , 21 : 39 GMT Welcome to the slow death of English cricket. The members of the ECB who sold the rights to all cricket television broadcasting have the blood of the decline of English cricket on their hands. the trouble with making the practical changes to increase the level of youth participation go against the inexorable force of commercial profiting interests and against the conservative principles of doing nothing drastic. So I learnt about cricket from TV , from Courtney and Curtley wonderfully dismantling England. Now cricket is the reserve of those whose fathers teach them , of private schools and of club cricketers , in a nutshell , a middle class preserve . on April 8 , 2015 , 21 : 13 GMT The English tend to be too insular. I think English players and coaches need to have a more international outlook : acknowledge that Australia is the best cricketing nation overall - send players , coaches and administrators there to learn from , and be around the best. The English approach to cricket may have been hip in the late 1800s , but it 's 2015. Travel and spend time in other cricketing cultures , learn what the competition is doing. Also , they need to examine what being 'English ' really means ; with immigration and globalization , you 're going to have players like Pietersen who are not 'English ' in demeanor , but he deserves to be in the team. If talent like his ca n't be integrated into English cricketing culture , its not Pietersen that has to go , it is the culture that needs to change . BRUTALANALYST on April 8 , 2015 , 20 : 26 GMT Seems like final battle of franchise v red ball supremacy if franchise gains in England it will be final nail and full-scale domination it 's the last frontier andrew-schulz on April 8 , 2015 , 15 : 54 GMT Hussain , I believe I have watched every clip of Bradman in existence. He was the consummate Test batsman who kept the ball on the ground and hit only six sixes in his Test career. More at home playing T20 ? You are deluded . whoster on April 8 , 2015 , 15 : 49 GMT Glad to hear Wisden not pulling any punches about the England fiasco. The people in charge have been back-slapping cowards , especially over the Pietersen sacking. The whole system is completely inflexible , and rather than make room for the more troublesome players like KP , if you do n't buy into the team ethic 100 % , there 's no room . If the powers that be were about in the 80 's , there would 've been no room for Botham , Boycott , Willis , Gower or Lamb. The team has to accommodate the difficult players - not the other way round. If the likes of Downton and Moores ca n't understand that , they should find work to which they 're better suited - well away from the sporting arena. As cricketers , neither Downton nor Moores exactly commanded respect. What the players need are people in charge who can be looked-up to. and ones who are capable of motivating the players. England have better players than the results suggest , and that can only be the failure of management . Iddo555 on April 8 , 2015 , 15 : 47 GMT There 's a lot of talk about how poor England are , but they are ranked 3rd in the world in test cricket and have rarely lost a test series at home in 10 years. Australia have n't won a test series in England since 2003 There have been lots of England teams throughout history worse than this one , The 1990-2000 team springs to mind. That was a poor England team who rarely won a game . on April 8 , 2015 , 14 : 19 GMT All the aussie fans are being too harsh .Not long ago Eng defeated Aus for a long while .Especially bradman best ever .Bradman was with all due respect a batswinger who would be more at home playing T20 cricket . Have you seen clips of him batting . on April 8 , 2015 , 13 : 37 GMT As long as England keep playing the Ashes and beat Australia which is highly unlikely , all will be forgotten. England are living in a bubble of self delusion oblivious to the pace and changes in the game. The current makeup of the team looks like players drawn from their former colonies or players having learnt their basic cricket in other countries. Time to think for England . BradmanBestEver on April 8 , 2015 , 12 : 38 GMT England need to develop a " cricketing spine " in their players , a never-say-die attitude , which they have never had - and probably never will have - but I could be wrong , I have been B4 Periods of English cricket dominance over their history have been mainly due to ( 1 ) unusually good quality players combined with ( 2 ) abnormally weak opposition When has an English ta been know for its tenacity ? for its toughness ? The answer : almost never. Ask that same question about the Aussies and you get a very different answer. This is the principal reason why the status quo is for Aussies to beat England - other things equal Jezc on April 8 , 2015 , 12 : 37 GMT reading these comments it seems I must be the only person who has Sky ! Lets face it kids have a lot more chance to go to county cricket these days with the advent of day/night cricket than I ever had in my youth. The problem as I see it is that our climate in England is not conducive to cricket. Do I make plans to play this Saturday when it may be raining or do I arrange something else I know will be on ? It may be nice now but April and Sept cricket is not normally spectator sport weather so really our cricket year is restricted to May , June , July and August - kids are usually doing exams in May/June so you are left with July and August and a lot of people take their holidays in August. The county cricket program does n't help , my county Lancs , had played half their championship fixtures by the end of May last season so when my kids were off in July/August there was very little cricket for them to watch other than one day stuff , my kids prefer 4 day/5 day cricket ! Mikelord on April 8 , 2015 , 12 : 28 GMT I think an excellent article. But if this was commercial many heads would have gone by now. If a team fails yes we can blame the players , but why did the selectors pick that failed team ? Why are the selectors still there ? Cricket is a sport , and I for one would like to be enthusiastic about the game , and give the players my whole hearted support . on April 8 , 2015 , 12 : 23 GMT ENG are good in white clothing... they did a good job even in ODI when they played with white. issue is with ICC now... we need to go back to 70&80 's if we need ENG to perform better on April 8 , 2015 , 12 : 23 GMT It 's not about blaming Sky , it 's about getting cricket back on terrestrial TV. The decision to go behind the paywall was made a long time ago ; in the here and now the ECB and broadcasters have to get round the table and sort something out . As for the Wisden editorial it 's very difficult to argue with almost all of it. One gets the impression that the ECB is run as a private company of which the actual playing of cricket is a marginal part. Unaccountability , management speak , resistance to change , jobs for the boys , utter indifference towards its customers . Triple_Centurian on April 8 , 2015 , 11 : 59 GMT Please dont blame Sky for the current fiasco. They are simply doing the right thing for their customers and the ones to blame are those who make the decision to sell to Sky and grab as much money as they can which they then fritter away on things that make little difference. I am cautiously optimistic that the new broom now in charge of English cricket can make a positive difference. Graves and Harrison dont have to do too much to be more effective and thoughtful than Clarke and Collier and they are closer to the modern game. Graves has overseen a massive period of transition at Yorkshire who may have debts but also have trophies and better facilities they own . Iddo555 on April 8 , 2015 , 11 : 55 GMT Cricket should have it pretty easy in England as there is very little else to do in the summer. Football and Rugby being the sports of September to May. The things wrong with the game are nothing new : 1 ) not shown on free to air TV so kids not getting into it 2 ) not played in state schools so 90 % of kids have little access to it 3 ) not easily affordable equipment ( bat , helmet , pads , and clothing so a lot of parents ca n't afford it ) This England team is no worse that teams of yesterday , the England team that contained Atherton , Hussain and Butcher never won the Ashes in 13 yrs either home or away and England were the bottom of the heap in terms of rankings . IndianBarcafan on April 8 , 2015 , 11 : 15 GMT Well everybody who are bagging Sky , did not Sky and BT Sports bid 6.5 billion Pounds ! ! ! for English Premiership football TV rights for a three year period so lots of people infact 10 million Brits to be precise have Sky connections , so that 's not the reason really , here in India all the Cricket whether international,domestic F/C,IPL are all on Pay TV from last 15 years but you do n't see popularity of cricket abating in India despite the emergence of Football in the last 5-6 years . PierreCheuk on April 8 , 2015 , 11 : 01 GMT Recently Auckland cricket trumpetrd selection of a young NZ player to spend 6 months at Lords on a Young Cricketers programme. After watching the WC all one can say is WHY ? on April 8 , 2015 , 10 : 44 GMT All sides have periods of peaks and troughs. Actually , I take that back : Pakistan and the West Indies have only troughs. India ca n't win away from the subcontinent. Australia struggle anywhere where there 's not steep bounce. Are they all out of touch too ? Please . willsrustynuts on April 8 , 2015 , 10 : 27 GMT If anything changes this year , as a result of the changes in leadership , I will eat a copy of Wisden. I want to rebrand this England team to be the ECB XI. They do n't deserve to carry the national tag . disco_bob on April 8 , 2015 , 10 : 24 GMT The British public are not mugs , They went along with the open top busses and MBE 's and adulation but deep down they know that there was a bit of luck involved , ( rolled ankle , kasper catch and warnie drop ) but were happy to overlook all that because it was a joyous and cathartic time for English cricket and we Australians did not begrudge the celebrations. Unfortunately as the gloss wore off the English team seemed to think of themselves truly as the most wonderful people whose achievement of finally gaining the Ashes would last for generations and they bought into their own hype. Even gaining and losing the no.1 ranking in record time did n't set off the alarm bells. This arrogance had its culmination after their flattering 3-0 Ashes victory. And now with falling attendances and English cricket is deep trouble , we have the result of 10 years of folly . welshmick on April 8 , 2015 , 10 : 20 GMT The ECB sold English cricket. Simple as that. Yes , some of the riches trickle down to the grass roots in a desultry sort of way , but most of the cash goes on paying middle management which , if the jobs did n't exist , would n't be missed. Here in Wales the rebranded Cricket Wales is a fine example. The old Cricket Board was a one man and his dog operation that did very little. CW is now a twenty-plus employees operation that does , er , very little. A return to cricket on terrestrial tv is an absolute must. Otherwise we really are fighting a losing battle . on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 51 GMT What cricket does n't seem to realise is that it is competing against other sports. The last couple of years we 've had big cycle races like the Tour de France on peoples ' doorsteps. The result is lots of kids falling in love with their bikes and growth for the sport. From further afield the NFL is making great strides to draw in children , including the free events in London on Wembley game weekends. Despite being more hidden away the UFC is also grabbing a growing fan base. Cricket on the other hand does little other than charge more and more for tickets and sit behind a tv paywall. As a well paid Londoner I still baulk at the prices of international games , so I 've no doubt they are way out of the price range of all but the hardcore fan on a UK average wage . disco_bob on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 46 GMT Harsh but fair , and a long overdue dose of sober truth . Rupert147 on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 44 GMT This article by Lawrence Booth is absolutely spot on and the fact that it appears in Wisden is brave and correct . Ben Ingham on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 36 GMT Terrific article , sums up the past 18 months really. But moving cricket back to 'free to air ' television wont solve any problems really. The money from Sky does go to the ECB , and it pays for those administrators and background staff , doing jobs ive actually yet to figure out. But speaking as someone who plays cricket in England , the Sky money is fantastic. More and more clubs are being able to improve ageing facilities , pay for players to go on coaching courses , so that younger players can be brought through. You only have to look at a few clubs in any league , and see the Sky money being filtered down to the grass roots level. Going back to 'free to air ' would impact lower league clubs hugely . not_TonyStark on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 24 GMT The less people watch cricket , the less they have an interest meaning participations numbers fall , and the more the ECB depend on Sky and so the power shifts to sky. If more people are able to watch it , then there is likely to be more interest meaning participation numbers can increase which therefore increases the chance of discovering some new talent which would eliminate the need to import talent. England cricket is shambolic because the people in power refuse to accept that the game has changes ( ie , the short format is here to stay ) and are therefore refusing to adapt. Finally , just like football fans regarding 1966 , English cricket fans and writers alike need to get over what happened in 2005 , yes it was a good achievement and instead of reminiscing about the past , there should be a desire to emulate that success over again . Hutton364 on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 14 GMT Absolutely agree about free to air. That 's how I fell in love with the game. Viewing figures have plummeted since it went to Sky. There was an increase in participation after 2005 , when everyone was talking about the game all over England. That gain has been steadily eroding. Of course , the ECB can make more money from Sky , but that does not compensate for the lack of exposure. The England XI is so reliant on foreign born and privately educated players that it 's becoming a joke. Yorkshire however. is one place still producing strong state-educated cricketers because the leagues are still pretty strong. But England might look to New Zealand , where policies to get it played in state schools have been effective and participation rates are rising fast in a country that is famous for its obsession with a different ball game. So , it 's not just about the prevalence of computer games... . No1DowntonHater on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 02 GMT Quite right - it 's been a horrible period for English cricket. In no other major cricketing nation would a team have such a consistently abysmal record , get knocked out of the World Cup in the group stages & all the key personalities would keep their jobs. Downton , Whittaker & Moores ( with the protection of Giles Clarke ) have overseen this mess , and I suspect that the appointment of Colin Graves will see them all axed in short order. The phrase 'dead men walking ' springs to mind , and good riddence . on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 44 GMT Great writing once again from Lawrence. Other than agreeing to a world cup on the desert in the middle of summer , you 'd struggle to find such consistent ineptitude in a sport 's governing body. Over and above the KP and TV debates , you could also consider the randomness of the county schedule , the bidding war over tests , the lack of lords finals and the disastrous world cup. Cricket is our national summer sport yet has dropped dramatically in popularity. The Sky TV decision will prove to be one of the worst ever made . Chris1881 on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 33 GMT Until the England team start winning significant series & trophies , interest & participation in cricket wo n't recover. This is certainly necessary but may not be sufficient. Anyway , start by winning. And start that by picking the best team . on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 16 GMT Cricket has been in decline these last 30 years in England , certainly at village level. Where 30 years ago one pub could challenge the neighbouring pub to a cricket match , and reasonably expect to find a team , these days you would not find more than a handful that had ever played or even know the rules. Village teams are closing , withdrawing from leagues , abandoning pitches. It is relentless and seemingly unstoppable. Cricket has not been on terrestrial television for 25 years , no-one sees it. We just had the cricket world cup , and barely anyone noticed. Football has invaded the start and the end of the season. Youngsters have 'football camp ' during summer holidays. I could go on but you get the picture. It is a minority sport these days , sad to say . on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 10 GMT English cricket is , frankly , a mess. The team are losing and playing dull cricket ( neither of which encourages people to watch them ) . Those of us who ca n't or wo n't pay for Sky Sports get virtually no live action ( possibly the IPL ) , so cricket does n't enter into the national debate. School playing fields were sold off years ago , so kids do n't get to play cricket at school. In those circumstances , it 's hardly surprising that participant numbers are falling. The first step must be to encourage cricket back onto free to air TV. I realise the ECB will get less money this way ( the England team might have to lose a deputy assistant dietician or two ) , but it 's a necessary step for the future good of the game . No featured comments at the moment . on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 10 GMT English cricket is , frankly , a mess. The team are losing and playing dull cricket ( neither of which encourages people to watch them ) . Those of us who ca n't or wo n't pay for Sky Sports get virtually no live action ( possibly the IPL ) , so cricket does n't enter into the national debate. School playing fields were sold off years ago , so kids do n't get to play cricket at school. In those circumstances , it 's hardly surprising that participant numbers are falling. The first step must be to encourage cricket back onto free to air TV. I realise the ECB will get less money this way ( the England team might have to lose a deputy assistant dietician or two ) , but it 's a necessary step for the future good of the game . on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 16 GMT Cricket has been in decline these last 30 years in England , certainly at village level. Where 30 years ago one pub could challenge the neighbouring pub to a cricket match , and reasonably expect to find a team , these days you would not find more than a handful that had ever played or even know the rules. Village teams are closing , withdrawing from leagues , abandoning pitches. It is relentless and seemingly unstoppable. Cricket has not been on terrestrial television for 25 years , no-one sees it. We just had the cricket world cup , and barely anyone noticed. Football has invaded the start and the end of the season. Youngsters have 'football camp ' during summer holidays. I could go on but you get the picture. It is a minority sport these days , sad to say . Chris1881 on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 33 GMT Until the England team start winning significant series & trophies , interest & participation in cricket wo n't recover. This is certainly necessary but may not be sufficient. Anyway , start by winning. And start that by picking the best team . on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 44 GMT Great writing once again from Lawrence. Other than agreeing to a world cup on the desert in the middle of summer , you 'd struggle to find such consistent ineptitude in a sport 's governing body. Over and above the KP and TV debates , you could also consider the randomness of the county schedule , the bidding war over tests , the lack of lords finals and the disastrous world cup. Cricket is our national summer sport yet has dropped dramatically in popularity. The Sky TV decision will prove to be one of the worst ever made . No1DowntonHater on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 02 GMT Quite right - it 's been a horrible period for English cricket. In no other major cricketing nation would a team have such a consistently abysmal record , get knocked out of the World Cup in the group stages & all the key personalities would keep their jobs. Downton , Whittaker & Moores ( with the protection of Giles Clarke ) have overseen this mess , and I suspect that the appointment of Colin Graves will see them all axed in short order. The phrase 'dead men walking ' springs to mind , and good riddence . Hutton364 on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 14 GMT Absolutely agree about free to air. That 's how I fell in love with the game. Viewing figures have plummeted since it went to Sky. There was an increase in participation after 2005 , when everyone was talking about the game all over England. That gain has been steadily eroding. Of course , the ECB can make more money from Sky , but that does not compensate for the lack of exposure. The England XI is so reliant on foreign born and privately educated players that it 's becoming a joke. Yorkshire however. is one place still producing strong state-educated cricketers because the leagues are still pretty strong. But England might look to New Zealand , where policies to get it played in state schools have been effective and participation rates are rising fast in a country that is famous for its obsession with a different ball game. So , it 's not just about the prevalence of computer games... . not_TonyStark on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 24 GMT The less people watch cricket , the less they have an interest meaning participations numbers fall , and the more the ECB depend on Sky and so the power shifts to sky. If more people are able to watch it , then there is likely to be more interest meaning participation numbers can increase which therefore increases the chance of discovering some new talent which would eliminate the need to import talent. England cricket is shambolic because the people in power refuse to accept that the game has changes ( ie , the short format is here to stay ) and are therefore refusing to adapt. Finally , just like football fans regarding 1966 , English cricket fans and writers alike need to get over what happened in 2005 , yes it was a good achievement and instead of reminiscing about the past , there should be a desire to emulate that success over again . Ben Ingham on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 36 GMT Terrific article , sums up the past 18 months really. But moving cricket back to 'free to air ' television wont solve any problems really. The money from Sky does go to the ECB , and it pays for those administrators and background staff , doing jobs ive actually yet to figure out. But speaking as someone who plays cricket in England , the Sky money is fantastic. More and more clubs are being able to improve ageing facilities , pay for players to go on coaching courses , so that younger players can be brought through. You only have to look at a few clubs in any league , and see the Sky money being filtered down to the grass roots level. Going back to 'free to air ' would impact lower league clubs hugely . Rupert147 on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 44 GMT This article by Lawrence Booth is absolutely spot on and the fact that it appears in Wisden is brave and correct . disco_bob on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 46 GMT Harsh but fair , and a long overdue dose of sober truth .
