OLDEST cloudmess on April 10 , 2015 , 1 : 54 GMT I still think we 're firing at the wrong target here. England did n't play terribly at the WC because of a few foolish public comments by Downton. They played badly because they 'd had a year of having to work under a autocratic coach - one with little feel for the tactics or psychologies of international cricket - who was harassing them with irrelevant detail and preparing them in all the wrong ways . SoyQuearns on April 10 , 2015 , 0 : 24 GMT Wow - English cricket is still churning and bubbling away . Could n't be more pleased for the actual players that this muppet is now gone. He wreaked utter havoc in a short tenure , and was shown to be petty ( KP ) , out of touch ( Moores ) and frankly incompetent ( numerous instances ) . As an Aussie fan I like to give it to the English as much as the next bloke , but deep down we ache for a tough contest against our favourite and oldest cricketing foe. Other cultures may struggle to grasp our " unique " stance on banter and the game and how it is played , but in essence we want tough contests against tough competitors. We make no apology for how we play and how we fans react and interact with our opposition , but I do feel we are mistaken at times . This move will make England tougher and better , let 's hope for the sake of the upcoming Ashes that his removal has not been made too late . Onward and upward England , just not quite enough to get back the urn . Andy_147 on April 9 , 2015 , 22 : 49 GMT Some strange comments below : " Malcolm Marshall could barely contain his laughter when Downton opened the batting for England in a Test , and used the cunning plan of bowling straight and fast at his stumps , which proved too much for him " - that 's funny , since the only time Downton opened for England in a Test he scored 56 and was dismissed by Roger Harper. Maybe Marshall should have laughed a bit less . " It 's probably time England had a foreign coach ( Gillespie ) " - nothing against the idea , but seems an odd way to put it when England have had foreign coaches ( Fletcher and Flower ) for most of the last 15 years . Nutcutlet on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 44 GMT @ LORD_CRICSENSE : the same thought had occurred to me. I like the sound of GVG very much ! With Root as skipper in a very short time.At least everyone would be on the same page. and England 's cricket would be underscoring one of the ageless verities of the English game ; a strong Yorkshire is a Strong England. Ca n't see a thing wrong with it and I am a Surrey supporter living in Lancs , for my sins ! Strike up a brass band , someone ! southstoke49 on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 33 GMT Finally some optimism. Never has 1 man done so much damage in such a small space of time. The only tasks he seemed to be task with was not select a very good player , look around for a new coach and support the team into the WCup. None of these were done with any level of competancy. Imagine Moores and Whitticker are also feeling a bit uneasy , alsong with the players that have been so publicly backed despite not performing. At least it looks like Graves is making a positive difference already . on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 29 GMT Downton was never going to be the right type of guy for this job. He came from a period of abject failure for English cricket and never played in the modern game where analysis , fitness and fine margins win games. He was a square peg in a round hole . I never agreed with sacking KP the way they did. I smacked of opportunism to help solidify Cooks position as captain of a young side. I am quite shocked at how bad a captain , Cook is proving to be. He should actually be removed as skipper and anyone , be it Broad or Root given it . Since he is naturally so conservative as a captain anyway , it is no loss. The players may have respected him , but tactically he is very poor. Test match cricket is more confrontational than before and needs a measured aggressive approach. Hardly a match for Cooks character . Even give it back to KP and get rid of Moores. That is another story. The most out of his depth coach in world cricket . VillageBlacksmith on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 59 GMT vaughan would be another v poor choice … his suggestions over the last 12 months have been bordering on mad … eg morgan to captain the test side … . nice on vaughny … vaughan should not be within a country mile of this position , but then again neither should downton have been so expect another cockup appointment any minute Patchmaster on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 55 GMT If i was Vaughen , I 'd be tapping Saker and Whittaker on the shoulder. Because the majority of Englands problems are encompassed in a weak and medium paced bowling attack and poor selection. Broad might have to take hus Jaguar back and 'stay humble' Mastervillain on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 39 GMT I am underwhelmed at the prospect of Graves and Vaughan at the helm. Both appar to be consumed by their own image ( I think the term is Cowellitis ) . These guys need to represent the team , not themselves . There is something unsavoury with some of Mr Vaughan 's comments of others whilst in the sanctuary of his allies. I am not surprised he has alienated himself to several players . Certainly , there needs to be a shake up within the current side , but I question how far this may go. The current selection criteria seems steeped with old allegiancies. Only this week , I heard one so called 'expert ' suggest a left arm quick was required in the test attack. Tymel Mills and Harry Gurney were mentioned. One has hardly taken a wicket and the other is certainly no quick. Yet Mark Footitt of the unfashionable Derbyshire , who took 80 odd scalps last year had no mention at all. The sad thing is that it was a totally predictable mindset that is held by the selectors and pundits alike . Lord_Cricsense on April 9 , 2015 , 16 : 36 GMT Are we heading for 'the Yorkshire triumvirate ' - Graves , Vaughan & Gillespie ? Before the howls go up - from many directions - let me say that might not be a bad thing : a combination of Yorks/Aussie grit , drive , boldness , fearlessness , bluntness & no nonsense. Add to that the fact the latter two were successful international players relatively recently - and clearly understand the demands of the modern game - but not so recently that they are too close to current players. It 's probably time England had a foreign coach - and who better than Gillespie ? I think that trio would also relate better to 'the people ' than some England managements. However , the ECB does need to streamline ( for one , Vaughan would also have to become chief selector ) and , if nothing else at all , it somehow needs to get cricket , including test cricket , back on free-to-air TV . cloudmess on April 10 , 2015 , 1 : 54 GMT I still think we 're firing at the wrong target here. England did n't play terribly at the WC because of a few foolish public comments by Downton. They played badly because they 'd had a year of having to work under a autocratic coach - one with little feel for the tactics or psychologies of international cricket - who was harassing them with irrelevant detail and preparing them in all the wrong ways . SoyQuearns on April 10 , 2015 , 0 : 24 GMT Wow - English cricket is still churning and bubbling away . Could n't be more pleased for the actual players that this muppet is now gone. He wreaked utter havoc in a short tenure , and was shown to be petty ( KP ) , out of touch ( Moores ) and frankly incompetent ( numerous instances ) . As an Aussie fan I like to give it to the English as much as the next bloke , but deep down we ache for a tough contest against our favourite and oldest cricketing foe. Other cultures may struggle to grasp our " unique " stance on banter and the game and how it is played , but in essence we want tough contests against tough competitors. We make no apology for how we play and how we fans react and interact with our opposition , but I do feel we are mistaken at times . This move will make England tougher and better , let 's hope for the sake of the upcoming Ashes that his removal has not been made too late . Onward and upward England , just not quite enough to get back the urn . Andy_147 on April 9 , 2015 , 22 : 49 GMT Some strange comments below : " Malcolm Marshall could barely contain his laughter when Downton opened the batting for England in a Test , and used the cunning plan of bowling straight and fast at his stumps , which proved too much for him " - that 's funny , since the only time Downton opened for England in a Test he scored 56 and was dismissed by Roger Harper. Maybe Marshall should have laughed a bit less . " It 's probably time England had a foreign coach ( Gillespie ) " - nothing against the idea , but seems an odd way to put it when England have had foreign coaches ( Fletcher and Flower ) for most of the last 15 years . Nutcutlet on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 44 GMT @ LORD_CRICSENSE : the same thought had occurred to me. I like the sound of GVG very much ! With Root as skipper in a very short time.At least everyone would be on the same page. and England 's cricket would be underscoring one of the ageless verities of the English game ; a strong Yorkshire is a Strong England. Ca n't see a thing wrong with it and I am a Surrey supporter living in Lancs , for my sins ! Strike up a brass band , someone ! southstoke49 on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 33 GMT Finally some optimism. Never has 1 man done so much damage in such a small space of time. The only tasks he seemed to be task with was not select a very good player , look around for a new coach and support the team into the WCup. None of these were done with any level of competancy. Imagine Moores and Whitticker are also feeling a bit uneasy , alsong with the players that have been so publicly backed despite not performing. At least it looks like Graves is making a positive difference already . on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 29 GMT Downton was never going to be the right type of guy for this job. He came from a period of abject failure for English cricket and never played in the modern game where analysis , fitness and fine margins win games. He was a square peg in a round hole . I never agreed with sacking KP the way they did. I smacked of opportunism to help solidify Cooks position as captain of a young side. I am quite shocked at how bad a captain , Cook is proving to be. He should actually be removed as skipper and anyone , be it Broad or Root given it . Since he is naturally so conservative as a captain anyway , it is no loss. The players may have respected him , but tactically he is very poor. Test match cricket is more confrontational than before and needs a measured aggressive approach. Hardly a match for Cooks character . Even give it back to KP and get rid of Moores. That is another story. The most out of his depth coach in world cricket . VillageBlacksmith on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 59 GMT vaughan would be another v poor choice … his suggestions over the last 12 months have been bordering on mad … eg morgan to captain the test side … . nice on vaughny … vaughan should not be within a country mile of this position , but then again neither should downton have been so expect another cockup appointment any minute Patchmaster on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 55 GMT If i was Vaughen , I 'd be tapping Saker and Whittaker on the shoulder. Because the majority of Englands problems are encompassed in a weak and medium paced bowling attack and poor selection. Broad might have to take hus Jaguar back and 'stay humble' Mastervillain on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 39 GMT I am underwhelmed at the prospect of Graves and Vaughan at the helm. Both appar to be consumed by their own image ( I think the term is Cowellitis ) . These guys need to represent the team , not themselves . There is something unsavoury with some of Mr Vaughan 's comments of others whilst in the sanctuary of his allies. I am not surprised he has alienated himself to several players . Certainly , there needs to be a shake up within the current side , but I question how far this may go. The current selection criteria seems steeped with old allegiancies. Only this week , I heard one so called 'expert ' suggest a left arm quick was required in the test attack. Tymel Mills and Harry Gurney were mentioned. One has hardly taken a wicket and the other is certainly no quick. Yet Mark Footitt of the unfashionable Derbyshire , who took 80 odd scalps last year had no mention at all. The sad thing is that it was a totally predictable mindset that is held by the selectors and pundits alike . Lord_Cricsense on April 9 , 2015 , 16 : 36 GMT Are we heading for 'the Yorkshire triumvirate ' - Graves , Vaughan & Gillespie ? Before the howls go up - from many directions - let me say that might not be a bad thing : a combination of Yorks/Aussie grit , drive , boldness , fearlessness , bluntness & no nonsense. Add to that the fact the latter two were successful international players relatively recently - and clearly understand the demands of the modern game - but not so recently that they are too close to current players. It 's probably time England had a foreign coach - and who better than Gillespie ? I think that trio would also relate better to 'the people ' than some England managements. However , the ECB does need to streamline ( for one , Vaughan would also have to become chief selector ) and , if nothing else at all , it somehow needs to get cricket , including test cricket , back on free-to-air TV . liz1558 on April 9 , 2015 , 16 : 27 GMT Yes - and Vaughan is no fan of Cook 's captaincy either. There have to be good odds on a summer combination of Jason Gillespie as England manager , Root as captain , and KP back in the side for the Ashes. England under Cook look like getting mashed by Australia - probably beaten by NZ as well. Cook has become too accustomed to getting pounded on the ropes and saying that he can take it. Tour of WI needs to go very well for Cook to stave off being sacked . mikem764 on April 9 , 2015 , 16 : 22 GMT Downton was a classic job for the boys - especially the Middlesex boys. If he had played for any other county he would n't have got near the England team , let alone won 30 caps. Journeyman cricketer - Malcolm Marshall could barely contain his laughter when Downton opened the batting for England in a Test , and used the cunning plan of bowling straight and fast at his stumps , which proved too much for him. Downton then did the usual and went into the city , where he apparently got the experience to be chief of the England set-up. Ludicrous. His radio interviews and press conferences were painfully dull , he was the wrong man in the wrong job at the wrong time. Bring on Vaughan . on April 9 , 2015 , 15 : 10 GMT Vaughan has the same issues he had when Hussain then he himself took over captaincy. Fast bowlers who do n't bowl quickly , spinners who hardly spin the ball , batsmen too timid to hit the ball. Back then the era of Gough Caddick , Stewart , Thorpe and Hussain himself was drawing to a close. Harmison , Flintoff , Jones Trescothick and Pietersen bowled faster and hit harder - all with less fear of failure. That 's what 's needed now. Moeen , Buttler , Stokes might be the start of the new breed. But where are the really quick bowlers ? Not on that I 've seen anywhere in the UK . on April 9 , 2015 , 13 : 04 GMT If Vaughan becomes a more " cricket-focussed " ( what else does the ECB focus on ? ) Director of Cricket he will presumably become a selector , possibly Chief Selector. Be afraid , James Whitaker. Also David Saker ( bowling coach ) has a track record of ruining promising fast ( as opposed to fast medium ) bowlers , so they need a new bowling coach . attilathecricketer on April 9 , 2015 , 13 : 02 GMT I do n't think Downton was right person for that job. However I hope Downton gets a job where he can criticise and undermine Vaughan in the way Vaughan has undermined him and Cook. Jobs for the Yorkshire boys now seemingly . Lee_Fairclough on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 08 GMT Vaughan seems on the surface to be a decent idea. I do n't care if he is popular with the players or not , and I could argue anyone who is popular with the players should automatically be ruled out. He certainly has some good ideas , and remember when he was at his best as captain ( 2003 - 2005 ) , the England team played some very exciting , entertaining , and most importantly , winning cricket. Moores seems like a better person to have in Flower 's current role to my mind , and let Vaughan ( or whoever ) be in charge of selection with obviously a team of others who help watch players. Creating a new role wo n't solve the biggest problem though - the attitude of the batsmen , the lack of proper pace bowlers and back-ups/alternatives to Moeen as the spinner , but it might at least mean that young players with potential to fill those roles would be picked and encouraged to play in a way that suits their talents , unlike the straight-jacketed way that seems to be prevalent at the moment . woody3 on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 02 GMT If Vaughan is in Moores will soon be out and KP will again be Englands best batsman. Such an outbreak of common sense however would be unthinkable for English Cricket , I expect Gabby Logan to get the role , and a quota of women cricketers to be imposed to break with the long misogyny of the cricket establishment. Of course we would never win a test again but " awkward " players like KP/King Viv/Lara/Gower/Sir Ian of Botham with too much self belief and competitiveness would never again be inflicted on an England captain who cant handle them . Nealharvey on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 00 GMT It all seems so muddled. What does Michael Vaughan know about Women 's cricket , or Age Group , let alone Disabled ? Can I apply ? at least I have experience in some of that . But we do seem to have a clearing out of the previous regime to appease the new Chairman , who has already shown his credentials , and upset quite a few in doing so , much as Giles Clarke did. However it 's clear we need fewer overseers , and a more focussed management structure for development. If the ECB would like to contact me , I 'm their man . md111 on April 9 , 2015 , 11 : 41 GMT Vaughan has previously portrayed some good ideas to pick cricket up. His current closeness to the game and some of the players could cause both positives and negatives. IF he were to continue with his media duties it would also help give the common fan a wonderful insight into his job and what he has to do. The previous regime seemed to think they were the overlords of the paying public ( correct in a way but did their arrogance seemed shocking ) . The negative if he were to continue his media duties would be if he could call things right down the line. Change was needed , right before the summer starts is n't great though ! Tigg on April 9 , 2015 , 11 : 38 GMT I think Vaughan would be a mistake. Whilst Stauss is no doubt too close to the likes of Cook , Vaughan is way to close to KP . Moores has said he would work with KP if he scores the runs to merit selection , as far as I 'm concerned that matter is over. KP will either score bucket loads and force himself to be picked , or he wo n't. Vaughan was a good captain and a solid player but I 'm unconvinced as to whether he knows anything about county cricket and the players waiting in the wings . Nutcutlet on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 47 GMT I can see that Downton 's departure 's a no-brainer. He should never have been appointed and those who were responsible for so doing should also be removed. England 's cricket is completely dysfunctional. There is , I think , a need for a supremo-with-vision. That could be Michael Vaughan , a man who is known not to take prisoners -- good in these times. I ca n't see how Clarke and Whittaker can be retained. Both have done great damage to 'our game ' ( the feeling of disconnect makes the use of 'our ' seem to belong to yesterday ) although I 'm sure that they thought that they were doing their best. There 's a word that comes close to capturing where this dysfunctionality springs from : Exclusivity. Whatever Michael Vaughan ( ? ) sets out to achieve , he must find a way to give cricket back to the sport-loving population. Getting it back on free-to-air TV would be a major step in that direction. The follow-through that streamlines the organization will leave blood on the carpet & feathers in the air . Roshan_P on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 25 GMT I hope Vaughan gets the job. He 's in touch with modern cricket , he was an attacking player and captain himself and he was a good leader. He can really take England forward as long as he has the best interests of the national game at heart. But we need to reform the ECB as a whole , which Vaughan may want to do himself. We need a big clear-out to get rid of all the people holding the team back . on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 30 GMT When Downtown was appointed , the usual cries of 'jobs for the boys ' came up , mostly based on Downton 's public school background. Yet we now have the situation of a Yorkshire ECB chairman and the potential of Vaughan coming back. Is that brave ? Not to my mind. It 's exactly the same , sticking to what they know , jobs for the comprehensive boys instead of the public school boys . Australia took a punt on Pat Howard as Team Performance GM. Shane Watson did n't like it , Shane Warne had his usual bratty session and called Howard a 'muppet'. Now nobody says anything derogatory about Howard. Team performance is how he is judged and the performance of that team this year is plain for all to see. If England were brave , they would find someone who could do likewise from outside the field of cricket . Graves : likes T20 and cash. Harrison : ex-IMG. Vaughan : ISM. Sounds like a recipe for the carve-up of the first-class game , fans. I hope you enjoy a mass of one day cricket . zoot364 on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 30 GMT When Hugh Morris did Downton 's job before him everyone seemed to feel it was a worthwhile role and done well. So the problem is the judgements that have been made recently and the individuals who have made those judgements rather than the precise nature of the various administrative jobs. It 's difficult to see major progress until all the individuals involved in the recent debacle are cleared out and replaced by an entirely new team , whatever their specific job titles . pvwadekar on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 29 GMT Good that Downton is gone.. now its time to replace Moores & Whitaker with proper coach and selectors that does n't " look at the data " after the match is lost. Finally , Alister needs to be reminded that this is not Cooks XI or ECB XI , but rather Englands XI .. so if KP has scored enough runs to deserve a place in the playing XI , then Cook has to include him also . on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 17 GMT The issue going forward is going to be that Vaughan ( if he takes the job ) is going to want to impose his own agenda ( or there 's no point in him taking the role ) , and there may well be elements within the England hierarchy who oppose that. At least to the extent it involves KP , they will include Alastair ( " All about me " ) Cook , which ( if complied with ) would limit KP 's involvement to limited overs cricket. What does seem clear is that there are a lot of fairly ill-defined and overlapping roles within the ECB which need sorting out. Moores will have to work with KP if that 's what the selectors want. John Buchanan never let some of Shane Warne 's comments ( " A coach is very useful for getting you to the ground and back " ) get in the way of selecting him . MostCulturedAussieSirLesPatterson on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 14 GMT Replacing one manager 's post with another ? Get rid of all the top heavy administrators and computers and concentrate on playing the game on the field. It 's no good being world champions of computer cricket ! 2929paul on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 05 GMT CHANNA JAYADEWA - your comment about Downton 's record against arguably the strongest WI team of the 80s betrays your ignorance of his cricketing ability and bravery and shows that you did not watch any of his cricketing career. What is more it is not relevant to his role here , which was an inappropriate appointment given his distance from the game for such a long period. He proved to be poor at the job but this could not have been predicted by his cricket record. And can those people who go on about Flower still being involved please take the time to find out exactly what he is doing and his philosophies before commenting. Had he retired in September 2013 , would our judgement of him now be completely different ? Probably . on April 9 , 2015 , 7 : 27 GMT Absolutely correct. I said the same at the very moment he was appointed. He never was a good cricketer for England. If you go through the England 's scorecard against the 1984 windies you will understand. I will not see England win a world cup in my lifetime for sure... ! ! ! ! Bring back Trott & Kevin P if you want to beat good teams like Aus , Ind , SL & South Africa . on April 9 , 2015 , 4 : 35 GMT @ big_al_81 If we judge England 's cricketers by what they do OFF the field , the side is doomed. We need to judge England 's players by their performance ON the field. But , as you 've raised Pietersen 's book -- it was , like his batting , over the top and unfortunate in parts. Yet , was it unnecessary ? Not entirely , if you wanted to understand the back-stabbing ( not all by KP either ) and the mismanagement of English cricket. When you read it , you can see he was hardly the only problem child in that toxic workplace known as the English dressing-room. In fact , I wonder , if KP had stayed shtum and not published his side of the story -- whether we would still have Mr Downton running things ... and Downton 's sacking of Pietersen was not about ON-field performance. So , while I wish him pleasant reflections , I am glad Downton has gone . on April 9 , 2015 , 4 : 14 GMT The English cricket establishment is in tatters , no body can revive the cricket here all because every body believes only for today and lot of time and energy was spent on Kelvin Pietersen which is insignificant issue and they in which they played world cup matches shows that that all barring two cricketers have no future at all . No body can repair or alter fortune of England team on April 9 , 2015 , 4 : 01 GMT Yes the ECB is overloaded and the coaching staff must be held responsible.picking Cook for the one dayers was crazy. But none of them go out in the middle and bat and bowl. I constantly here about all the " talent " we have , really ? How many English players are playing on the IPL ? Two that 's how many. Now we have the " dream " partnership of Cook and a Trott opening the batting. That should bring the crowds flicking in to watch those two scratching around for hours . Bobby_Fox on April 9 , 2015 , 3 : 26 GMT good new after a long tym. Atleast for eng cricket and pietersen . ruester on April 8 , 2015 , 23 : 22 GMT After what seems like a lifetime , I finally have woken up and read some good news regarding English cricket. the departure of Downton was a must as to is the removal of. Whittaker and Moores. I have been so fed up with their chummy back slapping attitude , they have responsibility for the worst year of performance that the national team ever has had. They seem to forget that winning cricket matches is their job. I would hope that the captain 's position is also under review. I think Vaughan would be a very good choice , he seems to talk a lot of sense. he also is a KP supporter . dsig3 on April 8 , 2015 , 22 : 20 GMT Bizarre stuff from the old dart. Will be interesting to see how Michael goes. I will miss his commentary . Front-Foot-Lunge-Needs-A-Hug on April 8 , 2015 , 22 : 08 GMT It 's a start but really for any meaningful changes to occur Andy Flower must be sacked. How a man who managed England cricket into their darkest and most humiliating days still has a job beggars belief. Cook is finished too . big_al_81 on April 8 , 2015 , 21 : 32 GMT Are we seriously expected to believe that Kevin Pietersen was a misunderstood , kindly uncle figure as hinted at here ? Perhaps a longer article explaining what KP really meant in his large and vitriolic book is in order ? Iddo555 on April 8 , 2015 , 21 : 07 GMT As much as I would like to see the likes of Vaughan and Gough have a role in English cricket I ca n't help but think England need to throwing people out not hiring more. I have no idea what half of the people at the ECB are suppose to be doing Are these roles really needed , or is it just a case of jobs for the boys , a case of i 'll scratch your back if you scratch mine ? slim down the middle management and make sure the role is needed and people in roles are accountable for for delivering in that role No featured comments at the moment . Iddo555 on April 8 , 2015 , 21 : 07 GMT As much as I would like to see the likes of Vaughan and Gough have a role in English cricket I ca n't help but think England need to throwing people out not hiring more. I have no idea what half of the people at the ECB are suppose to be doing Are these roles really needed , or is it just a case of jobs for the boys , a case of i 'll scratch your back if you scratch mine ? slim down the middle management and make sure the role is needed and people in roles are accountable for for delivering in that role big_al_81 on April 8 , 2015 , 21 : 32 GMT Are we seriously expected to believe that Kevin Pietersen was a misunderstood , kindly uncle figure as hinted at here ? Perhaps a longer article explaining what KP really meant in his large and vitriolic book is in order ? Front-Foot-Lunge-Needs-A-Hug on April 8 , 2015 , 22 : 08 GMT It 's a start but really for any meaningful changes to occur Andy Flower must be sacked. How a man who managed England cricket into their darkest and most humiliating days still has a job beggars belief. Cook is finished too . dsig3 on April 8 , 2015 , 22 : 20 GMT Bizarre stuff from the old dart. Will be interesting to see how Michael goes. I will miss his commentary . ruester on April 8 , 2015 , 23 : 22 GMT After what seems like a lifetime , I finally have woken up and read some good news regarding English cricket. the departure of Downton was a must as to is the removal of. Whittaker and Moores. I have been so fed up with their chummy back slapping attitude , they have responsibility for the worst year of performance that the national team ever has had. They seem to forget that winning cricket matches is their job. I would hope that the captain 's position is also under review. I think Vaughan would be a very good choice , he seems to talk a lot of sense. he also is a KP supporter . Bobby_Fox on April 9 , 2015 , 3 : 26 GMT good new after a long tym. Atleast for eng cricket and pietersen . on April 9 , 2015 , 4 : 01 GMT Yes the ECB is overloaded and the coaching staff must be held responsible.picking Cook for the one dayers was crazy. But none of them go out in the middle and bat and bowl. I constantly here about all the " talent " we have , really ? How many English players are playing on the IPL ? Two that 's how many. Now we have the " dream " partnership of Cook and a Trott opening the batting. That should bring the crowds flicking in to watch those two scratching around for hours . on April 9 , 2015 , 4 : 14 GMT The English cricket establishment is in tatters , no body can revive the cricket here all because every body believes only for today and lot of time and energy was spent on Kelvin Pietersen which is insignificant issue and they in which they played world cup matches shows that that all barring two cricketers have no future at all . No body can repair or alter fortune of England team on April 9 , 2015 , 4 : 35 GMT @ big_al_81 If we judge England 's cricketers by what they do OFF the field , the side is doomed. We need to judge England 's players by their performance ON the field. But , as you 've raised Pietersen 's book -- it was , like his batting , over the top and unfortunate in parts. Yet , was it unnecessary ? Not entirely , if you wanted to understand the back-stabbing ( not all by KP either ) and the mismanagement of English cricket. When you read it , you can see he was hardly the only problem child in that toxic workplace known as the English dressing-room. In fact , I wonder , if KP had stayed shtum and not published his side of the story -- whether we would still have Mr Downton running things ... and Downton 's sacking of Pietersen was not about ON-field performance. So , while I wish him pleasant reflections , I am glad Downton has gone . on April 9 , 2015 , 7 : 27 GMT Absolutely correct. I said the same at the very moment he was appointed. He never was a good cricketer for England. If you go through the England 's scorecard against the 1984 windies you will understand. I will not see England win a world cup in my lifetime for sure... ! ! ! ! Bring back Trott & Kevin P if you want to beat good teams like Aus , Ind , SL & South Africa .
