New Zealand in England 2015 April 4 , 2015 Guptill , Henry in NZ Test squad for England ESPNcricinfo staff shares 72 Martin Guptill last played a Test on New Zealand 's tour to England in 2013 © Getty Images New Zealand batsman Martin Guptill , who last played a Test in May 2013 , has been recalled to the Test squad for the side 's forthcoming tour to England. Fast bowler Matt Henry has received a Test call-up , while uncapped allrounder Mitchell Santner has been added to New Zealand 's ODI and T20 squad . Guptill played the last of his 31 Tests during New Zealand 's tour of England in 2013 , featuring in only one match of the two-game series. He scored 1 and 3 in New Zealand 's 247-run defeat to England at Headingley and was subsequently excluded from the Test side , including home series against West Indies , India and Sri Lanka . Mike Hesson , the New Zealand coach , said Guptill had been picked for his ability to cover several batting positions and would have a chance to further his claims during the two warm-up games ahead of the first Test at Lord 's on May 21 . " This is a stable , established Test side but there will be opportunities for contenders , " Hesson said. " Martin 's a classically styled batsman and there 's really no reason why he ca n't be as influential in the longer game as he is in the short. " James Neesham 's injury was one of the factors that prompted Henry 's selection and Hesson said the bowler was ready for the challenges of the longer format . " It 's another step up for Matt but we 've been impressed by the maturity and skill-set he 's already shown in the ODI format , " Hesson said . Fast bowler Adam Milne , who had been ruled out of the World Cup due to a heel injury , has been picked in the limited-overs side. Milne was ruled out two days before the semi-final against South Africa and Henry was picked as a substitute for the bowler . Santner , meanwhile , has been picked following a good run in this season 's Ford Trophy. The left-handed batsman was one of the leading run-scorers for Northern Districts in the tournament - 326 runs in nine innings at 36.22 - and also picked up 11 wickets with his left-arm spin at an average of 36.09 and an economy rate of 4.98 . With a few New Zealand players set to miss the warm-up matches due to IPL commitments , BJ Watling will captain the side in the four-day games against Somerset and Worcestershire , which start from May 8 and May 14 respectively. The New Zealand selectors have included pacers Jacob Duffy and Ben Wheeler , and Santner for the warm-up matches . The first Test against England will be played at Lord 's from May 21 , while Headingley will host the second Test from May 29. The five-match ODI series will begin on June 9 and the only Twenty20 international of the tour will be played at Old Trafford on June 23 . New Zealand Test squad : Brendon McCullum ( captain ) , Corey Anderson , Trent Boult , Doug Bracewell , Mark Craig , Martin Guptill , Matt Henry , Tom Latham , Luke Ronchi , Hamish Rutherford , Tim Southee , Ross Taylor , Neil Wagner , BJ Watling , Kane Williamson New Zealand ODI and T20 squad : Brendon McCullum ( captain ) , Corey Anderson , Trent Boult , Grant Elliott , Martin Guptill , Matt Henry , Tom Latham , Mitchell McClenaghan , Nathan McCullum , Adam Milne , Luke Ronchi , Mitchell Santner , Tim Southee , Ross Taylor , Kane Williamson © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
