World Cup 2015 January 13 , 2015 The youngest , the most capped , and the most prolific A look at the World Cup squads ' numbers , and how they stack up against each other shares 81 World Cup 2015 squads : average ages Only two squads ' average age at World Cup 2015 is over 30 : UAE and Sri Lanka. UAE have the two oldest players in the tournament , former captain Khurram Khan and newly-appointed leader Mohammad Tauqir , who will both start the tournament at 43 + . The only other player over 40 in the tournament is Pakistan 's Misbah-ul-Haq . The youngest player in the tournament is 18-year-old Afghanistan batsman Usman Ghani , who was born on November 20 , 1996. Bangladesh beat Afghanistan to the title of youngest team in the tournament by the narrowest of margins , averaging 25 to Afghanistan 's 25.05. The average age , overall , at World Cup 2015 is 28.4 . © ESPNcricinfo Ltd World Cup 2015 squads : most ODIs Sri Lanka are by far the most experienced squad at World Cup 2015. In Mahela Jayawardene , Kumar Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan , they have three of the four players in the tournament who have played more than 300 ODIs ; Pakistan 's Shahid Afridi is the fourth. Jayawardene is the only one with more than 400 ( he had played 434 ODIs by the squad deadline day ) . That all adds up to Sri Lanka having played a whopping 757 ODIs more than the second most capped side , Pakistan. New Zealand , bolstered by Daniel Vettori and Brendon McCullum , come in at No. 3. Bangladesh , South Africa and England are the only Full Members to aggregate fewer than 1000 ODIs. Only three players were picked for the World Cup without having debuted in ODI cricket : Ireland pacer Peter Chase , and West Indies batsman Jonathan Carter and fast bowler Sheldon Cottrell . © ESPNcricinfo Ltd World Cup 2015 squads : most ODI centuries Unsurprisingly , Sri Lanka is the squad with the most ODI hundreds going into the World Cup. India come in second , but the surprise is at No. 3 : as of squad deadline day , South Africa are placed third with an aggregate of 47 hundreds - just one shy of India - despite the fact that they are the second least-experienced Full Member at the tournament. Virat Kohli and Chris Gayle have the most ODI hundreds , with 21 apiece. Only six other players picked for the tournament have an ODI-centuries tally in double digits : Kumar Sangakkara , AB de Villiers , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Hashim Amla , Mahela Jayawardene and Ross Taylor . © ESPNcricinfo Ltd World Cup 2015 squads : most ODI four-fors Sri Lanka edge out stiff competition from England , New Zealand , West Indies and Australia as the team with the most four + wicket hauls , as on squad deadline day. Bangladesh , with 22 , are ahead of Pakistan and India , and just one shy of South Africa. Lasith Malinga ( 16 ) has almost half of Sri Lanka 's 34 four-fors , while Shahid Afridi ( 13 ) has two-thirds of Pakistan 's 19. The only other bowlers at the tournament with 10 or more four-fors in ODI cricket are England 's James Anderson and Stuart Broad , and Australia 's Mitchell Johnson . © ESPNcricinfo Ltd Note : All stats have been calculated with the numbers as they stand on the squad deadline day - January 7 , 2015 . Nikita Bastian is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo ; Shiva Jayaraman is a sub-editor ( stats ) at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
