World Cup 2015 news January 19 , 2015 World Cup knock-out round FAQs ESPNcricinfo staff Australia , NZ to play knock-out matches at home Venues and dates for the four quarterfinal matches : March 18 - SCG , Sydney March 20 - Adelaide Oval , Adelaide March 21 - Westpac Stadium , Wellington Criteria for allocation of quarterfinal venues among Pool A teams : Preference for the two host teams , followed by seedings based on ICC team rankings. Hence , if Australia and New Zealand make it to the top four of Pool A , they will play their quarterfinal matches in Adelaide and Wellington respectively . What about the other two qualifiers from Pool A ? The venue allocation for the quarterfinals for the two teams other than the hosts is based on the ICC ODI rankings. In case Sri Lanka , ranked fourth , and England , ranked fifth , qualify , then they will play their quarter-finals in Sydney and Melbourne respectively . What happens if one of the top-four seeded teams do not qualify ? In the instance that one of those teams do not make it to the top four , the team that takes its place on the points table will play at the respective venue. For example , if Scotland qualify in place of England , then Scotland 's quarterfinal match will be played at the MCG. Similarly , if Bangladesh qualify in place of New Zealand , the former 's quarterfinal match will be in Wellington . What happens if a host team and a seeded team do not qualify ? If a host team and a seeded team do not finish in the top four , the venues will depend on the points tally of the two teams that qualify in their place and the schedule of the quarterfinals. The team with more points among the two unseeded qualifiers will play the quarterfinal that is scheduled first . Consider a scenario where New Zealand [ a host team ] and Sri Lanka [ a seeded team ] do not finish in the top four , and the Pool A table features Bangladesh and Afghanistan in third and fourth place respectively. As Bangladesh have more points than Afghanistan , they will play in Sydney on March 18 , which is scheduled to be the first of the four quarterfinals , and Afghanistan will play in Wellington on March 21 . What happens to qualifying teams from Pool B ? Their quarterfinal venues will depend on the eventual points tally in Pool B and the points tally of teams in Pool A. The quarterfinal line-up is : A1 v B4 , A2 v B3 , A3 v B2 , A4 v B1. So if South Africa top Pool B [ B1 ] and Sri Lanka finish fourth among the qualifiers from Pool A [ A4 ] , then South Africa will play Sri Lanka in Sydney. Similarly , if Australia finish third in Pool A [ A3 ] and India finish second in Pool B [ B2 ] , the quarterfinal between the two teams will be played in Adelaide . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
