World Cup 2015 January 28 , 2015 You would n't want to play NZ in knockouts - Smith ESPNcricinfo staff 65 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 65 From being perennial dark horses , New Zealand are being described as among the favourites for the upcoming World Cup. The co-hosts have been playing some attractive cricket in recent times and appear to have depth in both their batting and bowling departments going into the tournament. In this episode of CONTENDERS , former South Africa captain Graeme Smith and former India captain Rahul Dravid reflect on New Zealand 's chances of winning their first World Cup . Play 23 : 34 'New Zealand 's pace attack poses a serious threat' What they said about … New Zealand 's chances Smith : I think they play well in their own conditions. Very , very small grounds and can be difficult to adapt to. But I think that when you look at this side , they 've built up a really nice one . Dravid : I think they 've got a really , really good pace attack. That 's why you look at them and you think these guys are one of the serious contenders . Home advantage Smith : I think New Zealand are certainly a team to look out for in this tournament. A very exciting team and I think a team that other teams will say , " Jeez , I do n't really want to come up against them in a knockout game. " Dravid : It 's a much smaller country , sure they 'll expect their team to do well but you 're not going to talk about winning straightaway. I think the pressure is going to be less on the New Zealand players . Brendon McCullum as captain Smith : I think he 's doing a great job , he 's brought a new dynamic into that side , a little bit of steeliness and creativity and his own batting seems to have gone up a notch since he 's got the captaincy . Dravid : Under pressure when you need someone to make that key tactical change , that key intervention that can actually turn the game , you 'd back him to do it because he 's been in that position before , he 's been someone who has experienced it all . Kane Williamson 's emergence Smith : His game has gone to a new level and I think he 's provided a stability that New Zealand have always lacked . Dravid : He 's really creative , he 's got some really good shots. Because he can score quickly without actually looking like he 's taking risks , he 's actually a good classical batsman who is able to find the gaps , hit good cricketing shots , he 's got good consistency as well . Tim Southee as leader of the attack Smith : I think he swings the new ball and bowls very well at the death. His economy rate is high but we keep referring to those small boundaries in New Zealand . Dravid : Good control of the yorker under pressure. I think that 's one of the things about Tim Southee. That 's a critical ball to be able to bowl at the back end and we all know that that 's the obvious thing but it 's an extremely hard ball to execute under pressure . Daniel Vettori 's importance Smith : He 's a difficult guy to rotate the strike so he almost squeezes you and squeezes you into making mistakes. Been a great performer certainly in the short format for a long period of time , had his injuries but I think he 's key for this tournament . Dravid : Whether he can stay fit through the tournament and how they 'll have to nurse him through the tournament will be interesting to see but there is no doubt that he brings quality and he brings experience to the table , which you can not buy at a supermarket . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
