ODI wickets : 173 Debut : 2004 Irfan Pathan has been Man of the Match in a World T20 final , and has a hat-trick in the first over of a Test , but he has missed out on playing in cricket 's biggest tournament. His debut came a year after the 2003 version , and in 2007 he did n't get a game , as India preferred Zaheer Khan , Munaf Patel and Ajit Agarkar in an infamously short campaign. By the time the 2011 World Cup came along , Irfan had not been a regular with the one-day side for nearly three years . Ravindra Jadeja missed out in 2011 but is set to play in 2015 © BCCI ODI wickets : 134 Debut : 2009 India gave Ravindra Jadeja plenty of rope in the lead-up to the 2011 World Cup but he did n't do enough to merit inclusion , losing the allrounder 's spot to Yusuf Pathan. In recent years , he has become a permanent member of the limited-overs sides , and though the rise of Akshar Patel threatens his place , barring injury , he should get games at the coming World Cup . Ishant Sharma 's ODI career has n't really taken off © BCCI ODI wickets : 106 Debut : 2007 Ishant Sharma has played nearly as many Tests as ODIs , making him something of a rarity. His limited-overs career was on the skid since 2009 , but a slew of injuries to India 's preferred quick bowlers led to a recall against Pakistan in December 2012. He has played only three of India 's last 22 ODIs , but his experience should get him the nod when the World Cup comes around . 59 ODIs , 97 wickets , economy rate 4.78 , but Clint McKay is struggling to make the Australia ODI side © Getty Images ODI wickets : 97 Debut : 2009 The emergence of a young bunch of quicks has left Australia with the deepest pace-bowling stocks in world cricket , which makes the competition fierce for a place in the 2015 World Cup squad. McKay could go second on the list of fastest to 100 ODI wickets for Australia - behind Brett Lee , and alongside Dennis Lillee , Shane Warne and Nathan Bracken - but even that sort of record is n't enough to guarantee a starting place. He has n't played an ODI since January . Ryan McLaren is the latest in a long line of South African fast-bowling allrounders © Getty Images ODI wickets : 77 Debut : 2009 South Africa have never been short of pace-bowling allrounders. Ryan McLaren is currently filling that spot in the one-day side , having been more or less a permanent member in the last two and a half years. Capable of hitting big , delivering ten overs every game , and also offering a death-bowling option , McLaren should be in the XI when South Africa seek to end their drought at the World Cup next year . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
