Play 00 : 47 Ireland announce World Cup squad Ireland have preferred young pace bowlers Craig Young and Peter Chase to the experienced Max Sorensen in their World Cup 15. Five members of the squad , including captain William Porterfield , will be participating in their third World Cup as Ireland look to make another significant impression on the biggest stage . The squad is the same as that chosen for Ireland 's UAE tour , where they will play games against Scotland and Afghanistan as part of their preparations . The extra pace and bounce that Young and Chase are likely to generate in Australia was key to the decision , despite medium-pacer Sorensen being a reliable part of the attack since Boyd Rankin 's switch to England and the retirement of Trent Johnston. He could still have a role to play , however , with Ireland hoping to base several seamers in Australia during the tournament as potential back-up . Ireland World Cup squad William Porterfield ( capt ) , Andrew Balbirnie , Peter Chase , Alex Cusack , George Dockrell , Ed Joyce , Andrew McBrine , John Mooney , Tim Murtagh , Kevin O'Brien , Niall O'Brien ( wk ) , Paul Stirling , Stuart Thompson , Gary Wilson ( wk ) , Craig Young Sorensen , along with Graeme McCarter , Eddie Richardson , Tyrone Kane and Barry McCarthy , is one of five extra bowlers who have travelled with Ireland to Dubai , where the squad arrived on Monday . " It 's our intention to have some additional players based in Australia to provide cover for the World Cup squad , and we 'll finalise those arrangements in the coming weeks , " Phil Simmons , Ireland 's coach , said. " It 's important that we 'll have players who can hit the ground running if we suffer any injuries during the two months of the event. " Of the 15 , two thirds have county experience , including Porterfield , Ed Joyce and the O'Brien brothers , Kevin and Niall. John Mooney makes up the quintet to have appeared at two previous World Cups ; the 32-year-old allrounder returned to the side last year and has since spoken openly about his battle with depression . Young and Chase are among six players set to feature at the tournament for the first time , which also includes experienced Middlesex seamer Tim Murtagh. Andrew White , who has played 61 ODIs , and Andrew Poynter are the notable absentees . " It 's fantastic to be leading Ireland in another global tournament , " Porterfield said. " We 've produced some wonderful performances over the years in World Cups , and there 's no reason why we ca n't claim further successes in Australia and New Zealand . " While we may have lost the surprise factor over the years , we 've certainly gained a lot of respect for our brand of cricket which has been pretty pleasing. There 's a great mix as always in the squad , and the younger guys coming through are all hungry which keeps the more experienced players on their toes. Competition for places has been fierce and that 's got to be good for Irish cricket. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
