World Cup 2015 January 7 , 2015 South Africa gamble on Quinton de Kock South Africa gamble on injured de Kock 's fitness South Africa 's World Cup squad AB de Villiers ( capt ) , Hashim Amla , Kyle Abbott , Farhaan Behardien , Quinton de Kock ( wk ) , JP Duminy , Faf du Plessis , Imran Tahir , David Miller , Morne Morkel , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Vernon Philander , Rilee Rossouw , Dale Steyn South Africa will gamble on Quinton de Kock 's fitness at the World Cup , having named him in their final 15. De Kock is only expected to recover from his ankle ligament tear after South Africa 's first two games , which will leave AB de Villiers to keep wicket initially and a spare batsman to open with Hashim Amla. Rilee Rossouw and Farhaan Behardien were both included for that purpose . There was no space for left-arm seamer Lonwabo Tsotsobe , despite indications he would be considered for a recall , with Kyle Abbott and Wayne Parnell being the extra bowlers. Ryan McLaren , who took over the allrounder role following Jacques Kallis ' retirement , also lost his place . JP Duminy , who has been nursing a knee injury and out of action since the second week of November , also made the squad. He should be back in action for the first ODI against West Indies next Friday after " a long , hard period of rehab " . Perhaps more notable than South Africa 's playing personnel inclusions and exclusions is the one absentee on their management staff. This time South Africa will travel without a mental motivator to help them work through the under-performances that have marred their World Cup history . In 2011 , Paddy Upton accompanied the squad , while Henning Gericke , who also worked with the national rugby team , the Springboks , when they won the 2007 World Cup , had been a consultant to the team beforehand. Gericke remains on Cricket South Africa 's books and has and will consult with the team beforehand but there are " no plans for him to accompany us " , according to South Africa 's team manager Mohammed Moosajee . Instead , South Africa are hoping to begin a new chapter in which they shut out the ghosts of tournaments past and concentrate on what lies ahead. " It 's the first fifty-over World Cup I have been involved in and it 's an opportunity to do what no other South African side has done , " Russell Domingo , South Africa 's coach , said at an elaborate unveiling function in Cape Town. " We are aware of the challenges and the pressures. I wish I could tell everybody we are going to win it , but I ca n't. There will be five or six teams challenging for the trophy and hopefully we will be one of those challenging. " Rather than play down their desire for success and the anxiety they face on the journey , which has been a feature of South African teams in the past , this one is not hiding their hope or their hesitation. " We do feel pressure , it 's a huge responsibility. We desperately want to win a World Cup and bring it home , " AB de Villiers , South Africa 's captain , said. " We 've been playing some good cricket and we are confident. We feel we have got a really good chance. " This will be de Villiers ' third World Cup and he has promised to do " absolutely nothing " differently to the previous attempts , instead relying purely on his and his squad 's development between the last competition and this one. " I am a more experienced player now than I was then , and a few things have changed in my game , " he said. " I am still going to go out there and try to win games for South Africa - I just feel I am a little better at it now than I was when I started. " South Africa 's 15 for the World Cup © AFP De Villiers is one of eight players who have been to World Cups before , which means almost half of South Africa 's squad are major tournament rookies. That includes de Kock , Rossouw and Behardien but even with inexperience laced through their line-up , South Africa will continue to play what convener of selectors Andrew Hudson called the " style of cricket " they have made their own over the last two years. " We like to play seven batsmen or maybe an allrounder at No.7 , and then five frontline bowlers , " he said. " There process of selection has been about supporting that type of cricket. " South Africa have had a lengthy build-up period to decide on their final squad , which will see them play more ODIs than any other team in the six months before the tournament. That has included series ' in Sri Lanka , Zimbabwe and a recce in New Zealand and Australia. The last of those served as a " reminder we still have a lot to do if we want to be serious contenders " , according to Domingo. South Africa lost 1-4 in Australia , but Hudson does not believe that marred their preparations . " The World Cup is not about only about playing Australia , its about playing minnows and sides with different batting and bowling strengths and being able to accommodate and play cricket accordingly , " Hudson said , while de Villiers only saw it as a speedbump on the way to success. " I ca n't see it as a blessing in disguise because I hate losing , " he said . That may ultimately be the message South Africa are given when they begin the tournament which , this time , they believe is theirs for the taking. " We 've got the right players to win , we 've just got to find a way to do that , " de Villiers said . Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
