Play 02 : 32 O'Brien : New Zealand can outdo '92 performance Allrounder Grant Elliott has been recalled to the New Zealand squad for the World Cup. Elliott has not played an ODI since November 2013 . Jimmy Neesham was left out of the 15 , the most high-profile omission in a squad that is rich in all-round resources ; apart from Elliott , the fifteen includes Daniel Vettori , Corey Anderson and Nathan McCullum . Fast bowler Matt Henry , who was part of the New Zealand squad for all three full one-day series they played in 2014 - at home against India and South Africa , and in the UAE against Pakistan - missed out. The pace department will be led by the pairing of Tim Southee and Trent Boult , backed up by Mitchell McClenaghan , tearaway quick Adam Milne and the vastly experienced Kyle Mills . New Zealand 's World Cup squad Brendon McCullum ( capt ) , Trent Boult , Grant Elliott , Tom Latham , Martin Guptill , Mitchell McClenaghan , Nathan McCullum , Kyle Mills , Adam Milne , Daniel Vettori , Kane Williamson , Corey Anderson , Tim Southee , Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , Ross Taylor The batting comprises regulars Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor and Brendon McCullum , who will likely form the middle order behind openers Martin Guptill and Tom Latham , unless McCullum decides to promote himself to the top of the order as he had hinted at previously. Luke Ronchi will be the specialist wicketkeeper , with Latham as the back-up . The squad was announced by coach Mike Hesson at Hagley Oval , in Christchurch , where New Zealand will kick off the World Cup on February 14 , against Sri Lanka. " There were some hard decisions to make , but we 're pleased with the overall 15 we 've chosen , " Hesson said. " A lot of bowlers have performed brilliantly for us over the past couple of seasons , which certainly made it difficult , but we think we have the right mix . " Our batting unit has good depth and Grant 's inclusion assures us strong cover in the middle order. He brings a lot of experience and his record in New Zealand and Australia conditions is excellent. " Elliott has played 51 ODIs , scoring 1013 runs at 29.79 and claiming 20 wickets at 27.25 with his medium pace. That batting average is bumped up to 35.40 at home , and 52.50 in Australia , where he has his only ODI century till date. Four games into the domestic one-dayers , the Ford Trophy , he leads Wellington 's batting charts with 193 runs at 48.25 , at better than a run a ball . New Zealand and Sri Lanka are placed in Pool A , alongside Australia , England , Scotland , Bangladesh and Afghanistan. Being co-hosts , New Zealand will play all their matches at home , and will only leave their shores should they make the final , which will be in Melbourne on March 29 . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
