World Cup 2015 January 11 , 2015 Narine picked for World Cup Nagraj Gollapudi shares 118 Sunil Narine is set to return to international cricket © AFP Sunil Narine returns to international cricket next month after being named in the 15-man World Cup squad which includes five allrounders , three specialist batsmen , four fast bowlers , two spinners and a wicketkeeper . Jason Holder , named captain for the South Africa ODI series , retains the position and as reported on Thursday , Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard have been left out by the Clive Lloyd-led selection panel . Also making a comeback is Darren Bravo , who had opted out of the Test series for personal reasons and was n't part of the ODIs scheduled to follow. Fast bowler Kemar Roach , who suffered an ankle injury in the Centurion Test and had to return home , finds a place in the 15 as well . West Indies squad Jason Holder ( captain ) , Marlon Samuels , Sulieman Benn , Darren Bravo , Jonathan Carter , Sheldon Cottrell , Chris Gayle , Sunil Narine , Denesh Ramdin ( wk ) , Kemar Roach , Andre Russell , Darren Sammy , Lendl Simmons , Dwayne Smith , Jerome Taylor In : Darren Bravo , Sunil Narine , Kemar Roach Out : Carlos Brathwaite , Narsingh Deonarine , Leon Johnson " I believe we have selected a very good team which will do West Indies proud at the World Cup , " Lloyd said via a WICB media release. " We have a good mixture of some good seasoned players and some good youngsters who will fly the West Indies flag in Australia and New Zealand . " If they play to their potential I am quite sure we will do very well. I have really high hopes in this team - I believe they can do something special. We have the talent and if we can play to our potential we have a very good chance of lifting that trophy. " Narine 's return will come as the greatest boost for West Indies. A proven match-winner , he was ranked No. 2 on the ODI and T20 rankings when his action was reported as suspect in successive matches during the Champions League Twenty20 last September. Consequently , Narine missed out on playing in the final for Kolkata Knight Riders , who lost to Chennai Super Kings . Although Narine 's citation in the CLT20 did not impact his chances of bowling in international cricket - he was only suspended from doing so in BCCI-organised tournaments - Lloyd had expressed annoyance at the scrutiny when West Indies arrived in India last October and withdrew Narine from that tour , which was cut short once the West Indies players pulled out after the fourth ODI owing to contractual disputes . According to WICB , Narine had opted to rehabilitate himself and considering that he has been picked , the selectors must be confident that he has made the necessary adjustments. It would be Narine 's first time at a World Cup as he made his ODI debut in December 2011 . Although Lloyd made a general comment on the composition of the squad , he did not touch on why Bravo and Pollard were dropped. The two players , along with Darren Sammy were originally not part of the South Africa ODI series , but Sammy was subsequently included and also found a place in the World Cup squad . According to former West Indies fast bowler Michael Holding , Bravo and Pollard were being punished by the WICB for instigating the strike during the Indian tour. The players ' legal counsel said his clients were being victimised as well . Marlon Samuels , who claimed after the pull-out from the India tour that he had wanted to complete the series , has been named the vice-captain and is the most experienced player in the squad after Chris Gayle . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
