West Indies , fast bowler ODIs : 0 * West Indies have left some high-profile names out of their World Cup squad , named a young captain , and brought in a couple of players who had not played a single ODI at the time of selection. One of them is Cottrell. Pacy and aggressive , if he gets into the playing XI , Cottrell will be hoping to get off to a better start in one-day international cricket than he did in Tests ; he has played two Tests , both of which West Indies lost by an innings , in which he picked up two wickets at 98. His T20 credentials are stronger , though - he averages 22.87 in the six games he has got for West Indies. Oh , and watch out for the salutes the military man produces to celebrate his successes . Jonathan Carter 's two List A hundreds till date have come at rapid rates © BCCI West Indies , batsman ODIs : 0 Carter is the other newcomer to the West Indies squad. Unlike Cottrell , he was picked in West Indies ' World Cup 15 without having played a single international game at the time. A regular in the A team of late , Carter got his maiden call-up to the one-day side for West Indies ' ongoing series in South Africa. He came with a List A average of 32.85 in 42 games , and two brisk hundreds : 133 off 132 balls for West Indies A against India A in September 2013 , and 109 off 111 balls for Barbados against Trinidad & Tobago in February 2014 . Yasir Shah 's sole ODI appearance so far came 40 months ago © AFP Pakistan , legspinner ODIs : 1 Twenty-eight-year-old Shah debuted in first-class cricket at 16. Nine years later he played his first international , an ODI against Zimbabwe. Three and a half years after that , he was picked in Pakistan 's World Cup squad , before he had turned out a second time in 50-overs cricket. His ability to outsmart international batsmen can not be questioned , given his 12 wickets at 17.25 against Australia in the UAE in late 2014. Pakistan will be hoping for more of the same , especially given Saeed Ajmal and Mohammad Hafeez 's bowling suspensions . Bangladesh will be hoping Taijul Islam 's ability to start with a bang extends to his first World Cup © AFP Bangladesh , left-arm spinner ODIs : 1 Taijul was only one ODI old at the time of his World Cup selection , but what a memorable ODI that was for Bangladesh. He snipped Zimbabwe 's tail with three wickets in three balls to ensure they were routed for 128 , and Bangladesh completed a 5-0 series sweep. That was the very first hat-trick by an ODI debutant. Taijul , it seemed , was making a habit of setting records early in his career : just a month earlier he had taken 8 for 38 in only his third Test , against Zimbabwe , to register the best Test innings figures ever for Bangladesh. What will he do at his first World Cup ? If 21-year-old Soumya Sarkar gets a game at the World Cup , Bangladesh will be expecting him to pitch in with both bat and ball © ICC/Getty Bangladesh , allrounder ODIs : 1 Sarkar will be Bangladesh 's other greenhorn at the World Cup. He too was picked with just one ODI to his name , and he will have the added pressure of having to fill a dual role if called upon in the playing XI - he is one in a rare breed of Bangladesh allrounder who bowls medium pace instead of spin , which might bump him into the XI despite his inexperience in Australian and New Zealand conditions . Honourable mention : Ireland fast bowler Peter Chase was the only other player picked for the World Cup without having as yet debuted in ODIs . * The numbers are based on the players ' stats at the time of team selection . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
