World Cup 2015 January 15 , 2015 'I 'm not a lucky charm ' - Mike Young 6 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 6 Mike Young : " They do n't need a lucky charm , they 're good enough. I 'm here to impart anything I can to help. " © AFP The fielding coach and motivator Mike Young has been to three World Cups with Australia , and after a break from the team through most of 2014 he has returned to Darren Lehmann 's coaching staff weeks before a fourth campaign. He is rejoining the team at a time when fielding confidence is not at its highest following a sequence of dropped chances and missed run-outs in the Border-Gavaskar series . You 've been away from the Australian team but are now back in time for the World Cup . It 's great to be back. I 've been looking forward to this ever since I got the call. I 've been up in the north woods and actually the day I left it was 20 below zero Fahrenheit and there was 15 inches of snow following me as I drove to the airport six hours back to Chicago. Then I got out here and it 's 90 degrees out here - that was a wake-up call . When did you get the call to come back to the team ? It 's been about a month I knew. Darren ( Lehmann ) called me and said get involved with the tri-series and the World Cup , so very pumped up about that . This will be your fourth World Cup campaign with Australia. Winning the trophy in 2003 and 2007 , and knocked out in the quarter-finals in 2011 , which was not so good. What do you take out of those campaigns ? First of all let me comment on the not so good. Playing in India we made it to the knockout round and we played pretty well and almost beat India. What I take out of them is experience. Every World Cup game is important. I can pass on a few little things here and there from those World Cups but these guys know what they 're doing . In 2013-14 you worked with the team through the home summer and in South Africa and fielding standards were very good but then you did n't continue. Why was that ? Darren was just moving the staff around , making some changes. I 'd been with the team and I 'm back for now. Greg Blewett I know very well , he 's doing a great job , he and I talk every day. It 's good to inject new people - the coaching projection , to be quite frank , is if you 're doing a good job you want to make yourself redundant. It sounds crazy and people do n't like to hear that about most of their work , but there comes a time when they need to have another injection of a different personality to keep players sharp. I think what Boof 's done here is a really good job . " Nobody on this planet in cricket respects how hard it is to catch a cricket ball more than me , because I did n't play. When I got into the game I was amazed. These guys are the best in the world - you 're going to drop some balls , you 're going to catch some. " Mike Young What have you made of their fielding performances this summer ? I was in America , I followed it and read some things and I take offence to some of those things because there 's a lot of facts , and nobody on this planet in cricket respects how hard it is to catch a cricket ball more than me , because I did n't play. When I got into the game I was amazed. For years in America on ESPN Sportscenter they 've got the top 10 plays of the day. I called up New York City and said 'that was a nice play baseball-wise , but I see two of those every match in cricket that are better than that'. All of a sudden I 'm watching Sportscenter , they 've got top 10 plays and there 's a cricketer on it. I was happy about that because they have no idea how hard it is. These guys are the best in the world - you 're going to drop some balls , you 're going to catch some . Catches win matches in any sport , but in a World Cup it 's even more important to hold those ? The worst thing to do is to say it 's more important , honestly. Because why put the excess pressure on somebody when it 's already hard enough. You 're going to have good games and bad games - what I consider a drop and what other people consider a drop can be different - I see guys diving for a ball , it hits them one-handed and it 's labelled they put it down. Come on , it 's not that easy. I think that [ the fielding problems ] has been overplayed a bit . Darren has spoken about how it 's not an issue of training volume but more confidence dropping after a couple chances have been missed . Confidence is everything. But to their credit they 're so resilient , they 've been through so much , they bounce right back. You 're going to drop a catch , no big deal. I 'm going to go public on one thing - I 've been around coaching for 30 years , I read something the other day and it does n't matter who wrote it , but I have a problem with people calling me a lucky charm. I have a problem with that as a professional. I 'm not a lucky charm , I 'm not a horseshoe. They do n't need a lucky charm , they 're good enough. I 'm here to impart anything I can to help. My job is to help Blewey . Ricky Ponting wrote a column recently in which he said one of your qualities is that when later in a season guys are getting tired or have sore hands , they will still want to train with you because of how you operate . Ricky was the best thing for me because he loved fielding training. Being Ricky Ponting the superstar and the captain , if he 's going to do it people will follow. That made my job so much easier , and let 's not forget the talent. I just take a different approach , I come from a different background. This is my coaching style. Some guys might not like it , I do n't know , but I 'm just there to help . Do you know what you 'll be doing after the World Cup ? I have no idea. If they wish for me to continue I 'll happily do it - I 'm an Australian , do n't let the accent fool you - I 'd love to continue on but that 's not my decision and whatever it is I 'll support it . Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
