Australia are expectedly No. 1. Who takes silver ? shares 83 India win 70 % of their knockout games in World Cups , next only to Australia ( 71 % ) © AFP Australia have won four World Cups , the most. They have won 55 matches in World Cups , the most. Their batsmen have scored 16,165 runs , the most. Their bowlers have taken 556 wickets , the most. They have had a 34-match unbeaten streak extending across four World Cups , by far the longest. It is inarguable that Australia have been the best team in World Cup history . However , which team has been second-best ? England have been in three finals , without ever winning the title. India and West Indies have also been in three finals , winning two each. Pakistan have reached the semi-finals on six occasions , making the final on two , and winning once. New Zealand have got past the group stage eight times , more often than even Australia . Only the top-eight cricketing nations have been considered for the purpose of this analysis . Win-loss ratios Two teams have won twice as many matches as they have lost. Australia have 55 wins with 19 losses , while South Africa have 30 wins and 15 losses. The only team that loses more matches than they win is Sri Lanka , who have 31 wins and 32 losses. However , Sri Lanka received Test status much after the other seven teams , and have only been a force to reckon with during five of the ten World Cups. During the last five editions Sri Lanka have in fact won twice as many matches as they have lost , 27 wins and 12 losses . At the other end of the spectrum are West Indies , who had the best win-loss ratio ( 2.4 ) in the first five World Cups ( 22 wins , nine losses ) , and the worst ratio ( 1.0 ) in the next five editions ( 16 wins , 16 losses ) . New Zealand have won 40 World Cup games , next only to Australia , who have 55 wins. However , they have also lost 29 games , the second most. As a consequence , their win-loss ratio ( 1.37 ) is the second-worst , next only to Sri Lanka . Win-loss ratios in World Cups Team
