World Cup 2015 January 22 , 2015 Forget conditions , just perform - Mashrafe shares 18 Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza felt that there was no end to expectations from his side © AFP Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza wants to put aside all the talk about conditions in Australia and New Zealand and turn the team 's attention to performing at the highest stage in international cricket. He has asked the rookies to emulate the established players , and for the established to put themselves on show at their third World Cup . On their last day of training at the Shere Bangla National Stadium before leaving for Brisbane on January 24 , Mashrafe was fervent about his side 's need to avoid negativity and play as a team rather than focus on individual targets . Bangladesh have nine World Cup first timers among whom Nasir Hossain , Anamul Haque , Al-Amin Hossain , Taskin Ahmed and Arafat Sunny have impressed since their ODI debuts. All nine newcomers made their debut after the 2011 World Cup , and the captain believed that some among them will follow the 2007 trio of newcomers - Shakib Al Hasan , Tamim Iqbal and Mushfiqur Rahim - to have a breakout tournament . " Condition is actually a mental issue , depending on how someone views it individually , " Mashrafe said. " If a player wants to take the recent run-making in Australia positively , it might help him score runs when he goes there. Everyone is excited to play in the World Cup , and is ready to perform in front of big players. The junior players have more energy to do well , they play without much baggage . " We had Shakib , Tamim and Mushfiqur starring in 2007. Now we have the likes of Soumya ( Sarkar ) , Bijoy ( Anamul ) and Mominul ( Haque ) among several others who are playing in their first World Cup. I am sure they are thinking along the same lines. " Hathurusingha wants Tamim to play at least two warm-ups Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha has said that he would be happy to see Tamim Iqbal play in two of the four scheduled warm-up games before the World Cup. Tamim had arthroscopic evaluation and surgery on his left knee on December 29 . Apart from Tamim , Bangladesh have picked Anamul Haque and Soumya Sarkar as openers with the latter being the back-up. Hathurusingha said that the adaptation of the two youngsters to Australian conditions will be important , in the event of Tamim 's absence . " Tamim is coming back from injury , he is on our plan , " Hathurusingha said. " We are probably looking at this stage that he is playing at least two games before we play our first match ( against Afghanistan ) . If we can get him to stick to that plan , I am happy with that. When you talk about Bijoy and Soumya , they are very talented players. How quickly they adapt to the condition , it 's going to be a big factor. " When asked whether he would be happy to select Tamim if he is not fully fit , Hathurusingha plainly said : " If he is not 100 per cent , he is not playing. " At the same time , Mashrafe put the onus on his three lieutenants - Shakib , Tamim and Mushfiqur - to put up significant performances in a tournament that has n't had many single-handed shows from the trio . Shakib is Bangladesh 's highest run-getter and second-highest wicket-taker in World Cups while Tamim is the only other player to have crossed the 300-run mark in the tournament for Bangladesh though he has only had a single performance of note : against India in 2007. Mushfiqur also did well in that game against India but averages 21.20 after an ordinary tournament in 2011 . Mushfiqur , however , has been in good form since he was almost dropped after the 2011 World Cup while Shakib has been the most consistent performer since 2009. Tamim has only recovered from a lean patch , and is going through rehabilitation from a knee injury. Mashrafe said that Mushfiqur 's runs , Shakib 's wickets and Mahmudullah 's return to form will help the team . " Shakib , Tamim and Mushfiqur have been performing for as long as they have been in the Bangladesh team. Every player goes through good and bad patches. I also feel that it is their time and stage to do well. They will get more attention if they do well in the World Cup. They do n't have to take extra pressure , since this is not the end . " I can speak of Mushfiqur among notable batsmen. He has the capability to stand toe-to-toe with the best batsmen in the world. He has done well for the past couple of years. Shakib can bowl well in any wicket , it does n't matter to him whether it spins or not. ( Mahmudullah ) Riyad is back in form. " The Bangladesh captain felt that there was no end to expectations from his side but indicated that rather than thinking about them , performance should count more . " There is a lot of expectation from many , but they are not saying it out loud. Maybe at the end of the World Cup , they will say that we should have reached further. There is no end to expectation , but if we do well , the hope about the team will keep increasing. Without thinking much about it , we should focus on playing well. We will feel better if we can do well in a global event. " Mashrafe also pointedly asked some of his teammates to think of the team first rather than focusing on individual performances. Anamul has said he would like to be among the top ten batsmen in the tournament while Taijul Islam wants to be among the top bowlers . " Whether someone wants to be in the top ten is their personal goal , but even if someone does n't make it in the top 20 and the team does well , that 'll matter more to me. We will be happy if that happens , people will remember it forever and we will become part of history . " There are a lot of ups and downs in performance so it might not help a player 's career if he is in the top ten. His form might dip in the six months after the World Cup , so I feel it is important for individual players to focus on the team. " Coach Chandika Hathurusingha said that he was pleased with how the team had shaped up during the home leg of their training camp ahead of the World Cup. Bangladesh trained from January 12 with only a two-day break in the middle. He said that the two extra warm-up games will be vital to their build-up to the tournament proper . " I am very happy with the talent that we have and the improvement we have shown in the last six months in terms of skill development as well as attitude and their commitment , " Hathurusingha said. " I was really pleased about what we did in practice in match scenarios. It gives us a lot of confidence. Players are also feeling good about their own game . " I think in the Brisbane stint , as well as the four ( practice ) matches , it will give us a good indication about where we are. It 's all about getting used to the conditions and execute our plans. So those two matches in Brisbane are important. " Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
