Zimbabwe news January 23 , 2015 New Zimbabwe regime aims high 12 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 12 Zimbabwe 's new managing director is hoping Elton Chigumbura and his side can return from the World Cup with their heads held high © AFP While the big boys of world cricket are bellowing about their hopes of winning the World Cup - South Africa in the literal sense , Australia with dominance in a triangular series at home , New Zealand by breaking records - the little guys are contemplating their chances too. Just not for this World Cup . " By 2023 we want to be contending for the World Cup. That 's the aim , " Alastair Campbell , Zimbabwe Cricket 's newly-appointed managing director said. " It 's not an aim that 's unrealistic. It 's achievable. We 've got a long-term view on this. " Campbell was given the organisation 's top job at the beginning of the year and put in charge of healing an ailing operation left embarrassed by the team being blanked in Bangladesh late last year. The former captain , who was previously the convener of selectors and in charge of the cricket committee , will oversee everything from finances to future cricketers and has put an eight-year plan in place to do that , with an eye on that year 's World Cup to measure his progress . " This is an executive role. It comes about because the board have found a real need for Zimbabwe cricket to progress in the right direction. After the Bangladesh tour , nobody had a pleasant word to say about Zimbabwe cricket. The results were n't of the required nature and there has been fall out from that. There is a new coach , a new structure will be put in place and that falls under my plate , " Campbell explained in his first interaction with media on Thursday in Harare . " After this World Cup , we no longer automatically qualify unless we are in the top eight. We will have to go to a qualifying tournament and if we do n't qualify , that will have dire consequences for the game in Zimbabwe. So we need to create viable player pathways so that we identify talent and make sure that we are nurturing that talent . " And when we 're talking eight years , guys that are 15 , 16 and 17 now those are going to be our World Cup contenders then , so that 's where the effort needs to be spent. We need to make sure our under-19 and under-17 sides are competitive and are getting access to the most professional coaching available. That 's easier said than done because a lot of that stuff takes money. " That is the one thing ZC have struggled for more than anything else. Their cash-flow problems have included mismanagement of an ICC loan , two crippling player strikes in as many seasons over non-payment and they remain knee-deep in debt. But Campbell , who is also an entrepreneur , is looking to change that by creating a more transparent financial model of which they hope investment will form the foundation stone . " My staff and I are going to go out there to local and international corporates and engage them to play a part in development structures , " Campbell said. " But we want to make sure we are not paying lip service to our development structures and there is tangible coaching going on and tangible benefits from the money that is being put in. We need to make sure we are accountable for the funds. It is a big task but we are going to start from square one again and make sure we build up slowly. " After attracting companies such as Stanbic Bank to back their T20 competition , ZC lost significant chunks of sponsorship when the honeymoon period after their Test comeback ended. Zimbabwe 's wider financial crisis was one reason for that , ZC 's own murky finances another and Campbell has promised there will be no repeat of the latter. " Maybe in the past some of the corporates have felt that ZC has n't been accountable enough for cash that has been given. We want to say that from now on every dollar you give us , there is some tangible reward and result from that , " he said . Money will go into academies and age-group teams as well as the domestic game. Campbell said ZC would even look into " reopening " the Southern Rocks franchise in Masvingo , which was dissolved at the start of this season , once they have got themselves on stable ground. For now , any money obtained will be spent on coaching but also on developing less technical aspects of the game . " There 's so many things that come into making a good sportsman. Donald Bradman said cricket is 90 % mental and we need to nurture that mental side. Too much of that is neglected , " Campbell said. " Everyone thinks that if you hit a thousand balls every day that will make you a good player but if you ca n't handle pressure , you 're not able to play on the big stage. " The immediate future presents the biggest stage and although Zimbabwe are not among the candidates who can win the World Cup , Campbell is expecting a certain minimum from them that he hopes will serve as the drawcard for the first investments. " We 're hoping our team can go to the World Cup , do well and be competitive. We 're under no illusion that we need to beat Ireland , we need to beat the UAE but against those other sides we need to be competitive , " he said . " Sometimes it 's the manner in which you lose. That 's what irritated the cricketing public - the way that the team have lost. You want to see them being competitive. If they 're competitive to the last five overs , they 've had a good game. But if the game is gone in the 30th over and everyone turns off the TV and Zimbabwe have lost , that 's when people get irritated. I hope our guys can go there , take advantage of playing on a world stage and come back with their heads held high because that helps with the commercial side of the game. If you have a team that 's competitive , a team that 's winning some of the time. a team that 's seen to be improving , people are willing to part with their money because they see its nice being associated with a good brand. " But he also allowed himself to dream a little bit about some of the upsets Zimbabwe could pull off. " India are in their pool and they have already been on the road for three months so they will be tired and there 's a sniff there , " he said. " Pakistan are unpredictable. We 've beaten them before , we can beat them again. " Everyone , even the boss , can dream a little . Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
