World Cup 2015 January 30 , 2015 'England need guys who can break games' ESPNcricinfo staff Play 29 : 49 'Young blood will instil much-needed aggression' England arrive at the World Cup having endured a few torrid months , especially in one-day cricket. After series losses to India at home and in Sri Lanka , the selectors decided to axe Alastair Cook as captain in favour of Eoin Morgan. In this episode of Contenders , former India captain Rahul Dravid and former South Africa captain Graeme Smith reflect on England 's chances in the tournament. Can the three-time finalists leave the distractions behind and finally win a World Cup ? Is their formula for playing ODI cricket archaic ? And could some of the emerging players make an impression on the biggest stage in the game ? What they said about … Cook 's axing as captain Dravid : Better late than never. It would have been really difficult for them to go into a World Cup with the captain in such poor form . Smith : It 's very important that as a captain you perform yourself , that you lead by example and often that benefits your leadership. But for Alastair he just carried a huge amount of baggage since the Ashes . Pietersen 's absence Dravid : In my opinion , they made that decision a little too early because he 's been a great player. And irrespective of what your feelings are about him , he 's a kind of player that can impact a game , change a game . Smith : I think he 's very much an individual style cricketer and one of the things we also said was you either love him or you hate him. Probably within the team you also found that happening . England 's brand of ODI cricket Dravid : I think England got stuck playing the same old form of cricket that they have always played and that got them great success till 1992. They never really adapted to and changed the way the game just changed all across the world . Smith : If you look at England , it 's very methodical. It 's people who can do okay , maybe get you an 80 or 90.But there are n't any guys there that can really break games at the moment and they need to start developing that mindset within their teams before the World Cup so that they can get say a 100 off 70 balls and win the game for the team . The opening game against Australia Smith : I think for them to be playing against Australia at the MCG is going to be a huge motivation. They have an opportunity to say , 'We are going to stamp our authority and we are going to beat the host in the first game up' . Morgan as captain Dravid : When he first came on the scene , he was not burdened with the responsibility of trying to be the main batsman in the side or like the leader in the team. I just think over the last year , he almost feels like that , because a lot of younger players are coming in . Smith : His greatest challenge is more behind the scenes - to give confidence to the guys , and give them a style of play that will suit them , create balance , and to relieve the darkness . Moeen Ali 's emergence Dravid : He 's a lovely player to watch. He plays positively and looks to take the opposition on , which is a good thing. It allows England to have a left-right combination at the top , which is another advantage . Smith : He surprised me. I thought he would be more methodical than what he has been , he 's shown a little bit of flair , and bowled offspins , which has been a bit of a surprise. He 's become an all-round package . James Anderson leading the attack Dravid : He is important. Like Dale Steyn , he does swing the new ball upfront. He can take wickets upfront. His death bowling , remains to be seen , that for me is the uncertainty . Playing in Australian conditions Dravid : What 's happened to England in the last few World Cups is that they 've always played a lot of Test cricket and come into the World Cup after a really long winter. This time it 's relatively relaxed. They played a lot of ODIs in Sri Lanka , they are playing ODIs in Australia before the World Cup so I think that 's definitely going to help them . Smith : They need the ball to swing , they need the ball to do something , they maybe lack a little bit of pace , but maybe Finn can provide it. Experience is certainly on their side with the two opening bowlers . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
