The Pacers Who Can Scorch the World Cup Pitches The Pacers Who Can Scorch the World Cup Pitches The ICC World Cup will be played in Australia and New Zealand for the first time since 1992. The conditions will suit fast bowlers and the best pacers in the world will be itching to stamp their authority on the world 's premier ODI tournament . Last updated on Tuesday , 27 January , 2015 16 : 22 IST Total Shares A file photo of Dale Steyn . © AP The 2015 edition of the World Cup is expected to belong to the fast men. Here is a look at the bowlers expected to breathe fire on the quick tracks Down Under : 1. DALE STEYN The tag of potentially the most lethal bowler in this World Cup has to go to Dale Steyn , purely on reputation. South Africa have never won the World Cup and their premier fast bowler will be one of their biggest weapons as they try and break the jinx. The Proteas are desperate to shed their chokers ' tag and the 31 year old express fast bowler could play a huge role in helping his team fulfil a 23 year long dream. The man who has taken 151 ODI wickets in 96 matches so far has said he does n't mind going wicketless in the tournament as long as South Africa win the World Cup , but the conditions in most venues should suit Steyn 's style of lethal fast bowling . 2. MITCHELL STARC Though the other Mitchell is considered to be the most dangerous Aussie bowler , Mitchell Starc has shown that on current form he is perhaps a bigger threat. The 24 year old , who will be playing his first World Cup is known for his late swing. In his first 17 one-day internationals , Starc took 3 five-wicket hauls. In the 32 ODIs he has played so far , Starc has already bagged 61 wickets. In home conditions , this 6 feet 4 inch bowler promises to be a match winner . 3. JAMES ANDERSON England 's pace bowling spearhead James Anderson falls in the veteran category when you consider the fact that he has already played 3 World Cups. The 32 year old pacer should thrive in Aussie and Kiwi conditions. His ability to swing the ball at good pace will be something England will bank on as they eye their maiden World Cup title. Anderson 's figures of 4/18 vs India in the ongoing tri-series featuring England , Australia and India proved yet again that he can trouble the best batsmen in the world in conditions that will more often than not suit his style of bowling . 4. MITCHELL McCLENAGHAN Mitchell McClenaghan might not be a household name yet , but the 28 year old has the potential to become one of the most potent bowlers of his era. The left arm fast bowler , who was the all-time second fastest to 50 ODI wickets will look to make the most of his home conditions. He is the leading wicket-taker in New Zealand 's ongoing bilateral ODI series vs Sri Lanka. His 10 wickets in 5 matches helped the Kiwis win the series in thumping fashion , with 1 match still left to play. His 4 wickets vs India in the first ODI in Napier in January 2014 was what helped the Kiwis win that encounter. The 28 year old is being tagged as one of the most dangerous bowlers to look out for in the World Cup . 5. MOHAMMAD IRFAN Pakistan has traditionally produced very good fast bowlers. In this World Cup , the 7 foot 1 inch tall giant of a fast bowler Mohammad Irfan is one who could be very dangerous. The 32 year old rejected lucrative offers to play in England and South Africa to stay fresh for the World Cup. In the ODI series vs New Zealand in the UAE , Irfan was the highest wicket-taker for Pakistan with 9 wickets. Irfan , who once worked in a plastic pipe factory before taking up cricket full time , bowls 140 kmph plus consistently and will be playing his first World Cup. His first assignment will be to tackle the very strong Indian batting order in Pakistan 's World Cup opener . Story first published on : Tuesday , 27 January 2015 15 : 12 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
