World Cup 2015 February 1 , 2015 Bangladesh out to prove they belong 127 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 127 A lot will depend on Shakib Al Hasan if Bangladesh are to go far in the World Cup © AFP Summary Bangladesh have not won a single ODI against top opposition in the year leading up to this World Cup , a competition that they worked hard to reach from 1979 before finally breaking through 20 years later . Close calls , big defeats , unedifying collapses and player tantrums all played a part in their on-field troubles in 2014. Bangladesh 's only performance of note over the last 12 months was the 5-0 sweep against Zimbabwe. Otherwise , they have found different ways to lose : they made 326 against Pakistan , reduced Sri Lanka to 67 for 8 , bowled India out for 105 and contrived to lose each of those games. By mid-June , the team had undone the good work of the past two years and seemed to have returned to the dark days of 2011 when they suffered their last slump . Bangladesh , who have not visited Australia or New Zealand in four years , are set to play Australia , Sri Lanka , England and New Zealand in the group stages. Both host countries , as well as Sri Lanka , are strong contenders for the title , while England are expected to enter the knockouts. It could leave Bangladesh with the task of simply beating Afghanistan and Scotland to salvage some pride . Worryingly for Bangladesh , Afghanistan and Scotland have spent more than a month preparing for the tournament in Australia and New Zealand. And Afghanistan even defeated them in the Asia Cup last year . Still , Bangladesh can hope. They have a strong backbone of ODI specialists alongside a pace attack that could do well if the conditions suit them. Overall , confidence has trickled through after the wins against Zimbabwe but to make themselves count in the World Cup , they would have to beat one of the higher-ranked sides in their group and have a chance for a quarter-final spot . Fact box 2011 - Group stage Squad Mashrafe Mortaza ( capt ) , Tamim Iqbal , Anamul Haque , Soumya Sarkar , Mominul Haque , Shakib Al Hasan , Mushfiqur Rahim , Mahmudullah , Nasir Hossain , Sabbir Rahman , Taskin Ahmed , Al-Amin Hossain , Rubel Hossain , Arafat Sunny , Taijul Islam Fixtures Wednesday , February 18 : Bangladesh v Afghanistan , Canberra Saturday , February 21 : Bangladesh v Australia , Brisbane Thursday , February 26 : Bangladesh v Sri Lanka , Melbourne Thursday , March 5 : Bangladesh v Scotland , Nelson Monday , March 9 : Bangladesh v England , Adelaide Friday , March 13 : Bangladesh v New Zealand , Hamilton World Cup pedigree The 2007 World Cup saw Bangladesh record a famous win over India in the group stage. Their tournament got better when they crushed South Africa in the Super Eights , rounding off their best campaign. In 2011 , when they were one of the co-hosts , they beat England but were hammered by West Indies and South Africa. The lead-up to this tournament is reminiscent of their 2003 campaign where they lost all group matches including to Kenya and Canada . X-Factor In the past , Bangladesh have done well when they have been pushed to a corner. After a tough year , they have been hardened by the flak from fans and media , to find form. If they are smart and hungry , they could hit their stride at the right time . Players in focus Shakib Al Hasan Shakib has been Bangladesh 's best cricketer of this generation , and he will need to lift his game if they are to win a few games. He has n't been quite consistent over the past couple of years but he is the one man in the line-up who can be expected to regularly put up a challenge with both bat and ball . Tamim Iqbal An attacking opener , Tamim has had to deal with instant stardom , after his sensational entry in 2007 , a changing technique , and the pressure to make a Test hundred ( the landmark that has eluded him since 2010 ) . But he has often bounced back from poor form , and will be hungry to shine on the big stage . Mushfiqur Rahim Bangladesh 's best batsman in 2014 , Mushfiqur has scored heavily and has often looked like the only batsman capable of getting the team out of jams. In the World Cup , he will be without the pressure of captaincy after Mashrafe Mortaza replaced him in ODIs in November . Game style Bangladesh 's batsmen have historically operated in two gears. When they do n't click , they look to survive. At other times , they try and blast everything out of the park. The bowling unit is by and large defensive , banking on a spin attack with deep-set fields and a belief that saving runs is what would get them wickets . Prediction Beating Afghanistan and Scotland is possibly top on their list of priorities , but it is hard to forget that this team has gone toe-to-toe against stronger opposition. It would be safe to bet on a creditable first-round bow out . World Cup stats No Bangladesh batsman has scored a century in the four World Cups that they have been a part of . Shakib Al Hasan is Bangladesh 's highest scorer and has the most fifties . If they were an actor Cuba Gooding Jr : a two-hit wonder ? Theme song " Eye of the Tiger " - Survivor Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
