World Cup 2015 January 31 , 2015 Conditions shrink India 's chances Play 29 : 31 'India heavily reliant on Virat Kohli' India go into this World Cup not only as the defending champions but also as one of the only three teams that have won it more than once. Had they won the World T20 final against Sri Lanka in April 2014 , they would have held all three big limited-overs international trophies. In the lead-up to the World Cup , they have either been the No. 1 ODI side in the world or thereabouts. Yet you would n't put them among the two or three big favourites to win the tournament . A lot of this has to do with the venues. The last time India played ODIs in Australia and New Zealand , they failed to make the final of a triangular series in Australia and went winless in a five-match bilateral series in New Zealand. India are half the side when their spinners can not dictate terms and their spinners are unlikely to be too effective on pitches in New Zealand and Australia , though the big grounds in Australia will give them some breathing space . Between World Cups , spin bowlers have averaged the worst - 50 - in New Zealand , with an economy rate of 4.97 , which is second only to 5.02 in South Africa. Little wonder that India have struggled in South Africa , New Zealand and Australia . India will face another unique challenge. By the time the World Cup starts , most of their players will have played without a proper break for almost a year. If they make it to the final of the World Cup , most of them will have been away from their homes for a stretch of 144 days , starting with a Test series and triangular series in Australia . The odds might not be stacked in India 's favour , but the field is limited and the format soft. There is no way a big team can be knocked out in the league stages unless things go nightmarishly wrong , repeatedly , and after that it is a matter of three good days. Temperament has not really been an issue for this side under MS Dhoni , the only major captain from the 2011 event to survive so long. It is not going to be easy with the conditions not in India 's favour , but with the nature of the format and shrinking competition in world cricket , do n't rule India out . © ESPNcricinfo Ltd World Cup pedigree Until June 25 , 1983 , India were nobodies in limited-overs cricket. Since that day , when Kapil Dev 's team fashioned India 's most famous success to date , they have entered every World Cup with high expectations , winning the last one , thus joining Australia and West Indies as the only repeat winners. They have come close on three other occasions : losing the 2003 final and two semi-finals at home , in 1987 and 1996. The alternate editions , 1992 , 1999 , and 2007 have been strictly forgettable. The law of averages then does n't make for good news after their 2011 success . X-factor The oldest member of the side , one of the few survivors from the 2011 win , MS Dhoni might be the most familiar face in cricket today , but he still has it in him to surprise. With his tactics , with his field placements , with his batting. It is hard to imagine India doing well in this World Cup without Dhoni being at his best as a batsman , wicketkeeper , and captain . Players in focus Virat Kohli Virat Kohli began to believe he belonged in international cricket when he last toured Australia , scoring a hundred in the Adelaide Test and then following up with an 86-ball 133 in an ODI in Hobart ODI that propelled India to 321 in 36.4 overs. Now - despite a lean 2014 - he is India 's batting mainstay. How well he comes out of this inevitable bad patch will have a big bearing on how well India do in the World Cup . Suresh Raina To the spirit of the team , Raina 's worth is far more than the runs he scores. He is India 's best slip fielder. He bowls handy part-time offspin. He is selfless , in that he bats in difficult positions. And he does n't look at his own average , which , while not great , is on the mend after he returned to the side with a Man-of-the-Series performance in the ODIs in England in mid-2014 . Ravindra Jadeja India 's best one-day bowler since the last World Cup. He is excellent in the field too ; his rocket arm will be required in Australia. He was picked despite a shoulder injury. That shoulder , which the selectors expect to be fine in time for game one , will be needed. On India 's last trip to New Zealand , he single-handedly tied a game off his bat. Against all expectations , Jadeja has carved himself a place as a successful international cricketer ; now he enters the biggest stage . Fact box
