World Cup 2015 February 1 , 2015 WI unlikely to make it to quarterfinals - Smith ESPNcricinfo staff Play 23 : 27 'Absence of key players can hurt WI' West Indies have struggled with turmoil in the build-up the World Cup. Dwayne Bravo was sacked as ODI captain and left out of the squad along with allrounder Kieron Pollard , and Sunil Narine has withdrawn from the squad. In this episode of the CONTENDERS , former India captain Rahul Dravid and former South Africa captain Graeme Smith reflect on West Indies ' prospects in the tournament. Can the two-time champions rise from the disarray ? Can new captain Jason Holder inspire a strong run ? And can superstars such as Chris Gayle stamp their class on the tournament ? What they said about … West Indies ' difficult build-up Dravid : I think there 's not a lot of stability in the team. If you look at the team there is a lot of talent , but I do n't know whether they are organised enough . Smith : They bring a lot of character to the game. When you look at their team having left out high-quality players for behind-the-scenes stuff , it 's disappointing because you lose out on players that people love to watch . Holder as captain Dravid : Till six months ago , he would have probably been thinking , " I 'd like to be able to play the World Cup as a player. " Till six-eight months ago he would have not even been sure of his place in the squad . Smith : With everything that 's going on , managing personalities and getting the best out of them is going to be a challenge. So how he gets them to play as a team is going to be unique for him and it 's asking a lot out of a young fast bowler . Chris Gayle 's importance Dravid : He 's got the ability , it 's just a question of whether he 's in the right frame of mind and he 's physically fit enough to be able to do that over a long tournament . Smith : You could come up against him , he could get a hundred and that could beat you. That 's the challenge you face with someone like him. He 's a powerhouse player . Marlon Samuels ' role Dravid : Like a lot of the West Indies players , not really consistent. Brilliant on the day , really fantastic to watch on the day , but not really consistent enough to do it day-in day-out , over and over again . Smith : He 's got a real strut around him , a personality , a form of arrogance , a unique batting style. I think he plays spin really well and he 's got a nice balance between knocking the ball around and a power game . How far the side can go Dravid : I think they 'll make the quarterfinals and they 'll be a dangerous team. Teams may not necessarily want to play them in the quarterfinals because they 've got the kind of players who on their day can win you a game . Smith : I 'm going to take a flyer and say they 're not going to go through. I 'm going to back one of the minnows to qualify heading in. Just on their day if they do n't wake up , they can easily be beaten . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
