World Cup 2015 February 6 , 2015 Heavyweights look to exorcise knockout ghosts Graeme Smith : SA is a team full of match-winners Summary When South Africa first featured in a World Cup , in 1992 , they had only played three one-day matches. By the time they played in their sixth tournament , in 2011 , they had participated in 452 ODIs. In the 19 intervening years , South Africa were often one of the strongest sides around. They won almost twice as much as they lost , plucked series victories home and abroad , and produced players good enough to occupy top spots on international rankings for extended periods. But they did not have the one thing they wanted most - a major tournament trophy . Since the 2011 World Cup , South Africa 's Test side has reached the summit and has had to come to grips with major changes , including the departure of Gary Kirsten , the coach who took India to the World Cup title , and the retirement of stalwarts Mark Boucher , Jacques Kallis , and Graeme Smith. Other teams may have been blown away by such change but South Africa only stuttered a touch before they emerged stronger. They retained their form in the longest format and developed their limited-over teams . Their new captain , AB de Villiers , and coach , Russell Domingo , have moulded the team by holding on to the best parts - consistency , hunger and a collection of quality cricketers - and added calmness. For the first time , South Africa 's World Cup build-up has not focused on this tournament as the be-all and end-all , but has been seen as a step along the way. If it just happens to be that final step , nobody will complain . © ESPNcricinfo Ltd World Cup pedigree There have been other teams who have neither won the World Cup nor made it to a final , but none appear as scarred by the event as South Africa. Heartbreak has haunted South Africa since the heavens opened to deny them a place in the 1992 final and has then hounded them every event after that. In terms of personnel and potential , South Africa have been good enough to win every one of the six tournaments they have been to , but they have always been pushed back by pressure. Whether they have exorcised the ghosts of past tournaments will determine if they can fulfill their promise this time . X-Factor A top six that combines intent with enterprise , an arsenal of quicks equipped with the ability to move the ball and extract extra bounce , and a talented spin department means South Africa 's strength lies both in numbers and in diversity. They have shifted from relying on a handful of players and now share responsibility in terms of runs scored and wickets taken. South Africa 's leadership group includes those who have led in all three formats , which makes for an even spread of talent to take them over the line . Players in focus Dale Steyn Widely lauded as the best fast bowler in the world , Dale Steyn is often the difference between South Africa and the rest. Speed and swing make him scary enough but he also brings a snarl. In conditions that suit him , he can silence the most stoic opponents. And Steyn is only getting harder to face - he enjoyed his best season of one-day cricket in 2013-14 with 21 wickets at a staggering average of 8.09 . AB de Villiers AB de Villiers ' bat can be golf club , tennis racket , magic wand or swizzle stick - such is the range of his strokeplay. Along with classic cover drives and powerful pulls , de Villiers dazzles with reverse flicks and inside-out scoops and is often the spark that ignites the innings. He has hovered around the world 's No. 1 one-day ranking for the last five years and captaincy has not dimmed his form either. In the lead-up to the tournament , he smashed the fastest century in ODIs , off just 31 balls in a match against West Indies . Imran Tahir South Africa have seldom been able to rely on a spinner until now. Imran Tahir has become one of their most dependable limited-overs ' performers who plays both an attacking and holding role in middle overs. In 2014 , he had the lowest economy rate of all all bowlers who sent down more than 100 overs , 4.31 , and was South Africa 's fourth-highest wicket-taker with 21 scalps. He has become key to controlling a game , even on surfaces which do not assist him and the variation he brings to the attack adds a dimension South Africa have previously lacked . Fact box 1975-1987 : Did not participate because of sanctions 1992 : Semi-finals ( Lost to England after the rain rule was applied ) 1996 : Quarter-finals ( Lost to West Indies ) 1999 : Semi-finals ( Tied with Australia , who advanced because of group-stage win ) 2003 : Group stage 2007 : Semi-finals ( Lost to Australia ) 2011 : Quarter-finals ( Lost to New Zealand ) Squad AB de Villiers ( captain ) , Hashim Amla , Kyle Abbott , Farhaan Behardien , Quinton de Kock , JP Duminy , Faf du Plessis , Imran Tahir , David Miller , Morne Morkel , Wayne Parnell , Aaron Phangiso , Vernon Philander , Rilee Rossouw , Dale Steyn Fixtures Sunday , Feb 15 v Zimbabwe in Hamilton Sunday , Feb 22 v India in Melbourne Friday , Feb 27 v West Indies in Sydney Tuesday , March 3 v Ireland in Canberra Saturday , March 7 v Pakistan in Auckland Thursday , March 12 v UAE in Wellington Game style A clinical approach has seen South Africa criticised for lack of creativity in the past but that is slowly changing. An aggressive top six and a piercing pace pack have added to their colour palette , but they will still want to stay calm at the crunch . Prediction Intense preparation , which included trips to both New Zealand and Australia ahead of the tournament , should see South Africa cross the group stages. Former players and fans believe this will be the tournament when South Africa claim the trophy but that 's what they said the last time and the time before that and … World Cup stats South Africa have qualified for five World Cup knockout matches - two quarter-finals and three semi-finals but have not won any of those games. They have also not lost them all. A factthat 's often forgotten : the 1999 semi-final was a tie . Gary Kirsten 's unbeaten 188 against UAE in 1996 is the highest score by an individual batsman in any World Cup . If they were an actor Tom Cruise. Sleek , professional , consistent , and mostly charming but yet to win the big prize . Theme song Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
