World Cup 2015 February 5 , 2015 Underprepared Zimbabwe face tough times shares 20 Play 00 : 50 Zimbabwe will be disappointed not to beat UAE but even a victory over Ireland will be regarded as a surprise " Partying like it 's 1999 " has a special meaning in Zimbabwe because it harks back to a time when things were good. That does not merely refer to the status of the country 's cricket , although it includes it. At the 1999 World Cup in England , Zimbabwe looked like an emerging giant but what followed was only a shrinking shadow . Turmoil in the country touched everything from the economy to the infrastructure and the effects of the recoil are widely documented. Less so , is the brief resurgence. Small farmers have once again begun to produce enough to sustain themselves , soon exports may follow. Cricket is slowly getting back on its feet. Soon results will come. At least that 's the hope . Since Zimbabwe 's Test comeback in 2011 , however , the numbers have not moved much. They still win around only a quarter of the ODIs they play. What has changed is cricket 's reach in the country. Zimbabwe 's transformation included a forceful drive to make cricket a sport of the majority and has unearthed talent in previously unexplored areas , like Masvingo , but the player pool remains regularly at odds with the administrators . A dispute over contracts and a tricky financial situation have deprived Zimbabwe of slick preparation and frequent competition , which the other teams have , but not dimmed their resolve. With little more than a month to go before the tournament , they appointed a new coach. Dav Whatmore won the World Cup with Sri Lanka in 1996 and oversaw some of Bangladesh 's biggest coups , including their victory over South Africa in 2007. If he can do the same with Zimbabwe , he could use this tournament to show them how far they have come and how far they could go . © ESPNcricinfo Ltd World Cup pedigree Zimbabwe have emerged from the group stage of a World Cup twice in eight appearances and only one of those was a result of their performance. In 2003 , Zimbabwe qualified for the Super Sixes because they were awarded points for England 's refusal to travel to their country. In 1999 , they beat two major teams to advance , but things have got steadily more difficult for them. At the last event , Zimbabwe 's only victories were over Associates and they suffered heavy defeats against Full Members. In total , they have won ten of their 51 World Cup matches . X-factor Everybody loves a determined underdog , which is why Zimbabwe can probably count for being a lot of people 's second favourite team. The lack of expectation could take the pressure off them and cause complacency to creep into some of the opposition. Zimbabwe may be under-rated but they have a strong core of experience and their shrewd strategies are often employed so quietly , the opposition do n't realise until it is too late. Zimbabwe 's bowlers can be watertight containers and their batsmen 's industrious strike-rotation can see them snatch passages of play and gain an advantage . Fact box
