World Cup 2015 February 5 , 2015 Experience Sri Lanka 's plus in unfamiliar conditions ESPNcricinfo staff Play 03 : 22 'Sri Lanka a well-balanced squad' Former India captain Rahul Dravid and former South African captain Graeme Smith believe Sri Lanka will be well served by their " experienced " and " high-performing cricketers " at the upcoming World Cup. Dravid and Smith were speaking on Contenders , ESPNcricinfo 's World Cup preview show . " It 's a really well-balanced squad. They 've got some really experienced batsmen , " Dravid said. " They 've got the likes of [ Kumar ] Sangakkara , [ Mahela ] Jayawardene and [ Tillakaratne ] Dilshan upfront. Even with the ball they have a good blend of some really good spinners , someone like a Rangana Herath , Sachithra Senanayake as well. Some good fast bowlers as well. Obviously the key for me is [ Lasith ] Malinga 's injury , if Malinga can recover from his [ ankle ] injury [ for which he had surgery in September ] and bowl the way he can , that makes a huge impact on the side. " " Their high-performing cricketers are their experienced cricketers , who have been around for a really long time , " Smith said. " You look around at Jayawardene , Dilshan , Sangakkara on the batting front , they still dominate the performances and that really gives the freedom to the younger generation of batsmen to play. I think Angelo Mathews [ recently ] has really stepped up and played some key innings with the bat for them and obviously he 's captain ; that 's crucial. " Although Sri Lanka have been beaten easily in their last two ODI series in India and New Zealand , they have always produced strong performances at global tournaments. Sri Lanka have reached the last two World Cup finals , losing in 2007 to Australia and 2011 to India. They also won the World T20 in Bangladesh last year. " The last two World Cups have been in the West Indies and India , so the conditions have suited them a little bit more , " Dravid said. " I think this could be their big challenge , the conditions and how they cope with it . " I always felt that it was a nice team to bat first against , if you can get a good total against them , you had a better chance for a win , " Smith said. " But if they bat first , and they get runs on the board , they certainly know how to squeeze you , tighten the game with their spinners , crafty thinkers around the game. They 're a very tough team to beat in these tournaments. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
