Play 01 : 07 Michael Clarke 'positive ' but not yet ready for ODIs Under the inscrutable gaze of the national coach Darren Lehmann , Michael Clarke bowled , fielded and then batted with increasing fluency at Allan Border Field on Thursday to take a major step towards being passed fit to captain Australia in their second World Cup match against Bangladesh on February 21 at the Gabba . Playing against those same Bangladesh opponents for a Cricket Australia Invitational XI in a pre-World Cup practice match , Clarke showed a fuller range of movement than some had expected , even submitting to the wishes of the national selector Rod Marsh by bowling two overs of left-arm spin after the visitors batted first . Clarke fielded in the slips for the majority of his day , and claimed a sharp catch from the bowling of the spinner Ashton Turner to underline his sure hands in that position. He also spent some time roaming the outfield at deep cover , though this posting had him signing autographs for spectators more than hurling himself to stop balls short of the boundary rope. In all , he fielded for 32 of the allotted 50 overs . When it was the CA XI 's turn to chase a modest target of 194 , Clarke opened the batting and showed greater vim than he had managed in a relatively stodgy half-century for Western Suburbs in Sydney grade cricket at the weekend. In a 47-minute innings , he punched six boundaries on the way to 34 from 36 balls , before a legbreak from Sabbir Rahman took a thin outside edge . About the only thing missing from Clarke 's display was any sign of sprinting at top pace , for in the leisurely surrounds of the practice fixture he was able to do most of his work by jogging in the field or between the wickets. However his willingness to bowl will be seen as significant by Marsh , Lehmann and others . Clarke said he was satisfied with his progress , though admitted he was still some way away from reaching the fitness level required for the full intensity of a World Cup match . " I 've been bowling for the last three weeks in the nets , so the skipper needed a couple of overs so he asked if I was happy to bowl and I was certainly happy to , " Clarke said. " In my opinion I think there 's probably still a gap between where I am now and playing an ODI for Australia , but the fortunate thing is I have plenty of time to close that gap. " Clarke is flying into Adelaide on Friday morning where the Australian squad will convene for the first time , and will continue to train and prepare though he will not play in the warm-up fixture against India on Sunday. He is a greater chance of appearing in the next practice fixture against the UAE at the MCG next week . Down in Melbourne , Clarke 's fellow World Cup squad member Aaron Finch was enthused by the prospect of the captain 's return. He said the team 's main challenge was to ensure they did not allow debate about the leadership of the team to distract them no matter who wound up in charge for the majority of the tournament - one of Clarke , George Bailey or Steven Smith . " Michael 's been a quality performer for a long time in all formats of the game. To have someone as skilled as him with the bat , but also his tactical nous will be important as well , " Finch said. " I do n't think it makes much difference to the players , we 've played under them all. Michael has done an unbelievable job for a long time , so has George in one-day cricket , and Steve is just starting out in his captaincy career . " It 's just important that we do n't let it distract us , and from the players ' point of view I do n't think it will. We 've played under them all , we know how they lead on the field and off the field , and there 's not a hell of a lot of difference between them all. They 're all very chilled out , very good tactically , so I do n't think it will make much difference. " Finch also shared a sympathetic word for Bailey , who has found his run-making form deserting him on the outskirts of the Cup. " George 's form has n't been great , he knows that , " Finch said. " But he 's a class player , I think he averages high 40s in one-day cricket at a strike rate of 95 , so that speaks for itself . " Whether he 's in the side or not , that 's not up to me to decide. George is the captain of the side at the moment and is a crucial member. He 's been huge in winning games for Australia. I do n't see why there should be a hell of a lot of talk about it , to be honest. " Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
