World Cup 2015 February 5 , 2015 Brett Lee to aid Ireland 's WC prep ESPNcricinfo staff shares 13 Brett Lee retired from all forms of cricket after this year 's Big Bash League © Getty Images Brett Lee will join the Ireland team as their bowling coach during the warm-up phase of the World Cup , a Cricket Ireland release said . Lee , who recently retired from all forms of cricket , was a valuable addition to Ireland 's pre-tournament preparations , Phil Simmons , the Ireland coach , said. " Brett Lee has a wonderful knowledge of fast bowling , and his special insight of Australian pitches will help give our bowlers further confidence ahead of their group matches , " Simmons said. " I 'm sure all our bowlers will benefit from the experience that a World Cup winner has accumulated , especially in the pressure situations of a global event. It 's a fantastic opportunity for our bowlers to learn from a living legend and one I 'm sure they 'll all benefit from. " Lee said he was looking forward to shring his expertise with younger players , from any team. " I have done work with the India cricket team , I have done work with the IPL , other players around the world , " he said after launching ICC Pro Cricket 2015 , the official World Cup game , which has been developed in association with Disney India. " I have done a lot of work with the Australian juniors and current Australian cricketers too. When I get an opportunity to help out the youngsters , it is my chance to further my skills in terms of assessing bowling methods and also to help me give back something to the game of cricket . " I have played a lot of cricket but involvement with youngsters helps me improve , and also makes sure that I am well aware of what the juniors are doing and to keep in touch with the latest methods employed to further skills all around the world. " Ireland are scheduled to play two warm-up matches in Sydney - against Scotland on February 10 and against Bangladesh two days later - before their first match , against West Indies in Nelson . Apart from the two official warm-up matches , Ireland are also scheduled to play a 50-over friendly against Randwick Petersham on Friday , February 6 . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
