World Cup 2015 : Minnows Take Heart From Memorable Upsets World Cup 2015 : Minnows Take Heart From Memorable Upsets From Kenya in 1996 to Ireland in 2011 , World Cup has seen several shocking wins for minnows in the history of World Cups . Last updated on Wednesday , 04 February , 2015 10 : 51 IST Total Shares Kenya stunned West Indies in one of the biggest World Cup upsets in 1996 . © AP Seven for three and six maidens in 8.2 overs. Those were not the World Cup bowling figures of Australian leg-spin wizard Shane Warne or Pakistani fast bowling great Wasim Akram , but of a one-time tennis player . Kenyan left-arm spinner Aasif Karim , who also represented his country in the Davis Cup , was 39 when he caught the eye with those 50 magical deliveries , tying famed Australian batsmen into knots in Durban in 2003 . He had quit cricket after the 1999 World Cup in England but returned for the next edition in South Africa , showing what players from non-Test playing nations were capable of at cricket 's showpiece event . Karim 's victims included Australian captain Ricky Ponting , Darren Lehmann and Brad Hogg. He did not taste success after his heroics , going wicketless against India in the next game , which turned out to be his last one-day match . Players from so-called minnows may quake at the prospect of facing pacemen Dale Steyn and Mitchell Johnson or bowling to Rohit Sharma and Chris Gayle . But the giants of the game should under-estimate the minnows -- represented in Australia and New Zealand by the likes of Afghanistan , Scotland and the UAE -- at their peril . Previous World Cups are full of examples of players from smaller sides who have enjoyed a rare moment in the sun such as Canadian John Davison , Kenyan Maurice Odumbe and Irish brothers Niall and Kevin O'Brien . Davison overshadowed batting greats for a day when he smashed the then fastest World Cup hundred , off 67 balls , against the West Indies at Centurion in 2003 . New Zealand were to suffer next from Davison 's punishing blade as the Canadian hammered a half-century off just 25 balls against an attack containing quality pacemen Shane Bond and Jacob Oram . Ireland 's part-timers made history on St Patrick 's Day in 2007 when they knocked out former champions Pakistan in the first round with a three-wicket win , their stars being paceman Boyd Rankin ( 3-32 ) and Niall O'Brien ( 72 ) . In another famous shock , when Kenyan Rajab Ali shared the new ball with Martin Suji in a 1996 World Cup match at Pune , two-time champions West Indies did not expect they would struggle to chase a modest 167-run target . But Ali rocked the top order with two wickets , including that of Brian Lara , while off-spinner Odumbe ( 3-15 ) kept pressure on the middle order as their team pulled off a sensational 73-run victory . England were surprised by Zimbabwean chicken farmer Eddo Brandes , who finished with 4-21 off 10 dream overs in his team 's nine-run victory in a 1992 World Cup game at Albury , before the African side played their first Test . Zimbabwe had pulled off a major shock nine years earlier when Duncan Fletcher ( 69 not out and 4-42 ) masterminded Australia 's downfall with a brilliant all-round show . Dave Houghton managed to win two man-of-the-match awards even in Zimbabwe 's defeats , cracking 84 against Australia at Southampton in 1983 and 142 against New Zealand at Hyderabad in India in 1987 . Four years ago in Bangalore , Kevin O'Brien hit the fastest World Cup century off just 50 balls as Ireland stunned England . Story first published on : Wednesday , 04 February 2015 09 : 33 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
