World Cup 2015 February 7 , 2015 Hawkeye , Realtime Snicko for World Cup 22 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 22 The 2015 World Cup could be the final ICC event for the review system in its current form © AFP Real-time Snicko and Hawkeye ball-tracking will be used , while Hot Spot will be absent from DRS deliberations at the World Cup in what looms as the final ICC event for the review system in its current form . The ICC 's cricket operations manager Geoff Allardice confirmed that the entire DRS system was to be reviewed and perhaps re-imagined between now and the next major event to use it - the 2017 Champions Trophy to be hosted by England. A review of the entire DRS system , in use in various forms since 2008 , is set to land on Allardice 's desk at the ICC headquarters in Dubai in the second half of 2015 . When combined with India 's longtime intransigence , that report may mark significant changes to the system , meaning the 2015 World Cup may come to be seen as 1987 's was - the last event to be played in whites and without any day/night matches scheduled. For now , Allardice confirmed the format of the DRS for the next six weeks , explaining that Hot Spot was largely ruled out due to the cost and difficulty of getting the required equipment to all venues across the two host countries . " They 'll be using ball tracking and the snicko for all matches. So it will be applied evenly across every match in the pool stage and the final stages , " Allardice said in Adelaide. " So the umpires all have tools and they 've spent two days working through how to do the preparation for the tournaments and how to use the umpiring tools . " The primary reason for no Hot Spot is that the number of cameras needed to cover all matches given the schedule was just far in excess of the number available. So it was n't practical to do it for all matches under the same conditions , so that was the reason we did n't go down that path . " The decision was taken a long time ago that the DRS was going to be used in ICC events in this cycle from 2007 through 2015. It was used in the 2011 World Cup , it was used at the Champions Trophy in 2013 , and it 's used in this World Cup , so it 's business as usual. " Given the changes made to the ICC 's governance during 2014 , Allardice hinted that it would be a rather different system in place by 2017 , though the recommendations of the review are yet to be known. " I think the arrangements are around future events , so the next event would n't use DRS under the current regime , " he said. " So 2017 as far as ICC events goes would be the next one International event we 'd look at. I think there is still negotiation to take place as to how DRS will be used in that tournament . " There is work going on at the moment around reviewing DRS and the use of technology , and I think it 's been status quo to the World Cup using the same system we 've used for a while. But I think after the World Cup we 'll revisit the last few years and see how it 's going and whether the protocols that are in place at the moment are the ones that serve our game the best. " Allardice also confirmed that , as reported by ESPNcricinfo in January , match officials would be encouraged to make stricter use of the flexible conditions contained within the ICC code of conduct to penalise players for poor on-field behaviour. Bans for level two offences will be far more likely at the World Cup than they have been for some time , something Allardice has stated to the competing teams during his pre-tournament technical briefings . " The main message is the umpires over the last four months or so have been quite strong in the way they 've been reporting players who step over the line with the way that they conduct themselves either towards their opponent or towards the umpire or the game , " Allardice said. " And for the tournament itself , the umpires probably are n't going to do things a lot different in terms of reporting players , but I think it 's with the World Cup coming along , the penalties might be just a touch higher than they 'd otherwise be . " A level one offence you only have the option of fines , and the majority of incidents that occur in matches are at that level. So it might be stiffer fines. If players are conducting level two charges , suspension is an option. We do n't take the suspending of players lightly or there is not going to be an overreaction in that regard. But I think if a player does step across the line to such an extent that he warrants a suspension , I think the referees will consider that . " Each incident is case by case. But I think the general view is the starting point would n't be at the minimum point of the range , it might be more in the middle. " Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
