World Cup 2015 February 9 , 2015 Marsh eyeing death-bowling role Play 00 : 52 Marsh hoping to fill in Faulkner 's shoes Mitchell Marsh is confident he can fill James Faulkner 's all-round role , who continues to recover from a side strain , for the start of the World Cup . Just as Michael Clarke 's potential initial absence would allow George Bailey to remain in the team , Faulkner 's injury should mean there is a place for Marsh , who might otherwise have been squeezed out . It would have been an unkind blow given that Marsh finished equal third in Australia 's ODI Cricketer of the Year award at Allan Border Medal night last month . But the man with whom he shared third place was Faulkner , and fitting three seam-bowling allrounders - Marsh , Faulkner and Shane Watson - into one side would be difficult . So , Marsh knows how important it will be to grab his opportunities early in the tournament , including in Australia 's opener against England at the MCG on Saturday. Marsh is yet to bowl more than seven overs in an ODI but his bowling workload will likely increase in the absence of Faulkner , and he especially wants to make himself an end-of-innings option . " Losing James probably means one of the allrounders has to bowl a few more overs , so I 'm hoping that 's me , " Marsh said. " But I guess that 's up to the selectors. I 'm pretty confident [ in my bowling ] . I 'd like to fill that role , missing James. It 's going to be good fun and hopefully if I get the opportunity I can take it . " For me it 's just bowling more and getting that experience in matches. I 'd like to keep working on my death bowling and just be an option at the death. I think that 's really important , to have as many options as we can. For me it 's just about improving all facets. " Marsh and his team-mates arrived in Melbourne on Monday afternoon after their resounding win over India in Sunday 's warm-up game at Adelaide Oval. On Wednesday Australia will play their last warm-up game , against the UAE at the MCG , and Clarke appears likely to take part in that game as he continues his comeback following hamstring surgery . Clarke batted in Sydney grade cricket last weekend and also played a practice match against a Bangladesh XI in Brisbane last week. However , if he plays against the UAE it will be his first outing for Australia since his operation , and his performance will likely determine whether the selectors consider bringing him back for the first game against England or holding him back . " I did offer him my hamstrings but he politely rejected me , " Marsh joked of Clarke. " I think he 's going to be fine. He 's such a key player for us , he 's our captain and we 'll be rapt to get him back. He 's enjoyed being around the side as well. When you do rehab by yourself for an extended period of time it 's quite boring. " Brydon Coverdale is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ brydoncoverdale © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
