World Cup 2015 February 9 , 2015 'I loved watching Romesh Kaluwitharana' Darren Sammy , Kemar Roach , Jerome Taylor and Denesh Ramdin recall their World Cup memories and pick out their stars - past and future - of ODI cricket shares 5 Darren Sammy counts Joel Garner 's yorkers among the best he 's every seen © Getty Images What is your earliest World Cup memory ? Kemar Roach : Growing up in Barbados , people talked about West Indies winning the first two World Cups all the time. I was too young to watch it live , but they kept showing it on TV. I grew up knowing all about it . Jerome Taylor : My first World Cup as a player was in 2007. Brian Lara was the captain. As a youngster , it was so exciting. Playing in the World Cup is as big as you can get and I am very proud to represent the people of the Caribbean. I am too young to remember the days when we won the World Cup , but I grew up hearing about it . Darren Sammy : 1996. Richie Richardson was the captain. I remember Paul Adams bowling to Brian Lara. I think he scored a hundred against South Africa . That 's as far back as I can remember. But I have a good , good memory of the first two World Cups that we won because I 've watched them so many times on tape. It 's just the most prestigious event in world cricket . Denesh Ramdin : 1996. Sri Lanka playing against … I ca n't remember the opposition. Romesh Kaluwitharana was the opening batsman. I loved watching him bat - he was good. I probably wanted to emulate him more than anyone. The opportunity has n't arrived as yet. But that was probably it for me . West Indies ' young captain Jason Holder will have a good World Cup , his team-mates reckon © AFP Who will be the breakthrough player in this World Cup ? KR : Our skipper , Jason Holder . I think he can perform really well. He is a very talented guy and I support him fully. We 've played cricket together for a long time. I guess we 've grown up together. So I know him pretty well and know what he 's capable of. He can definitely bowl a bit faster. He just needs a couple more gym sessions. He has a great future in front of him . JT : We have some really good youngsters. So do Australia and South Africa. David Miller from South Africa is a good talent. But I 'm going to go for young [ Darren ] Bravo. He is a very exciting cricketer. And in the bowling I 'd say Kemar Roach will come through. I 'd mention myself too. It has been a long , painful road back and the rehab took a long time. But I am feeling strong now. I never condoned the thought that I would never play again. Age was on my side. I 'm here and I 'm over that . DS : From our team , young Jonathan Carter . It 's his first time into the West Indies set-up. For express pace we have Sheldon Cottrell , he could be the surprise package , and also we have a young captain , Jason Holder , who , I think , has an excellent cricket brain. I think his decisions on the field will be very important for us to go far in this World Cup . DR : There 's young Jonathan Carter , who , I dare say , will make his World Cup debut. He 's a young player , enthusiastic , a hard worker and once he gets the opportunity he has shots all around the park , similar in style to Eoin Morgan. He 's a very exciting young guy . For destruction , please see Gayle , Chris © Associated Press Who is the best death bowler you 've seen ? KR : Malinga is the best. Obviously. That yorker is a hard ball to bowl , but it is the best ball to bowl when the batsman is going. He does it better than anyone. I try to do it , too , but he is definitely the best . JT : It goes without saying that it 's Malinga . DS : Waqar Younis , Joel Garner - those yorkers he kept firing in the two World Cups we won. At this present stage with the fast bowlers I think Malinga is a cut above all. He does it at will , not only at the death but with the new ball he could bowl yorkers for fun. Sunil Narine for us , he 's not here but he 's very difficult to hit in the death overs . DR : I 'd say Lasith Malinga . Who are West Indies going to play in the final ? KR : Australia . JT : It does n't matter. Lots of teams have a chance , but I believe we can be there . The 1975 World Cup final , where Viv Richards ran out three Australian batsmen , is a very memorable match for West Indies fans © EMPICS DS : To be honest , I do n't care. As long as the West Indies are there in the final that 's all that matters. We 've got to three finals and we 've won two . DR : I think , realistically in these conditions , it might be Australia or New Zealand. At the moment they 're playing some great cricket . Who is the most destructive batsman you 've seen ? KR : Chris Gayle is still No. 1 for me. When he is going , he is very tough to bowl against. And AB de Villiers is right up there as well in recent times. I did n't play in that game [ in Johannesburg where de Villiers scored a century in 31 balls ] . Maybe not the worst to miss . JT : That 's easy : Chris Gayle. AB de Villiers is another who can cause some damage , but I 'm going for Gayle. I 'm happy he is part of the West Indies team as I would n't want to bowl at him . DS : Chris Gayle followed by AB de Villiers . DR : I 'd say Chris Gayle . What 's the best World Cup match you can remember ? KR : The South Africa and Australia game in the 1999 World Cup was n't bad . JT : I 'd have to say the 2011 final between Sri Lanka and India . DS : The World Cup final where Viv Richards got three run-outs. I watched it on tape and it was excellent . DR : In 2003 , when Pakistan played Australia . Australia were struggling and then Andrew Symonds scored 150-odd. He batted really well there . Have you ever had a proper job ? MS Dhoni and Andre Russell : handy finishers © BCCI KR : No. I left school and went straight into the West Indies team . JT : Nah. Cricket is what I do for a living. It 's what I 've done all my life . DS : Yes. When I had just left school I was an office assistant at the Ministry of Commerce. I did some filing and when my boss needed stuff to be done I had to make sure I did it. I looked after all the letters , just office stuff. I resigned after I started playing for the West Indies because I was never at home to work. They kept writing to the public service asking for time off with pay. ( Laughs ) I was on national duty so they had to pay me . DR : I used to cut grass part-time , that 's about it. I was probably about 16 or 17. It was for extra pocket money but it was n't much at the time. It was around the neighbourhood and a bit outside that as well , in San Fernando , Trinidad. I used to have to get up really early , four o'clock in the morning and cut the grass before it was too hot . Who is the best finisher ? KR : James Faulkner is pretty good. And Andre Russell and Darren Sammy are pretty good , too . JT : Michael Bevan was very good. In the present day and age , Andre Russell is a good one. And Darren Sammy , to some extent , is good , too. David Miller is exciting and [ Steven ] Smith is good to watch . DS : Right now , MS Dhoni and AB de Villiers. Chris Gayle normally bats at the top but if he is batting in the later overs I would definitely put him up there. Kieron Pollard 's name comes in there , too . DR : I would say the best finisher is MS Dhoni. He calculates the game quite well and he bats down low and gives himself a chance . George Dobell is a senior correspondent at ESPNcricinfo , Melinda Farrell is a correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
