Cricket World Cup History : India 's Dominance over Arch-Rivals Pakistan Cricket World Cup History : India 's Dominance over Arch-Rivals Pakistan India have an unbeaten record against arch-rivals Pakistan in World Cups. The world of cricket has seen a plethora of changes since 1992 but India 's stronghold over Pakistan remains constant Last updated on Friday , 13 February , 2015 14 : 15 IST Total Shares India or Pakistan ? Who will have the last laugh on Sunday . © AFP Clashes between India and Pakistan in World Cups generate a lot frenzy on either side of the border. The arch-rivals have met each other five times in cricket 's showpiece event - in 1992 , 1996 , 1999 , 2003 and 2011 - and India have emerged victorious on all occasions. As the teams prepare to lock horns for the sixth time in World Cups on Sunday , here 's a look at the five previous encounters that showcases India 's sheer dominance over their arch-rivals. ( Complete World Cup coverage | Fixtures | Teams | Players | Venues | History ) 1992 , Sydney : Seventeen years after the first World Cup was played in England , two of the fiercest rivals clashed for the first time in cricket 's biggest event. India , who had won the coveted trophy back in 1983 , had had a poor time in Australia while Pakistan , led by the charismatic Imran Khan , were brimming with confidence. ( India still favourites to beat Pakistan , say Gavaskar , Laxman ) The likes of Aamer Sohail , Inzamam-ul-Haq , Wasim Akram , Waqar Younis gave the Pakistanis an edge most would struggle at the best of times. But it was Team India , inspired by an exciting youngster Sachin Tendulkar , that emerged victorious. In tense settings at the Sydney Cricket Ground , India rode on Tendulkar 's half-century and Ajay Jadeja 's vital knock of 46 to post 216 , a fairly competitive total those days. ( In pics : Pakistan fans pray for success vs India ) Pakistan lost a couple of early wickets but never looked out of the chase. However , regular strikes by Kapil Dev , Manoj Prabhakar , Javagal Srinath rendered them helpless. Tendulkar also did his bit with the ball , snaring the dangerous Sohail , who had threatened to take the game away from India. In the end , Pakistan were bundled out for 173 , giving India a 43-run victory . What happened next : Pakistan went on to win the World Cup while India were left licking their wounds . 1996 , Bangalore : Four years later , defending champions Pakistan were in great form again. By then Imran Khan had retired and Javed Miandad was playing his last tournament. Played at the Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore , India batted again in front of thousands of excited home fans . Tendulkar was once again at the help of affairs as he and Navjot Singh Sidhu got the hosts off to a great start before the former fell for 31. Sidhu played an almost lone hand and anchored the Indian innings with a solid 93. India did seem to lose their way again before Jadeja exploded down the order and took Waqar to the cleaners. Jadeja clobbered a 25-ball 45 to set up a massive total of 287/8 . The chase was an exciting one and it was Sohail again , who fired a quick start. But this time , the left-handed batsman also fired from his mouth and sledged Venkatesh Prasad. Prasad , off the very next ball , avenged it by bowling Sohail , triggering a dramatic collapse. From 84/0 , they were reduced to 184/5 and the challenge was virtually over . What happened next : Pakistan were knocked out and India made it to the semifinal and lost to eventual champions Sri Lanka amidst forgettable scenes at the Eden Gardens . 1999 , Manchester : Played in the background of the Kargil War , Wasim Akram , then captain , stoked the fire further when he said he would treat the India match like a practice game. Fans in India seethed. India had been fairly inconsistent that tournament and had struggled against the big teams. However , against the arch-rivals , they were ever ready . Tendulkar smashed 45 , Rahul Dravid made an elegant 61 and skipper Mohammed Azharuddin hit 59 as India put on 227/6. Pakistan were blown away to bits by Prasad , who grabbed a fifer and Srinath , who finished with three wickets. Pakistan , once again , succumbed in a chase and were shot out for 180 to hand India a 47-run win . What happened next : Pakistan made amends and progressed to the final , where they were hammered by Australia , while India made an early return home . 2003 , Johannesburg : Perphaps one of the greatest ODI knocks ever played , was witnessed in India 's chase of 274. Saeed Anwar 's 101 had helped Pakistan get to strong total but Tendulkar batted like a man possessed. With Virender Sehwag for company , the Master Blaster dominated stalwarts like Akram , Waqar and the mercurial Shoaib Akhtar on a fast South African pitch . There was mayhem in the middle for the Pakistani fielders , not sure what had struck them. They were outright favourites to win after that total , but Tendulkar was at it again. He fell two short of a hundred but Yuvraj Singh ( 44 not out ) and Dravid ( 50 not out ) wiped off the remaining runs . What happened next : Pakistan were bundled out early , while India made their way to the final , losing to Australia . 2011 , Mohali : India and Pakistan suffered disappointing campaign in 2007 in West Indies and did not get to meet each other. But 2011 was going to be different. The staunch rivals were playing in front of Indian crowds , were being watched by the political leaderships of both countries and had a lot at stake - it was the semifinal ! Both sides had looked strong - India thanks to their power-packed batting and Pakistan because of their impressive bowling line-up. Most of India 's batsmen looked nervous and threw away good chances , but not Tendulkar. He rose to the challenge again and made a scratchy 85 , which helped India post 260/9 . In a high-pressure run-chase , Pakistan 's middle-order collapsed dramatically before Misbah-ul-Haq gave his side a glimmer of hope with 59. However , the Indian bowlers played out of their skins to beat Pakistan by 29 runs . What happened next : Pakistan returned home. India beat Sri Lanka in the final to become world champions ! Story first published on : Thursday , 12 February 2015 18 : 57 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
