New Zealand v Sri Lanka , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Christchurch February 13 , 2015 Form and expectation favour New Zealand Start time 1100 local ( 2200 GMT , previous day ) Play 05 : 08 'Expectation on New Zealand greater than ever' Big Picture The country is holding its breath. The New Zealand team has spruced up its cricket machine one part at a time over the past few weeks , bossing matches from the start at times , roaring back to win them at others , and now their public is as primed for the big event as they are. This team , with a bold leader in the vanguard , two star batsmen in the batting engine room , and real menace in their attack , holds New Zealand 's best-ever hope of winning cricket 's big prize , the nation feels . Tens of thousands of kilometres away , another island nation has had its cricket balloon pricked. Sri Lanka 's hope for the World Cup has not burst entirely , but it is spluttering about the room , deflating quickly. Wednesday 's ignominious loss to Zimbabwe in a warm-up match was the final ill omen for many. Sri Lanka 's fans are passionate , but are largely not obsessive. Many may skip the 3 : 30am starts until the team gives them reason to believe again . So as New Zealand arrive , wanting only to sustain their success , confident the bowlers will not lose their lines , and lifted by the feeling that someone in the top seven will always find a way to fire , Sri Lanka are scrambling around , searching for that spark that will set their campaign alight. In past world tournaments , the visitors have found it in unlikely places. Rangana Herath 's five wickets for three runs set them ablaze in Bangladesh last year. A 23-year-old Lasith Malinga 's four wickets in four balls kickstarted their 2007 surge in the Caribbean. A newly-promoted Tillakaratne Dilshan 's sparkling starts carried them through in the 2009 World T20. A glance through Sri Lanka 's likely XI suggests they have the quality to win the tournament , but at present , not the form . Christchurch has been wonderful in the approach to the curtain raiser , but on the eve of the big day , a worsening weather forecast has slightly soured the mood. Light rain is expected until about mid-day , and is then expected to return later in the evening. Temperatures are not expected to climb above 15 degrees . Form guide New Zealand : WWLWW ( last five matches , most recent first ) Sri Lanka : WLLLW In the spotlight Leader. Figurehead. Talisman. Brendon McCullum will have the eyes of a nation on him over the next six weeks , and it all begins in his adopted hometown. As someone who never takes a backward step he seems energised by the prospect. But Saturday morning will surely feel different to any other match ? " I normally sleep pretty well , " he said when asked about pre-match nerves. He knows personally , and as a team , there is not much more that could have been done . At the other end of the spectrum Angelo Mathews had been soaring in the first eight months of 2014 , but has since watched his side lose 11 of the 18 completed ODIs they have played since mid-October. The verve and the energy that characterised Sri Lanka for much of last year appears to have depleted , but still , the team is full of players who have tasted extraordinary success. Mathew 's job , in his first World Cup as captain , is to inspire his men again , while providing the sturdy finishes and canny overs that have been instrumental to Sri Lanka 's good results in recent years . Teams news All 15 New Zealand players are expected to be available for the match. With Trent Boult and Tim Southee having had success at Hagley Oval as a pair , they are frontrunners to take the new balls on Saturday. The top order is relatively settled , but McCullum did mention that his team would keep an eye on the weather , and make late adjustments to the XI if necessary . New Zealand : ( probable ) 1 Martin Guptill , 2 Brendon McCullum ( capt ) , 3 Kane Williamson , 4 Ross Taylor , 5 Grant Elliott , 6 Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , 7 Corey Anderson , 8 Daniel Vettori , 9 Tim Southee , 10 Adam Milne , 11 Trent Boult Replacement quick Dushmantha Chameera landed in New Zealand on Thursday , and as such , does not have a great chance of playing in the first match. With Jeevan Mendis having hit a fifty against Zimbabwe on Wednesday , Sri Lanka may play him in the lower middle order again. Dimuth Karunaratne and Dinesh Chandimal are also competing for a middle-order spot. Karunaratne 's decent outings in the warm-ups perhaps give him the edge . Sri Lanka ( probable ) : 1 Tillakaratne Dilshan , 2 Lahiru Thirimanne , 3 Kumar Sangakkara ( wk ) , 4 Mahela Jayawardene , 5 Angelo Mathews ( capt ) , 6 Dimuth Karunaratne/Dinesh Chandimal , 7 Jeevan Mendis , 8 Thisara Perera , 9 Nuwan Kulasekara , 10 Rangana Herath , 11 Lasith Malinga Pitch and conditions Mathews expected the Hagley Oval surface to be full of runs , but given Sri Lanka 's recent troubles against high-quality swing bowling at this venue , he may think twice before batting first. If the outfield is going to be damp , and chances of a Duckworth-Lewis intervention are high , teams may prefer to chase anyway . Stats and trivia Kumar Sangakkara has 13,693 ODI runs. He requires 12 to overtake Ricky Ponting and move to second in the all-time list , behind Sachin Tendulkar . To support the belief New Zealand are one of the three main contenders for the title , they have the third-best win/loss percentage in ODIs since the start of 2014 of teams appearing this tournament . Lasith Malinga averages 23.89 against New Zealand. Against other top eight nations , he has only done better against West Indies . Since the beginning of 2014 , Kane Williamson 's ODI average has increased by more than 10 runs - from 35.41 to 46.26 Sri Lanka have defeated New Zealand in their last five World Cup meetings. The last time New Zealand beat Sri Lanka in a World Cup was in 1992 . Quotes " We knew the expectation would rise so we were able to deal with that a while ago. One thing we discussed a lot is being really stable emotionally ourselves. The game has its ups and downs anyway without us adding our own ups and downs. " Brendon McCullum on dealing with the weight of a nation 's hopes " If it 's a good wicket , we 'll try and bat first. We 've got the bowling to try and stop the opposition , but if we have to bowl first , we 've got the experience in our batting lineup. " Angelo Mathews Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
