It is rare , bordering on unprecedented , for New Zealand to enter a global event with such expectations. Something the rugby union team live with , but not the cricketers shares 23 Play 00 : 29 McCullum looking forward to 'pure wickets' It was the perfect opening to the World Cup , an event which before had been more a curiosity than a compelling competition. The fact that New Zealand , against so many odds , should outplay the champions , Australia , in the first match will have a profound effect on the whole contest . That is an extract from the Herald newspaper following New Zealand 's 37-run victory in the opening match of the 1992 World Cup. Twenty-three years later and New Zealand have the honour of launching the latest edition of the tournament , when they take on Sri Lanka at Hagley Oval in Christchurch , a few hours before fellow hosts Australia face England at the MCG . However , beyond the similarity of having the first ball bowled in New Zealand is where most comparisons can end. In 1992 the match was at Eden Park , this time it 's in Christchurch. Whatever the result of the contest on Saturday , it is unlikely to have a " profound effect " on the tournament - although a defeat for the hosts would test the upbeat feeling that prevails New Zealand , both from players and supporters. And many would also argue that this World Cup , for the most part , is unlikely to be a " compelling contest " although surely there is room for pre-tournament excitement , too . The most significant difference , though , is the state that New Zealand find themselves in. It is rare , bordering on unprecedented , for them to enter a global event with such expectations. Something the rugby union team live with , but not the cricketers. The phrase 'dark horses ' is often bandied around , but on this occasion that does Brendon McCullum 's side a disservice. It suggests they could sneak up and surprise. No , instead they should be bracketed alongside 'favourites' . " I do n't know if we are favourites , but everyone is saying we have a good shot , " Luke Ronchi said. " We have to think that way , you do n't want to doubt yourself. We know we can beat any side on our day. If we perform the way we can we have a big chance. " They , along with Australia and South Africa , have been the standout teams in the lead-up period of one-day international cricket. Nine matches at home against Sri Lanka and Pakistan brought six victories - most comprehensive - and just two defeats. You can also add to that a commendable come-from-behind victory against Pakistan in the UAE when they were at far from full strength . " We go in with no excuses , we 've had a great preparation and we 're ready to go , " McCullum said . It has been the development of the depth in New Zealand 's squad which makes them such a compelling force going into the World Cup. In the matches over the last six weeks , they have given all their players a chance and significantly , the team has never looked weaker for any changes. The squad appears fully interchangeable , especially among the pace bowlers . Beyond Tim Southee , the leader of the attack with white and red ball , it is difficult to find complete agreement on those who should operate alongside him. Trent Boult is a wonderfully skilful bowler , Mitchell McClenaghan was joint second fastest to 50 ODI wickets , Adam Milne is generating rare excitement as New Zealand 's fastest bowler since Shane Bond and Kyle Mills brings vast experience. Then there 's Corey Anderson 's strapping left-armers . TIm Southee-led bowling group is one of New Zealand 's strongest ever © Getty Images Given the depth of batting possessed by most sides in this tournament , taking wickets rather than just restricting will be vital and New Zealand should be well served. Whether they know the ideal combination for the death remains a question ( they are not alone in that ) and the margins of victory of late have meant the pressure has not been at its greatest . New Zealand 's pace-bowling resources are as strong as they have ever been but the style of their cricket has been instilled by the man at the top of the order - captain McCullum. He does not possess a defensive thought. There were times during the matches against Sri Lanka and Pakistan when it seemed wasteful , but the belief is that when he comes off the result can be devastating and if he does not the remaining batsmen have rarely failed as a collective . Kane Williamson is one of the form players in the world , Ross Taylor has regained his touch in recent weeks while the recall for Grant Elliott is looking a particularly shrewd selection , when it could have been viewed as a backward step as it meant Jimmy Neesham was overlooked. And Ronchi is as dynamic as they come at No. 6 or 7 . Yet while New Zealand 's very recent form has been so encouraging for them , the path can be traced back much further - two years of building from when McCullum took charge of the team in a cut-throat decision that could have split New Zealand cricket down the middle. For a short while , as his predecessor Taylor took some time out , it threatened to do so. But piece by piece McCullum pulled his team together , by force of personality as well as performance . Weak links were weeded out , tough selection decisions made and only players who fitted the mould of the side - or would buy into the ethos - were considered , the most notable example being the ultimate decision not to consider Jesse Ryder for the World Cup. The end result is that , on the eve of the tournament , New Zealand have put together what is now being considered as their finest one-day team . But , a word of caution , too. New Zealand 's batsmen have been plundering some average bowling. Without Lasith Malinga , Sri Lanka were a shadow of their best team while Pakistan were , largely , woeful during the early days of their time on the road. The value of the runs scored and confidence gained should not be written off , but they do need context . " We are going to have some tough days at some point so we just have to make sure we remain level-headed and stay down to earth , " McCullum cautioned . When New Zealand faced a higher quality attack they lost 2-0 to South Africa last October. In consecutive matches they were 68 for 5 and 134 for 9 , albeit in early-season conditions. They face England and Australia in the middle of their group stage , which will be an insightful test of the batting line-up . First up , though , it 's Sri Lanka again and Malinga 's return , alone , is enough to derail any team if the yorkers are on target no matter what has gone before. But this New Zealand side should not fear anyone. An opening-day victory would certainly not be " against so many odds " like 23 years ago. This time , the country expects . Andrew McGlashan is a senior assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
