New Zealand v Sri Lanka , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Christchurch February 13 , 2015 Great build-up , but slate is now clean - McCullum 3 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 3 In the last few days leading into the World Cup a popular statement to any New Zealand player has been along the lines of , " Every day is a good day for the team at the moment. " Their response has generally been to smile in agreement. None of them have been afraid to laud the side 's recent performances , least of all Brendon McCullum , but on the eve of the World Cup the captain knew the time for looking back was finished . This tournament can define a generation for New Zealand. It did so for the class of '92 , but from a position of performing so far above expectation. This time the players have been treading a fine line between riding the wave of emotion that has steadily built up and not being swept away by it. However , McCullum , who has three previous World Cups under his belt , admitted he had never been part of a team that felt so confident . " You always hoped things would work out well but did we genuinely believe it , maybe , maybe not. We believe we 're a good team and we have a chance at this World Cup but there 's some good teams around as well. We 're going to need things to fall in our favour . " It sits comfortably with me. If we get beat then we get beat , but if we play our best game we can walk away pretty satisfied and that will give us our best chance. " " Everyone 's excited. It 's been a great build-up and all the management and coaching staff have done a brilliant job of getting us to this point and now it 's a matter of how we seize the opportunities we get. We 've been playing some good cricket but we know the slate is now clean. " Smartly , New Zealand have not tried to shut out the public goodwill , they have not baulked or become edgy with questions about being one of the favourites. They have more than played their part - on and off the field - in raising the anticipation levels , to the point where everyone is relieved that the start is almost upon us . However , McCullum has also been keen to stress the need for level heads - " emotional stability " is one of his latest phrases - and he believes it has been the team 's ability to embrace everything that has been going on around them that has helped that , rather than pretend it is nothing different . " We knew that if we were able to gain some performances leading into a World Cup at home that the expectation would rise so we were able to put some things in place to deal with those , " he said. " One of things we discussed a lot is being really stable emotionally. The game has its ups and downs without having to add your own. We try to maintain a really stable environment. You never know if it 's going to work in the crunch situations but it will give us our best chance. " Although McCullum was relaxed on Friday , he will have to ensure he looks after himself as well as his team during this tournament. While the group-stage match schedule is not especially demanding , the focus will be on him endlessly . He met Richie McCaw , the All Blacks ' captain , at the opening ceremony in Christchurch and for a short time , at least , he will have a taste of what his fellow leader contends with. He said he had not asked for any particular advice yet , but may yet do so depending on how deep into the tournament New Zealand travel . " I 've got a job to do , I guess it 's all encompassing in terms of leading the team , opening the batting. Is there extra pressure ? I guess there is on everyone. I 'm excited about it , I have high ambitions of what I want to achieve but whether you achieve them or not is another thing. But I go in feeling reasonably confident and secure in the fact that I 'm surrounded by guys I trust and believe in. As a captain that 's a significant thing . " I hope to be able to make some significant contributions in the tournament. I believe we have guys who are capable of topping run-scoring charts and wicket-taking lists. It would be nice if I was one of them , but I 'd take a World Cup win and having a low one in your own form any day. " Andrew McGlashan is a senior assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
