New Zealand v Sri Lanka , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Christchurch February 13 , 2015 Specialist bowlers or allrounders ? Mathews undecided Play 01 : 15 'SL have advantage of recent matches in NZ ' - Mathews Beginning his World Cup on the back of a difficult few weeks in New Zealand , Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews was characteristically non-committal on the likely combination to appear in the tournament opener . Sri Lanka 's team selection has drawn significant criticism from former players at home. The omission of Upul Tharanga from the World Cup squad raised eyebrows , while the inclusion of a legspinning allrounder Jeevan Mendis was recently questioned by Muttiah Muralitharan. The team has largely fielded only three frontline bowlers in their time in New Zealand , choosing to make up the remaining overs between the allrounders , of which there may be as many as four in the team. Mathews himself and Thisara Perera routinely deliver a few overs of seam , while Tillakaratne Dilshan and Mendis share part of the slow-bowling burden . " We 've talked about playing more specialists , " Mathews said. " Sometimes you need the depth in the batting and bowling so that 's why we 've played our allrounders. Depending on the wicket or depending on the opposition , you sometimes have to play seven batters and four specialist bowlers , so we will tweak that according to the situation. " Muralitharan was among those suggesting Sri Lanka ought to place a premium on quality bowlers , particularly with the new rules allowing only four men outside the circle in play on smaller New Zealand venues. Mathews , however , felt it was Sri Lanka 's execution that brought poor results in the ODI series , not their strategy . " We do n't need to make too many changes ; it 's the approach that we 've got to bring into it , " he said. " When you lose a few games you tend to be a bit more down and you have to fight hard. It 's going to be a fresh series for us. " Sri Lanka 's death bowling was exposed in that series , but they were missing the services of Lasith Malinga , who Mathews confirmed was fit to play on Saturday. Mathews himself had also been out with injury and illness for three of the six completed matches. In his absence , Sri Lanka 's own finishing appeared lacklustre. They had launched a fine total in the final ODI in Wellington without him , but that was largely thanks to the efforts of the top order , and Kumar Sangakkara 's unbeaten ton in particular. In the past week , Sri Lanka have also lost both their World Cup warm up games . " Our late middle order have n't produced good results for us in the recent past , " Mathews said. " We found a way to lose matches against New Zealand , instead of winning them. We had a couple of bad practice matches as well but we 're not too concerned because we gave guys the opportunities and we were trying out a few things. " Sri Lanka is the most experienced outfit in the tournament however , and their squad has 10 players from the team that triumphed in last year 's World T20. They have also arguably been the most consistent big-tournament team since 2007 , making five ICC finals and two semi finals in that time . " The spinners have to do a holding role here in these conditions and the fast bowlers have to try and attack , " Mathews said. " We 've got the firepower to do that , we just have to click as a group. We 've got a fairly experienced team and they all put their thoughts on the table about how we 've got to the final in the past , but we 're not looking too far ahead. " Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
