World Cup 2015 February 13 , 2015 Wake up England , the fun is about to start It may be hard to keep track of a tournament on the other side of the world but it is time to dispel the negativity shares 8 Play 01 : 36 NYC Speaks - Who will win the World Cup ? England will sleep through much of this World Cup. The time difference between New Zealand and Australia makes that inevitable. Perhaps that is a good thing because , by and large , England sure has been sleeping through the build-up . A few media types stirred on Thursday to deride the opening ceremony. Danny Boyle it was n't. A man of a certain age singing " Howzat " - nearly 40 years after he briefly sent teenaged girls into raptures - and an administrator saying " May the best team win " , with the emphasis on the wrong words as if he had spent too long practising it in the bath , was Australia 's contribution to popular culture . Australia might win the World Cup but New Zealand won the opening ceremony . And before we move on , England were represented by ballerinas in Union Jack tutus dancing to " Money Ca n't Buy Me Love " by the Beatles. What on earth do we make of that ? Maybe it was intended as a subliminal message to the ECB , a warning that after a decade trying to stabilise cricket 's finances , the nation is in danger of falling out of love with the game. Or maybe it was a preview of the half-time show in this season 's NatWest Blast . Wake up , England ! Rediscover that love. The World Cup is upon us. It is about to begin ; yes , now. It is time to push aside the pessimism and negativity and soak up the delights in store. Otherwise in England this will become the Rip Van Winkle World Cup , where you will all wake up a long time hence to discover that the tournament is finally over , your muskets are rotting and rusty , your beards a foot long ( even if you are a woman , because it is a very long tournament ) and your dog is nowhere to be found . In India you will struggle to find a bar not showing the cricket. In England , you struggle to find a bar that is Wake up , England. Who cares how you do it. If it grabs your fancy , you can even satisfy your mobile phone obsession and use Wakie , an alarm clock app which promises to pair you up with a total stranger who will call you to get you out of bed in the morning. Imagine that. You are slumbering through a World Cup group game when Ian Bell rings you up and says : " Get out of bed for heaven 's sake , I 'm 58 not out , I 'm working my guts off here. " Believe it or not , there are parts of the world where ESPNcricinfo 's 100 Day Countdown to the World is a perfectly natural thought process. Not in England though. Even the football World Cup is only allowed a week 's anticipation at best. If a comet was hurtling towards earth and predicted to wipe out the entire planet , until the precise moment when it began to blot out half the sky it would just have to take its chance along with the supermarket run , the meet-up in the pub and a discussion about why they bothered making a second series of Broadchurch . In Bangalore , the headquarters of Cricinfo , where I have decamped for the tournament , the sporting obsession is palpable. World Cup previews and re-runs flicker from every TV screen. The only place that will matter on Sunday will be Adelaide as India do battle with Pakistan. In India you will struggle to find a bar not showing the cricket ; in England , you struggle to find a bar that is . The Indian prime minister has sent personalised tweets to every member of the squad. A British prime minister , even an Old Etonian , would first check with focus groups whether being associated with cricket was a good idea in an election year. They would advise him to tread very carefully. Back in 1999 , England made a mess of the opening ceremony , firework smoke engulfed the VIPs and Tony Blair told an aide that it did not entirely fit his vision of " Cool Britannia " . The 2005 Ashes apart , cricket in England has rarely been cool . England 's players soak up the atmosphere in Australia but the World Cup will be watched from under the duvet at home © AFP To be English in Australia is to be the butt of a nation 's humour. There is no cheerier way for Australia to begin the World Cup than indulging in their traditional bagging of the English. Presumably this is a more of a survival mechanism than ever after their prime minister chose Australia Day to give Prince Philip a knighthood . Buy a coffee : " You 're English ? Ah , that 's bad luck. " Ask for a beer : " Your team are s * * * , mate. " At least the taxi drivers rewarm the old jokes. " I could n't live in England - it 's cold , overcrowded and full of the English. " On Friday , a plane circled the city carrying the banners that have adorned advertising hoardings all week : " Missing : pair of balls. If found , please return to the England cricket team. " There is a lot of flapping of gums. But at least they are enjoying themselves . It was a relief to arrive in India with the World Cup about to begin. Inconvenient for sure , because a day after leaving the central heating broke down , and the tickets for Dara O Briain will go to waste , and there is a wedding in the diary that will have to be given a miss . But it has been a wonderful escape from English negativity : the complaints that the tournament is too long , the reluctance to buy into the hopes and aspirations of a reshaped one-day side that is at least showing signs of adventure and ambition , and a general carping about the game that has become a default position that many cricket lovers can not quite escape . Wake up , England ! But only when you are ready to join the fun . David Hopps is the UK editor of ESPNcricinfo @ davidkhopps © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
