NZ v SL , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Christchurch February 14 , 2015 Anderson , McCullum set up massive win 313 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 313 New Zealand 331 for 6 ( Anderson 75 , McCullum 65 , Williamson 57 , Mendis 2-5 ) beat Sri Lanka 233 ( Thirimanne 65 , Anderson 2-18 ) by 98 runs Scorecard and ball-by-ball details Luke Ronchi and Corey Anderson added a swift 73 runs for the sixth wicket © ICC In an opening-day display as emphatic as any in previous World Cup , New Zealand mauled Sri Lanka by 98 runs at the Hagley Oval. A New Zealand win was the expected result leading up to the game , but perhaps not a win this massive , by a margin that highlighted the strength in depth in one camp as sharply as the shortcomings in the other . Blazing half-centuries from Brendon McCullum and Corey Anderson and solid contributions from most of the other batsmen propelled New Zealand to a total of 331 , and the bowlers showed both control and incision in its defence. This was best exemplified by the full , swinging missiles from Trent Boult that aborted the two most promising innings in Sri Lanka 's chase . Lahiru Thirimanne , striking the ball crisply with a high front elbow - even while ramping an Adam Milne bouncer over the keeper - was batting on 65 off 59 balls when Boult snaked a full outswinger past his hastily jabbing bat and into his off stump. In his next over , Boult swung one the other way to smack Kumar Sangakkara 's front pad , just about in line with off stump , as he walked down the pitch to the left-arm quick . Sangakkara , with scores of 76 , 9 , 81 and 113 * in his last four innings against the same attack only last month , was batting with the same sort of fluency when Boult cut his innings short at 39. In between Boult 's strikes , Daniel Vettori had spun one sharply to have Mahela Jayawardene caught behind for a duck . Thirimanne had put on 67 with Tillakaratne Dilshan for the first wicket , and his second-wicket stand with Sangakkara had taken Sri Lanka to 124 for 1 in the 22nd over. When Boult dismissed Sangakkara , Sri Lanka were 129 for 4 and sinking. Their lower-middle order has n't contributed anything of note in the recent past and the trend continued , and Sri Lanka slowly sunk to 233 all out , the match ending with 23 balls still remaining . After being asked to bat , New Zealand plundered 77 in their first 10 overs and 102 in their last 10 , and might have made a tilt at 400 had Sri Lanka 's bowlers not managed to exert some sort of control during the middle overs. Between overs 11 and 40 , they picked up four wickets and conceded only 5.07 runs per over . But the damage done by McCullum at the start of the innings and by Anderson at the end left the biggest impact upon the scorecard. Lasith Malinga , returning to ODI cricket for the first time since undergoing ankle surgery in September , showed the effects of his layoff in spraying the ball around and conceding 84 from his 10 overs , and his new-ball and death-overs partner Nuwan Kulasekara took even more punishment , leaking 78 in eight. Sri Lanka 's fielding did them no favours either. Four catches went down , all at junctures when a wicket could have swayed the momentum of the innings . Malinga 's radar was all over the place during his first spell , and he had already conceded 19 when he began his fourth over with a waist-high full-toss. McCullum dispatched it to the leg-side boundary. Then came a no-ball on the pads. McCullum clipped it for another four. The free-hit was a slower ball , right in the slot for McCullum to clear his front leg and launch down the ground for six . Two more fours came off the last two balls , and the over had produced 23 runs. McCullum had scored 22 of them - only Virat Kohli , during his blazing century in Hobart three years ago , had scored more in an over against Malinga . Sri Lanka turned to Rangana Herath in the 10th over , and he brought some measure of normalcy to proceedings before getting McCullum to hole out by daring him to go after a ball that was n't quite full enough to hit over the top with full control. It gripped , turned , and McCullum did n't quite middle it ; long-off still took it right on the edge , while threatening to topple over the rope . Suranga Lakmal came on as Sri Lanka 's fourth-change bowler , and immediately looked the most impressive of their seamers , immediately finding Kane Williamson 's edge with a fullish outswinger , only for Sangakkara to put him down , diving to his right. In near-identical circumstances six overs later , Sangakkara managed to pouch Martin Guptill . Williamson was n't batting with his usual fluency - early in his innings , he French-cut Lakmal for four and nearly popped a return catch to Herath - but Sri Lanka would n't let him leave the crease. When he was on 27 , Angelo Mathews leaped at short cover and got a hand to a powerful slap off Lakmal but could n't hold on. Sri Lanka had to wait till he had doubled his score when Williamson finally offered another chance , holing out at the wide long-on boundary off the legspinner Jeevan Mendis . Mendis held his next delivery back a touch , and released from a foot behind the crease. Ross Taylor , lunging out of his crease to flick against the turn , was beaten by dip and turn , and Sangakkara stumped him after a bit of a juggle. At the end of that over , Mendis had figures of 2 for 5 from two overs. For some reason , he did n't bowl another ball . Anderson and Grant Elliott , the two new batsmen , took 33 from the batting Powerplay , which left New Zealand 229 for 4 at the 40-over mark. Elliott fell in the 44th over , and Anderson skied Lakmal high over cover in the 46th over to give Sri Lanka a chance of restricting the score to under 300. Mendis settled under the ball and dropped a sitter . Anderson was on 43 at that point , New Zealand on 278. They scored 50 off the 27 balls that remained , which gave Sri Lanka just enough time for one last act of tragicomedy , Malinga overstepping while bowling Ronchi with a perfect yorker . Karthik Krishnaswamy is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
