South Africa v Zimbabwe , World Cup , Group B , Hamilton February 14 , 2015 African flavour to spice up Hamilton Start time 1400 local ( 0100 GMT ) Play 03 : 03 A good chance for SA to start strong Big picture " All humanity shares an African heritage , " says a message at Cradle of Humankind , the South African site at which most complete hominid fossil was found. In the cricket world , that may not mean much , because the continent is under-represented. But in Hamilton , for a few hours on Sunday , that will change . South Africa and Zimbabwe , the only two teams from the continent , kick off their respective campaigns against each other and there 's no shortage of brotherly love between them . South Africa have spoken reams about their respect for Zimbabwe , their single-minded focus on beating the northern neighbours , and their expectation that their opening match will be spirited and the opposition sprightly come game day. Zimbabwe have not been shy to spread the praise either , marvelling at South Africa 's squad of world-beaters and their indisputable skill. But beneath all that brews a special rivalry that only exists between teams too close for each other 's comfort despite being far away in every other sense. Think New Zealand and Australia. Zimbabwe will be desperate to get one over their richer , stronger and more successful neighbours , South Africa will be desperate to avoid exactly that. Losing or even pushed too hard by the little guys next door will not do their confidence any good and they will want to announce their authority early on. A sell-out crowds with a sizeable number of expats is expected - with only 900 tickets unsold two days before the match , of a capacity of 10,000 - warm weather reminiscent of home and a pop-up performance from the Soweto Gospel Choir in the public square two hours before the game starts. Cricket can not get much more African than this. Form guide ( last five matches , most recent first ) South Africa : WLWWW Zimbabwe : LLLLL In the spotlight When Zimbabwe got wind Dale Steyn may be rested for their one-off Test in August last year , their batsmen breathed a little easier and were n't afraid to say so. Their eyes widened when Steyn ended up playing and their reflexes failed them. Steyn took five wickets in the first innings and eight in the match. He went on to top the wicket-takers ' list in the triangular series which followed and the scars he would have left on Zimbabwe are probably still healing. His reputation frightens Zimbabwe before his speed or his scary eyes and how they handle him could determine their ability to compete in the match overall. If South Africa sometimes have a marshmallow middle-order , Zimbabwe have been known to have an already melted one but Sean Williams could make all the difference to that. He is industrious with the bat , unafraid with the ball and has made his name on determination. Along with Craig Ervine , he will play a key part in helping Zimbabwe build a competitive total , and then trying to defend it. Team news Farhaan Behardien underwent both batting and bowling fitness tests the day before the match after sustaining a back injury before the second warm-up match on Wednesday. South Africa will make a late call on his availability ; they are keen to play him at No.7. AB de Villiers described it as a " difficult one , " if Behardien has to be benched. That will leave South Africa with a choice between an extra specialist player or an all-rounder , with Wayne Parnell likely to be included. The rest of the XI should be as expected. South Africa : ( likely ) 1 Hashim Amla , 2 Quinton de Kock ( wk ) , 3 Faf du Plessis , 4 AB de Villiers ( capt ) , 5 JP Duminy , 6 David Miller , 7 Farhaan Behardien/Wayne Parnell , 8 Vernon Philander , 9 Dale Steyn , 10 Morne Morkel , 11 Imran Tahir With no injury concerns , Zimbabwe have all 15 players to choose from and their biggest conundrum will be deciding between their wealth of allrounders. If Brendan Taylor keeps wicket , they can make space for an extra bowler in Tawanda Mupariwa or Prosper Utseya while the inclusion of Soloman Mire allows them to bat deep. Zimbabwe : ( likely ) 1 Sikandar Raza Butt , 2 Chamu Chibhabha 3 Hamilton Masakadza , 4 Brendan Taylor ( wk ) , 5 Craig Ervine , 6 Sean Williams , 7 Elton Chigumbura ( capt ) , 8 Soloman Mire , 9 T Mupariwa/P Utseya , 10 Tinashe Panyangara , 11 Tendai Chatara Pitch and conditions A pristine outfield is the most notable attraction at Seddon Park in the lead-up to the match and that should facilitate run-scoring as much as the short boundaries and placid pitch. There are no surprises expected from the surface ; it will be tough work for seamers and spinners alike. Temperatures in Hamilton are expected to be in the mid 20s and humid with no rain forecast. Stats and trivia Zimbabwe have only bowled out South Africa four times and one of those was at a World Cup game in 1999. The other three times were an ODI in Harare in 1995 but the other two were more recently , both in August last year . South Africa have the second highest percentage of wins in World Cups , having won 30 of their 47 ( 59.75 % ) matches. That 's second only to Australia who have won 55 out 76 games ( 72.37 % ) . Quotes " We knew exactly what to expect leading up to this World Cup even three months back. We knew the games coming , the amount of sessions we had in place. We knew really early and in that way you can get your mind ready for what 's coming. I sit here feeling very fresh and ready to go. " South Africa 's seven-month , 24-match build-up period has left AB de Villiers and his team as ready as they will ever be. " Looking at the results before , people can call us small but of the teams we 've played recently , there are good signs. The guys feel like they belong here. " Despite being full Members , Zimbabwe are regarded as being among the minnows. Elton Chigumbura hopes they can change that perception at this tournament . Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
