India v Pakistan , World Cup 2015 , Group B , Adelaide February 14 , 2015 India seek fortune revival against old foes India , Pakistan train hard for big clash Match facts Start time 1400 local ( 0330 GMT ) Big Picture Misbah-ul-Haq must have lost count of the number of times he has been asked to comment on Pakistan 's 0-5 record against India in World Cup matches. Almost every time , he politely says that history can change at any point in time , and every occasion is a chance to do that. MS Dhoni was also asked how much of an advantage it is to enjoy such a record. Dhoni 's reply was typical , " The only thing that matters is you have to answer a lot of questions regarding that. Apart from that , it does n't really matter. " Not only that , it can be argued that this might be Pakistan 's best chance to end all questions. India seem to have been in Australia forever by now , and they are yet to win a single match , not counting the warm-up victory over Afghanistan. And after those fruitless months across formats , they run into their biggest rivals in their opening game of the World Cup. Pakistan sides usually sense and seize opportunity , and this seems to be as wide open a window for them as any . With warm-up game wins over Bangladesh and England , they also seem to have made good use of whatever time they have had in these conditions before the tournament , although they began with a couple of heavy defeats in New Zealand . India , on the other hand , were flattened by a Glenn Maxwell blitz at Adelaide Oval in their warm-up against Australia , and then their bowlers could not dismiss Afghanistan over 50 overs . India and Pakistan have not faced each other in Australia in the last 15 years © Getty Images In their defence , though , they seem to rediscover their touch in ICC tournaments under the guidance of Dhoni , which is what probably evens the scales here. Otherwise , an Indian team winless on the road outside Asia for three months and going straight into a world tournament against Pakistan … that does not sound promising if you are an Indian fan , but Dhoni and his men have faced greater odds before , albeit off-field ones , and gone on to win the Champions Trophy in 2013 . Form guide ( last five matches , most recent first ) India : LLLWW Pakistan : LLLLW In the spotlight India 's fast bowlers are usually a much criticised lot , and a lengthy workload in Australia has already caused Ishant Sharma 's exit from the World Cup. They have even tried out Stuart Binny as a new-ball bowler in the triangular series , and have kept Dhawal Kulkarni as the 16th member of the squad , in case Bhuvneshwar Kumar 's ankle troubles persist. Amid all their issues , Dhoni has demanded more discipline from them in the first ten overs , saying that they need to avoid giving too many boundary balls. India 's bowling has actually held up quite well against Pakistan in World Cup matches , and it will be a tough act to follow for this group . Mohammad Irfan and his height have been in India 's sights during their practice sessions , which have seen support staff standing on stools to give the batsmen throwdowns. Irfan took five wickets against Bangladesh five days ago , and with their lower middle order batting not in the best touch of late , India will be keen to not lose too many too soon against the fast bowler. It becomes too much of a catch-up act for the following batsmen , Dhoni has said before . Team news Bhuvneshwar has had a quite light workload in practice sessions , suggesting India might want to give him more time to feel his way back , although Dhoni said there were no injury concerns. Axar Patel is unlikely to play , as India feel Ravindra Jadeja 's experience is crucial. India stuck to Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan as the opening combination in the warm-ups , and had Virat Kohli at No. 3. Depending on how much batting cover they feel they need down the order , it could be a toss-up between Stuart Binny and Mohit Sharma . India : ( probable ) 1 Shikhar Dhawan , 2 Rohit Sharma , 3 Virat Kohli , 4 Ajinkya Rahane , 5 Suresh Raina , 6 MS Dhoni ( capt & wk ) , 7 Ravindra Jadeja , 8 Stuart Binny/Mohit Sharma , 9 R Ashwin , 10 Mohammed Shami , 11 Umesh Yadav Sarfraz Ahmed did not click in New Zealand , and Umar Akmal kept wicket in both the warm-ups. That allows Pakistan to play an extra batsman , with Haris Sohail available to send down the bulk of the fifth bowler 's overs. Despite impressing against Bangladesh and England , the legspinner Yasir Shah could miss out . Pakistan : ( probable ) 1 Ahmed Shehzad , 2 Nasir Jamshed , 3 Younis Khan , 4 Haris Sohail , 5 Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , 6 Sohaib Maqsood , 7 Umar Akmal ( wk ) , 8 Shahid Afridi , 9 Wahab Riaz , 10 Ehsan Adil/Sohail Khan , 11 Mohammad Irfan Pitch and conditions India were swatted around Adelaide Oval for 371 by Australia , and then racked up 364 themselves against Afghanistan. On the afternoon before the game , Dhoni said that the pitch was damp , but added it looked similar to the one for the Australia warm-up. Rohit had felt that one had more bounce compared to the surface on which India played Afghanistan . It was overcast and humid in Adelaide on Friday. Saturday began the same way , but the afternoon scorched at forty-plus degrees. Sunday is expected to be clear and in the late-thirties . Stats and trivia Shahid Afridi is the only survivor from the only time these two teams met in Adelaide , in January 2000 India lead 4-3 head-to-head against Pakistan in Australia , although they have not faced each other in the country in the last 15 years Quotes " What 's brilliant about this team is you do n't need to calm nerves. They 've got a fair amount of experience , all of them. " MS Dhoni does not feel his players will put themselves under too much pressure " You just do n't take anything into the ground when you are playing against India. You do n't have to worry about what 's happening outside , what 's going on in the countries. I think you need to focus on your game , go there , and play your best. " Misbah-ul-Haq wants his team to confine their attention to the cricket Abhishek Purohit is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
