Australia v England , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Melbourne February 14 , 2015 ICC accepts umpiring error on Anderson run-out Play 01 : 15 Dobell : An embarrassment for ICC James Taylor was denied a maiden international century by an umpiring error as Australia opened their World Cup campaign with a crushing defeat of England . " Following Australia 's 111-run win over England in the Group A ICC Cricket World Cup clash at Melbourne Cricket Ground on Saturday night , the Playing Control Team ( PCT ) met and reviewed the final ball of the game which resulted in James Anderson being given run out , " an ICC statement said . " Article 3.6a of Appendix 6 of the Decision Review System Playing Conditions states that the ball should have been deemed dead when the batsman ( James Taylor ) was given out LBW. No further runs or dismissals were possible . " The PCT spoke to the England team management and acknowledges that the game ended incorrectly and that an error was made. " The confusion arose when Taylor was given out by umpire Aleem Dar following a leg before appeal from Josh Hazlewood. However , Taylor called for a review which suggested the ball was passing down the leg side. Dar 's original decision was therefore overturned. But as England attempted a single from the same delivery , Glenn Maxwell hit the stumps before Anderson could make his ground. After some confusion and a number of replays , the square leg umpire , Kumar Dharmasena gave Anderson out . But the playing conditions suggest the ball should have been declared dead at the time and Anderson should have been reprieved. While the decision had no bearing on the result - Australia were in a position of overwhelming dominance - it did deny Taylor the chance to register a century on World Cup debut . Aaron Finch , the Australian opener who was awarded the Man-of-the-Match award for his century , admitted the players had " no idea " what the playing conditions were . " We had no idea what was going on , " he said. " We appealed for an lbw , we appealed for a run out. We would have taken anything at the time . " I honestly still do n't know the rule. Maybe it was a dead ball , but I still have n't seen a rule. " George Dobell is a senior correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
