Australia vs New Zealand : Dress Rehearsal for the Final ? Australia vs New Zealand : Dress Rehearsal for the Final ? With Australia and New Zealand being the bookmakers ' top two favourites to win the World Cup , Saturday 's encounter could well be a dress-rehearsal for the big final on March 29 . Last updated on Wednesday , 25 February , 2015 22 : 44 IST Total Shares A file photo of the Australian team . © Getty Images Now that India versus Pakistan and India versus South Africa are both done and dusted , which is the most highly anticipated match in the World Cup that fans are waiting for with bated breath ? Chances are the answer is Australia versus New Zealand. The co-hosts of this edition of the World Cup are also pre-tournament favourites and in red hot form. With the two teams being the bookmakers ' top two favourites to win the Cup , Saturday 's encounter could well be a dress-rehearsal for the big final on March 29. ( Kiwis Wo n't Sledge vs Australia : Coach ) Incredibly , the trans-Tasmanian clash on Saturday ( February 28 ) will be the first encounter between these two sides in 4 years. The last time they played each other was in the 2011 World Cup in Nagpur , when Australia won by 7 wickets. They were scheduled to play in the 2013 Champions Trophy , but that match was abandoned after the first innings due to rain. ( Waugh Backs New Zealand ) Overall , Australia hold the edge in ODIs , having won 85 of their 125 encounters so far. Legendary Kiwi fast bowler Sir Richard Hadlee has in fact picked Australia as the favourites , though he expects a close encounter. Hadlee has said , " I think Australia are favourites , but the way New Zealand are playing , we will given them a good run and we are good enough to get across the line. " New Zealand so far have pulled off thumping wins in the 2 matches they have played against quality sides in the ongoing World Cup , beating Sri Lanka by 98 runs and England by 8 wickets. There 's no doubt that McCullum and his boys are on a roll , but are they feeling the pressure , especially considering they will be playing on home turf and will have a point or two to prove ? If you ask Kiwi coach Mike Hesson , the answer will be no. Hesson has said , " It 's just another one of the round robin games and obviously it 's going to be a good one. We know it 's going to be a great contest , we have n't played Australia a lot in recent times , but it 's an important game for us and important for the group , so we will treat it as the other ones. " Who holds the edge in this clash is the million dollar question. Hadlee , who has picked Australia , feels , the Aussies have more power hitters and that could swing the contest their way. The highest Test wicket-taker for New Zealand has said , " They 've got probably six power hitters in their side and with the short boundaries , it could be the contest of the power hitters , the team that can hit more sixes and fours. " Interestingly , while a legendary Kiwi has picked Australia , an iconic Aussie has picked New Zealand. Former Australian captain Steve Waugh has said , " To be brutally honest , New Zealand is probably going in as slight favourites. They have really got their confidence up and Auckland is a very hard place to play , it 's just a different kind of ground. " While the Kiwis , who have won 3 out of 3 so far , will not really be under pressure as far as the points table is concerned , the Aussies will be desperate to win this contest. Apart from bragging rights , they will be keen to reduce the gap between themselves and the Kiwis on the points table , especially after they were forced to split points with Bangladesh due to a wash out , which meant they are currently ahead of the Bangla Tigers , only on net-run-rate . Neither team can be tagged underdogs for this clash , but only one will earn the tag of top dog on Saturday . Story first published on : Wednesday , 25 February 2015 19 : 34 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
