Ireland v West Indies , World Cup 2015 , Group B , Nelson February 15 , 2015 Dropped and back : Sorensen comes a full circle 1 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 1 A late arrival , Max Sorensen picked up seven wickets in three games in the lead-up to the World Cup © Cricket Ireland One man 's World Cup heartbreak is another man 's World Cup joy. And occasionally , places are swapped very quickly. Max Sorensen openly admits to shedding a few tears when he was left out of Ireland 's original 15-man squad , but a few weeks later he was parachuted in to replace Tim Murtagh and is now set to play in the team 's opening match against West Indies . It was during the pre-World Cup trip to UAE where Murtagh injured his foot and flew home to find out he required surgery ; his dream shattered. During the tour Sorensen and Murtagh had been room-mates , with Sorensen still trying to digest the shock at being omitted from the World Cup . However , by the time he reached Dubai as a back-up bowler - a mentally tough experience to be around a squad he was not official part of - Sorensen had already started putting his plan in place about regaining his spot. He would never have wished injury upon a team-mate , but he had a feeling that he was not meant to miss the World Cup after making a considerable impression during his early ODI career , which began with the 2013 match against England in Malahide . After nine matches he has 12 wickets at 22.58 - his T20 figures are also tidy - but it was not enough for the final cut as Craig Young and Peter Chase were preferred . " There were a few days of real disappointment and tears , " Sorensen told ESPNcricinfo. " Then I decided to pick myself up. I believed in myself that I was n't going to be left out eventually. I felt I deserved to be there. I played well last year and that spurred me on. I wanted to prove people wrong . " I was rooming with Murts [ Tim Murtagh ] in Dubai when he got injured. It has been a roller-coaster of emotions , starting with disappointment and then trying to work hard to get my place back. When I got told I was called up , Tim was one of the first to congratulate me. I was sorry for him , but we also agreed that it 's the way sport goes. We said that if you are n't doing it then I will. " Now , after taking seven wickets in Ireland 's three warm-up matches in Australia , including 3 for 31 in the victory over Bangladesh , he is likely to be thrown the new ball against West Indies. He is determined not be overcome by the occasion . " I just ca n't wait , I 've been building up to this for a long time , " he said. " I 've done the hard work , done the hard yards. I 'm just going to grab it with both hands and enjoy it. I have n't played in many big atmospheres so I 'm going to savour it. I 've not got special plans. We 'll see what happens. It would be nice to get a couple of early wickets like in the warm-ups. " " I 've felt really good since we got out here. I think I 've been hitting the right length in Australia and I think it will be fairly similar out here. I 'll back myself to have some success. You just have to take the emotion out of the equation and remember what has got you here. " Andrew McGlashan is a senior assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
