India v Pakistan , Group B , Adelaide February 15 , 2015 Kohli fastest to 22 hundreds Stats highlight from the Group B match between India and Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval . shares 29 Virat Kohli brought up the first Indian century against Pakistan in a World Cup match © Getty Images 0 Number of India batsmen who had scored a century against Pakistan in the World Cup before this game. Virat Kohli became the first batsman to do so. The highest score by an Indian batsman before this match was Sachin Tendulkar 's 98 in Centurion in 2003 . 22 Centuries Kohli has now hit in ODIs - he is the quickest to the figure , having taken just 143 innings. Sachin Tendulkar was the quickest before Kohli , taking 206 innings. Including Kohli , only five batsmen have hit 22 or more centuries in ODIs . 5-55 Sohail Khan 's bowling figures in the match ; he took only the seventh five-wicket haul by a Pakistan bowler in the World Cup. He is the first Pakistan bowler and only the ninth overall to take a five-for in his first World Cup match. While Sohail averaged 11 in the match , the rest of the Pakistan bowlers gave away 243 runs for the one wicket they took . 6-0 India 's record in the World Cup against Pakistan. Incidentally , only Pakistan have more World Cup wins against a team without a loss. They have beaten Sri Lanka seven times and are yet to lose a game to them in the World Cup . 76 India 's margin of win in this match - the largestmargin of the five games against Pakistan in the World Cup in which they have batted first . 39 ODI fifties by Misbah-ul-Haq - he is now 14 clear of Andrew Jones , who is a distant second in the list of batsmen to get most ODI fifties without scoring a hundred. Misbah 's score in this match was the fourth highest by a Pakistan captain in the World Cup. Imran Khan 's unbeaten 102 against Sri Lanka in the 1983 World Cup is the highest. At 40 years and 263 days , Misbah is now the second-oldest batsman to hit a fifty-plus score in the World Cup . 1 Number of century partnerships India had against Pakistan in the World Cup before this match. There were two in this game. Dhawan and Kohli added 129 runs for the second wicket , beating the 102-run stand between Sachin Tendulkar and Mohammad Kaif in Centurion. It was followed by a 110-run partnership between Kohli and Raina for the third wicket . 21.6 Shikhar Dhawan 's average from ten innings in international cricket in Australia before this match. His 73 in this match was only his second fifty of the tour. He had scores of 38 , 8 , 1 , 2 and 0 in his previous five international innings . 27/5 The score India managed in the last five overs of their innings. It was a seesaw battle with the previous five overs producing 56 runs without a wicket after Pakistan bowlers had kept them quiet during the batting Powerplay conceding only 25 runs . India 's innings - seesaw battle
