India v Pakistan , World Cup 2015 , Group B , Adelaide February 15 , 2015 The veritable spotter 's guide to the Cheer The ball-by-ball structure of cricket gives its crowd noise a hypnotic rhythm , the stadium rising and falling with each major event , most minor events , and some non-events shares 4 This one 's for the Superstar , and the Grandpa © Getty Images The ear-splitting Adelaide showdown between India and Pakistan gave the World Cup another stirring occasion , another largely one-sided match , and seven hours of ceaseless sonic pandemonium , encompassing as wide a variety of cricketing cheers as any sporting noise connoisseur could wish for. Cheer-spotting might not yet be as established a hobby as bird- or train-spotting , or as popular a pastime as , for example , stamp-collecting , internet surfing , jury service , marriage or snooker. It is , however , a recreational diversion that is bound to increase in popularity , owing to the increasing rarity of genuine thoroughbred sporting cheers in the wild - the aggressive predation of the new-fangled Contrived Stadium Atmosphere has reduced the population of genuine cheers , sometimes obliterating them completely from their natural stadium habitat , sometimes leaving a colony of cross-bred half-real half-contrived cheers . The Adelaide Oval pumped out a pulsing fanfare of 45,000 people 's support , providing a veritable Spotters ' Guide To The Cheer , from well before the start of play. On an occasion such as this one , the ball-by-ball structure of cricket gives its crowd noise a hypnotic rhythm , the stadium rising and falling with each major event , most minor events , and some non-events . This is far from an exhaustive list , but among those cheers prominently on display were the following ( including suggestions for how those same cheers might be applied outside the realm of sport , for sport proves that everyday life would be enhanced by cheering moments of success or good fortune ; and thanks to both sets of supporters for their indirect contribution to this invaluable piece of scientific research from a gloriously loud day of stadium-watching ) : The Won-The-Toss Cheer . A relatively new addition to the catalogue , facilitated by broadcasters ' habit of turning to the toss-winning captain first. The fans of that team will then respond to their skipper being granted first interview with a caterwaul of thrilled anticipation . Possible everyday life application : Winning a minor disagreement about which takeaway to order in from . The Resounding Four Cheer . An echoing bark of joy and confidence , often requiring the cheerer 's baby or infant to be hoisted above the head with a facial expression combining excitement , fear , confusion and vertigo. And , in some cases , impending vomit . Possible everyday life application : Finding a lost remote control . The Inside-Edged Four Cheer . As above , but slightly smugger . Possible everyday life application : Catapulting a tea-bag into a bin across a room from a distance of at least 15ft . The Fifty . A mixture of praise , respect and congratulation . Possible everyday life application : Spouse/friend/parent returns from shop with slightly better than expected baguette . The Fifty By A Superstar Team Icon . There was a discernible difference between the noise that greeted Kohli 's half-century , compared with the noise that greeted Dhawan 's , as there was with Tendulkar 's milestones , although not to the same degree. A fascinating cheer that conveys the love and rewarded trust of the crowd , surrogate pride and the belief that all will ultimately be well . Possible everyday life application : Encouraging elderly grandparent during a round of crazy golf . The First Opposition Wicket . The closest cricket has to a goal ( although anyone walking past the Adelaide Oval on Sunday might have been forgiving for thinking that there was a soccer game in progress , and that the final score was approximately 300-224 ) ( which , by coincidence , is exactly how the cricket ended ) . An outbreak of triumphal release ; often accompanied by wild arm flailing and mild headbanging . Possible everyday life application : Successful marriage proposal . Key Opposition Wicket A sustained eruption of noise , as belief in victory translates into certainty of victory , tinged with the anticipation of imminent gloating opportunities. May involve impromptu and unnecessary gyration or thrusting . Possible everyday life application : Bride turns up at wedding . Also in evidence in Adelaide were ( or seemed to be ) cheers marking the following landmarks : 1. The first ball being delivered . 2. The first ball being hit . 3. A leg bye of no real importance . 4. Eight o-clock . 5. The arrival of a snack . 6. Life in general . 7. Cricket . * * * * ● Virat Kohli 's 107 off 126 balls was , in terms of strike rate , the slowest of the 22 centuries he has made in his prodigious ODI career , at 84 runs per 100 balls. It was an innings of controlled mastery for the most part , without ever reaching the glorious fluency he so often achieves , and was restricted by some fine bowling in its latter stages , and his and India 's threatened eruption never fully materialised. The facts that ( a ) he has scored 22 ODI centuries and ( b ) all of his previous hundreds had been scored at a strike rate of at least 90 , highlight what a staggering limited-overs career Kohli has been compiling this decade. It also highlights have rapidly cricket has changed , that a century scored at the equivalent of five runs an over is almost sedate . ● Four games , four first-innings scores of at least 300 , four chases which never seriously threatened success. If you had put money on Zimbabwe having the narrowest defeat in the opening two days ( a ) congratulations , ( b ) that is a strange bet to place , in more than one way , and ( c ) stop lying . ● CORRECTION : When Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq opined that " 300 was very much chaseable , " he sadly omitted to append the words : " by a different team " . Andy Zaltzman is a stand-up comedian , a regular on BBC Radio 4 , and a writer © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
