World Cup 2011 Revisited : India Clash With West Indies on Holi Again World Cup 2011 Revisited : India Clash With West Indies on Holi Again India and West Indies will face off in the World Cup 2015 group match in Perth on Friday. India will celebrate Holi that day. Four years ago , the two teams played on this auspicious day . Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 20 : 15 IST Total Shares While the Windies enjoyed their song and dance , it was business as usual for Team Dhoni in the nets . © AFP Coincidence it may be , Friday 's India versus the West Indies World Cup 2015 group match in Perth has once again fallen on Holi ! As India celebrate the festival of hues on March 6 , India and West Indies will try to come out with flying colours at the hallowed WACA . Four years ago in the 2011 World Cup , India and West Indies played each other on Holi. It was March 20 and India defeated the Caribbeans by 80 runs in Chennai. Unbeaten so far in their group , defending champions India will start favourites with West Indies remaining as unpredictable as ever . India have four members who played the 2011 match in Chennai. Virat Kohli , embroiled in unnecessary controversy with a scribe , had scored 59 while skipper MS Dhoni chipped in with a 22. Suresh Raina managed 4 while Ravichandran Ashwin was unbeaten on 10 . Ashwin opened the bowling for India as west Indies chased 269 for a win. The Tamil Nadu off-spinner took 2/41 and Raina got 1/12 as West Indies were all out for 188. Opener Devon Smith was the top scorer with 81 while Ramnaresh Sarwan was second best with 39. Both Smith and Sarwan are not part of the current squad The mercurial Chris Gayle did not play the 2011 match. On Friday , the Jamaican will be the man India will be wary of . Having struck the World Cup 's first double century , Gayle remains India 's biggest threat . A win will give India a spot in the quarters . However , for the former champions West Indies , it is a matter of survival . A victory will keep the Caribbeans in fray for the knockouts . In the build-up to this big game , the two teams have gone about their preparation in contrasting ways. India have kept a low profile , training intermittently and generally staying away from public view . Chris Gayle and Andre Russell enthrall fans in Perth. ( Images courtesy : Tourism Western Australia/ Travis Hayto ) The West Indians have done just the opposite. They have kept their spirits up by partying , dancing and singing . All-rounder Darren Sammy even said , " India can celebrate Holi but West Indies will celebrate a win on Friday. " Team Dhoni knows the dangers of playing West Indies. All set for a thriller . Story first published on : Wednesday , 04 March 2015 18 : 48 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
