World Cup 2015 February 17 , 2015 Green diet behind a faster , fitter Morkel 'It comes down to the way I train and my lifestyle off the field. Clean living. Green smoothies, ' says Morne Morkel about his new diet plan shares 25 Morne Morkel has not gone cold turkey on the typical South African diet but tweaked it to suit his needs © Getty Images Not long after Peter Siddle went bananas , Morne Morkel decided to go green. Not with envy but in his diet. Australia 's workhorse adopted a vegan lifestyle , which includes eating up to 20 bananas a day , three years ago , with the encouragement of his partner Anna Weatherlake. Morkel , who is married to former Channel Nine presenter-turned-holistic health-and-wellness coach Roz Kelly , a friend of Weatherlake , has done something similar. " Roz is really into her health stuff and it 's helped me a lot. She 's guided me with the whole healthy lifestyle , " Morkel told ESPNcricinfo at South Africa 's World Cup squad announcement last month. " It comes down to the way I train and my lifestyle off the field. Clean living. Green smoothies. " Unlike Siddle , who has since had problems with form and fatigue , Morkel has not gone cold turkey on the typical South African diet but tweaked it to suit his needs. " I still eat meat , " Morkel admitted. " I 've just cut out my sugar intake , I am very conscious about my sugar intake and the stuff I put into my body. I 've cut out fizzy drinks. I drink water and I 'll mix a lot of green smoothies. " The result is a fitter , faster Morkel who has averaged higher on the speed gun than Dale Steyn , and can clock longer hours. " I feel a lot more energy when I bowl. I do n't have energy spikes , " Morkel said. " I have been bowling longer spells and I 've been quicker in my spells. With the training I have been putting in , I have to believe it 's working. " Last year , Morkel bowled more overs than both Steyn and Vernon Philander in both , the eight Tests South Africa played and the 14 ODIs he featured in. He was their second highest wicket-taker in the longest format behind Steyn , and their chief assassin in 50-over cricket with 24 scalps at an average of 28. He found the consistency he has sometimes been criticised for and the time to work on his craft. " I 've enough time to work on death bowling , to work on slower [ balls ] and to practice my skills. I 've found a rhythm and built on it and that gives me a lot of confidence , " Morkel said. " In any sport , when you have confidence , you walk around with a bit more mongrel inside you. I feel very confident with my game at the moment , and the way the ball is coming out. " Morkel left South African shores with self-belief and planned to transfer it to the World Cup by sticking to what worked. " I 've got a good set of drills and a structure to my training , " he said. " It 's not just about bowling now , it 's about trusting that plan and not over-thinking. Once we get get to the World Cup it will be about finding my feet. " The whole South African squad appeared to be testing the waters in their opener against Zimbabwe. Although they won the match comfortably , they were under pressure with both bat and ball , which may not bother Morkel too much. " With Kolkata [ Knights Riders ] , we lost seven games on the bounce and won the last nine. So it 's also about peaking at the right time , " he said. But that was said before the tournament had kicked-off , when Morkel also urged his team-mates to " switch on and start to eat , play and live cricket at the World Cup. We 've got a great team and great names on paper but going there and winning the World Cup is n't going to be easy and it 's important for us to realise that , " he said then. It was equally important to acknowledge the weight of expectation that has been placed on this side , by everyone including themselves and Morkel has done that. " I 've been part of this team getting Test awards and winning in that format ; beating Australia in Australia ; beating England in England , " Morkel said. " Speaking to Jacques [ Kallis ] and those guys before that , this is the ultimate dream for them as well and to win that trophy for them and the guys before us and the whole country , that will be the ultimate. It will be the ultimate for me , it will be the ultimate for everyone. " So will it be a green smoothie , rather than champagne to celebrate if South Africa end up as champions ? " A green and gold one , " Morkel said. " I 'll add an extra bit of mango to it. " And maybe a steak on the side . Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
