ICC World Cup : Wonder What Pakistan Learnt from a Dry Contest Like UAE.. . ICC World Cup : Wonder What Pakistan Learnt from a Dry Contest Like UAE.. . After stuttering starts in World Cup 2015 , Pakistan have finally managed to lift spirits somewhat after wins against Zimbabwe and UAE. Can these triumphs assure the team of a place in the quarters ? Only time will reveal Pakistan 's fate in the tournament . Last updated on Thursday , 05 March , 2015 11 : 26 IST Total Shares Pakistan opener gets instructions from coach Waqar Younis before going out to bat against UAE . © Getty Images It was a contest between a movable object and a stoppable force as Pakistan took on UAE at the quiet seaside town of Napier in New Zealand yesterday. The crowd for a World Cup match , first ( of three ) at Napier in this edition of the tournament , drew such poor crowd that at one point there were more media personnel and volunteers than the fans in the stands. ( Scorecard | Points Table ) Pakistan have stuttered and sputtered in this tournament , a lot of their problems arising out of a fragile top order. UAE have tried gamely , but they were always going to be a push over against established cricketing powers. Even a side story of two former Pakistani compatriots and now opposing head coaches - Aaqib Javed and Waqar Younis - could bring life in to this sedate affair. ( Also read : Waqar happy with win vs UAE but urges Pakistan team for more ) Despite Pakistan 's obvious struggles while chasing a target , UAE decided to bowl after winning the toss. Nasir Jamshed was inexplicably included in Pakistan 's World Cup squad as injury replacement , and an even more confounding matter is that he has been persisted while falling with the pull shot repeatedly without much to show for. Not to mention , he is n't exactly Jonty Rhodes in the field. Yesterday , he fell again to a poorly executed pull shot and was gone for 4. ( Captain Misbah proud of two wins ) UAE had the opening but they dropped Ahmed Shehzad a couple of times and by the time the second Pakistani wicket fell , the game was as good as over. The rest of the Pakistani batsmen filled their boots up while UAE 's hard-trying-but-limited-in-skill bowlers kept watching balls disappear over the boundary. ( Also read : Afridi now has 8000 runs in ODIs ) A merry moment in this stretch of UAE 's struggle came when a yellow-turbaned Sikh fan , holding two drinks bottles in his left hand , caught one of these sixes in the crowd with his free right hand. As Pakistan rolled easily to their first 300 total of the tournament - 339-6 all said and done - the only question in the minds of the people watching would have been : How quickly can Pakistan wrap up UAE ? As it turned out , 129 runs. Shaiman Anwar helped himself to another 50 and Amjad Javed provided some late-hitting entertainment but it was all headed only one way. Besides Jamshed 's obvious lack of form , it is not quite sure what Pakistan can learn from this game and utilise against their next opponent South Africa who are coming off their own mauling of another Associate nation . Story first published on : Thursday , 05 March 2015 10 : 14 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
