World Cup 2015 February 18 , 2015 Thirimanne revels in familiar territory shares 53 Lahiru Thirimanne 's batting position has fluctuated wildly over the course of his ODI career © ESPNcricinfo Ltd Sometimes you strike out into the unknown seeking a fresh challenge only to wind up just where you began , wiser for the journey. In the years since Lahiru Thirimanne debuted as an ODI opener in 2010 , he has batted everywhere in the order from No. 1 to No. 8. For much of 2013 , he was Sri Lanka 's No. 5 - the link-man between Mahela Jayawardene 's flair and Angelo Mathew 's finishing blows. Only a month ago , he was set to bat through the World Cup at No. 6 , where he had lately begun to string together some effective innings . In between , Thirimanne has temporarily filled in at the top of the order , and that is where he has landed again. Sri Lanka 's opening woes have been so dire in the past few months , that Tillakaratne Dilshan had had five ODI opening partners since mid-October. Now , returned to the more comfortable surrounds , Thirimanne has begun provide some stability to the opening partnership , with scores of 45 , 29 , 30 and 65 since he began to face the new ball in his latest stint . " If you look at my batting style , I feel like I can be more useful at the top of the order , " Thirimanne said. " At times I 've gone down and batted at six - sometimes quite well - but to do that I had to change my technique. At the top of the order , I go back to my basics. I 've made better use of my chances there. " He has a point. After 69 ODI innings , Thirimanne 's average is 32.26 , but has scored his runs at 39.61 on the 23 occasions he has batted in the top three. Each of this three centuries have also come from those positions - two of them , memorably , as an opener in last year 's Asia Cup , where he was the player of the tournament. He has better returns in slower conditions , but has also had some success in the antipodes. His other ODI hundred came in Adelaide , against Australia , two weeks after he struck a 91 in the Sydney Test not long after he was parachuted into the tour . Playing in the middle order has helped expand his batting , which had been a reliable but uninspiring monochrome when he began. In Sri Lanka 's World Cup opener , he struck 65 off 60 to top the scoring , as Sri Lanka failed to chase New Zealand 's 331. Among his eight fours were two advancing cover drives , and a ramp over the slips . " The experience of batting low down did a lot of good things for me as well , " he said. " When you get only 10 overs to bat down there , you 've got to play a lot of shots. So you 've got to start playing ramp shots , paddle sweeps , lofted shots and the like. That builds variety into your game . " Now when I open , I have options , which can change depending on the situation. If you look at the matches so far , for example , West Indies were struggling at the start and hit over 125 runs in the last 15 overs. Sometimes you get a good start - like when you 're 60 after 10 overs , and then you should be looking at 300-350. But when that does n't happen , the openers ' wickets become crucial. You 've got to keep the scorecard ticking , but then wickets translate into a lot of runs later. " Of the young batsmen in the Sri Lanka side , Thirimanne has been the most consistent and displayed the steadiest temperament over the past two years. In that time he has been marked out as a key batsman in Sri Lanka 's future by Jayawardene and especially Kumar Sangakkara . " I have n't actually made big changes to my technique to adjust to different conditions , " Thirimanne said. " There have been small things to change from place to place , of course , but I 've also had Kumar aiya say , 'The way you bat , you should n't have to change too much. Keep making small adjustments given the situation , but you have the basics. ' One of those small changes : recently Mahela aiya was also telling me that I have to move my feet in a slightly different way when playing spin - to bat more on off stump. So those little changes have helped , but they 've only been small changes. With what those two tell us , often their technical advice is really helpful. Kumar aiya is clearly far ahead of me , but his technique is also of a similar ilk to mine , so I value what they tell me. " Thirimanne was made vice-captain in 2014 , and has since led his team three times in ODIs. Sri Lanka won only one of those matches , right at the tail-end of the recent series against New Zealand , but Thirimanne believed the team had the quality to turn their fortunes around. Much of the World Cup squad had also played in Sri Lanka 's 2014 hot-streak , when they won the Asia Cup , World T20 , and Test and one-day series in England and Bangladesh , all between February and July . " The last two months have n't been easy , but we need to start showing our character now. In the last year , this is the same team we had. There were a few months in 2014 when we were winning 95 % of our matches. We encountered some tough conditions in New Zealand , and that has set us back , but I think we can overcome that and rally. " Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
