England 's problem - one of their problems - is that they are not strong enough to afford passengers and Eoin Morgan is fast becoming one shares 29 Play 01 : 29 Matt Prior believes Eoin Morgan will be unflustered by the focus on his poor form In the bad old days of England cricket , a man with four ducks in his last five innings would have been history . In the days when England used 29 players in a series - the Ashes of 1989 , for example , - players could barely survive two successive failures. Graeme Fowler 's last four Test innings were 49 , 201 , two and 69. Andy Caddick was dropped after taking 5 for 67 in the first innings at Port of Spain in 1998 and never played again after a 10-wicket haul in the Sydney Test of 2003. It was chaos . England 's continuity of selection policy was a key part of their success in the years that followed. It provided security for the team. It allowed people to play without fear. It remains a sensible stance. But , taken to an extreme , it creates a blockage and stifles the development of new players . So for many months - long after it had become obvious to the impartial observer - England found encouragement and promise in Alastair Cook 's clear decline. They made excuses for his struggles and ways to mitigate for his failures. As a general role , as soon as you hear someone described as " a resilient character " you know they 're in trouble . The intention , no doubt , was honourable. But there are consequences to such actions and by persisting with Cook for so long , the selectors gave his eventual replacements far less time to learn their trade ahead of the World Cup. It is hardly surprising that Moeen Ali and Gary Ballance , in particular , are finding it hard to gauge the pace to bat at the top of the innings. They have , relative to many of their opponents , only just started in the job . Now England are doing something similar with Eoin Morgan . Despite Morgan 's poor record over the last year or so - worse that Cook 's - the management have chosen to accentuate whatever positives they can find and try to ignore the evidence that is beginning to pile up in front of them . Ramprakash lauds hard-working Hales Mark Ramprakash , the England batting coach , is pleased with the attitude of Alex Hales , who has not had a chance to play in the XI but is not letting that affect his mindset . " The whole trip since we 've been in Australia I felt Alex had a shift in his maturity and level of professionalism , " Ramprakash said. " It 's always a challenge for any player that if they 're not playing in the final 11 , to keep themselves motivated and practice well. But he 's done that really well . " He batted extremely well yesterday in a very challenging scenario that I set up. I was hugely impressed. He 's knocking on the door hard in my opinion. He 's really chomping at the bit and batting very well. He wants an opportunity . " He batted very well in the game against Pakistan. It was a surprise when he got out. " But Ramprakash suggested that Ravi Bopara , who was dropped on the eve of the tournament , could learn a little from Hales ' positive outlook . " Ravi 's got to kind of take a little bit from that , I guess , " he said. " He has to reassess and get some time away from the game , which is very important. But when he comes to the ground he has to mean business. He has to look to practice with a mentality to keep improving. That 's very important. " It has become fashionable , in England circles , to repeat the line that Morgan scored a century just five ODI innings ago. As if this run of poor form is a recent blip. As if the critics are jerking knees and over-reacting . Maybe. It was a fine innings , certainly. A reminder of what a fine player Morgan can be. But the fact is , that innings was not a return to the norm. It was a rare spike on a graph that shows a relentless downward slope . It was one of only two scores of 50 or more ( the other was an innings of 62 in Colombo in December ) dating back a year and 26 ODIs . Morgan 's record when England win is even worse - a highest score of only 33 in the same period - and only once has he passed fifty against a Full Member in a winning cause since September 2012 . Which tells us one thing : Morgan is not winning England any games . And that 's the point of being in a team. It is not about individual milestones. It is not about Steven Finn 's hat-trick in Melbourne - possibly the most meaningless hat-trick in the history of international cricket - or face-saving innings. It is about shaping matches. It is about directly intervening in them to help your side win . Morgan is n't doing that. The unpalatable fact is that Morgan - temporarily - has become a passenger in this side . Eoin Morgan 's form has been an important cause for concern for England © Getty Images England 's problem - one of their problems - is that they are not strong enough to afford passengers. They would be better allowing Ravi Bopara or Chris Jordan to come in as allrounders. Or give Alex Hales , who is batting nicely in the nets , a run at the top of the order . It does n't mean they have to drop Morgan forever. As Bopara could tell him , a player can be dropped and recalled in a single series . So they go into the game against New Zealand desperate for Morgan to contribute. Not just because it is a game they really could do with winning - their fragile confidence might not recover from another reverse like that suffered in Melbourne and defeat leaves them with no room for error in the remainder of the competition - but so they do n't have to take another awkward decision . George Dobell is a senior correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
