New Zealand v England , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Wellington February 20 , 2015 The electrifying Brendon McCullum The New Zealand captain ensured the Wellington crowd were entertained by swing bowling and fielding of a rare standard , and then he sated their desire for aggressive shots too shares 50 Play 01 : 57 Trott : The situation suited McCullum An international cricket ground is a large space. Thousands of cars could be parked on one. Put 11 sprightly men on it , marshalled by an attacking captain with a battery of accurate bowlers to call upon though , the gaps on it can shrink drastically. On Friday against New Zealand , despite the sunshine and crisp air in Wellington , England 's batsmen would have found the Regional Stadium as claustrophobic as a windowless solitary confinement cell . It shrunk when Brendon McCullum batted as well - to the size of a backyard - as he blazed a trail of sixes and fours to complete the demolition of England inside 46 overs. His 77 off 25 balls in the chase - McCullum broke his own record for the fastest World Cup fifty - was the perfect celebration of the way New Zealand had performed to dismiss England for 123 , because it ensured the strong and appreciative crowd had seen everything. They had been entertained by swing bowling and fielding of a rare standard , and now they had their fill of aggressive shots. They would n't have complained that all of it was from New Zealand . McCullum was buzzing with adrenaline when he went in to bat , because he had been both fulcrum and spearhead of a bowling and fielding display that was an outlier to the performances of more human teams. On the eve of this match , he had spoken of a blueprint his team followed and it probably has one word on every page - attack , in bold and large print. His team could borrow the country 's tourism department 's catchphrase to trademark the way they played - 100 % Pure New Zealand . McCullum was everywhere : sprinting to his right from mid-off and diving to cut off shots before they entered the unmanned expanses beyond the 30-yard circle , flying from short cover and midwicket with arm flung out behind him to pull down balls that had already passed his body , racing from mid-off towards long-on to chase down a well-timed drive just inside the boundary , and even running full-tilt after shots he had no hope stopping . His team-mates followed his example perfectly. Adam Milne ran hard towards third man and dived to save a four , and then pulled off running and full-length diving catch at long-on to dismiss Eoin Morgan - feats that few fast bowlers would have been capable of. Daniel Vettori hurried to get behind a stinging throw from his captain to prevent overthrows. Kane Williamson , Martin Guptill and Corey Anderson threw themselves around at gully and slips. And at one point there were four fielders rushing to back up a throw to Luke Ronchi , and not because his wicketkeeping is dodgy . New Zealand 's astuteness in the field combined with remarkable ground speed made for an incredible spectacle , and each one was met with a roar from the full house . Tim Southee on New Zealand 's fielding - 'It is an attitude thing that 's led by Brendon himself , the way he throws himself around in the field ' © Getty Images And then there was the captaincy. Whenever a fast bowler was operating McCullum employed his catchers. Sometimes there were four slips in the cordon , sometimes there were two. But there was always at least one. A gully was a near-permanent fixture and men prowled at short cover and midwicket. The swinging ball and unrelenting accuracy from New Zealand 's bowlers kept McCullum 's field in play throughout , and when England met their bitter end , more people were catching than not . That end was hastened when McCullum decided to try and wipe England out as soon as Morgan was dismissed in the 25th over , with his team on 104 for 4. He brought back Tim Southee , and it was a decision that culminated in New Zealand 's premier bowler breaking the national record for the best ODI figures . " Got the [ Morgan ] wicket , and Brendon thought it was a chance to attack and put the foot down , " Southee said , after finishing with 7 for 33. " It 's one of those moves - he makes the play , it comes off , and it could n't have been a better move. " Southee added that New Zealand 's approach began with their captain. " We 've seen over the last … however long Brendon has been in charge , he 's an aggressive captain and the way he plays his cricket is aggressive , " he said. " As bowlers that gives you the confidence to go out knowing the captain is right in behind you with setting these attacking fields . " Our fielding , it 's an attitude. We 've prided ourselves on being one of the best fielding sides in the world for a number of years now. It is an attitude thing that 's led by Brendon himself , the way he throws himself around in the field. And if he 's doing that then it sets the standard for the rest of the team to follow. " At no stage of their innings did England have an inch of breathing room and Morgan , looking rather shell-shocked , gave New Zealand their due. " Probably the best bowling display we 've come across since we 've been down this side of the world , which says a lot considering we played against Australia , " he said. " But today we could n't cope with it. " If New Zealand are able to rev themselves up to such a gear against Australia a week from now in Auckland , the tournament favourites will have challenges to cope with it too . George Binoy is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
