World Cup 2015 February 21 , 2015 Thisara important to team balance - Mahela 26 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 26 Mahela Jayawardene says Thisara Perera is a match-winner who is striving to find form in New Zealand © AFP Mahela Jayawardene has marked out allrounder Thisara Perera as a key man in Sri Lanka 's World Cup campaign , labelling him a " match-winner " and a player that can bring balance to the XI . Sri Lanka have struggled to penetrate with the ball on New Zealand 's truer , bouncier surfaces , and have also been light on batting power at the death. Thisara is capable of alleviating those concerns , but has recently been underwhelming in both major disciplines. He played all seven bilateral matches against New Zealand , and collected four wickets and had a high-score of 20 . Thisara 's form has subsided since his outings against Pakistan in August , when he was the player of the three-match ODI series. He had also been destructive with ball and bat in Australia , on past tours . " Thisara is a vital part of our team , and he still has n't come right in New Zealand , " Jayawardene told ESPNCricinfo . " If we can have Thisara batting well and bowling well , he 's a match-winner. He has proven that with the amount of man-of-the-match awards he 's won. Right now he 's trying to find that form. " Thisara was not picked to play in Sri Lanka 's tournament opener against New Zealand , and Sri Lanka have sought to bolster the middle order by batting Dimuth Karunaratne at no. 5. That position would seem a poor fit for Karunaratne , who is a Test opener by trade , but Jayawardene was wary of displacing men from the experienced top order for the purpose of batting Karunaratne at a more familiar position . " I do n't know if changing the line up is the solution , " Jayawardene said. " Dimuth has been given a role to play and he should have the confidence to do that. Lahiru Thirimanne going up the order did require a change , but if we try to patch that by moving batsmen around , we might have problems in a different area. The top four or five guys are batting really well , so we 've been getting good starts , which are important. In the middle order , I thought Jeevan Mendis was batting well in the lead-up games , and he 's given us a little bit of balance. " Sri Lanka lost both warm-up encounters , including the game against Zimbabwe , before losing the tournament opener to New Zealand by 98 runs. Jayawardene conceded it had been a slow start to the campaign , but said Sri Lanka had the quality and the know-how to win the tournament , so long as they played well . " No one gives us any chance in any tournament , " he said. " Even back home , people do n't really rate us that high. We 've come across that often , we 've fought hard , and we 've proven a lot of people wrong. We knew that playing these teams in these conditions was going to be tough. We will have our fair share of defeats - that 's a given. It 's not a tournament that you can completely dominate. But the idea is to win those crucial moments and crucial games and get to a position where we can strike . " We know handling big tournaments is about not panicking. It 's nothing crazy. It 's about building on the things we 've been doing for years. In the crunch games , you just have to hold everything together. You should n't put added pressure on yourself , because that restricts the way you play. We know we have handled tough situations in big finals , so that belief is there. " Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
