shares 129 Darren Lehmann said Brendon McCullum might not find attacking so easy against Australia 's fast bowlers © Getty Images Australia 's coach Darren Lehmann has fired a shot across the bows of the New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum , while at the same time admitting Brisbane 's rain will force significant changes to the team 's preparation for a pivotal World Cup encounter between the co-hosts in Auckland . With the exception of a washed out Champions Trophy encounter in 2013 , Australia and New Zealand have not met in an ODI since the 2011 World Cup , leaving plenty of water to pass under the bridge since , including McCullum 's emergence as one of the world 's most feared top-order aggressors and the Kiwis ' evolution into a major threat . Having observed McCullum 's destruction of England in Wellington , Lehmann challenged the former wicketkeeper to repeat the trick against Australia 's higher velocity attack at Eden Park. He noted the difference between the speeds of Stuart Broad , Steven Finn and James Anderson and those of Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc and Pat Cummins . " He does hit them a long way , does n't he ? " Lehmann told Adelaide radio station 5AA on Friday night. " He took the game on and he certainly does that , he plays a high-risk game , but there 's a bit of a difference between 135kph and 145 to 150kph coming at him. It 'll be a great challenge for both sides , he 's going to certainly come at us and we 've got some plans for him . " It 's going to be exciting - New Zealand have been very impressive. It 's going to be interesting to see how they play against us , I 'm sure they 'll be really aggressive , so it 's going to be a cracker game. " Brisbane was exposed to the fringes of tropical cyclone Marcia , meaning there never really seemed to be a possibility of a match against Bangladesh emerging from the murk. This means that by the time Michael Clarke walks out to toss the coin against McCullum in Auckland , the Australians will have gone two weeks between games. Even before knowing the washout would transpire , Lehmann flagged the likelihood of some kind of practice match to try to compensate . " We 'll probably have to , " he said. " We 'll get to New Zealand on Sunday regardless of what happens here , then try to replicate something like match conditions early in the week , which will give us an extra couple of sessions leading into a game . " Obviously they 're playing really well , blew England away and they 're a pretty good side. We 're good to go for the [ Brisbane ] game , but if it rains again tomorrow and then we get to New Zealand it is a few days without outdoor competitive cricket , so we 'll have to change it around. " Lehmann also expressed some interest in the way England 's Cup campaign appears to have unravelled , and he reached a familiar conclusion as to the reasons why. Namely , Lehmann felt that the team of Eoin Morgan and Peter Moores looked too scared of making mistakes rather than showing initiative . " England looked like they were lacking a bit of confidence , they won the toss and really did n't try to take the game on , " Lehmann said of the Wellington result . " I do n't think they are that bad. I just think they 're not backing themselves or having any confidence in themselves to play the game , and that can happen in any format of any sport. Sometimes you 've just got to have a crack and take the game on and I probably think they 're not doing that. " Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
