India v South Africa , World Cup 2015 , Group B , Melbourne February 21 , 2015 Friendships on hold as stakes enter a different league Play 01 : 36 'Whenever I meet Dale , he gives me the biggest hug ' - Kohli Some things just do n't seem to fit together : spots and stripes ; socks and sandals ; Dale Steyn and Virat Kohli . The South African is a safari-loving , street-art appreciating , soft-drink guzzling wild-child , the Indian a smooth-talking , suave-dressing , superstar but they do have more in common than just their tattoos . " I 've shared a great friendship with a lot of South African players over the years , and Dale has to be one of the more special ones. I played with him in Royal Challengers Bangalore for three years , and we became such good friends that we 've carried on our friendship after that as well and whenever I meet him he gives me the biggest hug , " Kohli said. " Even if we have to play a game , we are always really friendly before that. " If Steyn ran into Kohli in the maze of Melbourne laneways over the past week , he would not have stared him down with his scary eyes but shared a joke. Kohli would have counterattacked with a gag of his own. The same would have happened if any of the Indian team ran into Faf du Plessis , JP Duminy , Quinton de Kock , who have all played in the IPL , and even Kyle Abbott , a new signee of the Chennai Super Kings , who donned his yellow shirt for the first time a few days ago for a photo opportunity. They will be team-mates in six weeks ' time , when the new IPL season starts , but will put that on hold come 14 : 30 on Sunday . " He 's a completely different person on the field , which is absolutely fine , " Kohli said of Steyn. " He 's very aggressive. He 's obviously very passionate about playing for South Africa. There 's a good reason why he 's the best bowler in the world for a while now , and he 's so consistent because he has that mentality. We know on the field that , come game time , I 'll be looking to dominate him and he 'll be looking to dominate me , which is a mutual respect kind of thing. " So far , Kohli has had the better of their meetings. In the 11 ODIs when they have played against each other , Steyn has dismissed Kohli twice - whereas he has accounted for Brad Haddin and Mohammad Hafeez five times each - and both times were after Kohli had already scored fifty . Kohli may choose to remind Steyn of that , but has asked him not to take it too personally. " Whatever is said and done at that point of time , it 's taken in sportsman 's spirit because we know after the game we 'll obviously be best buddies again , " Kohli said . For his part , Steyn would have a handy retort. South Africa have won all three of their World Cup encounters against India and have promised no let-up at their fourth meeting , no matter how much they enjoy each other 's company. " Friendships are not going to play a role tomorrow , " AB de Villiers , another of Kohli 's IPL team-mates , said. " It 's a World Cup. You 're playing for your country. Both nations are very proud cricketing nations , so it 's a matter of really putting it out there on the field and leaving everything out there on the field in order for you to win the game. " Although victory in the match will neither guarantee nor seriously jeopardise either team 's chances of reaching the quarterfinals , it is seen as the biggest game both will play before the knockouts , and hence a chance to gain confidence early on. " Maybe its make or break for us , maybe not , all I know is we want to win this game , " de Villiers said . For South Africa , success will only add to what de Villiers is hoping will be the best cricketing memories of their careers. " The tournament is quite long , but it 's also important for me to slow things down , and to make sure we enjoy every single moment away from the game and while we 're playing. I see it as just a journey in life almost for the team. If we come out on top here , I do n't want it to feel like a blur looking back , " he said. " It must be a really good two months. If you rush things and you play games every second day , you almost just like the IPL sometimes , it 's a long tournament , but you look back and you think , where did those two months go to ? " Some of that time went into forming friendships like Steyn and Kohli 's , which may last a lot longer than a lifetime of IPLs and World Cups , but which was tested by both. Just ask Jacques Kallis , who retired before he had the chance for a final World Cup hurrah , but won trophies with the Kolkata Knight Riders and is now their mentor. May the best friend win . Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
