All West Indies and New Zealand had to do in their respective matches was simply turn up and wait for their opponents to shoot themselves. In fact , they did n't even have to wait shares 12 England lost with so much time to spare against New Zealand , that they could have invented another sport , taught that to the New Zealanders , and lost to them at that as well © Getty Images Two more clobberings in this World Cup of one-sided walkovers , two more teams teetering on the brink of melting down. It is hard to think of anything more Pakistan and England could have done wrong thus far , without taking the field wearing scuba gear and flippers , or batting with cucumbers , or jumping onto the umpire 's back and shouting , 'Giddy up , horsey' . There are unconfirmed rumours that the ICC is considering ejecting both sides from the tournament over suspicions they have been ambush marketing for a duck-farming company. Even their mild fight-backs at the end of their opening games only served to make their total subsidence in the second matches all the more galling . Each applied their final coup de disgrace in New Zealand with admissions of total defeat. In Wellington on Friday , Stuart Broad , thoroughly demolished with the bat in a dreadful innings of scrambled feet and beaten mind , a swing-and-hope shadow of the outstanding innings-building lower-order batsman he was in his early years , ended England 's brief but intense suffering in the field with the involuntary bolt gun of five wides ballooned over the batsman 's head . England losing at a sport it invented to a nation formerly under its colonial rule is nothing new. But in Wellington , they lost with so much time to spare that they could have invented a new sport , taught that to the New Zealanders , and lost to them at that as well . At Hagley Oval on Saturday , in front of a sizable crowd of slightly bemused neutrals who had been told by reliable sources that two international teams would be playing against each other , Shahid Afridi , Pakistan 's final theoretical hope of victory and actual hope of avoiding utter humiliation , was the penultimate wicket to fall . The ageing talisman plopped a useless full-toss from Suleiman Benn unerringly and remarkably slowly to mid-wicket with a thwonk of remarkable mistiming. This followed two dropped catches , and a second consecutive wicket-less bowling performance , which , though tidy enough , lacked the devil and belief of his considerable best . The final surrender followed minutes later as Sohail Khan white-flagged a catch straight up in the air , and the two teams which contested the final when the World Cup was last held in this part of the planet , were both left win-less , pointless and hopeless after two games of almost unceasing failure . The excellence of their opposition was more instrumental in England 's defeat than in Pakistan 's. Tim Southee 's seven wickets , all with pitched-up , stump-threatening or stump-clonking swingers , should be compulsory viewing in all schools around the world. England played with the dancing footwork of a lead watermelon and the confidence of that same lead watermelon in a Lightest Fruit competition , but Southee struck perfection . McCullum was almost sadistically superb , under no pressure from either the match situation or England 's bowling. New Zealand have thus far paraded their combination of collective strength and individual game-shaping brilliance. By the end , it was not even clear whether the two teams were playing the same sport . Pakistan won in 1992 playing like 'cornered tigers'. They fielded like cornered tigers in Christchurch. In that they appeared not to have hands . Both teams will now have to take a long , hard , icy bath with themselves as they contemplate how to escape from the deep , constricting bogs of confidence in which they currently lurk. Fortunately for them , the format of the tournament is relatively merciful - few equivalent competitions offer realistic prospects of advancement to teams who have been thrashed in their opening two matches . * * * Oops , I did it again : Pakistan 's fielding in Christchurch did resemble cornered tigers. They appeared not to have hands © Getty Images West Indies showed how fortunes can swing in a short interlude - Fifteen overs either side of the innings break uplifted them from a ragged struggle and the possibility of a second defeat , to the near certainty of victory and a surging confidence. For much of their innings in Christchurch , it had been a classic battle of the resistible force against a movable object. The reckless imprecision of West Indies ' batting was matched blooper for blooper by the almost spiritually incompetent Pakistan fielding . Marlon Samuels encapsulated his career in two balls - the most perfect straight drive imaginable , struck on the up with majestic poise , followed by a leaden-footed one-handed flap outside off stump for no discernible purpose. He soon departed for a 38 that was simultaneously lucky , insufficient , important and careless . In the end , Misbah 's men proved the more easily shifted , and , amid decreasingly competent bowling , were hammered out of the game by West Indies ' potent allrounders. This Pakistan is not well structured to chase 250. Chasing 311 was a task akin to asking a dolphin to climb a tree - unlikely , and only achievable in extraordinary circumstances . No team is well structured to chase 311 from a starting point of 1 for 4. Between England 's middle and lower order , and Pakistan 's top order , 11 wickets were lost for 20 runs in 64 balls. On the plus side , Chris Woakes bowled a maiden , and Ahmed Shehzad 's groin did a decent bit of fielding , but there is little else to build on . Both teams may well still make the quarter-finals , but all their remaining opponents will scent their publicly-displayed vulnerabilities. If there is a repeat of the 1992 final , when Imran Khan 's mercurial but intermittently brilliant Pakistan beat Graham Gooch 's excellent England , then the world will have been given an unmistakable sign that the apocalypse is upon us . An impressive Hagley Oval crowd of almost 15,000 might not have seen a particularly good game either side of that vigorous late slugging by the West Indian middle order and a scything opening spell by Jerome Taylor , but they did at least witness incontrovertible statistical history with which to regale their friends , loved ones , future grandchildren , personal fitness trainers , accountants and/or priests. Pointless , but incontrovertible. For this was also the first ODI in the history of the universe ( or , at least , the known universe ) in which both No.6 batsmen have been out for exactly 50. And it was the first ODI in which a team 's No.3 to No.8 all scored at least 30 , as West Indies ' did . More relevantly , Pakistan became the first team in ODI history to lose their first four wickets for fewer than four runs - their record-smashingly-useless score of 1 for 4 could prove hard to beat in the annals of ODI incompetence. The previous low-water-mark of top-order unproductivity was Canada 's 4 for 4 against Zimbabwe at Port-of-Spain , a collapse aided by both openers being run out in the first three overs. Unsurpisingly , the one run 'amassed ' by Jamshed , Shehzad , Younis and Haris also set a record for the fewest runs collectively scored by a top four in an ODI . The Wellington game was only the fifth time that all four openers had been out bowled in an ODI. The only previous instance in a World Cup also involved New Zealand , in their rain-reduced win over Zimbabwe in Napier. Martin Crowe scored 74 off 43 balls in that game. At the time , in the fifth World Cup played , it was , at a strike-rate of 172 , the second fastest 50-plus score by a New Zealander in ODIs , and the second-fastest World Cup innings of at least 50. It is now , respectively , 19th and 18th on those lists , testament both to the accelerated pace of batting , and how brilliant Crowe 's innings must have been in its time. McCullum shot to the top of both lists on Friday - overtaking his own records in both cases . Andy Zaltzman is a stand-up comedian , a regular on BBC Radio 4 , and a writer © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
