England v Scotland , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Christchurch February 23 , 2015 Moeen ton gives England opening win 119 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 119 England 303 for 8 ( Moeen 128 , Bell 54 , Davey 4-68 ) beat Scotland 184 ( Coetzer 71 , Finn 3-26 , Moeen 2-47 ) by 119 runs Play 03 : 15 Trott : The World Cup 's begun for England The timely appearance of the Auld Enemy proved to be a World-Cup blessing for England. Scotland rarely pass muster these days even in their most culturally-ingrained team sports of football and rugby union and , as far as cricket is concerned , their fortunes have yet to cause much impassioned debate on Sauchiehall Street. England , easy victors by 119 runs , were grateful for that as they began to restore their World Cup reputation . For all the belligerent pre-match cries of Paul Collingwood , a proud Englishman finding himself reading from the Braveheart script , Scotland have never beaten a Full Member nation in a one-day international. Repelled by Moeen Ali 's confident century , 128 from 107 balls , they managed little more than a skirmish in Christchurch , although all remains far from right for England because while Moeen oiled the England innings , there was the sound of clanking and grinding all around him . There is no more modest bowling attack in this World Cup than Scotland 's and the immediate consequence for England was a first-wicket record in World Cups : 172 in 30.1 overs by Moeen and Ian Bell , surpassing the 158 gathered by Dennis Amiss and Barry Wood against East Africa at Edgbaston in the first World Cup in 1975. England 's approach , their critics have been sniping , has not changed all that much in the intervening 40 years . Expectations that they might pass 350-plus for only the third time in ODIs departed with Moeen. In the end , England 's captain Eoin Morgan would be grateful for lesser mercies : a total beyond 300 , the fact they batted their full quota of overs , a semblance of form for himself - 46 until he fell in the final over , one of four wickets for Josh Davey - which ensured those minimum targets were met . As for England 's bowling , it did what it had to do ; dismissing Scotland within 42.2 overs the bowlers began to remedy what had been the worst net run rate in the group in a manner the batsmen , Moeen apart , had found beyond them. Kyle Coetzer drove vigorously in making 71 before Moeen again underlined his all-round attributes by having him caught at long-on - Coetzer coming down the pitch to loft the ball on the full. But the dangerous Calum MacLeod fell making room to James Anderson 's outswinger and the captain Preston Mommsen , so productive in the qualifiers , fell on the sweep to Joe Root just as he was threatening to lead a second wave . England will seek value in Steven Finn 's display , coming so soon after his two overs were savaged for 49 by Brendon McCullum in Wellington. He settled his nerves with three cheap wickets , including the important one of Matt Machan , caught at the wicket. He upped his speeds as the day wore on , but while his pace remains so irregular - more , it seems , by accident than design - he will not altogether convince . The World Cup had briefly turned its attention to a very British rivalry on a very British sort of day : England v Scotland under initially grouchy Hagley Park skies , with the discordant chants of the Barmy Army combated by the screech of the pipes and a brandished flag bearing the word " freedom " , a vestige of Scotland 's failed independence referendum. For the tournament proper , it all seemed a bit inconsequential , but for England , bereft of form and reputation , a bit of parochialism was just what they needed . If Moeen was England 's assailant , moving fluently to his second ODI hundred , Bell pottered around for 54 from 85 balls , a half-century that looked as if it was the product of a meetings culture : Bell 's " strategic staircase " had the need for responsibility bullet pointed on every step . After the heavy defeats suffered against Australia and New Zealand , by 111 runs and eight wicket respectively , Bell 's innings put short-term stability above long-term needs - the imperative that England 's batting order must stamp its mark on the tournament. He was restrained throughout , disappointed to drive the first ball of Richie Berrington 's second spell to short extra just as he imagined he might accelerate . When England did try to stamp their mark , the stamp was hopelessly underweight and the innings was lost somewhere in the sorting office. Moeen , Gary Ballance and Root fell in the space of 10 balls and , at 203 for 4 in the 37th over and England committed to a comparatively reserved finale on a slowing surface , the sound of the pipes had a more unnerving feel . The failure could count most heavily for Ballance , whose introduction at No. 3 on the eve of the tournament has not been productive , his latest demise coming when he chopped Alasdair Evans on to his stumps , seeking to run the ball and suffering for a lack of pace . From England 's perspective , at least there was Moeen. He was characteristically unafraid to go aerial over the off side - almost suffering for the habit on 7 when he drove Davey to Freddie Coleman in the covers on the half volley - and when Scotland 's bowlers did test him against the short ball , at barely 130kph it was inferior stuff and Moeen pulled with ease. He had an ambition that England will hope proves contagious . Scotland 's attack was make-do. It comprised three seamers - Evans replaced the left-armer Rob Taylor who had been expensive against New Zealand - a fifth bowler fiddled through as best they might , and the redoubtable rotundity of Majid Haq , who turned in 10 overs of offspin for 51 runs and took the prize wicket of Moeen who dragged him to deep midwicket . Haq is Scotland 's leading wicket-taker in one-day cricket : a genial purveyor of lobs. He has no like in international cricket , bowling as slowly as 65kph ( 40mph ) , inviting an insecure batsman to run through an infinite list of potential dismissals while the ball is still in the air and ensuring that , by the time it arrives , all sense of life 's purpose has been lost. He would be regarded as a confidence-trickster on the village green . It was Davey who finished with four wickets. Root was unpinned by a decent delivery ; he beat James Taylor 's advance with a full , wide one , enabling Matthew Cross to pull off a neat stumping ; and added Morgan and Chris Woakes in the final over to finish with four wickets . It was a commendable effort from a bowler who failed to make the grade at Middlesex and is making a second attempt at county level with Somerset. He had bowled nine of Scotland 's 15 wides , but by the end he had emphatically put those nerves behind him . David Hopps is the UK editor of ESPNcricinfo @ davidkhopps © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
