West Indies v Zimbabwe , Group B , Canberra February 23 , 2015 Zimbabwe wary of dormant Gayle Chris Gayle has been in terrible ODI form , with only one half-century in his last 19 innings , but he remains the West Indies batsman Zimbabwe are most worried about shares 20 Chris Gayle has had an extended form slump , but he still remains capable of crushing bowling attacks © ESPNcricinfo Ltd Chris Gayle 's love of late-night loafing - something his social media accounts bear testimony to - have made him cricket 's version of New York : the man who never sleeps. His captain Jason Holder confirmed as much , albeit in a slightly more serious context . " Chris is awake. I can assure you he 's awake. He was awake from the beginning of the tournament , " Jason Holder said. " " Every time I see Chris Gayle , I expect to see one Chris Gayle , and that 's a positive Chris Gayle. We still have a lot of confidence in him. " While Gayle has been awake enough to enjoy feasts of jerk chicken and goat curry , attend karaoke parties , dance in reggae bars and do some bowling of the ten-pin kind , he has not been alert enough to contribute significant runs to West Indies. His last half-century came nine innings ago , his last century 19 innings ago , and his World Cup campaign has yielded just 40 scratchy runs so far . Almost as scratchy as he looked during West Indies ' most recent outing in South Africa , where Gayle missed the Test series with a back problem , threatened with aggression in the shortest format and then fizzled out in fifty-over cricket. Local journalists began talking about another kind of c-word and questioned Gayle 's commitment to the Caribbean cause. Each time they did , Holder dismissed it as the wrong terminology for a man struggling for form , not desire . Gayle 's interest in international cricket is a frequent talking point and it cropped again when the WICB president Dave Cameron retweeted a message from a fan calling for the Jamaican to be given a " retirement package , " because he " ca n't buy a run. " Ironically , Gayle is n't even on a central contract and is unlikely to qualify for benefits but Cameron apologised anyway and said there was " no offense intended. " Could that be the alarm clock that wakes up Gayle up at the crease ? Zimbabwe think it might be , with one of their players claiming the Jamaican has issued a warning in the hotel the team 's are sharing , but they hope it wo n't . " Chris Gayle is n't firing at the moment , hopefully he does n't start firing against us in the next game , " Sean Williams said. " When he gets out , every team is happy to see the back of him , but playing against him is an opportunity a lot of people do n't get. I would like to get him out as fast as possible. " At the pre-match press conference , Hamilton Masakadza rejected any suggestions that Gayle was a diminished force , when a mediaperson brought up his recent form . " He has n't really played that well , like you said , in the recent past , but that does n't make him any less of a player , " Masakadza said. " I still think he 's a very good player , and I still think he 's their biggest threat. " What Zimbabwe may not want to hear is Gayle 's record against them. He has scored more runs against Zimbabwe - 1317 of his 8921 - than against any other team , and averages a hefty 57.26 against them. He has n't played against them in almost five years , though , so they will hope he has forgotten how much he has enjoyed punishing their bowlers . Even if Gayle 's memory is not rejigged , West Indies are not too worried about their chances of piling on a total. " Chris has been struggling and we are still scoring 300 , " Andre Russell , the hero from their victory over Pakistan , said , " I just think when Gayle and Marlon Samuels peak at the right time , West Indies has the ability to score over 350. " Holder went even further than that. " I guess when [ Gayle 's ] contribution comes , we 'll get somewhere close to 400 hopefully. " That would be enough to keep even the most drowsy spectators wide awake . Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
