It might have been a bit of a no-contest but the fun fans and excellent weather made up for it shares © Getty Images Choice of game : I chose to go to this game as I had not seen Scotland play before , and with England low on confidence , I thought an upset might be on the cards . Team supported : I always support the underdogs , thus cheering for Scotland , but it is always a treat to see the class of Ian Bell and the England bowling attack - Steven Finn , James Anderson and Stuart Broad . Key performer : Moeen Ali 's 128 set it up for England , he scored his runs at a brisk rate and was the chief aggressor in the opening partnership with Ian Bell. The pair were going along so smoothly that I could n't see England losing any wickets during their 50 overs . One thing you would have changed : Scotland punched above the weight , but an exciting finish would have been great for their supporters . Wow moment : Some excellent catching saw Josh Davey on a hat-trick towards end of England 's innings. He he did n't get there but it pumped the crowd up going into the break . Close encounter : Every player who protected the boundary was mobbed by school children for autographs. I wish my teachers had taken us on cricket field trips . Shot of the day : Moeen Ali played some effortless shots over the rope , but my favourite shot of the day was Jos Buttler 's switch hit for four. He played it late and timed it perfectly , and it sailed over the rope in front of us . Crowd meter : Plenty of men were proudly wearing kilts and some Scottish supporters showed their passion with body paint across their backs or chests. These blue and white bodies were interspersed with huge red and white English flags peppered around the ground , along with many forms of English cricket and football team jerseys from over the years. Both teams ' supporters were in good spirits and there was quite a decent turnout from the Christchurch public for a Monday. When members of the Barmy Army started their singing to support their team " We are the army , the barmy army " Scottish fans sang along with words of their own , " Your captain 's Irish , your captain 's Irish " . A six was hit into the crowd during England 's innings and one brave soul chose to jump the barrier by running behind the sightscreen , attempting the one-handed catch for cash , but unfortunately slipped and put it down , all captured on the big screen . Fancy-dress index : A man and woman chose to dress up in pink and purple gorilla suits , despite the baking heat in Christchurch . Accessories : Sunglasses , cricket hat and loads of sunscreen , as it was a toasty Christchurch day . Overall : 8/10. A bit of a blowout in the end , with Scotland dragging the inevitable on for as long as possible. Excellent weather and fun fans , though , made it a great Monday . Want to do a Fan Following report ? Read our FAQ here Marc Swain-Rogatski is a Christchurch-based writer. He is a lover of all things sport , with his number one passion being cricket © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
