WI v Zim , Group B , Canberra February 23 , 2015 Masakadza set for bout against childhood team 3 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 3 Hamilton Masakadza - " The guys are really working hard and are very focused. Even beyond this World Cup , we 're expecting a lot of good things to happen " © Getty Images From the one-street town of Hamilton - Victoria Street is the lucky lane - South Africa went to the metropolis of Melbourne where everything was bigger and brighter. So big and so bright that it blinded them in their biggest match of the pool , against India . Zimbabwe went to Nelson , where they came out on top in a tense clash against the UAE , took two flights to cross the Tasman , and then drove for half a day to reach another one-street town Canberra - Franklin Street seems to be it - for their third game. Nothing about those two paths seems to cross except for one thing : the size of the outfield that greeted both teams on arrival in Australia . South Africa got the MCG with dimensions of 171 * 146 metres , on the straight and square boundaries. Zimbabwe got the Manuka Oval , even bigger at 179 * 150 . " It 's the biggest ground I 've been on so far , " Hamilton Masakadza , Zimbabwe 's No.3 , said. " I 've been in New Zealand the whole time , so yeah , it 's a bit of a change for us. But it looks a lovely ground. The wicket also looks very good. " For Masakadza , this is a World Cup of firsts - his first tournament in a 14-year international career and his first time in Australia. " The first week in the country has been really good for me. I 've really enjoyed it so far. " Now he hopes he can convert that fun to form , which he has been enjoying of late , having scored 80 against South Africa on the back of a century in a warm-up game. Although he has yet to play on the quicker pitches in this country , he has a fair idea of what to expect because of his coach , Dav Whatmore , as well as his own research . " We watch a lot of cricket on TV and we watch a lot about what 's happening around the world , and we always get a lot of information , " he said. " The coach got quite a bit of information yesterday when we got here , so we basically have a really good idea what it 's going to be like out there. " Masakadza 's cricket education has been delivered through the small screen from his childhood , when he used to watch the team he will take on on Tuesday. " Growing up I used to watch a lot of their cricket , and they were pretty much my favourite team , " he said. " I really do enjoy playing against them. " His first international century came against them , when he was on debut in July 2001 . Masakadza has traveled a long road since then , much longer than Zimbabwe 's journey from Nelson to Canberra , and knows that bigger and brighter is n't the solution they are searching for. Masakadza believes his team has a real shot at qualifying for the quarter-finals now , especially if they beat West Indies . " The guys are really working hard and are very focused. Even beyond this World Cup , we 're expecting a lot of good things to happen , " Masakadza said. " We 've had a few problems in the past with administration and things like that , but I think that 's also getting better. The guys are a little bit more focused on the actual cricket and giving sort of the cricket side a little bit more of what they need. I think looking forward and going ahead , I think things are looking up for it. " Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
