ICC news February 23 , 2015 UAE coach criticises World Cup plans ESPNcricinfo staff 59 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 59 UAE celebrate qualification for the 2015 World Cup - but ICC proposals make it unlikely that they will be at the next one © ICC/Getty Images UAE coach Aaqib Javed , a World Cup winner with Pakistan in 1992 , has become the latest figure to voice dissent at ICC plans to reduce future tournaments to ten teams . The 2019 World Cup is expected to feature the eight top-ranked nations - almost certainly Full Members - along with two other teams who will come through a qualifying tournament in Bangladesh. Ireland and Afghanistan have been given a theoretical pathway to an automatic spot by being included in the rankings system but there are doubts as to whether they will play enough ODIs to reach the top eight . The current tournament features four Associate nations in UAE , Ireland , Afghanistan and Scotland , following the same format as 2011. Four years ago , the ICC decided to trim the numbers but was met with a wave of resistance and ultimately reversed the decision . Earlier this month , ICC chief executive David Richardson said World Cups should feature " evenly matched teams " . So far in Australia and New Zealand , while there have been several mismatches between Full Members , Ireland have beaten West Indies , Scotland gave New Zealand a scare on the way to a three-wicket win , UAE ran Zimbabwe close and Afghanistan threatened a victory over Sri Lanka . " I think the gap is narrowing now and every Associate is pushing the Full Members , " Javed told UAE newspaper the National. " I am really surprised by the decision the ICC already made that the next World Cup would be 10 teams . " Which 10 teams ? If you look at the performances from some teams , their graph has been going down , like West Indies , Bangladesh and Zimbabwe. I am not just talking about in this World Cup. Overall , what have they achieved in the past 10 years ? Why ca n't there be pressure on them to improve , or go down ? " He echoed comments made before the tournament by Ireland 's Ed Joyce , who questioned why cricket was trying to shrink participation in its marquee event , while other sports are looking to expand theirs . " It is very unusual if you compare it to other sports , " Javed said. " Sports need competition and opportunities for every one. What is there for us in Associate cricket ? Ireland have been doing so well for the past 10 years , but have n't gained anything. When it comes to open series , nobody wants to play them. Nobody wants to play Associate teams. " Due to the nature of bilateral agreements and cricket 's crowded schedule , Associate nations have found fixtures against the big teams hard to come by. Javed said there should be " an actual punishment " for underperforming Full Members and suggested two ODI divisions of eight teams , with promotion and relegation . " If after two years there was promotion and relegation , how much interest would be created ? This is not rocket science , " he said. " Who are the ICC protecting and why are they protecting them ? Forget about audience , it is about competition. Once you are a Test nation , you are a Test nation forever , whatever you do. There is no pressure on them. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
