shares 26 Shafiul Islam has 58 wickets from 52 ODIs , at an average of 36.36 © AFP Bangladesh pace bowler Shafiul Islam has said the disappointment of being left out of the 15-man World Cup squad has given way to surprise and happiness after being named Al-Amin Hossain 's replacement . Al-Amin is on his way back to Dhaka from Melbourne after the BCB decided to send him home . He had missed a team curfew on the night of February 19 at the team 's Brisbane hotel . Shafiul , part of the 30-man preliminary World Cup squad , was preparing for Rajshahi Division 's National Cricket League match against Rangpur Division in Savar when a BCB official gave him the news. He rushed back to Dhaka to prepare to leave for Melbourne on Monday evening . " I was a little disappointed [ when left out of the original World Cup squad ] but now I am joining the team , " Shafiul told the Dhaka-based news portal thereport24. " It feels great to be part of the World Cup squad. I would want to repeat the performance from the last World Cup. I am surprised with the sudden call-up. I have a responsibility now , and I would like to give it my best when called up in the playing XI. " Shafiul last played an ODI in November against Zimbabwe , and only bowled 2.1 overs before injuring his thigh. Since then , he has picked up six wickets in four Dhaka Premier Division Cricket League matches for Prime Doleshwar Sporting Club and played a couple of first-class matches for Rajshahi , picking up a four-wicket haul against Chittagong . Shafiul has 58 wickets from 52 ODIs , at an average of 36.36. He has been a fairly profligate bowler , with an economy rate of 5.89 , but he has the second-best strike rate among Bangladesh bowlers who have played more than 50 ODIs . A last-minute pick at the 2011 World Cup , after the selectors were n't convinced with Mashrafe Mortaza 's fitness , Shafiul opened the bowling in all of Bangladesh 's matches and picked up a four-wicket haul against Ireland. But his most memorable performance came against England , scoring 24 in an unbroken 58-run ninth-wicket stand with Mahmudullah that won Bangladesh a match they were about to lose . " I want to bowl with a lot of control whenever given a chance , " Shafiul said. " I have no specific target , just want to bowl according to my strength. I got a chance to play in the 2011 World Cup because Mashrafe bhai was injured. This time I am replacing Al-Amin. I am not worried about how I am getting the chance , my job is to perform. " Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
