World Cup 2015 : Pakistan February 24 , 2015 PCB asks Moin Khan to return home shares 100 Moin Khan has held several positions in the Pakistan setup over the last year © AFP The PCB has asked Moin Khan , Pakistan 's chief selector and a member of the tour selection committee , to return home after he was reportedly seen in a casino two days before the team 's clash against West Indies in Christchurch. The board has also launched an official investigation against him . The team manager Naveed Cheema confirmed to AFP that he was heading the investigation , and Shaharyar Khan , the PCB chairman , said strict action will be taken against Moin should he be found guilty . " We have launched an investigation over the reports that Moin Khan visited a casino , and action will be taken if the reports are proven true , " Shaharyar told reporters in Lahore. " As per initial reports , Moin went there to have a meal two days before the match against West Indies and a Pakistani couple photographed him and made a video. We will not make anybody a scapegoat and will investigate this incident before taking any action. " Moin has held several positions in the Pakistan setup over the last year such as team manager , coach , and head of the selection committee. He was earlier removed as the team manager so that he could travel with the side to Australia and New Zealand as a member of the tour selection panel . Though Moin is n't a part of the official World Cup squad , he has permission to attend team meetings and if invited , can even enter the dressing room. While Moin has generally avoided interacting with the players during matches , he has , at times , been seen sitting next to them in the dugout since he holds an ICC accreditation . This latest incident comes just over a week after eight Pakistan players , including Shahid Afridi , were fined 300 AUD each for breaking the team curfew in the days leading up to their opening game against India in Adelaide. Pakistan lost that contest by 76 runs , before capitulating against West Indies by 150 runs , leaving them rooted to the bottom of Group B. Their fielding against West Indies , in particular , left a lot to be desired , as the players dropped as many as six catches , before the team 's top order crumbled chasing 311 . Umar Farooq is ESPNcricinfo 's Pakistan correspondent. @ kalson © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
