Play 01 : 08 'Australia rivalry overstated ' - Vettori At 36 , Daniel Vettori seems like he 's done it all in New Zealand cricket. He is the country 's most-capped Test and ODI player of all time , has captained in all three formats , has played in World Cup semi-finals. But this Saturday will bring a new experience for Vettori , when he will bowl on the reconfigured Eden Park for the first time . Of course , Vettori has plenty of experience at the venue : his 23 wickets at 29.95 makes him the most successful one-day spinner at Eden Park , where seamers dominate the all-time statistics. But Vettori has not bowled there since March 2010 ; the playing area has been altered in that time , with the pitch rotated and the straight boundaries shorter than ever . Under the current layout , the straight boundaries are officially measured at 55 metres from the centre of the pitch. That means the batsmen will face a 65-metre boundary past the bowler , with a 45-metre boundary past the wicketkeeper. The margin of error for all bowlers is therefore slim , and the importance of find the right length is paramount . Vettori may well go into the match as the only frontline spinner from either side , with Xavier Doherty unlikely to be called in for Australia , who tend to use Glenn Maxwell as their main slow-bowling option. Asked what it was like marking out a run-up with the boundary closer than at almost any other international ground on the planet , Vettori was honest . " It 's not great , " he said. " I have n't actually played on these dimensions , I 've only played on the old configuration. It will be a new experience for me. I 've been talking to Nathan [ McCullum ] a lot about what he 's done here. He 's done a pretty good job. Spinners at times have done a reasonable job. The boundaries are daunting but you can still perform . " Sometimes getting away with the short ball is a little more difficult , because of how short the boundaries at fine leg and third man will be. I think it 's 45 metres from where the batter is facing. " Then there is the matter of the ODI fielding restrictions , which allow no more than four men outside the circle at any point , compared to five when the previous World Cup was held in 2011. With tongue firmly planted in cheek , Vettori suggested that perhaps that new rule would have less impact at Eden Park than at many other grounds . " The boundary is so small the fielders do n't really play a part do they , it just goes over them , " Vettori joked. " I think you just get used to it. Whatever happens , you get used to it , the layout of the ground. " The way the stands rise dramatically around the ground adds to the feeling of proximity , and the Australians certainly expect to be the target of some taunts from the Auckland crowd. But it is the possibility of on-field banter that has been the subject of much debate , with Australia 's yappy approach sitting in stark contrast to the way the New Zealanders play the game . The New Zealand coach Mike Hesson said this week that his players do n't get caught up in sledging - " We 're pretty respectful of our opposition and we 're competitive but we pretty much focus on our own job , " Hesson said. Rather remarkably , Vettori said that in his experience , the Australians were in the same boat . " It 's a little bit overstated , " Vettori said. " I think in my 18 years of playing , I ca n't even remember being sledged by an Australian team. I think the way it 's portrayed is not quite right ... I think it 's more about the physical contest. I think that 's the thing guys get up for and get excited about. " Brydon Coverdale is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ brydoncoverdale © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
