Sri Lanka v Bangladesh , Group A , Melbourne February 26 , 2015 Sangakkara marks landmark game with fastest ton Stats highlight from the Group A match between Sri Lanka and Bangladesh at the MCG shares 13 Play 03 : 18 Insights - Sangakkara 's numbers better with age 400 Number of ODIs Kumar Sangakkara has now played in his career - he becomes only the fourth player and the third from Sri Lanka to do so. Sanath Jayasuirya , Sachin Tendulkar and Mahela Jayawardene are the other players to achieve this . 161 * Runs Tillakaratne Dilshan scored in this match - the highest by a Sri Lanka batsman in the World Cup beating Aravinda de Silva 's 145 against Kenya in 1996. Dilshan 's score is also the fourth highest by a Sri Lanka batsman in ODIs . 73 Balls taken by Sangakkara for his 22nd ODI century , in this match. This was his fastest , beating the 83-ball hundred he hit against India in the Asia Cup last year . 51 Dismissals Sangakkara has now collected as a wicketkeeper in the World Cup. He is only the second wicketkeeper to have 50 or more dismissals after Adam Gilchrist who has 52. Mashrafe Mortaza 's stumping was his 98th in ODIs. He needs only two more to become the first wicketkeeper to complete 100 stumpings in ODIs. Also , Sabbir Rahman 's catch was Sangakkara 's 400th catch in ODIs. Only Adam Gilchrist ( 417 ) and Mark Boucher ( 403 ) have taken more catches . 3 Number of wicketkeeper-batsmen who have hit a hundred and collected three or more dismissals in a World Cup match including Sangakkara in this game. Brendon McCullum and Gilchrist are the others to do it . 210 * Partnership runs added by Dilshan and Sangakkara - Sri Lanka 's highest second-wicket partnership in ODIs and their third-highest partnership for any wicket in the World Cup. This was also only the sixth double-hundred partnership for the second wicket in the World Cup . Kumar Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan 's 210-run stand was Sri Lanka 's highest for the second wicket © Getty Images 3 Number of times a team has scored a total of 300 or more for the loss of just one wicket or less in ODIs. Including this match , Sri Lanka have done it twice. They last compiled a 300-plus total for the loss of one wicket or less against India , in 2013 . 3 Centuries hit by Tillakaratne Dilshan in the World Cup , the joint-most by a Sri Lanka opener along with Sanath Jayasuirya. Overall , Sachin Tendulkar leads this list with five hundreds , followed by Mark Waugh with four . 4 Hundreds Dilshan has hit in his last 10 innings including this one. He has scored 683 runs at an average of 75.88 in these 10 innings and has also hit a fifty. Two months into 2015 , Dilshan has already completed 500 ODI runs this year and is the second batsman after Kane Williamson to do so. He has scored 582 runs at an average of 72.75 . 22 Fours hit by Dilshan in this match - the most by any batsman in a World Cup match beating the 21 hit by Stephen Fleming against South Africa in 2003. However , Dilshan did not hit a six in his innings , making this the highest score by a batsman in ODIs not to include a six. The previous highest such score was Hashim Amla 's 153 against West Indies earlier this year . 2 Number of times teams have had their first and second wickets post century partnerships in a World Cup match. This was only the second time after India managed the same against South Africa in the last World Cup . 4 Number of times a team has had their top three batsmen hit 50 or more in an innings in the World Cup including Sri Lanka today. The last such instance was by India , against South Africa in 2011 . 82 Runs conceded by Taskin Ahmed from this ten overs - the second most any Bangladesh bowler has conceded in a World Cup match. Abdur Razzak 's 86 against the same opposition in the 2007 World Cup are the highest . 11 Number of batsmen who have hit a fifty in the World Cup batting at No. 8 , including Sabbir Rahman in this match. Heath Streak 's unbeaten 72 against New Zealand in 2003 is the highest . Shiva Jayaraman is a sub-editor ( stats ) at ESPNcricinfo.com © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
