World Cup 2015 February 26 , 2015 Finn out to atone for Wellington nightmare 3 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 3 The world-renowned architects who designed the Westpac Stadium in Wellington might concede that the " Cake Tin " is not their finest creation. England may wish it had never been built after a defeat to New Zealand that would have been more appropriate at Carisbrook 's " House of Pain " , in Dunedin . The shambolic performance last week sullied the nation 's memories of the Westpac - it was the scene of one of England rugby 's finest victories when they beat New Zealand in 2003 - but the cricketers have a swift opportunity to atone against Sri Lanka on Sunday . Steven Finn described the fixture , and England 's remaining group games , as a " quarter-final " - even though they are not yet certain of a place in the last eight - but while victory is not essential for the team 's progress , it would certainly turn their ship further from the wind . To do so , England will need to frank some miserable form at the Westpac. England 's two other ODIs before Friday 's horror show were almost as despondent : dismissed for 130 to lose with 20 overs to spare in 2008 and shot out for just 89 in 2002 - England 's third-lowest ODI total . There was , and still is , potential for things to get much worse for England at this World Cup but a professional victory over Scotland has got them on the board. Regardless of results , Finn will hope things are never again as bad as the two overs he sent down against New Zealand - mercilessly destroyed by Brendom McCullum , who struck 44 from 10 deliveries - and sees his 3 for 26 on Monday as a better indicator of his recent form . " I feel like I bowled well throughout the tri-series but did n't quite do myself justice and in the first seven overs against Australia I thought I bowled well , " Finn said. " Obviously I did n't do myself justice in those two overs against New Zealand but throughout the trip I feel as though I 've been bowling well and against Scotland it was pleasing to get the results that the hard work deserves . " Bowling against Brendon McCullum is a tough gig and it 's one of those things that happened. In that situation he was always going to come hard and it seemed that everything I tried to do did n't quite work. It was one of those days but I 've bowled well throughout this trip and have taken wickets so I do n't feel too downhearted by it . " It 's never happened to me before like that. Usually if I try something it works but it did n't that day. It was one of those days and I 'm obviously very disappointed , gutted and embarrassed about the way it did happen. It will happen again ; someone will come that hard at us again but we 'll have to find a way of dealing with it . " I was happy to get back on the horse against Scotland and I felt I bowled with good rhythm at a decent pace against them. " Finn , and England , do have better memories of the Westpac to draw on. They romped to a 10-wicket victory in a T20 in 2013 with Finn conceding just 18 from his four overs. That tour saw Finn at his best , with several menacing displays , and he now feels if not back to that form , at least with his troubles of 2013-14 behind him . " I feel normal , " Finn said. " I 've felt normal all the time but the amount of wickets I 've taken over here have helped get that confidence back. And just playing international cricket and being in the set-up and round the guys day in and day out helps that confidence too. To put performances in and help England win games helps that confidence as well. So I 'm just a normal cricketer playing cricket now. That 's all it is . " Everything feels fine. It feels as though everything is going the way it was for me a couple of years ago and that 's good. " Alex Winter is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo He tweets here © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
