New Zealand v Australia , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Auckland February 27 , 2015 Clash of the trans-Tasman Titans Start time 2.00pm local ( 0100GMT ) Play 01 : 22 Time for New Zealand and Australia to renew rivalries Big Picture When good neighbours become good friends. Perhaps not on Saturday at Eden Park when New Zealand and Australia renew a rivalry which , in one-day cricket , has been in hibernation apart from at global tournaments since 2010 . Nobody is willing to call themselves favourites and there was much mutual respect being shared on the eve of the game. The contests within the contest largely revolve around the two top orders against their respective opposition bowlers. Warner v Southee and Boult , McCullum v Johnson and Starc. It is mouthwatering . There is certainly an eagerness to see the New Zealand side against a potent , in-form attack although the same could be applied the other way , too. You can also throw into the mix of subplots the return , delayed due to the Brisbane rain , of Michael Clarke. For all the rehab and physio , there will always be doubts surrounding someone with his fitness record . In terms of the match itself , while it will not have a bearing on each side 's progress to the next stage it could yet be important in the match-ups which follow in the knockout stage. If these two sides meet in a semi-final it will be staged in the country of the team that finished top of the group. Home advantage is a rare bonus at a World Cup. It 's worth making the most of . Form guide New Zealand WWWWW ( last five completed matches , most recent first ) AustraliaWWWWW In the spotlight Ross Taylor 's World Cup has not caught light yet. He scratched around against Sri Lanka , slogged into the deep against Scotland and was barely needed against England. At some point , though , New Zealand 's aggressive - and some might say , high risk - approach could leave them 20 for 2 and they need Taylor to be able to play that calming hand at No. 4 . Australia 's top order has many qualities , and can be fearsome on its day , but the batsmen remain vulnerable to swing. In Tim Southee and Trent Boult they will face two of the finest exponents in the current game , the former fresh from a record-breaking 7 for 33 against England. Warner will be keen , as ever , to stamp his authority on the match and Aaron Finch , whose first-class career has been blighted by issues against the moving ball , made the first hundred of the World Cup - although that feels a long time ago now. After two weeks without a game , they ca n't afford to be caught napping . Teams news New Zealand will be unchanged for the fourth match running. Southee has recovered from a blow on the shoulder , caused by a team-mate 's stray throw , and came through all his work during the final net session. " It 's hard on the guys not playing but they are completely committed and at some point they will get a game , " Brendon McCullum said . New Zealand 1 Martin Guptill , 2 Brendon McCullum ( capt ) , 3 Kane Williamson , 4 Ross Taylor , 5 Grant Elliott , 6 Corey Anderson , 7 Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , 8 Daniel Vettori , 9 Adam Milne , 10 Tim Southee , 11 Trent Boult George Bailey has made way for Clarke - Australian cricket remains a tough school - and the final spot in the pace attack was handed to Pat Cummins ahead of Josh Hazlewood Australia 1 David Warner , 2 Aaron Finch , 3 Shane Watson , 4 Michael Clarke ( capt ) , 5 Steven Smith , 6 Glenn Maxwell , 7 Mitchell Marsh , 8 Brad Haddin ( wk ) , 9 Mitchell Johnson , 10 Mitchell Starc , 11 Pat Cummins Pitch and conditions The dimensions of the ground have been much talked about in the days leading into the match. The scores , though , have not been unworldly high - last year there was a tie involving India where 314 was scored , but before that there had only been three 300-plus totals in 15 matches . The weather forecast has improved over recent days , too , and it is now meant to be fine with a high of 27C , although heavy showers disrupted Australia 's training on Friday . Stats and trivia Australia have won their previous two matches at Eden Park , back in 2010 , but in 2005 they lost a high-scoring encounter when New Zealand chased down 337 with eight balls to spare. Taylor made 117 , which remains his highest score against Australia , and McCullum hit the winning runs . Taylor needs 59 runs to reach 5000 in ODIs Since January 1 , 2014 , Corey Anderson , McCullum and Luke Ronchi hold the top three strike-rates for batsmen with more than 500 runs Clarke has played two ODIs in the last 12 months Quotes " We 've earned some respect around the world in the last 12-18 months with the way we 've played but also the way we 've carried [ ourselves ] . You ca n't win every game , but you can control what you bring to the table. So long as we see a team that is desperate [ to win ] , then we 've got a good chance. " Brendon McCullum does not see any reason for New Zealand to change their style " Through my career I ca n't remember an easy game against New Zealand , whether you have played them in Australia or over here. They are a really tough opposition. " Michael Clarke played his part in the mutual respect society Andrew McGlashan is a senior assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
