Mohit Sharma Eyes Successful Ranji Season to Make Final World Cup Squad Mohit Sharma Eyes Successful Ranji Season to Make Final World Cup Squad Mohit Sharma , who has represented India in 11 ODIs and four T20 Internationals , last played for the country in the opening ODI against the West Indies in October before being ruled out for the rest of the series with shin pain . Last updated on Thursday , 04 December , 2014 21 : 53 IST Total Shares A file pic of Mohit Sharma in ODI colours for India . © BCCI New Delhi : Mohit Sharma is one of the nine fast bowlers among the 30-World Cup probables chosen on Thursday and the Haryana pacer is eying another successful Ranji Trophy season to make the final Cup squad in a highly competitive environment . Sharma , who has represented India in 11 ODIs and four T20 Internationals , last played for the country in the opening ODI against the West Indies in October before being ruled out for the rest of the series with shin pain . But he is fully fit now and eager to make an impact in the premier four-day domestic tournament starting on Saturday . " It obviously feels good to be amongst the probables. I have been working hard on my fitness after I got injured. The competition ( for making the final 15 for World Cup ) is surely tough but selection anyway is not in my hands. What I can and want to do is give my best in the Ranji Trophy , " Mohit told PTI from Patiala where he will be leading Haryana 's pace attack against Punjab . The 26-year-old is competing against the likes of Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav , Varun Aaron , Dhawal Kulkarni , Stuart Binny and Ashok Dinda , who all figure among the Cup probables . The Ranji showing can make or break the probables ' case , who are not part of the Test team in Australia . Mohit like other pacers in the reckoning would have liked to prove himself in the tri-series in Australia. But that scenario is out of the picture as the deadline for submitting the 15-man squad to the ICC is January 7. The tri-series only starts on January 18 . Asked about the plentiful options available in the pace department , Mohit said the development can only be good for Indian cricket . " It is competitive for sure but at the same time it is a positive sign that there are so many pacers to choose from , " said Mohit , who bagged two wickets in three games after returning to action in the Vijay Hazare one-day tournament last month . He has eleven international wickets to his name. Mohit received his maiden India call-up after tasting success while playing for IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings . Story first published on : Thursday , 04 December 2014 18 : 52 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
