World Cup February 28 , 2015 Five World Cup one-wicket heists Deivarayan Muthu After Kane Williamson guided New Zealand to a nervy one-wicket win over Australia in Auckland , ESPNcricinfo looks at other World Cup matches in which the final pair sealed the deal shares 1 Andy Roberts and Deryck Murray Murray added 64 for the last wicket - the third-highest in World Cups © Getty Images Pakistan v West Indies , Edgbaston , 1975 In what turned out to be the first real thriller in a World Cup , West Indies stumbled to 99 for 5 , courtesy fast bowler Sarfraz Nawaz. Clive Lloyd and No. 7 Bernard Julien added 44 , but another collapse left West Indies on the precipice at 203 for 9. However , Deryck Murray and Andy Roberts batted sensibly , weathering Sarfraz 's second spell. Murray then cranked up the tempo , reducing the equation to five off two overs. The game took another twist when Pervez Mir delivered a maiden in the penultimate over , but Murray and Roberts showed tremendous calmness , helping West Indies prevail with two balls to spare . For more , read : Murray and Roberts stun Pakistan Pakistan v West Indies , Lahore , 1987 Pakistan and West Indies in a wild see-saw battle. World Cup. 203 for 9. It was 1975 all over again , only with roles reversed. From 110 for 5 , Imran Khan and Saleem Yousuf shared 73 for the sixth wicket but the fall of Imran started a collapse of 4 for 20. Pakistan needed 14 off the last over , to be bowled by Courtney Walsh. Abdul Qadir and Saleem Jaffar were in the hot seat . Pakistan snuck four off the first three balls , before Qadir launched a six over long-off and followed it up with a couple. The equation was down to two off the final ball. Walsh ran in and aborted : Saleem Jaffar strayed out of the crease. Instead of tipping the bails off , Walsh , in one of the greatest moments of sportsmanship , let him go and went back to his mark. Qadir then squeezed a yorker to third man and started celebrating even before completing the second . Robin Peterson and Charl Langeveldt guided South Africa home after Malinga 's four © AFP South Africa v Sri Lanka , Guyana , 2007 This was a one-wicket win , but no heist for South Africa. They were four runs from victory , with five wickets in hand , and plenty of overs to go. Enter Lasith Malinga. His four-in-four , and nearly five-in-five , left last-wicket pair Robin Peterson and Charl Langeveldt three to get and fearing for their toes. Langeveldt , who had taken 5 for 39 to restrict Sri Lanka , played out nine balls before Peterson finished the job . James Anderson and Stuart Broad crashed Brian Lara 's farewell © AFP West Indies v England , Bridgetown , 2007 The Kensington Oval was packed as the crowds came in droves to bid farewell to Brian Lara , but were disappointed on two counts. First Lara was run out cheaply , and then their team went down in a nailbiter. Kevin Pietersen 's century set up the chase of 301 , but his dismissal had England sliding from 269 for 6 to 271 for 8. When Paul Nixon was undone by Dwayne Bravo 's slower ball , it was down to James Anderson and Stuart Broad to get three from four balls. A scampered leg-bye was followed by a dot , prompting Lara to bring his field in. Broad , though , carved the penultimate ball over covers to ruin Lara 's farewell . Shapoor Zadran and Hamid Hassan hung on for Afghanistan 's first World Cup win © Getty Images Afghanistan v Scotland , Dunedin , 2015 Samiullah Shenwari watched six batsmen depart for single-digit scores as Afghanistan tumbled to 97 for 7 against Scotland. An embarrassing defeat loomed as they chased 211. However , Shenwari made 96 before he was the ninth batsman to be dismissed , with Afghanistan still needing 19 in 19. Amid scenes of immense tension , Hamid Hassan and Shapoor Zadran , neither of whom are renowned for their batting , hauled Afghanistan to a landmark win in the final over - their first in World Cups . Deivarayan Muthu is a sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
