World Cup 2015 : New Zealand February 28 , 2015 McCullum 's Popeye arm not a worry - Hesson shares 12 A burst blood vessel caused forearm to swell © Getty Images It would be no surprise if Brendon McCullum 's diet consisted largely of spinach as New Zealand coach Mike Hesson joked that the captain 's arm looked a bit like Popeye 's following a fearsome blow by Mitchell Johnson . Thoughts of a broken bone where the immediate reaction from many after seeing the Johnson thunderbolt hammer into McCullum 's forearm in the third over of New Zealand 's chase , but McCullum shook it off as he sped to a 21-ball half-century before finding mid-off to set the scene for the epic conclusion to the match . McCullum 's arm was heavily strapped at the post-match presentation and when he lifted the Chappell-Hadlee trophy following ice treatment in the dressing room . Hesson said that the damage to McCullum 's arm is thought to be restricted to a burst blood vessel. McCullum will be monitored over the next couple of days as the team takes a break before reconvening for their next match against Afghanistan in Napier on March 8 . " He looks a bit like Popeye , other than he 's pretty good , " Hesson said. " It is pretty swollen , so we 'll try and get that down first and make another assessment in a day or so … but all the signs are he 'll be fine. " McCullum 's latest coursing innings had carried New Zealand halfway to their target in less than eight overs , but his dismissal started a wobble of 3 for 1 either side of the interval. Then there was an even more dramatic slide when they subsided from 131 for 4 to 146 for 9 against Mitchell Starc 's blistering inswinging yorkers . It left Starc with two balls at No. 11 Trent Boult to steal an astonishing win for Australia , but Boult survived and then Kane Williamson lofted a straight six off Pat Cummins that will go down in New Zealand cricket folklore . " Trent showed a heck of a lot of character to leave a wide one when he had a fair bit of adrenalin going. It showed he was still thinking clearly , " Hesson said. " Kane realised he had to make a move , and to play the shot he did showed what a quality player he is . " [ It was ] pure elation. Turning to the rest of the team and seeing the joy on their faces was pretty special. There were a lot of people who emotionally invested in outcome , who lived and breathed every ball. " Hesson also had praise for the 52-run partnership between Williamson and Corey Anderson which took New Zealand to the brink of a far more comfortable victory before Anderson picked out mid-on against Glenn Maxwell. Anderson did not look comfortabe early in his innings , but took 16 off Mitchell Johnson 's comeback over although it was not the final swing of the match . " The way they developed that partnership after a shaky start showed lot of character , " Hesson said. " Those guys will be better for that experience. I think everybody will , to be fair. " However , he did concede the batting line-up will need to become tighter against the moving ball after the amount of swing on offer so far in the tournament took them by surprise . " There was some high quality swing bowling , " he said. " Once lacquer came off ball it started to swing more. It 's a character trait of the Duke ball rather than the Kookaburra. That 's unusual but two white balls can show you can get bowler dominated games " Tim showed that at the Cake Tin and sometimes the characteristics of the ball allows it to swing. It 's something we 're going to have to be a little bit better prepared for next time. " The New Zealand squad will now have two days off before starting the build-up to facing Afghanistan. Hesson said that changes will be considered to allow squad players a match , having used the same XI throughout the tournament , but was also wary of breaking up a winning team . Andrew McGlashan is a senior assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
