After Sri Lanka became the sixth side to chase down 300-plus in World Cups , ESPNcricinfo looks back at the other five occasions and discovers Ireland well to the fore shares 11 Kumar Sangakkara and Lahiru Thirimanne struck unbeaten centuries as Sri Lanka chased down more than 300 © Getty Images Ireland 329 for 7 v England , Bangalore , 2011 Kevin O'Brien summoned what was then the fastest hundred in World Cup history as Ireland secured their greatest victory with a monumental three-wicket triumph against England in Bangalore. O'Brien swung to leg mightily and often to register a magnificent 113 off 63 deliveries and , although he was run out in the penultimate over , Ireland got home with five balls to spare . Sri Lanka 313 for 7 v Zimbabwe , New Plymouth , 1992 Zimbabwe and Sri Lanka took advantage of the bare pitch and short boundaries at Pukekura Park as both sides reached 300 for the first time in a limited-overs international. Andy Flower scored an unbeaten 115 on his full international debut as Zimbabwe anticipated a second-ever World Cup win , but Sri Lanka became the first team to chase down 300-plus , guided there by old fox Arjuna Ranatunga . Ireland 307 for 4 v Netherlands , Kolkata , 2011 Ireland own three of the World Cup 's six 300-plus run chases , two of them coming in their glorious 2011 campaign. Ryan ten Doeschate propped up Netherlands with his second hundred in the tournament before their innings ended bizarrely with four run outs in four balls. Ireland responded with Paul Stirling 's 72-ball 101 , but it was their more disciplined bowling and superior fielding which also held sway as they won with more than two overs in hand . Ireland 307 for 6 v West Indies , Nelson , 2015 Ireland issued a two-finger salute towards the ICC 's plans to reduce the World Cup to 10 teams as West Indies sleepwalked obligingly to defeat. Darren Sammy and Lendl Simmons rescued West Indies from 87 for 5 , but their bowling was as flat as their top order as the adventurous Stirling , smooth Ed Joyce and nerveless Niall O'Brien coasted to the target of 305 efficiently with the loss of late wickets only causing brief uncertainty . England 301 for 9 v West Indies , Bridgetown , 2007 A capacity crowd poured into Kensington Oval for Brian Lara 's farewell to international cricket. If Lara disappointed , they were treated to one of the best matches of the World Cup as England completed a thrilling one-wicket win with one ball to spare. Kevin Pietersen 's second World Cup century carried England to within touching distance and Paul Nixon , dubbed the Beaver for his busy eccentricity , edged England within touching distance . David Hopps is the UK editor of ESPNcricinfo @ davidkhopps © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
