Michael Clarke 'Really Confident ' of World Cup Participation Michael Clarke 'Really Confident ' of World Cup Participation Michael Clarke , recuperating from a surgery , said it was unlikely he would be fit for Australia 's opening match but expressed confidence he would be available for most of the tournament . Last updated on Saturday , 27 December , 2014 14 : 38 IST Total Shares Michael Clarke had earlier said he may not ever play cricket again . © AFP Melbourne : Australia skipper Michael Clarke Saturday said he is " really confident " he will be fit and available for the " majority " of next year 's World Cup. ( Clarke 's Hamstring Surgery Successful : Warne ) Clarke , speaking on the Nine Network 's The Cricket Show at lunch on day two of the third Test against India , said it was unlikely he would be fit for Australia 's opening match . " I do n't think it 's probably realistic for me to be 100 percent fit for the first game , but I think I will certainly be fit and available for the majority of the World Cup , " he said . " Obviously it comes down to the selectors taking that risk. I think the advantage with the World Cup selection of 15 is you can take a player , if he 's not fit you can rule him out of the tournament and bring someone else in. " " I 'm hoping the selectors will give me that opportunity. " Australia 's first game in the World Cup is against England at the MCG February 14. A squad of 15 must be named by January 8. ( Clarke Impresses on Commentary Debut ) The upbeat prognosis from Clarke is a welcome reverse from his warning that " there 's a chance I could never play again " in the wake of the Adelaide Test . Having overcome a left hamstring injury to take his place in the eleven for an emotion-charged Test match following the tragic death of Phillip Hughes. Clarke suffered further setbacks during the match . He injured his back while batting on the first day and was forced to retire hurt - only to bravely return on the second morning to complete a memorable century - before tearing his right hamstring in the field . Story first published on : Saturday , 27 December 2014 13 : 30 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
