World Cup 2015 March 3 , 2015 Jurgensen joins Scotland as consultant shares 9 Shane Jurgensen will be assisting Scotland only for their game against Bangladesh © BCB Former Bangladesh coach Shane Jurgensen has joined Scotland as a consultant ahead of the teams ' clash on March 5. He will , however , be with Scotland only for that one game , after which he will leave for Suva to continue his coaching job with Fiji . Jurgensen had resigned from the Bangladesh position in April last year after having taken up a full-time coaching role in February 2013. He recently helped Fiji Under-19 qualify for the next World Cup in 2016 . Cricket Scotland tweeted a photo of Jurgensen in discussion with Josh Davey during a training session at the Saxton Oval on Tuesday. While his new role wo n't exactly worry Bangladesh , Jurgensen has become the latest addition to the list of coaches and former players such as Michael Hussey , Charl Langevelt , Paul Collingwood and Dav Whatmore , to be employed by various teams for their World Cup campaigns . Scotland captain Preston Mommsen was pleased to have Jurgensen in his camp ahead of the Bangladesh match . " It is nice to have someone experienced working with the Bangladeshi players , " Mommsen said. " Obviously he gives us some good insights and good information on the players and hopefully he could point us to some weakness so we can exploit. I think it 's a clever move from us to bring him in the camp for the next few days and we all are looking forward to working with him. " Shakib Al Hasan , though , played down the appointment of their former coach in the opposition camp , as he believed there were n't any more secrets left to be shared . " Everyone knows about each other in world cricket these days. Most matches are televised so everyone is being analysed , " Shakib said. " Every team has a fair idea about individual players. If planning was everything , people would have just planned and not played. What happens in the middle is more important. " Despite his appointment in the Scotland camp , Jurgensen remained wary of the threat offered by Bangladesh . " The Scotland coach and manager are very good friends of mine and they have asked for some consultancy ahead of their match against Bangladesh , " Jurgensen told the Dhaka-based The Daily Star. " They just want to know about what kind of team Bangladesh is and the impact of some individual players. How Bangladesh prepare is also a question. I am here to help the Scottish boys but you ca n't do much in two to three days and I believe there has been plenty of improvement with the Bangladesh players in the last few months. " A big Scottish welcome to @ shanejurgo who is helping us prepare for Tuesday 's game against @ BCBtigers # followscotland pic.twitter.com/1ic83xkrct — Cricket Scotland ( @ CricketScotland ) March 3 , 2015 Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
