World Cup : Sri Lanka March 5 , 2015 Karunaratne out of World Cup with broken finger shares 78 A broken finger for Dimuth Karunaratne adds to Sri Lanka 's injury woes © Getty Images The ICC Event Technical Committee has approved legspinning-allrounder Seekkuge Prasanna as a replacement for injured batsman Dimuth Karunaratne . Prasanna was already in Australia as cover for Rangana Herath , who is himself carrying a finger injury. Prasanna now stands a chance of playing against Australia on Sunday , less than 48 hours after he was admitted to the squad . Karunaratne 's World Cup ended when he sustained a jarring blow on his right hand during fielding practice on Thursday , which displaced and fractured bones in that hand. On Friday , Karunaratne underwent surgery , which included the insertion of a metal plate into that hand. His expected recovery time is three to five weeks . Prasanna had played in Sri Lanka 's World T20 campaign last year , and was on the cusp of being selected for the original World Cup squad , but was pipped by Jeevan Mendis , who was seen to offer more with the bat. The drafting in of a bowling allrounder in place of a batsman reflects the nature of Sri Lanka 's campaign , which has seen impressive batting performances , but mediocre returns from the attack. Sri Lanka have used Prasanna as a pinch-hitter in the past , and his inclusion suggests they view him as a player who can bolster the bowling , without compromising substantially on the batting front . Prasanna is the third official replacement to the original Sri Lanka squad. Dushmantha Chameera was named in place of Dhammika Prasad during the tournament , and Upul Tharanga replaced the injured Jeevan Mendis last week. Sri Lanka will also fly opener Kusal Perera in to Australia , as cover for their batting stock , which has now thinned to seven men . Herath 's chances of playing the next match remain slim , however. The cut to Herath 's spinning finger appears to be healing well , but the stitches he received there will not be removed until early next week . Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
