India v West Indies , Group B , Perth March 6 , 2015 Chris Gayle , self-destructing in 3 , 2,. . Plays of the day from the Group B match between India and West Indies in Perth shares 18 Marlon Samuels was run out after Chris Gayle refused to come out of his crease © Associated Press The Gayle tale - I Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav were making it seam and bounce at the WACA Ground , and Chris Gayle was having a hard time trying to put a defensive bat to ball. After several plays and misses , Gayle decided to counter in the way he does best. First delivery of the seventh over , he swung hard , but the ball was wide of his reach. So Gayle charged out next ball and had a heave , but missed as it moved away. After leaving the next couple , he had another crack. This time he connected , and a thick edge flew wide of third man. Umesh Yadav made a dash for it , took it as he fell forward but it popped out as he hit the ground. There would be more drama from Gayle . The Gayle tale - II And indeed , he would cause serious damage , but to his own team. In the next over , Gayle had another swipe at Umesh Yadav. Mohit Sharma ran forward from mid-on to take the mishit but it fell just short. The ball was long enough in the air for a single to have been easily taken , but Gayle had barely moved. Marlon Samuels did all the running , coming all the way to the other end. Realising that it had made no impression on Gayle , Samuels tapped his bat at the striker 's end just in case and turned back. Mohit had taken the ball on the bounce and not lost control despite a tumble. He threw it to the bowler 's end , and Virat Kohli made his way there from extra cover to catch a jogging Samuels well short . Russell roulette Andre Russell walked in with West Indies 71 for 6. That did not stop him from mowing Mohit second ball for six over deep midwicket. Ravindra Jadeja was brought on from that end next over. Russell saw some flight first ball and decided it had to go out of the ground. As soon as he saw it loop towards long-off instead , he swished his bat in frustration , but the deed had been done , and Virat Kohli took the catch . The Dhoni loan After the first ball of Ashwin 's fourth over , MS Dhoni wanted a forward short leg in for Lendl Simmons. Ajinkya Rahane came up , and Dhoni went on take his keeping pads off to lend them to the fielder. Rahane strapped them on , and took his position. During the over , substitute Ambati Rayudu attempted to run on to bring in a set of pads but Dhoni waved to him to wait. The captain took back his equipment at the end of the over . Abhishek Purohit is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
