Play 03 : 52 Holding : West Indies are n't using their brains Former fast bowler Michael Holding was scathing in his criticism of West Indies , calling the team 's batting against India " reckless and irresponsible " . West Indies were shot out for 182 inside 45 overs , paving the way for their third defeat in five matches , and Holding did not hold back on voicing his displeasure at the batsmen , particularly Chris Gayle . In addition to contributing to a mix-up that led to Marlon Samuels being run out , Gayle offered as many as three catching opportunities during his 27-ball 21 , constantly attempting expansive strokes against the India quicks , before he was finally bounced out by Mohammed Shami , forcing strong words from Holding . 'Frontline bowlers were tired ' - Jason Holder On West Indies ' quicks Our frontline bowlers have given it their all , you know. We were in a stage where we needed wickets and we had two spells from our frontline bowlers and at the end they felt a little tired and could n't get the job done . On West Indies ' batting We should have been looking at it in excess of 270. The wicket was good enough to get that , we just did n't. We just have to put up our hands when we have done wrong. Obviously we did n't bat well this game and even in the last game On the advice he gave his bowlers We needed to be aggressive , it was quite clear that the short ball was working for us. So , I just asked my bowlers to be aggressive , I would give up one or two wides for that. It is commendable that the guys went out there and fought , to get six wickets and try to defend 182 . On the next game against UAE We just need to address a few areas and be honest with ourselves. We just have some time off before the last game. Whatever happens in those last preliminary games is beyond my control. What I can control is the game against UAE and I can assure you that we will go in to win the game by all means and we just need to be aggressive and finish this preliminary round in a good manner " There was a lot of batting and no thinking , " Holding said on Match Point , ESPNcricinfo 's match analysis show. " Shami has just come back from injury and it 's the last ball of his fifth over. He is bowling well , so all you need to do is just wait. Gayle had tried pulling a short ball earlier , it did n't work , but then he goes and tries the same shot again. He needs to think a little about what 's happening . " There were a lot of overs to go. Even if Gayle bats , say , 35 overs , he has a great chance of getting a huge score. The strokeplay from the batsmen was just reckless and irresponsible cricket. They were not using their brains. They are just playing cricket , and not thinking about their cricket. " Holding was pleased with the performance of West Indies ' bowlers , who made India sweat during their chase , but was left confused by the tactic of using Samuels instead of Jerome Taylor - who had 2 for 33 from eight overs - towards the end , which he felt was a clear sign of throwing in the towel . " I 'm not too sure about the last few overs. Why did Samuels bowl ? Jerome Taylor , West Indies ' best bowler , still had two overs left. The last five-six overs , West Indies seemed like they just gave up. It 's like they told India 'The game is yours' . " I simply ca n't make sense of it. The sixth wicket fell in the 30th over. Why did Taylor not bowl those two overs ? There was every chance West Indies could have gotten another two wickets and get right into the tail. I 'm not too sure about the approach. Whose idea was it to bring Samuels ? You did n't need to use him at all . " Soon after he was brought on , it was obvious the game would n't go too far. India just kept pushing for singles , which was what they needed. You can not use someone like Samuels to put pressure on them. You 've got to use your best bowlers. I do n't quite understand that tactic or whose idea it was. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
