Australia v Sri Lanka , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Sydney March 7 , 2015 The World Cup 's best rivalry ? A look back at the Australia-Sri Lanka encounters in World Cups shares 29 Play 08 : 14 Men of the Finals : Aravinda de Silva When pondering the most storied opponents at the 2015 World Cup , a few spring instantly to mind - India v Pakistan , Australia v South Africa , England against practically anybody. But a compelling case can be made for Australia and Sri Lanka as the two most enduring combatants at the tournament , a classical battle between a cricketing behemoth and a more recently emergent force , a clash of cultures and of cricketing styles. The following five matches and their surrounding issues illustrate why , ahead of a meeting at the SCG that will define who finishes second in Group A and thus gains the more favourable draw - in Australia 's case a home semi-final may be at stake . 1975 Their first meeting , on June 11 at The Oval , showed Sri Lanka to be unexpectedly doughty opposition and Australia not shy in using any means necessary to assert authority. On a typically flat pitch south of the Thames , Alan Turner 's lone ODI century set Ian Chappell 's team on the path to a handsome 328 for 5 from their allotted 60 overs. A similarly large score in the opening match had caused India 's infamous " go-slow " response at Lord 's , but on a track so friendly , the youthful Sri Lankan XI was soon taking unexpected liberties against anyone other than the fearfully fast Jeff Thomson. A platform of 150 for 2 had been set when a somewhat worried Chappell recalled Thomson to the crease , and with great hostility he prevented Duleep Mendis ( struck in the forehead ) and Sunil Wettimuny ( struck in the ribs , the chest and the instep ) from continuing their stand. Both batsmen retired hurt and Sri Lanka 's challenge petered out , but the memory of the day 's injuries lingered. " Next morning a policeman walked into my room , " Duleep told Ashley Mallett. " He held his bobby 's helmet under one arm and he asked , 'Do you want to press charges against a Mr Jeff Thomson ? ' " 1996 A match that was n't and then a match that was. Death threats conveyed by mail and by phone , then the explosion of a bomb in downtown Colombo in the weeks before the tournament were enough to cause Australia to pull out of their scheduled meeting with Sri Lanka at the start of the 1996 edition. The decision followed on from a fractious home summer in which Muttiah Muralitharan was called for throwing and a spiteful World Series finals series saw Glenn McGrath and Sanath Jayasuriya bump shoulders before the Sri Lankans refused to shake victorious Australian hands , citing poor sportsmanship. The abrasive Arjuna Ranatunga marshalled his men expertly on the subcontinent , and their surprisingly smooth progress to the World Cup final meant another meeting with Mark Taylor 's men in Lahore. Taylor would have batted , and was not perturbed when Rantunga sent his men in. But after a fast start they were bogged down by a slowing surface , then thick dew aided Sri Lanka as Aravinda de Silva mounted a masterful chase. Shane Warne was neutralised as Ranatunga had confidently predicted , and the Australians reeled at a most unexpected defeat. Warne remains irritated by the memory to this day . 2003 If the record books show an Australian stroll to the 2003 World Cup final , undefeated , then those present can remember how deep they had dig to win a trio of matches on a sluggish surface at Port Elizabeth to defeat New Zealand , England and finally Sri Lanka in the semi-final . This was the match in which Adam Gilchrist walked after it appeared Rudi Koertzen would reprieve him , and Australia 's struggle to establish a bridgehead was illustrated by the fact only Andrew Symonds passed 50 in an innings that would tally a mere 212 for 7. Sri Lanka had reason to be confident , particularly given a surface more Galle than Gabba. But Ricky Ponting 's side knew their ability to pull matches from the fire at this venue , and they duly did so again. Brett Lee bowled like the wind , Jayasuriya levered McGrath to Symonds , and the Sri Lankan chase was confounded by bowling of a uniformly high standard. India would not get even that close in the final . 2007 If Gilchrist 's team-mates felt they owed him one for Port Elizabeth , he would repay them in spades at Kensington Oval in Barbados , delivering his last of many great and enduring innings in the final. A rain-delayed start limited Australia to 38 overs , but Gilchrist 's pyrotechnics - helped by a squash ball in the glove of his bottom hand to ensure he did not drag across the ball too much - left them with a total that would have looked substantial after 50. Coached by Tom Moody , the Sri Lankans were unable to stem the flow , and while their pursuit began brightly enough thanks to Jayasuriya and Kumar Sangakkara , momentum was sapped by the timely interventions of Michael Clarke and Brad Hogg. The match ended in a comical conclusion based upon the match officials ' fundamental misunderstanding of their own rain regulations , and some members of the Cricket Australia entourage were said to have left Kensington Oval early to enjoy the comforts of James Packer 's boat moored offshore . 2011 To say Sri Lanka have not beaten Australia at a World Cup since 1996 is to state a fact but also to miss some significant detail. Their 2011 group encounter in Colombo was to be a critical one , deciding principally who would avoid the co-hosts and favourites India in the quarter-finals. Sri Lanka had the benefit of a surface that appeared made to their orders - Ricky Ponting spoke disdainfully of a pitch that was " basically rolled mud " - and they were making smooth enough progress at 146 for 3 in the 33rd over when the rain set in. Quoth Ponting : " I think it might have been a pretty good game of cricket... they had batted pretty well and it would have been a difficult run chase considering the way the wicket was playing. I think it would have been a decent game of cricket. I 'm disappointed for the crowd more than anything today. " Since then , Sri Lanka have been partly responsible for the appointment of Darren Lehmann as coach - sealing Australia 's elimination from the 2013 Champions Trophy and thus Mickey Arthur 's tenure. Sunday may provide another pivot point for both teams . Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
