Pakistan v South Africa , World Cup 2015 , Group B , Auckland March 7 , 2015 Street-smart Sarfraz excels on second debut Apart from keeping Pakistan 's start steady at one end , Sarfraz Ahmed also freed up Umar Akmal to be used elsewhere , to provide his team the balance it lacked till now shares 65 Play 01 : 33 Bevan : Amazed Sarfraz was n't picked earlier Ahmed Shehzad , facing Kyle Abbott for the first time in the bowler 's second over , took time to mark his guard on the crease before taking a stroll towards the leg umpire. Just as the bowler was about to start , he noticed something on the good-length area , walked out again , swept it aside with his bat , then came back , bent down to clean something from the crease , using his hands. All this while , Sarfraz Ahmed stood at the non-striker 's end , his right hand on his waist , his left leg crossed over his right , his body leaning on the bat , intently watching and perhaps wondering what his partner was so fussed about. Three days back , it was Shehzad who had scored 93 against UAE while Sarfraz watched each ball from the sidelines , just like he had watched the rest of the World Cup. And then , as Pakistan ran out of reasons for not playing him in the XI , Sarfraz walked out to open the innings and stood outside the crease facing the first ball of the match from Dale Steyn. Seven hours , 35 minutes and a record six catches later - including that of a rampaging AB de Villiers - Sarfraz had a Man-of-the-Match award too. " It was like a debut game for me today , " Sarfraz said. Cricket can be a simple game for some. In 2006 , Sarfraz led Pakistan to title in the Under-19 World Cup. But a chequered international career that began more than seven years ago with an ODI against India in Jaipur - a game he did not get a chance to bat in - finally took a decisive turn when Sarfraz was brought in for an injured Adnan Akmal in the second Test against Sri Lanka last January. He had played four Tests before , but his second-innings half-century in Dubai was his first substantial innings. However , it was his quickfire 48 in the next match , during Pakistan 's astonishing chase of 302 in 57.3 overs , that Sarfraz established himself in the team. During that innings , he stepped out to Rangana Herath and smashed him over midwicket for a six and has since repeated that shot numerous times , to spinners and fast bowlers alike. Today , it was JP Duminy 's turn as he was thrice lifted in the same over for sixes in that region. However , it 's not his big hitting that is disruptive - Pakistan have others who solely earn their per diem using that method - but what he does in between. Sarfraz was always on the lookout for a single ; not the manic type , but that which keeps the fielding side on their toes , teasing them. He would shuffle across , dab the ball and would immediately dash out of the crease for a couple of meters , only to return in time , with his bat entering the safe zone before his feet would. Then at other times , he jogged singles to third man and fine leg in the old-fashioned way while Shehzad hared down the pitch as most coaches would tell you these days. Mostly , you knew Sarfraz was in no hurry. He just wanted to irritate the bowlers and the fielders alike , a distinctly old-world Pakistan trait that was missing in this team. Playing late cuts , standing a couple of feet outside the crease to extreme pace , shuffling across to work the ball on the leg side , these tactics draw from the ones used in streets and maidans of the subcontinent , where , at most times , on one side certain areas of the ground are more profitable. Sarfraz 's game brought back during his innings that street-smartness so often the forte of Pakistan sides of the past. Had the innings lasted any longer , surely Sarfraz would have pulled out Moin Khan-like sweeps against the South Africa pacers. Seventh months ago , an unbeaten 52 in Galle had given Pakistan a chance to almost save a match that appeared to have slipped as Pakistan 's batting collapsed on the fifth day. In the next game , he scored his maiden Test hundred in an innings dismantled by Herath with nine wickets. Another century followed in his next Test , and another , two matches later. " I think it 's been a good seven-eight months that he has started coming out of the shell and is trying to play his own game. Freedom has been given to him to play the way he plays. He has been coming good for Pakistan , he has been in a very good nick , so it 's good to take advantage of that form he is in. " Waqar Younis had said after Sarfraz 's match-winning 76 not out against New Zealand in a T20 last December , before he was inexplicably left out from the starting XI in this tournament. With Pakistan looking for every gasp of air to push ahead in this tournament , Sarfraz was finally included. He looked more assured than Shehzad , strutting up three-quarters the length of the pitch - shoulders open , gait confident , chin up - to chat with Shehzad after every dot ball. When he kept wickets , he was hardly noticeable , a massive change from the usual . When he wanted to , he used the full stretch to defend against Imran Tahir 's googlies. And then he made Younis Khan run hard too. He made one mistake and paid the price with his wicket. But after giving Pakistan the start they had been lacking in previous matches , Sarfraz had more to contribute. As the team came out to field , Sarfraz 's presence behind the stumps would have set a certain calm among the bowlers. It also freed up Umar Akmal , inconsistent with gloves but an excellent all-round fielder , to be used elsewhere. With moisture in the air , the pace quartet found movement and zip off the pitch. That requires adjustments from wicketkeepers , so Pakistan were well served in that they had a specialist man. Moin-like , Sarfraz was , swooping low to his right as he pulled off a one-handed stunner to send back Hashim Amla and then taking a head-high catch when Steyn edged a bouncer. " I never doubted his abilities. We all knew how good he is , " Waqar said today , before hinting why he may have missed out till now. " He is a makeshift opener , but he did a superb job today . " Ca n't ask for anything better if your regular wicketkeeper can play and bat as an opener too. But do n't forget , Umar Akmal has also done a superb job , he got five catches in the last game. So , I am happy with both. Both are doing a wonderful job. It 's the belief that matters the most and both of them have belief with the gloves on. " As Shehzad once again dabbed the pitch with his bat , keeping the bowler waiting during that opening stand , Sarfraz , at the non-striker 's end , wandered along facing the western stand , his head held high , maybe wondering " Am I really here ? " but most probably thinking , " I was meant to be here. " Call it confidence , call it self-belief , call it the aggressive posturing , that intent at the start of the match had set the tone for Pakistan . Devashish Fuloria is a sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
