England v Bangladesh , World Cup , Group A , Adelaide March 9 , 2015 Records tumble for Bangladesh Stats analysis from Bangladesh 's historic win over England in Adelaide shares 10 Play 06 : 48 Insights - Why do England keep sticking with Broad ? 275 Runs scored by Bangladesh , their highest in an ODI against England. Bangladesh 's previous highest score against England was 260 in Mirpur in 2010 . 103 Runs scored by Mahmudullah in this game , the most for any Bangladesh batsman in a World Cup game. The previous highest score was Tamim Iqbal 's 95 against Scotland earlier this World Cup . 1 Number of Bangladesh batsman who have scored a century in World Cup matches , Mahmudullah is the first. Bangladesh is the only Test nation whose batsmen had never previously scored a World Cup hundred . 89 Runs scored by Mushfiqur Rahim , the third highest by a Bangladesh batsmen in World Cups. Each of the top three scores by a Bangladesh batsman in World Cups were scored during the ongoing 2015 edition . Mushfiqur Rahim has made the highest runs aggregate for a Bangladesh player at a single World Cup © Getty Images 141 The partnership between Mahmudullah and Mushfiqur , the highest for Bangladesh for any wicket in World Cup history. Bangladesh have three 100-plus stands in World Cup matches , all three of those during the 2015 World Cup . 256 Runs scored by Mushfiqur in this World Cup , the most by any Bangladesh batsman in a single edition . The previous record was 216 , by Mohammad Ashraful during the 2007 World Cup . 4 Number of ducks scored by Eoin Morgan in 2015 , the second-most for any England player. Mike Brearley is the only batsmen to score more ducks in a year : five in 1979. Andy Caddick also scored exactly four ducks in 2000 . 3 The number of times that Bangladesh have beaten England in their last four ODI meetings. The had lost each of the 12 previous ODIs before that . 4 Number of wicketkeepers who have scored a fifty and effected four or more dismissals in a World Cup match ; Mushfiqur is the fourth. The three other keepers are Brad Haddin , Ridley Jacobs and Kumar Sangakkara . 3 Number of times that England have failed to progress beyond the group stage in the last six World Cups. England are the only top-eight nation who have been knocked out so early in three of the last six editions . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
