Play 02 : 07 'We do n't have enough variations ' - Moores Peter Moores , the England coach , made a tentative defence of his position following his side 's calamitous World Cup exit after a 15-run defeat to Bangladesh . Moores was appointed only in April last year but England 's early departure from the World Cup following five months where one-day cricket was their sole focus will bring his future into question . Downton gives Moores backing Paul Downton , England 's managing director , has spoken in support of the Peter Moores , saying it will " take time " to rebuild the team. England went out of the World Cup at the group stage to further extend a rocky period that began with the 2013-14 Ashes debacle in Australia . " I have every faith in Peter Moores,' ' Downton told Sky Sports. " Part of the reason for appointing Peter Moores was he is a very experienced coach . " Whoever took this job was going to have a really difficult job. We had a side that broke up in Australia , we had to introduce new players and part of dealing with it - which was obviously going to be pressurised - was that experience. We 're very early into an appointment. Much as we 'd like to change things instantly , it takes time . " Look at New Zealand and where they were with their one-day cricket two years ago - it takes time to bring things through. We had a very successful team between 2009 and 2013 , we have to rebuild again. There are no shortcuts. We have to back our players , invest in them and in time we will be back there again.'' Asked whether he could still make a difference , Moores said : " I think I can. I ca n't say I 'm making a difference having just been knocked out of a World Cup but I 'm going to go away , it 's going to hurt like hell and I 'll look at what I could have done differently. People will ask questions but that comes with the territory. " Moores offered few excuses for England 's failure to beat Bangladesh and said he felt he had " let people down " . The defeat lengthened England 's miserable World Cup record ; their last extended run in the tournament came back in 1992 . " I thought 275 was chaseable after a decent start. I do n't think we bowled as well as we could have done in the middle but we started well and we finished well. I do n't think we 've bowled as well as we wanted to and that 's been reflected in how it 's gone. Everyone has got to take their part in responsibility and you 've just got to take it on the chin . " You 've got to be able to take pressure as a good team if you want to win tournaments and we have to accept that we did n't take it. We should have chased that down and we did n't play well enough. " England jettisoned Alastair Cook as captain before Christmas , handing the job to Eoin Morgan and favouring a more dynamic top-order , only to bring in Gary Ballance at No. 3 at the start of the tournament. Ballance made a high score of 10 in four innings before Alex Hales , one of the most highly-rated one-day players in domestic cricket , was given another opportunity against Bangladesh . Show me the way home : Peter Moores ' England are out of the World Cup © Getty Images " We have n't got a settled team and we lost two key players at the top of our order , " Moores said. " But we tried to find the best players to get in that team. Gary is a very good one-day player but he has n't played well enough here. There was no obvious team to pick because it 's such a young team , we 've got nine guys here who have never been to a World Cup. You pick the side who we thought was the best team but we have to accept they did n't play well enough . " We went for more explosive batters and we went for more firepower in the order. We also know historically that most experienced sides do well in World Cups so we were taking a risk . " Eoin 's more disappointed than anybody else. He started to play well actually. I thought he captained well on the field today. He 's new to it and it 's something to look at going forward but I do n't think he 's a bad captain just because we lost tonight. " Moores also denied England are over-reliant on statistical analysis : " We do n't do analysis as it 's talked about in the press , it 's not the way we do it. Players will look at footage as they always do , you ca n't not look at other players in a tournament like this because it 's on TV all the time. Realistically a player has to decide what his strengths are and go and apply them and coaches have to help them try to do that. That 's not the issue here , we just have n't played well enough. " The inquest into England 's shortcomings will include another look at the county game and Moores said there were " fundamental " issues to sort out . " We have n't got a left-arm seamer here or a left-arm spinner and we have n't got a bank of them at home either , " he said. " So if we had a lot of experienced one-day players that we were n't selecting it would be different but we have n't got that. We 're not overloaded with high-class one-day players. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
