England v Bangladesh , World Cup , Group A , Adelaide March 9 , 2015 Englishmen woken by dawn chorus of doom Cricket in the Antipodes is a fretful business for Englishmen following at home and the prospect of waking to Yet Another New Low has never fired an enthusiasm for the dawn chorus shares 31 Play 01 : 46 Holding : England not playing one-day game of this century If a Full Member falls behind a paywall in the middle of the night , does it make a sound ? Paul Downton , Peter Moores and Eoin Morgan are about to find out . England has slept through this World Cup and so , by and large , have England. The wake-up call came too late ; for those back home it is probably blessed release. It is spring in the UK but the team is out well before the clocks go forward , which , even set against modest expectations , must qualify as an ECB nightmare . This regime is routinely caricatured as one that is better at the business of planning than playing , so , on the bright side , they at least have an extra week to plan for 2019 . I have never been a morning person and the prospect of waking to find England limping towards Yet Another New Low has not fired my enthusiasm for the dawn chorus. For many obvious reasons , cricket in the Antipodes is a fretful business for Englishmen following at home. On television , the colours seem glaringly bright , the sun as fierce as the home side usually are ; the hostility carries over radio waves too , like the sound of several thousand people asking you to step outside all at once . Then there are the tricky calculations that have to be made by the overnight armchair spectator. Stay up late or get up early ? Can sleep-deprived underperformance in your workplace be blamed on England 's meticulously planned underperformance in their workplace ? Is there any wine in wine gums ? These were always going to be a painful few weeks . Many retain a fondness for the 1992 World Cup , an effect enhanced to a large extent by England 's telescoping ineptitude at subsequent tournaments. Still , I can only assume that the slower pace of life also added to the enjoyment . Win and you could look forward to catching a snippet of footage on the six o'clock news and reading the write-ups at a civilised hour the following day. Lose and you just needed to avoid Ceefax for 24 hours ( for those wondering , Ceefax was like an 8-bit version of the internet that came through your TV ) . Now , the background grumbling is on surround sound. Terry and Bob spent an episode of Whatever Happened to the Likely Lads ? trying to avoid the football score before watching the evening highlights , but these days the pair would be on Twitter before breakfast , probably engaged in some poor-taste banter ( if that 's not a tautology ) . England 's crushing mediocrity in Australia and New Zealand has actually muted their mainstream media presence - BBC bulletins have been just as likely to lead on Ireland 's exploits - but from digital radio , to Twitter , to online ball-by-ball coverage , the truth is out there. And the truth hurts , particularly at 6am , although on this occasion Bangladesh 's score of 160 for 4 from 35 overs was closer to a snooze than an alarm . As Mahmudullah and Mushfiqur Rahim were warming to their task , early morning sunlight was glinting off the patina of frost on car windshields in west London. While England huffed and puffed to keep them to something manageable , commuters on the tube exhaled icy clouds and twitched nervously : nothing to do with the cricket , that 's just what people do on public transport . Should have stayed in bed : England 's cricket down under is rarely worth an early rise © Associated Press When I was buying coffee before getting to the office , now long enough awake to open up one or two receptors , Chris Jordan was blocking up an end at the death , the first time that has happened this tournament . There 's actually plenty to be said for following a match on your mobile phone , in terms of allowing you to hark back to the shortcomings of a bygone era. Up flashes a W in the recent deliveries section of the scorecard , teasing you with a tidbit of information , like the crackling of long wave as the transmission drops out . Or , as happened when listening to Ireland 's spandex-tight win over Zimbabwe on internet radio at the weekend , your phone loses signal. But television , as I was about to discover , leaves you nowhere to hide other than behind the sofa . So , 276 to win and maintain interest in a World Cup that has fulfilled the direst of predictions for England , bar defeat to Scotland or the team nutritionist running out of kale. On Sky , Andrew Strauss and Rob Key seem reasonably confident , as long as England do n't get stuck in a spin cycle ; it only comes as a mild surprise when instead Bangladesh 's pace attack takes them to the cleaners. Duds and suds . For a while , the crested pigeons bobbing around the outfield at Adelaide Oval provide a little light distraction - England 's campaign has also been hair-raising , nudge nudge - before the familiar pall settles . In offices around the country , people start doing work in order to avoid checking the cricket score. After 35 overs , England are 161 for 5 and this time there is an alarm bell ringing. Joe Root falls in the first over of the Powerplay ; Twitter goes into spasm. As so often with England , the second-screen experience feels more like second spleen . On Radio 4 , as the chase stumbled towards its conclusion , they cut to the Daily Service. Someone had obviously concluded that their best chance was divine intervention . " Anyone but England , " wrote Mike Marqusee , but he was lucky to have a choice. In football , cricket and rugby , barring the odd , giddily exulted exception , World Cups are for the rest of the world. We 'll do all right out of the schadenfreude , of course : you do n't need much of an imagination to conjure up the maniacal cackles that would have interrupted mid-morning matters in the UK as Rubel Hossain fired the final blow through England 's defences . The only question now is whether Andrew Flintoff gets voted off the Australian version of I 'm a Celebrity... before England fly home. With apologies to the 17th-century philosopher Thomas Hobbes , England 's World Cup campaign was " nasty , brutish and as short as it could have been " . Let 's at least be grateful for that . Alan Gardner is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ alanroderick © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
