World Cup 2015 : 2015 March 10 , 2015 Chandimal ruled out of World Cup shares 45 Dinesh Chandimal smashed 52 off 24 balls in his first World Cup innings before retiring hurt © ICC Dinesh Chandimal has been ruled out of the World Cup due to the hamstring strain he suffered in Sunday 's match against Australia. Kusal Perera , who has been training with the squad in Australia since last week , has been included into the squad , coach Marvan Atapattu confirmed . Chandimal tweaked a hamstring in his right thigh when attempting a tight second run in the 41st over in Sydney. He immediately called for on-field treatment , but despite a rest and a rub-down , was significantly hampered by the injury . He stayed at the crease to complete his fifty , but was forced to retire hurt in the 42nd over , when running between the wickets proved too difficult. His 52 not out off 24 balls - in his first World Cup innings - had done much to raise hopes of a successful Sri Lanka run chase. Their challenge petered out after his exit . Kusal Perera has largely played as an opener over the past two years , but if he enters the XI , he is likely to resume batting in the middle order , where he had begun his career. He had been flown into Sydney as cover last week , when Dimuth Karunaratne suffered a blow on his hand that ruled him out of the tournament. Kusal arrives with a little form behind him. He hit a 68-ball 74 and a 69-ball 108 not out in a first-class encounter at home a few days before he set out for Australia . Chandimal is the fifth Sri Lanka player to sustain an injury during Sri Lanka 's campaign. Fast bowler Dhammika Prasad , slow-bowling allrounder Jeevan Mendis and batsman Karunaratne have already been ruled out of the tournament , and Rangana Herath is still recovering from a cut to his spinning finger. Herath is also unavailable for the match against Scotland . Sri Lanka 's chief selector Sanath Jayasuriya said that an injury like the one Chandimal suffered could happen during a long tour and stated it the timing was unfortunate as the batsman was in form . " Chandimal 's injury is a big blow because in Australia he has been performing really well. If you see his past record he has been really good , " Jayasuriya said. " The way he batted against Australia was his natural game he should continue the way he is batting all the time . " The team has been touring New Zealand and Australia since last December and obviously you 'll tend to get some sort of injuries when you are on tour for such a long time , it 's natural. " Jayasuriya also credited the work of psychologist Jeremy Snape and coach Marvan Atapattu for instilling confidence in Chandimal when the batsman was going through a lean patch. SLC had brought Snape on board for a stint during the World Cup . " When you go through a bad patch and when you are not coming out of it you need to get your mind right - the way you play your cricket everything you tend to forget , " Jayasuriya said. " It 's altogether not about your batting skills , we practice virtually every day but at the end of the day it comes down to your mind. He has been preparing himself for this game and he batted really well . " When you are not playing well as a human being , you go through a lot of things. Jeremy worked with him a lot on his mind , including Marvan ( Atapattu ) and the rest of the support staff. They did a lot of work with him and at the end of the day it 's how you feel for yourself. Snape has been working with some of the players individually. " With inputs from Sa'adi Thawfeeq Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
