BCCI Finds No Place for Yuvraj Singh in 2015 World Cup Squad , Fit-Again Ravindra Jadeja Makes Cut BCCI Finds No Place for Yuvraj Singh in 2015 World Cup Squad , Fit-Again Ravindra Jadeja Makes Cut Defending champions India will be led by Mahendra Singh Dhoni in the World Cup 2015 , which will be played in Australia and New Zealand from February 14 to March 29 . Last updated on Tuesday , 06 January , 2015 20 : 36 IST Total Shares Ravindra Jadeja and Ravichandran Ashwin will lead India 's spin attack . © AFP India announced a 15-member squad for the World Cup under the captaincy of Mahendra Singh Dhoni. The defending champions start their campaign against arch-rivals Pakistan on February 15. India 's 2011 World Cup hero Yuvraj Singh was ignored despite a hat-trick of hundreds in the Ranji Trophy. ( Highlights of Selection Meeting ) The likes of Dhoni , Virat Kohli , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane , Ravindra Jadeja , Umesh Yadav , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami and Ishant Sharma were obvious selections. The selectors gathered in Mumbai for a much-anticipated meeting to announce the squad on Tuesday . Rookie left-arm spinner Akshar Patel got his maiden World Cup berth while Stuart Binny , who holds the best bowling figures by an Indian in ODIs , also made the cut. India chose to stick with the experienced Ishant despite suffering an injury which ruled him out of the SCG Test . There were questions on Jadeja 's fitness , who is currently nursing a shoulder injury. Physio Nitin Patel , who supervised Jadeja 's fitness at the new BCCI center in Chennai , submitted a progress report to the selectors. The Saurashtra all-rounder had returned home after sustaining an injury in the Test series in Australia. There was uncertainty over his availability for the showpiece event , raising hopes for an out-of-favour Yuvraj . Yuvraj was not named in the 30-man probables list. BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel said Yuvraj 's name was discussed in the meeting along with several other players. Many names apart from the probables were also considered , the BCCI said on Tuesday . Patel said Jadeja 's rehabilitation program was going along well and he should be completely fit in 10 days. The selection committee had a detailed discussion with the physio Nitin Patel . India , the No. 3 ODI side in the world , are clubbed in Pool B with South Africa , Pakistan , West Indies , Zimbabwe , Ireland and the United Arab Emirates . India 's 15-man squad for World Cup 2015 MS Dhoni , S Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ambati Raydu , Ravindra Jadeja , R Ashwin , Akshar Patel , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Stuart Binny and Umesh Yadav India 's Squad for Tri-Series in Australia MS Dhoni ( Captain ) , Virat Kohli ( V Captain ) , Ajinkya Rahane , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Stuart Binny , Suresh Raina , Ravindra Jadeja , Ambati Rayudu , Axar Patel , R Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Md. Shami , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma , Ishant Sharma , Dhawal Kulkarni Story first published on : Tuesday , 06 January 2015 13 : 57 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
