SA v UAE , Group B , Wellington March 12 , 2015 'De Kock will play a part in us winning the World Cup' shares 72 Play 02 : 26 'When push comes to shove , I believe de Kock will play a big knock for us ' - AB de Villiers Quinton de Kock is the only member of South Africa 's top six who did not score a century in the group stage of this World Cup , but he remains his captain 's " first pick , " for the starting XI in the knockouts . " There is no doubt in my mind that Quinton is a match winner and he will play a part in us winning this World Cup , " AB de Villiers said. " He is still my first pick. When push comes to shove , I believe he will play a big knock for us. I 'd hate to see him go but it 's something we 'll discuss as we go on " De Kock notched 26 against UAE , his highest score of the tournament and only his second in double figures. He spent an hour and a quarter at the crease grinding out what de Villiers saw as a gutsy innings. " He showed signs of good form , he was much better and prepared to fight it out , " de Villiers said . De Kock has not made a half-century this year , since returning from an ankle ligament tear which healed a month sooner than expected , and has been retained mainly on reputation and for another reason , as de Villiers revealed . " I do n't want to keep , " he said. " It puts a lot of pressure on me when I am in the field and managing the bowler. When I do n't keep I 've got more time. " De Villiers is the only reserve keeper in South Africa 's squad and if he does not want to do the job , de Kock will remain in the side and at the top of the order. That would leave the selectors with a choice between Rilee Rossouw and Farhaan Behardien at No.7 , provided Faf du Plessis , who sat out this game with a lower-back injury , makes a full recovery . " I 'm pretty sure he ( du Plessis ) will be fit , " de Villiers said. " If all of them are fit , it 's a difficult call and it will probably come down to Farhaan or Rilee. It gives us a good headache. They are totally different. Rilee is very attacking and Farhaan more of a finisher. Depending on conditions and who are playing , we will make the call. " South Africa 's other straight shootout for a spot is between two bowlers , with Vernon Philander and Kyle Abbott competing for the third seamer 's job. Philander made a return from a hamstring strain against UAE while Abbott was forced back onto the bench despite three decent outings , and de Villiers confirmed he does not " think both will play at the same time , " because they " have different sets of skills. " While Abbott is aggressive upfront , swings the ball and has put his hand up to return at the death , Philander bowls nagging lines and lengths and thrives when there is a little bit on offer . While the selectors ponder their choices , the one player in South Africa 's squad who may not get a game at all , is left-arm spinner Aaron Phangiso. He was included as back-up to Imran Tahir but with the legspinner in his elements , has been a reserve all tournament and will likely remain that way barring a major injury . " We were very tempted to give Phangi a game and his attitude has been superb , " de Villiers said. " He works hard in the nets. He is a big match player. I face him in the nets and I have been assessing him and I have nothing to worry about if we need him in the knockouts. " Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
