Here 's what the teams need to do to go through to the quarter-finals shares 42 Cricket easier than Maths ? © ICC The four-week group stage of the World Cup is almost over , but with only two matches left , a couple of spots are still up for grabs in Pool B. Pakistan , Ireland , and West Indies are in contention to take the last two places in the group. If Cyclone Pam arrives earlier than expected and washes out West Indies ' last match , against UAE , then Pakistan and Ireland will sail through regardless of the result of that match. If however , West Indies win that game , things will get more interesting in the group. Here 's what the teams need to do to go through to the quarter-finals : Pakistan Currently on 6 points , NRR -0.194 Pakistan are the best placed of the three teams , as they already have six points , and the best net run rate among the three. If they win , they are through as the third-placed team in the group and will play Australia in Adelaide ; if they lose and if West Indies win , the team with the better NRR will make the next stage as the fourth team , and will play New Zealand in Wellington . The result margins that will work for Pakistan Given that Pakistan 's current NRR is -0.194 , and West Indies ' is -0.511 , Pakistan have some margins to play with , even if they lose and West Indies win . If for instance , West Indies score 300 against UAE and win by 50 runs , Pakistan , chasing Ireland 's 300 , will need to score at least 274 to ensure their NRR stays ahead of West Indies' . If West Indies chase a target of 251 in 40 , Pakistan , after scoring 250 , will have to ensure that Ireland take at least 46 overs to chase it down . However , if West Indies win by an even bigger margin - around 75 or more runs when batting first , or with around 81 balls to spare when batting second ( depending on the actual scores ) - then their NRR will improve to such an extent that Pakistan will need a win or a tie . West Indies Currently on 4 points , NRR -0.511 To begin with , West Indies need to beat UAE to have any chance of qualifying. A win will lift them to six points , and if Pakistan beat Ireland , West Indies will qualify as the fourth team regardless of the result margins , as Ireland 's NRR is well below West Indies'. If Ireland beat Pakistan , though , the result margins will come into play . The result margins that will work for West Indies If West Indies score 300 and win by 50 runs , and Ireland score 300 batting first , West Indies will have to hope that Pakistan fold for 273 or fewer , so that their NRR slips below West Indies'. Similarly , if West Indies chase down a target of 251 in 40 , they 'll want Ireland to chase a similar target in 45.5 or fewer overs . If West Indies win by an even bigger margin - around 75 or more runs when batting first , or by around 81 balls to spare when batting second ( depending on the actual scores ) - then their NRR will improve to such an extent that an Ireland win by any margin will suffice to push Pakistan out . Ireland Currently on 6 points , NRR -1.014 Ireland have done superbly to win three games , but their problem is their poor net run rate , which is by far the worst among the three. That means they need to beat Pakistan , or hope that West Indies do n't get two points from their game against UAE. If West Indies beat UAE and Ireland lose to Pakistan - by any margin - Pakistan and West Indies will make it through to the next stage . S Rajesh is stats editor of ESPNcricinfo. @ rajeshstats © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
