Australia v Scotland , World Cup 2015 , Group A , Hobart March 14 , 2015 Pragmatic Australia ace rain hurdle Despite the nervousness caused by the weather , Australia 's professional victory secured their preferred route for the knockouts shares 5 Michael Clarke opened the innings for the first time since 2009 in a bid to get some game time © Getty Images At 6.02pm , the rain blew in over Bellerive Oval , the sky darkened and so did the faces of Australia 's cricketers. Washed out against Bangladesh in Brisbane , surely it would not happen against Scotland too ? The consequences would have been severe : finish third in their group , face South Africa in a quarter-final , take on New Zealand in Auckland in a semi-final. There are many paths to the top of the mountain , but that one would be prone to avalanche . A nervous hour-and-a-half ensued , Australia still needing 39 runs to overhaul Scotland 's total of 130. The rain eased up , the covers were removed , and then the weather turned once more. Only 13.2 overs had been bowled , 40 balls short of what is required to constitute a match and bring Duckworth-Lewis into play. When play resumed at 7.35pm , 12 balls was all David Warner and James Faulkner needed . The overwhelming feeling amongst the Australians was relief. In their quarter-final in Adelaide they will now face the winner of Sunday 's game between Pakistan and Ireland , and should they reach a semi-final it will be at home , at the SCG , against India or Bangladesh. It must certainly be their preferred side of the draw , given their success against Asian teams at home . Australia 's desperation for a fourth victory was apparent from Michael Clarke 's decision to send Scotland in. Pragmatism is not always a strength of the bullish Australians , but Clarke read the forecast and sniffed the breeze. The Hobart crowd jeered his choice to bowl first , but this was not a day for a 400-plus score. This was a day to get the job done , and get it done quickly . The first ball of the match was a bouncer from Mitchell Starc , keen to immediately put Scotland 's top order on the back foot. The slip cordon stayed in place for the fast men through the whole innings. Wickets fell , the Australians moved quickly back to their positions. The drinks break was an obstacle ; with time of the essence , they waited in their places for Scotland 's batsmen to have a sip and return . Eyes constantly glanced above the new Ricky Ponting Stand on the west side of the ground , nervously waiting for the rain. When it came it was light , but Ian Gould and Richard Illingworth were taking no chances. Play was suspended with Scotland eight down. The Australians dawdled , miffed by the decision. They could have played on , and probably should have. But there is no DRS for rain interruptions . When play was set to resume , the Australians were all in their fielding positions before the umpires or the Scotland batsmen made it onto the field. They wanted a quick kill , and through Starc they got it , the last two wickets falling in four balls. Part one of their job was done , Scotland were skittled for 130 in the 26th over. Part two required beating the rain again . But still there was a chance to ensure their second priority could be achieved as well , getting some batting time into Clarke , Shane Watson and James Faulkner. Criticised for not batting against Afghanistan in Perth , Clarke here took the opposite route : for the first time since 2009 , he walked out to open in an ODI innings . There were scratchy moments. He copped one in the groin and another in the shoulder when he missed his pulls and hooks. Watson came out at No. 3 and struck a few boundaries but was notably grumpy , bickering with Scotland bowler Rob Taylor. Clarke too had been terse at his pre-match press conference : Australia wanted this pool stage over , and over on their terms . Their Brisbane match had seemed more like the swimming pool stage , not a ball bowled due to a deluge. In Hobart the rain was just frustrating. After Australia went off with 39 runs needed , Duckworth-Lewis calculations began. They already had the runs required for the 20-over mark , they just did n't have the 20 overs . It was not out of the question that they could have lost overs , had the target reduced and have play nominally start but with their new target already reached. In the end , no overs were lost , just a few fingernails. After the win , Clarke was a relieved man . " There was obviously doubt about getting a result , " Clarke said. " There was rain forecast and it did n't look great. There was always a fair bit of wind so we had confidence that would continue and blow the rain away - but it could also blow rain in . " The fact we already knew we 'd qualified for a World Cup quarter-final was positive. It 's just that we wanted to win this game to finish second , rather than third or fourth. That was our main focus , on making sure we did everything we could to win this game . " I think we did whatever we could. We made the most of our opportunity. Most importantly , everyone in the squad mentally is ready to go. I still felt a little bit rusty there with the bat. I do n't think Watto would 've played that shot if he was n't putting the team first , and Jimmy Faulkner came in and tried to smack it at the end there. We made the most of it. All three of us got a bat , so it 's better than it could have been. " The whole day was much better than it could have been , despite the nervous moments. Australia won as comfortably as they could have under the circumstances , in only 41 overs of cricket. It was pragmatic and professional , a quick kill , if an interrupted one. Crisis averted . Brydon Coverdale is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ brydoncoverdale © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
