Assessing the Associates - United Arab Emirates March 16 , 2015 Untiring UAE show flashes of spunk UAE have plenty of areas to work on , but a team filled with players who juggle day jobs and cricket commitments was not short of promise or dedication shares 2 Shaiman Anwar , fondly called 'Sir Viv ' by his team-mates , showed confidence and an ability to switch gears during his knocks in the World Cup © Getty Images How their tournament panned out Nationalism defines tournaments like the World Cup. So how does a country that does not have a lot of nationals in its team compete ? By bringing in expats , of course. In UAE 's case , though , the situation is far more complicated . Unlike other countries , where there are qualification-period results for residency and citizenship , people do not become citizens in the UAE and the only way they can live in the country is if they have a job. Cricket is not a profession so the non-Emirati members of the UAE squad - who are in the majority - have to work. All of them have day jobs and all of them are amateur sportsmen , which puts into context the magnitude of the task they face. They juggle work with cricket commitments and like many others in their position , would benefit from more of the latter and less of the former. But it is difficult in their country . They should have left with two wins but departed defeated in all six games. Their opening matches promised plenty but then they had a blow-out against India and retreated for the rest of the tournament. They remained good-humoured throughout and made a case for why Associate inclusion at the World Cup should be treated as a necessity and not a novelty . The high point UAE began the tournament with two strong statements of intent when they posted 285 against Zimbabwe and 278 against Ireland. In both games , they flirted with upsets while defending. The best parts of those performances was neither the partnerships , nor the regular plucking of wickets , but the confidence UAE strutted about with , so much so that they exposed insecurities in the other side. They were 12 balls away from winning the first game and four from winning the second. It 's heartbreaking to lose tense encounters but sometimes it 's heartwarming to take it that close . And the low UAE captain Mohammad Tauqir cited instances like the time the bail did not fall off after Ed Joyce was bowled and the dropped catches as the reasons his team 's luck ran out. The real eyesore for them , however , took place three days after the match against Ireland. On a pacy Perth track , UAE were bounced out and befuddled by India 's seam and spin combinations , and could only scratch together 102 runs in 31.3 overs. The entire match lasted only two balls longer than an ODI innings should . Top of the class Shaiman Anwar was the first Associate batsman to score a century at this World Cup and at one stage , led the batting charts. At the end of the group stage , he was one of only 10 batsmen to have scored more than 300 runs and his average of 51.83 put him No.8 on the list , above Hashim Amla and Virat Kohli. Anwar displayed both a sound technique and a solid temperament as he notched fifties against two Full Members - Zimbabwe and Pakistan - and a century against Ireland. The latter was a knock which showcased his confidence outside the off stump and his ability to switch gears when needed . What we learnt about UAE The absence of superstars does not mean a lack of staying power , as UAE 's line-up showed. They batted deep enough , so that when their top order failed their seventh-wicket stand held fort - twice breaking records . They were resilient and patient , even when runs dried up , and were willing to absorb pressure rather than succumb to it. Amjad Javed was particularly strong in that regard with a half-century and two forties to prop up the lower middle order . What they learnt from the World Cup The World Cup is about competition and admirable as it is to work within one 's limitations and towards one 's own goals , ultimately it is about trying to beat the other team. After UAE came close against Zimbabwe and Ireland , they regressed against the big teams and sought to save themselves embarrassment , rather than cause it for their opposition. They will have to be bolder - try to score runs quicker or set more attacking fields - if they want to take the fight to other teams. It wo n't hurt if they take their catches and work on their fielding . Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
