Pakistan v Ireland , Group B , Adelaide March 15 , 2015 First World Cup ton by Pakistan wicketkeeper Stats highlights from the last match of the group stages , between Pakistan and Ireland in Adelaide shares 9 Play 04 : 51 Insights : Pakistan 's tight death bowling 0 Hundreds by Pakistan batsmen in this World Cup before Sarfraz Ahmed 's unbeaten 101 in this match. Before this game , Pakistan were one of two teams - Afghanistan being the other - whose batsmen had n't hit a century in this World Cup . 0 Centuries by Pakistan wicketkeepers in the World Cup before this game. Moin Khan 's 63 against South Africa in 1999 was their highest before Sarfraz 's 101 in this match. The last century by any Pakistan batsman in the World Cup was Imran Nazir 's 160 against Zimbabwe in 2007. This was also Sarfraz 's maiden ODI hundred . 7 Hundreds by wicketkeeper-batsmen in this World Cup. Overall , there have been 15 centuries by wicketkeeper-batsmen in World Cups , 11 of which have come in the last-two World Cups. Kumar Sangakkara has hit five of these . 0 Captains from Associate Member teams to hit a century in the World Cup before William Porterfield. Canada 's Ashish Bagai and Netherlands ' Peter Borren had both scored 84 in the previous World Cup against New Zealand and Ireland respectively , which was the previous highest by an Associate captain in the World Cup . Sarfraz Ahmed 's maiden ODI century was the first by a Pakistan wicketkeeper in the World Cup © Getty Images 4 Hundreds by Ireland 's batsmen against Test teams including Porterfield 's in this match. Apart from Ireland 's four hundreds , there have been only three hundreds from Associate Nations against Test teams in the World Cup. Kyle Coetzer of Scotland , Ryan ten Doeschate of Netherlands and John Davison of Canada are the three batsmen to score them. As many as five of the seven hundreds by Associates against Test teams have come in the last two World Cups . 4 Number of century partnerships by Pakistan openers in the World Cup. Before the game against Ireland , the last such stand was between Kamran Akmal and Mohammad Hafeez against West Indies in the last World Cup . 32 Runs conceded by Pakistan in the batting Powerplay - the most they have conceded in these overs in this World Cup. Pakistan have had the best economy in the batting Powerplays in this tournament , conceding runs at just 4.31 runs an over . 1999 The last time both Pakistan openers got 50-plus scores in a World Cup game was when Saeed Anwar hit an unbeaten 113 and Wajahatullah Wasti got 84 against New Zealand in the semi-finals of the 1999 edition. Including this match , there have been only four such instances for Pakistan in the World Cup . 52 Runs Pakistan 's first wicket had added in five innings in this World Cup before this game. The partnership between Sarfraz Ahmed and Ahmad Shehzad was Pakistan 's first fifty-plus opening stand in this World Cup . 8 Number of batsmen to get out hit-wicket in the World Cup before Misbah-ul-Haq in this match. Regis Chakabva was the last player to be dismissed in this manner , against UAE earlier in this World Cup . Shiva Jayaraman is a sub-editor ( stats ) at ESPNcricinfo.com © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
