Ireland v Pakistan , World Cup 2015 , Group B , Adelaide March 15 , 2015 No point playing if World Cup reduced - Porterfield 186 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 186 William Porterfield , the Ireland captain , has questioned " the point in keeping going " for Associate nations if the ICC does not reverse its decision to cut the next World Cup to 10 teams . Ireland left the Adelaide Oval defeated but proud after losing by seven wickets to Pakistan in the final Group B match. But their real concern was not that they had been knocked out of the World Cup , but eliminated from all future World Cups . In this tournament , Ireland were eventually exposed by the paucity of their own attack and a Pakistan seam unit that provided a masterclass in death bowling . But , in the longer term , they face a far more substantial foe : the governing body that seems determined to keep them weak ; the governing body that is run for the self interest of the few richest members and offers no more than lip service towards the rest . Certainly that is the view of Porterfield. Fresh from scoring a century against Pakistan , Porterfield renewed his attack on the ICC 's decision to limit the next World Cup - scheduled to be staged in England in 2019 - to just 10 teams . While Porterfield feels there has been growing criticism of the ICC 's stance - Steve Waugh , Martin Crowe and Sachin Tendulkar are the latest former players to recommend the inclusion of more teams - he fears the issue will fade in the public consciousness once the World Cup is over . William Porterfield signed off Ireland 's campaign with a century - but will they be back at future World Cups ? © Getty Images In particular , Porterfield highlighted the irony of the scheduling of the next tournament. Despite featuring fewer teams , it will actually be longer than the current event. And , as he sees it , if the ICC is insistent on limiting the showpiece ODI event , then all the countries outside the 10 Full Members might as well not bother to play . " I 'm sure the ICC are hoping everything blows over in the next few weeks and they do n't hear much from us , " Porterfield said. " And then it 's just as easy to brush it under the carpet . " But I think something has to be done if they want to grow the game. Everyone wants to know what their vision for the game is , because if they cut the teams in world competitions , why not just have 10 teams playing cricket and every other country in the world does n't bother ? " The next World Cup is two or three days longer than this World Cup. So if you 've got four fewer teams and your competition drags out longer , that 's not an excuse for cutting the number of teams . " It 'll be interesting to see what their vision is and what their thoughts are behind the 10-team competition and what value there is for other teams playing outside of the top 10. " The frustration for Porterfield is that Ireland have continued to improve and develop but appear to have future opportunities blocked. Even in this World Cup , despite not reaching the quarter-final stages , they have beaten two Full Member sides - West Indies and Zimbabwe - which is two more than England managed . " The ICC is the International Cricket Council , " Porterfield said. " That 's global. They 've got to develop the game. There 's a lot of countries out there that have done a lot of work over the last number of years. We 've shown what we can do when we get to these competitions with the minimal fixtures that we 've had . " I think when we do get more fixtures then we 're only going to keep improving , and it 's going to be the same with every other country. You 've got to keep growing the game . " If you cut World Cups from the agenda , then what 's the point really in us keeping going ? I think it 's the wrong move. I think a lot of people have spoken out and said that it is the wrong move. And not just from Associate countries , from Test-playing nations and a lot of influential people , too . " So I do n't think the ICC can just ignore that. I do n't think it 's right. It needs to change. " George Dobell is a senior correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
