World Cup 2015 March 16 , 2015 Dravid backs Associates for 2019 World Cup Play 03 : 39 Dravid : Need to encourage as many teams as possible Former India captain Rahul Dravid has put his weight behind the continued presence of Associate Nations at the World Cup , as he believes allowing them to participate is " the least cricket can do " . Dravid told ESPNcricinfo that he was firm in his opposition to the ICC 's decision to reduce the next World Cup , in 2019 , to 10 teams , saying that according to him " 14 is a pretty good number. " " I favour encouraging Associates to play in this tournament and giving them every single opportunity , " Dravid said. " I just know how important this is for the growth of their game to be seen at a World Cup , the games being telecast Live back home in terms of sponsorship , government funding ; its so important for them to be a part of this premier event. I think that 's the least cricket can do , it 's a tournament once in four years to try and encourage as many of them as possible to play. You do n't want an inflated tournament , but I 've always been of the view that 14 for me was a pretty good number , give everyone a chance. " Although none of the four Associate teams were able to qualify for the quarter-finals , they gave an encouraging account of themselves over the last few weeks. Ireland came the closest to a spot in the last eight , winning three of their six league games , including victories over two Full Members- West Indies and Zimbabwe. Dravid said that while he was n't surprised by Ireland 's improvement , the progress made by first-timers Afghanistan was a " great story " for the game . " You expect to see a good performance from Ireland every time they come to a World Cup. It was great to see Afghanistan register a win , I think it 's a great story as well , great for the game , " he said. " We 've seen some very good performances from the Associate teams , that 's terrific for the tournament. It 's nice to see that people have also appreciated those performances , while they have n't played to packed stadiums all the time , there have been a good bunch of their supporters coming in to support their teams. " While Dravid enjoyed watching the Associates in action , he was less enthused by the high-scoring nature of many of the games at the World Cup. In the 42 matches played in the league stage , the 300-run mark has already been crossed 25 times , while teams went past the mark just 17 times at the last World Cup in 2011. The 350-run barrier has already been broken six times , twice as often as the last World Cup , while three scores of 400 or more have been made , a landmark not achieved even once in 2011 . " It was great to see Afghanistan register a win , I think it 's a great story as well , great for the game " © ICC Thirty-five centuries were scored in the league phase , eight more than in 2011. On six occasions already , batsmen have gone past 150 , while it was only done twice in 2011 . " There have just been too many high scoring games for my liking , it 's one thing I have been disappointed by , " Dravid said. " It comes down to the fact that maybe the wickets in Australia have been very good , they 've been flat and a lot slower than people have expected. " Dravid believes that the administrators will have to reconsider the rule allowing a maximum of four fielders outside the 30-yard circle once the World Cup is over. In the course of the league stage , 100 or more runs were scored 17 times in the last 10 overs , while that mark was accomplished just six times in 2011. As many as 388 sixes have already been hit , while only 258 were struck during the entire 2011 edition . " The fact that five fielders have had to be in the ring is something that needs to be looked at. I think it will have to be reconsidered , " Dravid said. " There is no doubt that it is putting too much pressure and bowlers have not been able to cope with it. It 's leading to these huge scores and I think that 's not necessarily good for the game . " We have n't seen enough close games , what really builds excitement is not really seeing people hit sixes and fours all the time , but what you want to see is a good contest between bat and ball , which would result in a close game. The games have been just too one-sided for me. " Gaurav Kalra is a senior editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ gauravkalra75 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
