World Cup 2015 : Australia March 17 , 2015 Watson thought his World Cup was over 14 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 14 Shane Watson - " Rod Marsh at that time made it very clear what their intentions were. It 's amazing how things can turn around even quicker than I thought they would " © Getty Images When informed by Rod Marsh that he would not be selected to face Afghanistan , Shane Watson thought his World Cup was over. If he did not allow his mind to race forward to what the implications were for his Test career , he certainly wondered whether much of the work he had done over the preceding six months had been for nothing . Watson went through all the well-worn tropes of the dumped player : the supportive hand on the shoulder from Shane Warne , the drinks duty , the impromptu press conference through an airport terminal. He handled it all with considerable grace , and was unexpectedly rewarded for it by being granted an instant recall for the Sri Lanka match at the SCG , when a dry pitch diverted selectors from their preference for Mitchell Marsh . A major partnership with Glenn Maxwell ensued , and Watson now appears to have reverted to being the selectors ' first choice for the remainder of the tournament , albeit in a new role in the middle order with Steven Smith at No.3. This all sits well with Watson , given how he had spent the better part of 72 hours pondering what life would be like outside the Australian World Cup team . " I was n't expecting to play , after being dropped for the Afghanistan game , for the rest of the tournament , " Watson said in Adelaide. " Rod Marsh at that time made it very clear what their intentions were. It 's amazing how things can turn around even quicker than I thought they would . " Thinking at the time that that was going to be potentially my last chance of playing in a World Cup at home I had to come to the realisation of that. But the burning desire that 's been in me since I got dropped has been something that it really lit inside of me , something that I know is going to hold me in good stead - over the next couple of years , hopefully , because I do n't want to be feeling like that again. " Part of what Watson was feeling was frustration that he had been on the verge of good scores for a long time , but been unable to harvest them. Technical tweaks had been bedded down , but his mentality was too impatient and given to challenging outfielders with blows for the fences. As Daniel Vettori proved at Eden Park , this was not sustainable . " I knew I was very , very close to be able to nail it , I really did , " Watson said. " The couple of weeks in the lead-up I just had to change a few things - one with my technique but also my mental approach to how I was going to really take on the one-day games at that time. I was just trying to take too many risks when I was batting , trying to hit the ball in the air way too much , which meant I was exposing myself and giving myself a chance of getting out - especially at crucial times when I was batting . " The lead-up to the New Zealand game , I just worked on a couple of things technically to be able to free up my game a little bit. But the mental approach definitely was n't exactly right. Getting out to Dan Vettori the way I did was definitely a mental error. It certainly was n't a technical error. I was just thinking about trying to hit the ball in the air too much. I was taking too many risks and that was a big reality check even before I got dropped . " I 'm extremely grateful that Glenn Maxwell saw me as a person he could come and chat to , because I know I 've got a lot to give with the life experience I 've had - in and outside cricket " © Getty Images " It had n't been smart enough as well , the way that I 'd been batting. I was just lucky that I got another opportunity to be able show it to myself , that the things I 'd made adjustments to were able to click straight away. " What helped it click was the stand with Maxwell , who allowed Watson critical room to get comfortable at the crease by finding gaps with a level of confidence that reminded the older man of simpler times in his own career. It was also a confirmation of the change he was trying to make to his own game . Add the fact that Watson had been a figure of advice and companionship for Maxwell at a difficult time in the Victorian 's personal life and it was a partnership built on solid , and layered foundations. " The thing that was most incredible to me is that he never took on someone in the outfield , very rarely , " Watson said. " He was always into the gaps , so even if he mis-hit the ball it still went in the gap for four. That shows he 's got incredible skill , to be able to hit the ball wherever he wants , maneuver the ball off world-class bowling . " From the other side of things , part of being an experienced guy in the team means I 've experienced quite a lot in my life , especially being in and around the Australian cricket team for a number of years now. I just know I 've been through different challenges throughout my life and my career as well , so I know it 's my duty in and around this group to be able to help guys out who are going through challenging times in their career - whether it 's on the field or off the field . " I 'm extremely grateful that Glenn saw me as a person he could come and chat to , because I know I 've got a lot to give with the life experience I 've had - in and outside cricket. It 's really nice to be able to see when you can make a little bit of a difference with someone , who is then able to really show it out on the cricket field as well. The experience I had with Glenn out on the field is one of the most amazing experiences I 've had. " For a while , Watson 's Cup was over. Now , it may runneth over . Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
