In contrast to previous World Cups , this time most teams seem to have followed a strategy of constructing an innings till about the last quarter and then launching an all-out attack shares 11 Will AB de Villiers be brave enough to repeat his kamikaze batting in the heat of the knockouts ? © Getty Images In the southern hemisphere , where , as urban legend has it , water circles into a drain in the opposite direction to that up north ( not true ) , there has emerged one certainty. The rules , conventions and theories relating to ODI cricket have been stood on their head . The smash-bang of the first 15 overs ; the acceleration of the Powerplay , taken before the tail end of an innings ; the doubling of the 30-over score - that is all so 2011 . Through the group stages of this World Cup , there has been a change of tempo : with a bat-first innings paced like a long-distance race : few frenzied starts , and the kick is kept for the end , like with Gebreselassie in his prime . The statistics reveal the pattern : over the course of the last five World Cups , the shift in run rates has taken place not in the first 15 overs despite batting-friendly fielding rules but rather in the death overs . Run rates across the first ten overs in the last four World Cups have been fairly similar : from 4.54 ( 2003 ) to 4.38 ( 2007 ) , 4.73 ( 2011 ) and 4.74 ( 2015 ) . The rationale for the change of ODI rules , bringing in Powerplays and field restrictions , was to make 50-over games free of their turgid middle overs. The Powerplays were meant to lure batsmen into taking the six-or-out cavalier approach , and at one point they did end up making batsmen overthink , and made them profligate in their shot selection as they tried to force the scoring rate , squandering wickets in the process . Yet like water , the middle overs have found their level again - full of singles and steady cricket , nurdles and low-risk scoring. The new rules - a new ball at every end and only four fielders allowed outside the 30-yard circle - have added to overs Nos. 15 to 35 being dealt with fairly respectfully by batsmen. Each World Cup has marked small changes in scoring rates in overs 15 to 35 : from 4.33 in 2003 to 4.69 in 2007 , dropping to 4.58 in 2011 . At the current World Cup teams have been content to score at 5.01 runs an over in the first innings , due to what takes place in the last 12 or so overs.The big numbers - a direct reflection of the influence of T20 , as well as of the new rules - are to be found at the far end of a 50-over innings , in the last ten overs : from 6.98 in the West Indies 2007 to 7.01 in India , Sri Lanka and Bangladesh 2011. And in 2015 , the stratosphere is the limit ; at the end of the group stage , it was 8.44 runs an over . David Warner says Australia approach their 50 overs in two ways : " positive " , aka attack in the first ten , and from then on , " pick the gaps until the last 15 " . Teams with tall totals in the World Cup have , he said , " pretty much batted at a nice rate to about the 30-over mark without losing too many wickets , and then they 've gone from there for the last 15 or 10 overs , accelerated and got 125 to 150 off that last 15 overs " . Pakistan 's strategy is to let their pace bowlers go full tilt early on and look for wickets © Getty Images South Africa 's Morne Morkel had sympathy for a fellow fast bowler. " Poor old Jason Holder bowled well against us and then came back and went for 80. With two new hard balls , Powerplays at the back end , if teams have wickets in hand - those last 15 overs , you can easily go for ten an over if you do n't have proper control. It 's things we as bowlers are aware of. " A bowler knows , Morkel says , run-rate security is a misnomer for ODI bowlers : if he goes for seven apiece in his first spell , it could well be 100 at the far end . The way to tackle the onslaught is to take wickets. Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq has said that asking his pacers to go full tilt is the only way. For Pakistan , two spinners in the side is difficult , " because sometimes you lose that pressure which is built by the pacers , especially up front. Our approach is straightforward , simple : go out there , be positive , and especially when you are there to bowl , just try to get wickets. " Occasional Australia ODI captain George Bailey agrees that the bowling side must make the opening aggressive play with the new ball and upset a team 's innings construction all the way up to the 35th over. " As a bowling team , the best way to negate that is to get a team five or six down by the time you get to that 35th-over mark. That makes it really hard for the batting team to launch , or to know when to launch. " In helpful conditions , India with their spinners do the opposite of Pakistan and use scoreboard-pressure strangulation better than most teams. The rules that have changed the pattern of ODI play are not loved at all by MS Dhoni , as they have made India play with one specialist batsman fewer. But it is the Indian pace bowling that has stepped up and given India a storm trooper performance in the group stage . Everyone is largely in agreement about how the rules have impacted the tempo of the ODI at this World Cup , but Mitchell Johnson wonders if the " fearlessness " of the last 12-15 overs may have to do with the relatively lower pressure of group games. Johnson said he always expects kamikaze batting at the end of a 50-over innings. " It is what we accept in this day and age. Two new balls with four fielders out makes it a little bit predictable. " Will the approach remain the same when the temperature of the tournament rises , as it will , starting on Wednesday ? " It will be interesting to see if there 's a bit more pressure on how guys play the game. Coming into a quarter-final , we 'll see if guys are still prepared to play that type of cricket. " In the case of these latest ODI rules , the change has done the opposite of what the rules intended. They will be up for review after this World Cup , and any new rules , if passed , will come into play only in October , for the next World Cup cycle. The 50-over game is once again seeking to get the balance right between attack and defence . With inputs from Firdose Moonda , Daniel Brettig and Brydon Coverdale Sharda Ugra is senior editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
