Win World Cup Again , Virender Sehwag Tells MS Dhoni Win World Cup Again , Virender Sehwag Tells MS Dhoni Virender Sehwag was part of MS Dhoni 's Team India that won the 2011 World Cup in Mumbai. Sehwag failed to make the squad this time . Last updated on Friday , 09 January , 2015 18 : 37 IST Total Shares Virender Sehwag holds the 2015 World Cup trophy in Gurgaon on January 9 , 2015 . © PTI Gurgaon : With the ICC Cricket World Cup just a little over a month away , out-of-favour batsman Virender Sehwag on Friday wished the Indian team and hoped that the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side would be able to defend its title in Australia and New Zealand. ( Sehwag Not in 30 Probables for World Cup ) " We are going to play the World Cup and we are the defending champion , so I hope we do well and bring this trophy to India and give lot of joy to Indian public , " Sehwag said while posing with the ICC World Cup Trophy which was showcased to cricket fans at Cyber Hub here . " I would like to say thanks to ICC and LG for bringing me here and giving me the opportunity to meet all of you and to lift the trophy again. We did it in 2011 after the World Cup and spend loads of time with the trophy and I 'm lucky that I 'm getting to spend a little time with the trophy again and with you guys also , " he added. ( Yuvraj Misses Out on World Cup Berth ) The prestigious trophy is touring the country as part of a programme started by global sponsor of ICC , LG Electronics . Starting from Kolkata , the trophy has travelled across five cities including Hyderabad , Mumbai and will conclude its tour on Saturday after being showcased at GIP Mall , Noida . A 30-feet bat was also placed alongside the World Cup trophy as part of the signature campaign for fans to write their messages to the Indian team ahead of World Cup to be held from February 14 to March 29 . Sehwag along with Yuvraj Singh , Harbhajan Singh and Gautam Gambhir , all of whom were part of the Indian team that won the 2011 World Cup failed to make it to the list of 30 probables for the mega tournament to be played in Australia and New Zealand . Story first published on : Friday , 09 January 2015 17 : 12 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
