South Africa v Sri Lanka , World Cup 2015 , 1st quarter-final , Sydney March 17 , 2015 Uncapped offspinner Tharindu Kaushal replaces Herath , could play SA shares 34 The only international game Tharindu Kaushal has played is the 2014 Boxing Day Test in Christchurch © AFP In a late move Sri Lanka have replaced injured left-arm spinner Rangana Herath with uncapped 22-year old offspinner Tharindu Kaushal in their squad ahead of the quarter-final against South Africa on Wednesday. The ICC approval for the replacement came about two hours before the toss in Sydney , but even before that team manager Michael de Zoysa said Kaushal " could and should be in contention " for the match . Sri Lanka had given Herath as much time as possible to recover from the cut he sustained to his spinning finger against England on March 1. However , he was not able to bowl more than two overs in the nets on Tuesday , and is expected to be unfit for another week. Though Herath can not be reinstated in the squad if Kaushal replaces him , he will stay with the team while he recovers in case a vacancy arises through injury to another player . " He could come back in if someone else gets injured , " de Zoysa said. " You never know , these things keep happening to our team. " Herath 's exit from the squad is a significant blow to an attack that has relied on his control during the middle overs. However , Kaushal has been training with the squad in Australia for more than a week , effectively as cover for Herath. Though he is a relative unknown at international level , Kaushal has carved out an exceptional domestic record in his three seasons at senior level. In 29 List A matches , he has 49 wickets at 18.34. He has also been in impressive form in the past few weeks , claiming 47 wickets at 18.82 in the Premier League tournament - Sri Lanka 's first-class competition . On Tuesday , the eve of the match , Angelo Mathews had said Kaushal 's inclusion for the quarter-final was " an option " for Sri Lanka , but they also have legspinner Seekkuge Prasanna and offspinner Sachithra Senanayake in the squad. However , it would appear strange that Sri Lanka would enter a third specialist spinner into the squad unless he has a chance of playing , given batsman Kithuruwan Vithanage is also traveling with the squad , and could have been drafted in for Herath . Herath is the fifth Sri Lanka player to sustain an injury and be replaced from the original squad. Seamer Dhammika Prasad , batsmen Dimuth Karunaratne and Dinesh Chandimal , and legspinning allrounder Jeevan Mendis had all been forced out through injury during the campaign. Herath played four matches in the tournament . 0120 GMT The story was updated to reflect the ICC 's approval of Tharindu Kaushal as Rangana Herath 's replacement Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
