Bangladesh v India , World Cup 2015 , 2nd quarter-final , Melbourne March 18 , 2015 Bangladesh aim to fell a giant Start time 1430 local ( 0330 GMT ) Play 04 : 49 Chappell : Mashrafe has challenged the team to improve Big picture At the start of the World Cup , defending champions India would have accepted gleefully the position they find themselves in - a quarter-final against Bangladesh , the lowest-ranked of the remaining eight teams , a side with medium-pacers and spinners that India 's batsmen have found relatively easy to bully , a team without big-match experience , and a team with vulnerabilities outside the subcontinent. Ironically , Bangladesh would probably have accepted their position too . Though India , on current form , are superior in every aspect , their brand of cricket and their frailties are not unfamiliar to Bangladesh. It is n't South Africa , who are going to blow them away with extreme pace and bounce , or with muscular hitting. India 's batsmen are better at what Bangladesh aim for - timing , using the pace of the ball , and wristwork - and India execute better in the field with a similar bowling formation to Bangladesh. There is no doubt about who the favourites are - Bangladesh admitted as much - but it allows them to plan more intuitively . When the ICC fixed the knockout schedule , Bangladesh were not mentioned. The MCG was to host the England quarter-final , and if they did n't make it the team that did in their place would play at Australia 's largest ground. Bangladesh grabbed that spot with verve , handing England their return tickets after a clinical finish in Adelaide. They even came close to finishing third in their group. With the batsmen scoring consistently and all the bowlers contributing , Bangladesh are deservedly in the last eight . What could help Bangladesh is India going off the boil , but that has n't happened yet in this tournament. In a complete turnaround from their first two months in Australia , India have found the aura defending champions ought to bring. Barring one or two players , everyone has contributed to the resurgence. The quarter-final appears to be their smallest bump on the road ahead , but one uncontrolled approach is all it takes . Form guide ( last five matches , most recent first ) India WWWWW Mahmudullah has scored more runs in this World Cup than any Indian batsman © Getty Images In the spotlight Bangladesh 's fielders struggled with the size of the MCG playing area against Sri Lanka , their first game at the ground. They dropped catches and they grappled with field placements. It was not a surprise that during practice for the quarter-final , fielders were made to charge in from the edge of the boundary to take catches , fire throws and understand the unique dimensions of the venue. Bangladesh 's bowling coach Heath Streak also tested umpire Aleem Dar 's catching with three hits. All were taken , drawing applause from the players , who knew it was an important skill to judge catches in the outfield where only rarely is one able to see the ball against a disturbance-free background. One mistake on Thursday and it could mean the end of a dream for a generation of cricketers . India 's pace bowling in this tournament has been such a revelation that Bhuvneshwar Kumar , who was considered integral to their chances , can not find a place in the XI. In the last two games , however , there were periods when they struggled against the Ireland and Zimbabwe batsmen. The switch to New Zealand conditions could have been one reason , but it could also have been a sign of increasing weariness. India will hope that a return to Australia will help Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma maintain the intensity . Teams news Mashrafe Mortaza missed Bangladesh 's last group game against New Zealand , but will be back to lead the side. That would leave Arafat Sunny , Taijul Islam and Nasir Hossain fighting for the remaining spot. Nasir , who picked up two wickets against New Zealand , could be the favourite because he would strengthen the batting . Bangladesh ( probable ) 1 Tamim Iqbal , 2 Imrul Kayes , 3 Soumya Sarkar , 4 Mahmudullah , 5 Shakib Al Hasan , 6 Mushfiqur Rahim ( wk ) , 7 Sabbir Rahman , 8 Arafat Sunny/Nasir Hossain , 9 Mashrafe Mortaza ( capt ) , 10 Rubel Hossain , 11 Taskin Ahmed India talked about a sense of calm ahead of the big match. They are highly unlikely to disturb that with any alteration in the team , barring injury . India ( probable ) 1 Shikhar Dhawan , 2 Rohit Sharma , 3 Virat Kohli , 4 Ajinkya Rahane , 5 Suresh Raina , 6 MS Dhoni ( capt & wk ) , 7 Ravindra Jadeja , 8 R Ashwin , 9 Mohit Sharma , 10 Mohammed Shami , 11 Umesh Yadav Pitch and conditions The pitch for the quarter-final is the same one that was used in the Bangladesh-Sri Lanka Group A game. It 's expected to be flat and full of runs. However , teams would keep an eye on the weather as some showers are forecast for Thursday afternoon and evening . Stats and trivia Bangladesh are playing their first knockout match in a top-flight ICC tournament. India , on the other hand , are playing their 10th under MS Dhoni 's captaincy. Dhoni , with eight wins from nine matches ( Champions Trophy , World T20 and World Cup ) is level with Ricky Ponting , whose eight wins have come from 11 games . Bangladesh batsman Mahmudullah has scored 344 runs from five games in this World Cup , more than anyone from India. Five of Bangladesh 's top 10 aggregates for batsmen in a World Cup have come in this tournament . None of the India batsmen in this squad has scored a century in an ICC tournament knockout game . This is Bangladesh 's 300th ODI. They played India in their 100th ( 2004 ) and 150th ODI ( 2007 ) , winning both games . Quotes " I wanted to congratulate Bangladesh for qualifying for the quarter-final. It 's good to see India , Pakistan , Sri Lanka and Bangladesh - all four subcontinent teams - in the quarter-final. Earlier people were saying that we do n't have allrounders for conditions , so it 's good to see the teams from subcontinent through. " India batsman Suresh Raina " 2007 wo n't help ; 2011 , when we lost , that does n't help either. In short-form cricket , what is important is how you do on the day. " Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza Devashish Fuloria is a sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
