SA v SL , 1st Q-F , Sydney March 18 , 2015 South Africa 's biggest win against Sri Lanka Stats highlights from South Africa 's historic victory at the SCG shares 12 Play 04 : 54 Insights : Is Tahir one of SA 's best bowlers at World Cups ? 9 Number of wickets by which South Africa won this game , their largest margin of victory against Sri Lanka. It was also the first instance of South Africa beating Sri Lanka by a margin of more than eight wickets . 7 Wickets taken by South Africa 's spinners , the most ever in an ODI for them. Imran Tahir took four wickets while JP Duminy took three. It was the fourth instance of South Africa 's spinners sharing seven wickets between themselves in an ODI . Imran Tahir has taken 15 wickets this World Cup , the third most by a South African bowler in a single edition of the tournament © ICC 15 Wickets taken by Tahir this World Cup , the third most by a South African bowler in a single edition of the World Cup. The only bowlers to take more wickets than him are Lance Klusner ( 17 in 1999 ) and Alan Donald ( 16 in 1999 ) . 2 Players who have made their ODI debut in a World Cup knockout game. Wayne Larkins made his England debut during the semi-final of the 1979 World Cup , and Sri Lanka 's Tharindu Kaushal became the second player when he made his debut today . 2 Number of spinners who have taken a World Cup hat-trick ; Saqlain Mushtaq and JP Duminy. Prior to Duminy in this game , Saqlain had taken a hat-trick against Zimbabwe during the 1999 World Cup . 4 Number of times Tahir has dismissed Mahela Jayawaredene in ODIs , more than he has dismissed any other batsman. Tahir has not dismissed any other batsman more than twice in ODIs . 332 Number of balls bowled in this match , making it the shortest ever knockout match in a World Cup. The previous shortest was the 1999 World Cup Final between Australia and Pakistan that lasted only 355 balls . 150 ODIs hosted at the Sydney Cricket Ground. The only venue to host more ODIs is the Sharjah Cricket Stadium in UAE ( 218 ) . 0 Sixes hit during this match , the first such instance in this World Cup 1 Knockout games that South Africa have won in World Cups ; this is the first. The only other time they came close was during the 1999 World Cup semi-final when they famously tied against Australia . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
