Australia Name Injured Michael Clarke to Lead in World Cup , Nathan Lyon Ignored Australia Name Injured Michael Clarke to Lead in World Cup , Nathan Lyon Ignored Michael Clarke will have to prove his fitness in order to lead Australia in World Cup.Selectors include Xavier Doherty as lone main spinner with power-hitter Glenn Maxwell and all-rounder Shane Watson also being named . Last updated on Sunday , 11 January , 2015 09 : 43 IST Total Shares Recovering from a hamstring injury , Michael Clarke will hope to get match fit quickly and lead Australia to World Cup win at home . © AP Sydney : Selectors named Michael Clarke Sunday as captain of Australia 's squad for next month 's World Cup , with a fitness contingency should he not be able to play following recent hamstring surgery . Clarke , who missed the final three Tests against India following the surgery , has been given until February 21 to prove his fitness for the one-day tournament . " Captain Michael Clarke will lead our World Cup campaign should he recover from his injury , " chief selector Rod Marsh said . " He is one of the world 's best batsmen and we want to give him every chance to prove his fitness for a tournament as important as this one . " Our medical staff are pleased with his progress following hamstring surgery in December and he continues to undergo thorough rehabilitation work with a view to being ready to play an important role in the World Cup . " We have said that if Michael has not recovered by our second match of the tournament against Bangladesh on 21 February , we will replace him in the squad . " He understands that and is working tirelessly with medical staff to get back to fitness. " A standby player for Clarke has not been named however Marsh said that if he became unavailable , George Bailey would captain the side in his absence . All-rounder Mitchell Marsh , who missed the recent Melbourne and Sydney Tests against India with hamstring trouble , was also named in a squad that contained few surprises . Selectors also included all-rounders Shane Watson and James Faulkner , while the versatile Glenn Maxwell gets his chance . Xavier Doherty was picked as the sole recognised spinner , with Maxwell expected to provide the side 's spin in most games . Mitchell Johnson , Pat Cummins , Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood comprise Australia 's pace attack , while Brad Haddin will keep wickets . David Warner and Aaron Finch will open the batting for Australia , with batsmen Steve Smith , in the form of his life after scoring 769 runs in the four-Test series against India , and Bailey rounding out the squad . Marsh said all-rounder Marsh was on track to be fit for the start of the World Cup . " Mitchell is progressing well with his rehab and we expect him to be available at some stage during the tri-series against India with the aim to have him well prepared for the World Cup , " the chief selector said . " This group has played a major role in getting Australia back to number one in one-day cricket and we feel we have the right mix of players to represent our country on the biggest stage of all . " These players have really gelled over the past 18 months with their preparation geared towards giving us the best chance of winning a World Cup on home soil. " Australia are chasing a record fifth ICC Cricket World Cup after winning the tournament in India in 1987 , England in 1999 , South Africa in 2003 and the West Indies in 2007 . Australia begin their World Cup campaign against England at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on February 14 . Australia - Michael Clarke ( capt ) , George Bailey , Pat Cummins , Xavier Doherty , James Faulkner , Aaron Finch , Brad Haddin , Josh Hazlewood , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Marsh , Glenn Maxwell , Steve Smith , Mitchell Starc , David Warner , Shane Watson . Story first published on : Sunday , 11 January 2015 08 : 38 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
