Bangladesh v India , World Cup 2015 , 2nd quarter-final , Melbourne March 18 , 2015 Five things Bangladesh must do to beat India Bangladesh will play the role of the underdogs in their World Cup quarter-final against India , but would it stop them from plotting to turn over the applecart ? ESPNcricinfo looks at five things they must do to beat India shares 71 The BCB is certainly excited about the quarter-final © The Daily Star/Firoz Ahmed Play with underdog freedom Bangladesh have very little to lose in their first appearance in a World Cup knockout match. Not many had expected them to qualify for the quarter-finals ahead of the tournament. Beating Afghanistan and Scotland were considered more important than looking further ahead , especially after a dismal 2014. Bangladesh 's goal posts moved as soon as they beat England in Adelaide . Pressure , though , is n't much on the Bangladesh players. Sure , there is a large media contingent following the team and the madness back home is at an all-time high. But India have it a lot harder , in every sense of the word. Simply put , no team riding a wave as high as India 's would want to lose to a lower-ranked team . Take early India wickets Bangladesh rely heavily on a good start with the ball whether bowling first or second. They have taken at least one wicket in the first ten overs in four out of five group matches. The only time an opening partnership went beyond the first 10 and 20 overs was Sri Lanka 's after Anamul Haque dropped a sitter in the first over at the MCG . Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma have had only one substantial partnership , when they added 174 against Ireland. Bangladesh can take heart from the fact that this pair has not batted together for more than 7.3 overs in the other five group matches . Bowl better at the death India 's run rates in different stages of the innings in this World Cup read : 4.65 in the first 10 overs , 5.88 from the 11th to the 40th over and 8.86 in the last 10 overs . Bowling first or second , Bangladesh have to break these scoring trends if they are to have any chance to remain at the same level of contest. They have generally kept the lid on the opposition 's batsmen in the first 10 ( 4.42 ) and the next 30 ( 5.09 ) overs. But the main danger is the last 10 overs when Bangladesh have conceded at 9.38 runs per over , so anything lesser would be seen as an advantage , particularly if they are bowling first . Handle the short ball If Bangladesh have been looking at India 's bowling footage , they must have seen Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma take wickets with bouncers. Shami has used it best , taking the wickets of Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq , Hashim Amla and Chris Gayle , among others. Umesh and Mohit have bowled at sharp pace , particularly when pitching it short . Playing the short ball was one of Bangladesh 's primary concerns before they arrived in Australia in January. Two weeks in Brisbane were not considered sufficient enough to get the batsmen tuned to lengths there but so far only two of their dismissals have been caused by bouncers : Sabbir Rahman and Soumya Sarkar dismissed by Lasith Malinga and Chris Jordan respectively . Remember who they are playing Bangladesh players have mentioned it a few times in the past that they find extra motivation when playing against India. Nobody has been able to put a finger on the exact reasons but this has emerged mostly after they won in the 2007 World Cup in Port-of-Spain. They have only won once more , in the 2012 Asia Cup , but the players never stop talking about the excitement of playing against India. Who does n't like beating their neighbours ? Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
