Australia v Pakistan , World Cup 2015 , 3rd quarter-final , Adelaide March 19 , 2015 Surging Pakistan prepare for dominant Australia Start time 1400 local ( 0330 GMT ) Play 02 : 33 Crowe : Australia have the best power game in the Cup Big Picture Contentious-selection riddled , injury-ravaged , have Pakistan limped to this quarter-final , or have they surged ? Through their campaign , they have delivered to their fans that characteristic mix of infuriation and ecstasy. Against West Indies , Pakistan could not catch. Against South Africa , Pakistan caught fire. So they have oscillated through the tournament , invoking cornered tiger comparisons , even though 23 years later , they are playing a vastly different game , with a vastly different team , under a vastly different leader . Misbah-ul-Haq 's reading of the pulse of an opposition innings and the mood of his bowlers has underpinned Pakistan 's latest spurt of form , but their performances have rallied around the efforts of two other men. Sarfraz Ahmed , whose batting technique deemed too flawed for opening by his own coach right before he was picked in that role , has brought dynamism to the top of the innings. In his panache , opportunism , and ungainly wicket celebrations , cricket has its latest quintessential Pakistan scrapper . Wahab Riaz , meanwhile , has been the bowlers ' inspiration , intimidating with bounce and slicing through top orders with pace. It appears Pakistan will sorely miss Mohammad Irfan , but then their bowling stocks have been shown to run staggeringly deep before . The hosts , characteristically for them too , have never strayed far from the high standards they set on the first day of this World Cup , against England. Mitchell Starc 's yorkers and Glenn Maxwell 's reality-warping knocks have struck fear into opposition dressing rooms. But to even get to Maxwell , bowlers have to remove the likes of David Warner , Steven Smith and Michael Clarke first . Australia are , no doubt , better drilled , better rounded , and better placed to win this match. But as New Zealand have shown , they can be exposed too. The way Australia 's tournament has gone , it is difficult to see them dropping their intensity , or buckling under the pressure of a knockout match , and Pakistan will know they must find something truly special to make the semi-finals . Form guide ( last five matches , most recent first ) Australia : WWWLW Pakistan : WWWWL In the spotlight Aside from four wickets in the demolition of Afghanistan in Perth , Mitchell Johnson has been a sidelight of the Australia attack , as Starc has reaped wickets and plaudits. Australia 's uneven schedule has not helped his rhythm - there were , at one stage , two weeks between outings. But as the tournament heats up now , Johnson feels his bowling is too. " I just feel like I 'm starting to click now , " he said on Tuesday. If both he and Starc hit their stride , Pakistan 's top order may need to dig deep . Between Irfan 's awkward bounce and Wahab 's speed , Rahat Ali 's swing and control have gone somewhat unappreciated. In the four matches he 's played so far in the World Cup , Rahat has been the first-change provider of economy - he has not traveled at more than five an over yet. But he has also picked up at least one wicket in each outing , and had three against South Africa. In a tournament where middle-overs wickets have shaped matches , Rahat 's tight , testing spells could be telling . Teams news Australia appear very settled. The only conundrum for the selectors appears to be whether Josh Hazlewood should play over Pat Cummins. The warm-up match in Adelaide gave Cummins 3 for 30 , however , and he had also taken three wickets against Scotland , so he appears the frontrunner . Australia ( probable ) : 1 Aaron Finch , 2 David Warner , 3 Steven Smith , 4 Michael Clarke ( capt ) , 5 Shane Watson , 6 Glenn Maxwell , 7 Brad Haddin ( wk ) , 8 James Faulkner , 9 Mitchell Johnson , 10 Mitchell Starc , 11 Pat Cummins/Josh Hazlewood As the pitch prepared for this match appears tinged with green , seamer Ehsan Adil is more likely to replace Mohammad Irfan than legspinner Yasir Shah. The Pakistan top order is unlikely to change . Pakistan ( probable ) : 1 Ahmed Shehzad , 2 Sarfraz Ahmed ( wk ) , 3 Haris Sohail , 4 Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt. ) , 5 Umar Akmal , 6 Sohaib Maqsood , 7 Shahid Afridi , 8 Wahab Riaz , 9 Sohail Khan , 10 Rahat Ali , 11 Ehsan Adil/Yasir Shah Pitch and conditions Players have already spoken of this year 's Adelaide pitch being quicker than usual , and with teams expected to be greeted by a layer of grass on the surface on Friday , it might become more seamer-friendly still. The pitch was covered by hessian on the eve of the match , presumably to retain its moisture , and the surrounding pitches have also been watered , which suggests reverse-swing may not play a major role. The weather is expected to remain fine through the day , with a high of 28 degrees forecast . Stats and trivia Mitchell Starc is the World Cup 's second-highest wicket-taker , with 16 scalps at an average of 8.50. Wahab Riaz is two wickets behind , but has an average of 22.42 There have been eight World Cup encounters between these teams , each having won half of those. Pakistan won the most recent of those encounters , in Colombo , in 2011 . Of the batsmen from these teams , only Misbah is among the tournament 's top 10 run-scorers so far. He has 316 runs at 52.66 . Quotes " I think Pakistan have been underrated for a long time , especially in the shorter form of the game. I think they 've got a lot of talent. I think their attack is very good and they 've shown that throughout this series. " Michael Clarke " When you 're playing more games at a certain venue you really just adapt to the conditions and know how the pitch will play , how the boundaries are , how the ground dimensions are. That can really help you. " Misbah-ul-Haq on already having played two World Cup matches at Adelaide Oval Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
