Australia v Pakistan , World Cup 2015 , 3rd quarter-final , Adelaide March 20 , 2015 The end of Afridism Shahid Afridi signed off his ODI career with a 15-ball autobiography of an innings - one last display of the average made extraordinary shares 41 Play 02 : 32 Holding : Misbah 's retirement big loss for Pakistan Shahid Afridi the ODI cricketer has quit the stage. The glorious , frustrating , charismatic , powerful , vulnerable , record-breaker , underachiever , champion and serial failer passed into 50-over history with an innings that summarised his batting career with an almost eerie perfection . His final performance as an ODI batsmen - all Afridi innings are performances - was the essence of Afridi in 15 captivating , brilliant , infuriating balls. Pakistan were 124 for 5 , after Umar Akmal became the latest in a long and inglorious procession of batsmen to spew away a promising start with a shot of indiscernible thoughtfulness. Afridi 's last seven innings against Australia , since January 2010 , had been 1 , 2 , 0 , 7 , 5 , 2 and 6. His country needed something better on this big occasion. Afridi duly delivered something better. Not better by a significant margin , and not better enough to make a difference , but better , nonetheless . This 15-ball autobiography of an innings had everything you could want from an Afridinnings. Unless you were a Pakistan fan wanting him to make a decisive mark on the match. He paddled his first ball for two off middle stump. Had he missed , he would have been out first ball doing something reckless at a critical moment , the Afridi trademark Risk : Reward computer functioning in its distinctively Afridian way one last time. His second ball he sliced vigorously over backward point for four ; to his fifth he skipped out and pelted a majestic drive over the bowler 's head for another boundary . © ESPNcricinfo Ltd His eighth ball was his penultimate act of major Afridism , a physics-defying whirlwind of a drive that catapulted an 89-mile-an-hour good-length ball outside off stump into a six over cover. He then played and missed. And played and missed. And played and missed again. Then top-edged a violent attempted swipe over the keeper for four. Amidst the thunderous hammering and the failed swishes , he unveiled a delicate late cut for a single : 23 off 14 balls. The beginnings of a game-changing innings. But then , the final act of major Afridism. Having seen Misbah and Umar piddle away the beginnings of game-changing innings by planking the ball to Aaron Finch at deep midwicket , Afridi - who , after 398 ODIs , must have had an inkling that it might not be a good idea to follow suit - fastened Afridi-like on to a shortish ball from Hazlewood and planked it straight to Aaron Finch at deep midwicket . And that was that. Pakistan 's No. 7 had scored 23 , exactly matching both his overall career average in ODIs and his average as a No. 7. The average of all No. 7 batsmen from Test nations collectively during the span of his career is also 23. It was an entirely average innings. He had been majestic , silly , brilliant and flawed in 20 minutes. Shahid Afridi - the average made extraordinary. One-day cricket will miss one of its most captivating players. He has enriched the format , entertained the masses , and been unmissably Afridian for almost two decades . ● Afridi famously began his ODI batting career with a record - that 37-ball century against Sri Lanka as an alleged 16-year old. He ended by equalling another record , also remarkable - this was his fifth score in the 20s in this World Cup , in just six innings , equalling the record number of 20s in a World Cup ( set by Chamara Silva in 2007 , although the Sri Lankan needed ten innings to achieve this not-very-glorious feat ) . ● Overheard in an Adelaide antique shop this morning : Misbah-ul-Haq : " So , genie , how many wishes can I make ? " Genie : " Captain , you can make one wish. " Misbah : " Okay. In that case , genie , I wish that two Pakistan batsmen score their highest ODI scores in today 's quarter-final … " Genie : " Captain , your wish is granted. " Misbah : " But not Ehsan Adil and Rahat Ali. " Genie : " One wish. " Misbah : " Oooops. " ● This was by far the most intriguing of the quarter-finals so far , albeit that victory was eventually comfortable for Australia , who rode their good fortune impressively during that gripping , gladiatorial hour when Wahab Riaz was bowling like a vengeful left-arm Zeus , the Adelaide crowd was barking its approval , and Steven Smith was batting with calm , magic-handed perfection amidst the maelstrom that seemed to be enveloping his team-mates. If Wahab 's bowling was the most memorable aspect of the game ( and one of the major highlights of the entire tournament , as well as unquestionably the finest 2 for 54 off 9 overs I have ever seen ) , Smith 's innings was the most influential individual performance in deciding the outcome . ● A curious statistic. I have seen Pakistan three times in this tournament - against India , West Indies and Australia. I am yet to see them ( a ) win , ( b ) bat out 50 overs , or ( c ) lose a wicket in any other way than caught. In the 10 previous World Cups combined , only two teams had been bowled out exclusively by catches , so to speak ( New Zealand v West Indies in 1999 , and Pakistan v Ireland in 2007 ) . Pakistan have suffered this fate three times in their seven games in 2015 - the three games that they have lost. All of which suggests : ( a ) that the 2015 Pakistan team tends to hit the ball in the air towards fielders more often than would be ideal ; ( b ) that if Ahmed Shehzad had deliberately smashed his stumps down when facing the first ball of the match , Pakistan would definitely have won ; ( c ) Pakistan have not been watching and learning from their opponents ' fielding . ( Scotland also lost all ten to catches against England in Christchurch , meaning that , in the nine matches I have attended at this World Cup , I have seen twice as many teams lose all ten to catches as a hypothetical omnipresent cricket fan would have seen after attending every single one of the other 387 games in World Cup history. ) Andy Zaltzman is a stand-up comedian , a regular on BBC Radio 4 , and a writer © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
