Daniel Vettori Focused on Sri Lanka ODIs , not World Cup Daniel Vettori Focused on Sri Lanka ODIs , not World Cup New Zealand , co-hosts along with Australia for the February 14-March 29 World Cup , play seven one-day internationals ( ODI ) against Sri Lanka and two against Pakistan prior to the mega event . Last updated on Sunday , 11 January , 2015 18 : 00 IST Total Shares File photo of Daniel Vettori © AP Christchurch : Veteran New Zealand spinner Daniel Vettori has set short goals for himself , focusing on the ongoing series against Sri Lanka which will be followed by Pakistan , and insists on keeping World Cup discussions at bay . New Zealand , co-hosts along with Australia for the February 14-March 29 World Cup , play seven one-day internationals ( ODI ) against Sri Lanka and two against Pakistan prior to the mega event . New Zealand begin their Cup campaign against Sri Lanka on February 14. The home team commenced their preparations on the right note , winning the first ODI against Sri Lanka by three wickets on Sunday . " The focus is around the build-up to the Cup but they are still one-day internationals and still really important games , " Vettori was quoted as saying by the New Zealand Herald on Sunday . " The standard has been set for some time. I know the World Cup is a big talking point for everyone , but it 's about this game ( ODI ) . Everyone is starting to slowly talk about the New Zealand team and , if we can have a winning and dominant series , that will only bode well. " New Zealand have been in form , winning 3-2 against Pakistan in a ODI series at the United Arab Emirates followed by a 2-0 Test series win against Sri Lanka. Vettori noted it was a good sign for the Cup . " Rather than stumbling into the World Cup like we probably have in the past , we go in with all bases covered and everyone firing , " he remarked . The left-arm spinner , who has been crippled by injury in the latter stages of his international career , said he 's in good shape . " I am where I want to be in terms of fitness but I know that 's a slippery slope. I 've just got to make sure I can maintain it through a season. " Story first published on : Sunday , 11 January 2015 16 : 48 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
