Maxwell 's look-away cut , and other outrageous World Cup shots World Cup 2015 Twitter Facebook 0 shares © Associated Press © Associated PressAustralia were being sternly examined by Wahab Riaz in the quarter-final , but Glenn Maxwell turned on the style , smashing 44 off 29 balls that included a stroke which he described as " the back away , look away , deliberate cut through point " . Wahab followed Maxwell , who was making room outside leg , with a short ball. Maxwell slapped it away , half cutting , half pulling , his fast hands directing operations awkwardly but effectively. Maxwell admitted that he was almost undone , saying : 'Well bowled Wahab ! Had me ! " © Associated Press © Associated PressAustralia were being sternly examined by Wahab Riaz in the quarter-final , but Glenn Maxwell turned on the style , smashing 44 off 29 balls that included a stroke which he described as " the back away , look away , deliberate cut through point " . Wahab followed Maxwell , who was making room outside leg , with a short ball. Maxwell slapped it away , half cutting , half pulling , his fast hands directing operations awkwardly but effectively. Maxwell admitted that he was almost undone , saying : 'Well bowled Wahab ! Had me ! " © Getty Images © Getty Images There is nothing AB de Villiers can not do . After going down to India , South Africa rebounded strongly , their captain leading the way with 162 * off 66 . On his way to the fastest 150 in ODIs , de Villiers stunned Andre Russell by running across to off and sweep-scooping one to the square leg boundary. As Dale Steyn puts it : " It 's like watching the Matrix movie. There 's Neo right there. He does n't understand how good he is. " © Getty Images © Getty Images There is nothing AB de Villiers can not do . After going down to India , South Africa rebounded strongly , their captain leading the way with 162 * off 66 . On his way to the fastest 150 in ODIs , de Villiers stunned Andre Russell by running across to off and sweep-scooping one to the square leg boundary. As Dale Steyn puts it : " It 's like watching the Matrix movie. There 's Neo right there. He does n't understand how good he is. " © Getty Images © Getty ImagesIn Perth , Shapoor Zadran with his Shoaib Akhtar-inspired run-up steamed in and missed a yorker. Maxwell reversed his stance and flicked a 140kph full toss over the third-man boundary with consummate ease. He went onto smite 88 off 39 balls as Australia surged to the highest total in World Cup history . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesIn Perth , Shapoor Zadran with his Shoaib Akhtar-inspired run-up steamed in and missed a yorker. Maxwell reversed his stance and flicked a 140kph full toss over the third-man boundary with consummate ease. He went onto smite 88 off 39 balls as Australia surged to the highest total in World Cup history . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesKane Williamson 's lofted six may not be as outrageous as Maxwell 's or de Villiers ' , but its impact was decisive - it was the clincher in a nail-biting Trans-Tasman clash . Mitchell Starc 's fiery spell left New Zealand needing six runs with only one wicket in hand. An uber-cool Williamson , who was aware that mid-on was in the circle , targeted the short straight boundary and launched Pat Cummins for a six , sealing the deal for New Zealand . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesKane Williamson 's lofted six may not be as outrageous as Maxwell 's or de Villiers ' , but its impact was decisive - it was the clincher in a nail-biting Trans-Tasman clash . Mitchell Starc 's fiery spell left New Zealand needing six runs with only one wicket in hand. An uber-cool Williamson , who was aware that mid-on was in the circle , targeted the short straight boundary and launched Pat Cummins for a six , sealing the deal for New Zealand . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesRilee Rossouw played the pick-up truck to the Rolls-Royce in de Villiers against West Indies , but his flying uppercut might have left even de Villiers envious. Rossouw reached his fifty by leaping off his feet , getting on top of the bounce and cracking Jerome Taylor over backward point . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesRilee Rossouw played the pick-up truck to the Rolls-Royce in de Villiers against West Indies , but his flying uppercut might have left even de Villiers envious. Rossouw reached his fifty by leaping off his feet , getting on top of the bounce and cracking Jerome Taylor over backward point .
