World Cup 2015 : Pakistan March 22 , 2015 From 110 to 150 kph , the Wahab Riaz story As a six-year-old , he watched Wasim Akram at the 1992 World Cup and decided that he would be a left-arm fast bowler. As a man , he put on a show very nearly as memorable as Wasim 's 23 years before shares 159 Wahab : Pakistan 's World Cup go-to guy © ICC It is 11am the morning after Pakistan 's elimination , and Wahab Riaz is watching his spell to Shane Watson on television in his room at the Intercontinental Hotel. Was that really him ? Bleary-eyed and unfailingly courteous , this Wahab seems totally at odds with the warlike Wahab who charged through David Warner , Michael Clarke and so nearly Watson . The room is scattered with the detritus of the cricketer overseas , a half-packed equipment bag at its centre. Hours before , he was running through to the batsman 's end of the pitch , clapping exhortations to his team-mates , eyeballing Watson and blowing the odd crazed kiss. Now Wahab is articulate and calm . Barring three things , last night could have been a dream and Wahab any man. They are his phone , buzzing incessantly ; the television , confirming it all happened ; and his eyes , which are still a little red. In the minutes after Australia completed Pakistan 's elimination , Wahab shed tears of pain , and the traces of hurt are still there. " I 'm not feeling good , " he says softly. " We lost the game , so it 's heartbreaking. " But once the pain of defeat subsides , the memories of his bowling will remain. Not only was it a performance that instantly made him one of the game 's most distinctive figures , it was a suggestion he has it in him to be a worthy figure in Pakistan 's rich pace bowling lineage. As a six-year-old , Wahab watched Wasim Akram at the 1992 World Cup and decided that he would be a left-arm fast bowler. As a man , he is watching himself put on a show very nearly as memorable as Wasim 's 23 years before . " We have a lot of legends , " Wahab says. " Imran Khan , Wasim Akram , Waqar Younis , these guys were the greats. Shoaib Akhtar was one of the best bowlers as well in the world . " The guy who really inspired me was Wasim Akram. I was a very young boy when I watched the 1992 World Cup , and when I saw him bowling I loved to copy because I was left-handed too. I want to be someone like Wasim Akram in my life and he really inspired me. " Wasim got angry occasionally , and batsmen felt the force of his fiery bouncers almost as often as the crunch of swinging toe-crushers. Other fast men of his vintage were stung into action by slights , real or perceived. Curtly Ambrose found an extra yard when Dean Jones asked for his white wristband to be removed during a World Series final in 1993. A year later Devon Malcolm was floored by a bouncer from Fanie de Villiers , who then mouthed the words " You guys are history. " Wahab was similarly stirred , by exchanges that were mild enough to be recounted but edgy enough to get him going . Pakistan 's innings was not going well after a series of poor decisions by their batsmen. By the time Wahab was scrounging 16 runs in an effort to scrape to a defendable score , three of his team-mates had picked out Aaron Finch at deep midwicket. If that was n't frustrating enough , the Australians could not help pointing out how difficult he was finding it to connect bat with ball. Mitchell Starc spoke first . " Starc said something to me. He was bowling well and it was difficult for me to play him , " Wahab says. " But in the end he exchanged a few words and I got really angry. I tried to answer him back , and then Shane Watson said to me , 'You do n't have the bat in your hand. ' They were trying to put pressure on me by their words , but once Watson said that , I said , 'It 's time to pay back now. ' When I am bowling I will try to bowl something which really frustrates them and puts them under pressure. " This was always the plan anyway , for under Misbah-ul-Haq , Pakistan 's bowlers were better at being aggressors rather than defenders. For one , they seldom had many runs in the bank. For two , the Cup 's playing conditions made containment about as manageable as putting toothpaste back into a tube. Wahab had struggled at times in the past with a support bowling commission , while a ledger of only eight Test matches in five years indicates he is best at full tilt or not at all . " When I started I was really , really a medium-pace bowler , very slow " " For bowlers it is quite difficult because of the rules and regulations nowadays , " Wahab says. " But Misbah was quite keen that with the kind of pace battery he has got , he should be attacking all the teams. When the captain is asking you to attack , it 's a very supportive thing for you because then you can give everything whether you go for runs or the batsman defends you. When the captain says , 'Just go and attack ' , that 's what every bowler wants . " We had a chat in the lunch break. Because we had the belief after we got South Africa out for 202 , we bowled out Zimbabwe chasing 235 as well. We had confidence in our bowling attack , so it was all just go out. The plan was to attack them. Give 100 % , play bravely and just try your level best. " Wahab 's best had not always been quite so eye-catching. The son of one of Lahore 's wealthier families , his early efforts as a fast bowler were anything but deserving of the name. Where the likes of Waqar , Aqib Javed and Mohammad Amir excelled even as teenagers , Wahab was initially the very model of the modest medium-pacer. He can remember being logged as bowling around 110kph as a 17-year-old. Pace came gradually , as it did for Ryan Harris . " When I started I was really , really a medium-pace bowler , very slow , " Wahab says. " But Aqib Javed worked on me. He always said , 'If you do n't bowl fast , you ca n't be a fast bowler. ' So he really pushed me , made me work hard for six , seven years and then I started to bowl fast. You start enjoying it when you bowl fast , and suddenly when I was bowling fast , I always tried to bowl fast . " I did n't know where I was bowling , but I just tried to bowl fast. That 's how I developed my pace. I might have been like 110-112kph when I started my career in Under-17 and Under-19. Aqib knew what I was and he had a big role to play in my career ; to make me play for Pakistan because he worked a lot on me. At times he took his hand off and said , 'I can not work with you ' , but he never gave up on me. " Heads turned when Wahab made his Test debut against England in 2010 , plucking five wickets and generating decent speed. But his place in the team was n't certain , with numerous others jockeying for position as pacemen. Then there was the fact that Pakistan , through Saeed Ajmal , relied more on spin for success , most notably in the UAE . " I have been playing for Pakistan for a long time and we have a lot of competition between us. There are a lot of good bowlers , so it 's really a very healthy competition and it really pushes you up to show what you are and what you have in you , " Wahab says. " Coming to this World Cup and finding your form at the right time , you always feel the presence of the bowlers who lead from the front. " The loss of Junaid Khan to injury firmed up Wahab 's place in the plans for 2015. This helped , as did the prevailing pitch conditions. It is no surprise that his most striking displays arrived via Brisbane 's bounce , Auckland 's seam and Adelaide 's combination of both. " I have worked hard , but this World Cup it really worked very well. It might be the wickets , it might be the conditions . " The management has worked hard with me , particularly Mushtaq Ahmed and Waqar , they have really worked hard and backed me up. They had belief in me and my skills , they made me work hard and supported me. This is something different for me as well , because I think you need that support from the management and the captain. Because of working hard is how I 've got what I have right now. " Clearly did n't work : Micahel Clarke attempts to smooth things over after Wahab Riaz was chirped at © Getty Images So it was that Wahab walked out to bowl , in his customary first-change position , with the full backing of his team. They had faced him at home and in the nets. They knew how quick he could be . Warner found that out in Wahab 's first over , unable to ride the bounce of a short ball that flew into the hands of Rahat Ali at third man. In his second , a flinching Clarke deflected to short leg. Watson walked to the crease expecting pressure , but nothing quite like the assault that followed . Wahab had been waiting for this all innings . " What he [ Watson ] said was in my mind and when he came to bat I was just thinking I 'm going to give him something really special , and then I went up to him saying that 'I think you forgot your bat back in the dressing room too. ' " In the following overs , Watson used his bat as much for self-preservation as attack , and when he did uncoil a pull shot it was a hurried top edge that swirled towards fine leg. So cool when he had pouched Warner , Rahat 's hands suddenly became glaringly and damagingly porous. As the chance went down and the crowd gasped , Wahab spun around in the most intense burst of anger. Instinctively , it felt like the exhilaration he had generated would be remembered without the accompanying ecstasy of victory . " It was just the heat of the moment , " he says of that painful instant. " I was working hard. No one drops catches on purpose , but that was a crucial time because they might be 80 for 4 and then Glenn Maxwell coming in under pressure … You do n't know , we might have won. But regardless , he tried his level best and it 's all right. " After six overs , Wahab was spelled by Misbah. Some observers suggested he was tiring , but Wahab responds he is used to longer stints , and could have continued. Either way , by the time he returned , the game had been swung staunchly towards Australia. Watson , previously implacable in the face of Wahab 's histrionics , found his voice again when he found the strokes to back it up. It seems ludicrous to think the Cup 's most memorable confrontation would result in a fine for the two combatants . " He was just looking at me , he did n't answer me at all , " Wahab says of Watson 's initial reaction. " In the last over , when he hit me for a four and a six , then he said something. I told him , 'It 's too late , buddy. ' " Too late indeed. Too late to change the fact that the earlier spell will not be forgotten , and too late to stop Wahab from making an indelible mark on this tournament and the game . " It 's a game of confidence , a game of boosting yourself , " he says of the future. " I always trusted my ability and I think it 's a very good opportunity for me now to grab this for a long time. I 'm trying to get more and more , and I want to do that every other game now. " With that , it is time to leave the room. The television has moved on to other highlights , and Wahab must move back to the tedious task of packing that cricket bag. One last question , though. Do you think anyone will dare sledge you again when you 're batting ? Wahab smiles . " I do n't know if someone will say stuff. But if they do , they will get the same as what I gave yesterday. As simple as that. " Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
