Misbah-ul-Haq to Retire From ODIs After World Cup Misbah-ul-Haq to Retire From ODIs After World Cup Misbah-ul-Haq will lead Pakistan during the ICC World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , starting February 14 . Last updated on Sunday , 11 January , 2015 20 : 11 IST Total Shares File photo : Misbah-ul-Haq © AFP Karachi : Pakistan 's Test and ODI captain Misbah-ul-Haq has formally informed the PCB that he will stop playing the 50-over format after the 2015 World Cup in Australia and New Zealand . A top official of the Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) told PTI without wanting to be named that Misbah had conveyed to the Board chairman that he would like to announce his retirement from ODIs through the board and not individually . " Unlike Shahid Afridi who went ahead and announced he would retire from one-day internationals after the World Cup , Misbah has said he would like to do it through the board , " the official said . He said Misbah had said he wanted to continue playing Tests but not 50 overs cricket . " He is keen to lead Pakistan in the Test series against Sri Lanka , England and India this year , " the official disclosed . Misbah has been Pakistan 's Test captain since late 2010 and the ODI captain since mid-2011 . He stated that due to Misbah 's decision the board had already asked the national team head coach Waqar Younis and chief selector Moin Khan to submit a comprehensive post World Cup cricket plan under which appointment of new captains will take place . " We are now basically looking at appointing a younger captain from amongst the current lot of players , " the official confirmed . Asked whether another senior player , Younis Khan had also given any indication to the board about his plans after the World Cup , the official said there had been no discussion with Younis on this issue so far . " But after Misbah and Shahid we expect Younis might also decide to quit ODIs after the mega event , " the PCB official said . Asked if the PCB felt Misbah would be fit in time for the World Cup , the official said the Pakistan captain was confident and working hard on his rehabilitation process . " He is also going to take a fitness test tomorrow and even if he is not fit in time for the World Cup than obviously we have other options to lead the team in mind including Shahid Afridi and some others , " the official stated . Afridi led Pakistan in the last three one-dayers against New Zealand after Misbah suffered a hamstring injury from which he is presently recovering . Story first published on : Sunday , 11 January 2015 18 : 45 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
