Chris Gayle Slams Selectors for Axing Bravo , Pollard from World Cup 2015 Squad Chris Gayle Slams Selectors for Axing Bravo , Pollard from World Cup 2015 Squad Chris Gayle , who slammed a 41-ball 90 to script a record T20 chase against South Africa , launched a scathing attack on West Indies selectors for ignoring Keiron Pollard and Dwayne Bravo in the World Cup 2015 squad . Last updated on Monday , 12 January , 2015 16 : 05 IST Total Shares Chris Gayle during his 41-ball 90 against South Africa . © AFP Chris Gayle slammed a fiery 41-ball 90 in the second T20 International against South Africa in Johannesburg on Sunday. The Jamaican then turned his guns against selectors back home , lashing out at their decision to ignore Kieron Pollard and Dwayne Bravo for the World Cup 2015. ( In pics : Gayle 's fiery knock ) Their interpretation of culpable is Bravo and Pollard.. ! ! But it will soon be out.. " Still " tongue atm . — Kieron Pollard ( @ KieronPollard55 ) January 12 , 2015 The West Indies squad - to be led by the inexperienced 23-year-old Jason Holder - includes Gayle but the devastating batsman is displeased with ODI specialists Pollard and Bravo being sidelined . " How can those two guys not be in the team ? To me it got to be like victimisation when you look at it towards those two guys , " he said at the post-match press conference at Johannesburg. " Come on , guys. It is just ridiculous. Come on. Ridiculous. Really hurt. Ridiculous. Honestly , it throw me off. " ( Also read : All squads named for World Cup ) The omission of the two seasoned players has made Gayle the most experienced man in the squad. The 35-year-old however feels his team is not in full strength . " We do n't have our strongest team without Pollard , nor Bravo. So that is actually sad for us , " he said. " It is a really big blow for us to actually lose two key players , two key allrounders as well , very good in the outfield. I do n't know what 's the history behind it , but it is a ridiculous selection from my point of view. " While Pollard has played 91 ODIs , Bravo has featured in 164 matches for West Indies. Both cricketers have the right credentials to play the World Cup starting next month but have had their share of rifts with West Indies Cricket Board. Bravo had even led a rebellion over payment issues last year on an India tour . Ever since West Indies pulled out of the series against India due to a dispute over wages , a change in ODI leadership was inevitable. Bravo led the fight against the West Board and shot out several letters voicing players ' concerns. An inexperienced Holder was , therefore , brought in . The consequent 'vendetta ' against them has therefore not gone down too well with Gayle whose team will play Ireland in their first match on February 16th . Story first published on : Monday , 12 January 2015 11 : 25 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
