Australia v India : the famous five World Cup 2015 Twitter Facebook 0 shares © Getty Images © Getty Images 1987 , Chennai : In what was widely considered a gracious act , Kapil Dev concurred with Australia 's insistence that one of Dean Jones ' strikes , which was initially given as four , had cleared the boundary. That turned out to be the difference as Australia edged past India by one run. India began their chase of 271 strongly , but a middle-order meltdown left them needing six off the last over with only one wicket in hand. Mandinder Singh snuck a couple of twos off the first and third balls , before his off stump was sent cartwheeling by Steve Waugh . © Getty Images © Getty Images 1987 , Chennai : In what was widely considered a gracious act , Kapil Dev concurred with Australia 's insistence that one of Dean Jones ' strikes , which was initially given as four , had cleared the boundary. That turned out to be the difference as Australia edged past India by one run. India began their chase of 271 strongly , but a middle-order meltdown left them needing six off the last over with only one wicket in hand. Mandinder Singh snuck a couple of twos off the first and third balls , before his off stump was sent cartwheeling by Steve Waugh . © Getty Images © Getty Images 1992 , Brisbane : Five years later , India again found themselves at the wrong end of a nail-biting World Cup finish with Steve Waugh performing the final rites. Mohammad Azaharuddin neutralised Jones ' 108-ball 90 , but his fall triggered a collapse. With 13 required off the final over , Kiran More put away two full tosses to the fine-leg boundary , before being bowled by Tom Moody. Manoj Prabhakhar squirted a single but was run out , leaving India needing a four off the final ball. Javagal Srinath 's almighty swing launched the ball over midwicket where Waugh dropped the catch but managed to recover and fire a throw to acting keeper David Boon ; Venkatapathy Raju was caught short on the third . © Getty Images © Getty Images 1992 , Brisbane : Five years later , India again found themselves at the wrong end of a nail-biting World Cup finish with Steve Waugh performing the final rites. Mohammad Azaharuddin neutralised Jones ' 108-ball 90 , but his fall triggered a collapse. With 13 required off the final over , Kiran More put away two full tosses to the fine-leg boundary , before being bowled by Tom Moody. Manoj Prabhakhar squirted a single but was run out , leaving India needing a four off the final ball. Javagal Srinath 's almighty swing launched the ball over midwicket where Waugh dropped the catch but managed to recover and fire a throw to acting keeper David Boon ; Venkatapathy Raju was caught short on the third .
