Kieron Pollard Thanks Chris Gayle for Support , Taunts Clive Lloyd After World Cup Snub Kieron Pollard Thanks Chris Gayle for Support , Taunts Clive Lloyd After World Cup Snub After getting Chris Gayle support , Kieron Pollard hit out at West Indies ' chief selector Clive Lloyd after being ignored for next month 's World Cup . Last updated on Monday , 12 January , 2015 21 : 35 IST Total Shares Pollard 's exclusion from the World Cup squad has rocked West Indies cricket . © AFP Just weeks before the World Cup , there is a storm in West Indies cricket. The omission of Kieron Pollard and Dwayne Bravo from the World Cup squad is threatening to disintegrate further an already fractious Caribbean set-up. A day after Chris Gayle slammed the team selection as " ridiculous " , Pollard took to Twitter and taunted chief selector Clive Lloyd . Gayle , who slammed a 41-ball 90 to script the highest ever run-chase in T20 Internationals against South Africa in Johannesburg on Sunday , said it was " ridiculous " to axe two of West Indies most explosive players . Due to pay disputes , Bravo had led a players revolt during the team 's tour of India last year. Like several other members of the World Cup squad , Pollard sided with Bravo. West Indies had pulled out of the India series in a dramatic move that soured relationship between the Indian and West Indian cricket Boards . " How can those two guys not be in the team ? To me , it got to be like victimisation when you look at it towards those two guys. Come on , guys. It is just ridiculous , " Gayle said in Johannesburg. Pollard was grateful for the support . Thanks @ henrygayle well batted on and off the field .. ! ! Keep that fire burning .. ! !   appreciate the support — Kieron Pollard ( @ KieronPollard55 ) January 11 , 2015 Pollard also taunted Lloyd , a former legend who now leads the selection committee. Michael Holding , a member of Lloyd 's highly successful squad , had recently slammed the West Indies Board for punishing players who had revolted . — Kieron Pollard ( @ KieronPollard55 ) January 12 , 2015 West Indies selectors probably want a new leader and named the inexperienced Jason Holder as captain . Bravo has played 164 ODIs while Holder , who debuted nine years after Bravo first played for the West Indies , has featured in only 21 ODIs . However , West Indies Cricket Board boss Dave Cameron has defended the 15-man squad and insisted each member was selected on merit and form. But Cameron 's explanation looks baseless , given the recent performances by Pollard and Bravo . Bravo was in impressive form with the bat against New Zealand last year and was the team 's anchor with scores of 56 not out , 43 not out and 106. He followed up with a 35 versus Ireland and 87 not out against England before going eight innings without a fifty . However , Bravo made up for poor form with the bat in those eight innings by snaring 22 wickets. Suffice to say , he would have been a potent weapon during the World Cup . Pollard 's omission was as shocking given his knocks of 89 against Bangladesh and a composed 40 against India. The 27-year-old Trinidadian said he was untroubled by the snub and promised to continue entertaining with his explosive brand of cricket that has won him admirers all around the world . Do n't let your hearts be troubled , fans well wishers , supporters. ! I will sleep comfortable , HOPE THEY CAN.. ! ! Will continue to entertain — Kieron Pollard ( @ KieronPollard55 ) January 11 , 2015 Story first published on : Monday , 12 January 2015 20 : 19 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
