Australia v India , World Cup 2015 , 2nd semi-final , Sydney March 26 , 2015 India swept away by Australia 's depth India 's Plan A in this World Cup had worked flawlessly over seven matches. When they came up against the toughest opponents in the World Cup , however , they were left scrambling for a back-up plan shares 184 Play 02 : 23 Crowe : Surprised Dhoni did not go for chase earlier At one point during his innings , MS Dhoni would have looked at the scoreboard : Australia 328 for 7 , India needing 121 in 48 balls. Far too many given at the end , far too many gone at the beginning , those damned Australians in their faces all over again. As if this black Sydney night , with its cool breeze , waving tricolours and general noise , was part of the forgettable tri-series gone by and not where he really found himself - in the World Cup semi-final , after almost six weeks in which Dhoni 's team produced cricket of an astonishing efficiency not known of Indian teams before them to find their way into the final four . This World Cup performance was not a prototype of the India team or Indian cricket , at large. This preternatural form of play at one point actually turned worrisome , with the fear that the Indian team would trip when they absolutely could not afford to. On Thursday night , the Indian team did n't trip , they ran into the one wall that they knew they could n't leap over or smash through , the one team they had failed to beat all through the southern summer . What could not be quelled and overcome on Thursday , was the quality of Australia 's play and India 's own limitations , which turned up at the SCG in ultra-HD and surround sound at a time when they could not afford it . In 2011 , India 's World Cup campaign had stuttered and stumbled with their bowlers held together on duct tape and optimism , but when it came to the three knock-out games where they had to , as the Americans say , " Bring it " , they did so . In 2015 , India brought it all the way to the semi-finals and were then found out. A multi-nation , multi-venue , sprawling event like the World Cup can cover some holes , but it is a camouflage that is spread too thin. Against Australia , India ran up against opponents who were nothing like they had faced earlier in the World Cup : a side with range and depth in their batting all the way to hitters at No. 8 , express left-arm pace and a personal back-of-hand knowledge of conditions. In the group stage , it was only South Africa who could have given the Indians a stern lesson in objectivity , but India batted first in Melbourne and were swept away by a plus-300 target and a wall of Indian sound ringing down from the stands . India 's World Cup had been based on two set patterns of play which went awry today. When batting first , one of their top three going on all the way to the end and blasting off in the last 15 or 12 overs. When bowling first , wickets in the first 15 overs and turning the pressure on a twitchy middle-order . Before the semi-final , the average score of any side batting first against India read 78 for 3. Australia got to 105 for 1 in 20 , on the back of Steven Smith 's innings against a line-up he must believe he can face , maybe not blindfolded , but , at least , in the dark . Had India dismissed the second opener and the rest of the middle-order of any other team , the way they did Smith , Glenn Maxwell , Aaron Finch and Michael Clarke within 51 runs in eight overs today , a total of 300 would have been a stretch. There lies the difference between " any other team " and the lot who will be competing for the World Cup on Sunday. Clarke 's departure marked the arrival of Australia 's late-order blunt instruments and their force became too much for the Indian seamers to absorb : 70 off the last six overs , 40 off the last three , including 27 off 9 balls from Mitchell Johnson . India 's bowlers failed to absorb the blows of Australia 's blunt , late-order charge © Getty Images " We got a bit of reverse-swing going so I felt our bowlers could have done slightly better , " Dhoni said. He believed the bowlers were slightly too full in their length - " We were slightly more up than where we should have been " - because of the nature of the pitch and then said , " We could have done something better , but it does n't really matter now. " Yorkers , maybe , or a few bouncers , as three of the seven Australian wickets did fall to the short ball. An idea to be considered in theory but , against Faulkner and Johnson , the chances of it working are thin. At a time when the batsmen are fresh , the seamers pushed to their very edges , the best executed plans get tossed out of the window because of improvisation , big bats and too few men in the deep . Depending on what could have been when Maxwell had started out on his 360 degrees of exploration , 328 looked respectable. Besides the first thought was , " At least it was n't the score from the 2003 final . " In a World Cup group game , going for the 328 would have been a lark ; in a semi-final , it is an albatross that could bring down not just the mariner but his entire fleet . Dhoni later said he knew that any target of over 300 required working to a plan. India went in with the intention of chasing that down because , like he said , " The good thing is our batting line-up , they know how to chase 300. " It is a pleasant belief in relatively low-intensity bilaterals. In a World Cup knock-out , 300 becomes a slippery slope. The highest India have ever chased in a World Cup is 288 against Zimbabwe and their highest chase outside Asia remains 325 in the 2002 Natwest Trophy final. To imagine that India could do this when they are a batsman short was not merely optimistic but delusional. In this World Cup , India 's designated " allrounder " , Ravindra Jadeja , has been one string short in his bow . In order to pull this chase off , they would need their batsmen to work in clockwork unison , like they had done at the start of the tournament. To bat like they had , at first tilt , against Pakistan and South Africa. What turned up instead was an out-of tune orchestra. Dhoni himself confessed that once India had lost three wickets inside the first 20 overs , the pattern of the chase had slipped out of the side 's control . " Once we were three down , it was difficult. Then we have to try to build a partnership and when you do that the run-rate goes up. " The dream scenario at the start of what Dhoni himself called a " gettable " total was to keep wickets till the 30th over and then make a run for it like a T20 match . India did n't even get to the point of having a good-enough go , because the men at the top got caught up in the rush of the moment and were trying to out-muscle Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood. It brought Dhoni in by the 23rd over ; maybe pushing himself up the order , like he did in Mumbai 2011 , could have given him the batting position he required to be lord and master from behind the wheel . India 's World Cup had featured until now one successful Plan A that had worked seamlessly throughout seven matches. They got their tightest two games early on in the tournament , and worked their way virtually on happy auto-pilot through the smaller nations in the group. Succcessful coin tosses , dropped catches , an opposition who could go from fierce to feeble when the pressure was cranked up a notch , worked in their favour. Perhaps a Plan B was n't really needed at that time. Except when Plan A goes to the cleaners very suddenly and some crisis management is needed. Like it did on Thursday night . Four years ago , India had snatched Australia 's World Cup from them by taking maximum advantage of their own home conditions. Four years later , Australia did the same - on their own territory. Touche . India 's 2015 World Cup is over , they are world champions no more and Dhoni stripped the moment of any mawkish emotion of having surrendered the World Cup. " Well , it 's something that does n't really belong to anyone , " he said. " We definitely took it from someone , so somebody took it from us. It 's as simple as that. You know , the best team takes it for four years and then everybody gets their own plans ready , depending on the conditions , and they challenge the one that has the Cup. " That should put the entire jingoistic and frankly charmless " # won'tgiveitback " drama , that the Indian team have been involved in and their devoted fans have bought into , over the last few months , into proper perspective. Thank you , captain . Sharda Ugra is senior editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
