The best of the finalists Australia v New Zealand , World Cup 2015 , final , Melbourne Twitter Facebook 0 shares © ICC © ICCComing into the tournament on the back of two years of underachievement , Martin Guptill ( 532 runs at 76.00 , 2 hundreds ) began the World Cup with a string of starts that hinted at a return to form. No one could have predicted what would follow , though : an ice-cool 105 in a tricky chase against Bangladesh , and an unbeaten 237 in the quarter-final against West Indies , quite possibly the greatest ODI innings by a New Zealand batsman . © ICC © ICCComing into the tournament on the back of two years of underachievement , Martin Guptill ( 532 runs at 76.00 , 2 hundreds ) began the World Cup with a string of starts that hinted at a return to form. No one could have predicted what would follow , though : an ice-cool 105 in a tricky chase against Bangladesh , and an unbeaten 237 in the quarter-final against West Indies , quite possibly the greatest ODI innings by a New Zealand batsman . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesDespite the high-risk approach he has adopted at the top of the order , Brendon McCullum ( 328 runs at 41.00 , strike rate 191.81 ) has been frighteningly consistent at this World Cup , with four half-centuries in eight innings , the most vital of which was the 26-ball 59 that laid the base for New Zealand to hunt down a 43-overs target of 298 in their semi-final against South Africa. McCullum has channeled the same aggression into his fielding and captaincy , ensuring his bowlers are always thinking wickets . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesDespite the high-risk approach he has adopted at the top of the order , Brendon McCullum ( 328 runs at 41.00 , strike rate 191.81 ) has been frighteningly consistent at this World Cup , with four half-centuries in eight innings , the most vital of which was the 26-ball 59 that laid the base for New Zealand to hunt down a 43-overs target of 298 in their semi-final against South Africa. McCullum has channeled the same aggression into his fielding and captaincy , ensuring his bowlers are always thinking wickets . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesPerhaps the best measure of Steven Smith 's ( 346 runs at 57.66 , 1 hundred , 3 fifties ) impact on this World Cup is to look at what went on at the other end during his two most vital innings. When Wahab Riaz was roughing up Shane Watson during Australia 's quarter-final against Pakistan , Smith was coolly accumulating a match-winning 65. When Aaron Finch was struggling to time the ball off the square in the semi-final against India , Smith breezed his way to a 93-ball 105. No one has quite figured out how to get him out or even keep him quiet . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesPerhaps the best measure of Steven Smith 's ( 346 runs at 57.66 , 1 hundred , 3 fifties ) impact on this World Cup is to look at what went on at the other end during his two most vital innings. When Wahab Riaz was roughing up Shane Watson during Australia 's quarter-final against Pakistan , Smith was coolly accumulating a match-winning 65. When Aaron Finch was struggling to time the ball off the square in the semi-final against India , Smith breezed his way to a 93-ball 105. No one has quite figured out how to get him out or even keep him quiet . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesHaving had little opportunity to contribute during the early part of the World Cup , Grant Elliott ( 227 runs at 37.83 , strike rate 107.07 ) has turned it on when it has mattered most. Cameos against Bangladesh and West Indies showed glimpses of what the selectors had seen to recall him in his mid-30s , but New Zealand required far more when he walked in during their semi-final against South Africa. Elliott 's unbeaten 84 and his winning six off Dale Steyn will ensure he always remains a World Cup folk hero . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesHaving had little opportunity to contribute during the early part of the World Cup , Grant Elliott ( 227 runs at 37.83 , strike rate 107.07 ) has turned it on when it has mattered most. Cameos against Bangladesh and West Indies showed glimpses of what the selectors had seen to recall him in his mid-30s , but New Zealand required far more when he walked in during their semi-final against South Africa. Elliott 's unbeaten 84 and his winning six off Dale Steyn will ensure he always remains a World Cup folk hero . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesAustralia 's line-up is full of battering rams , but it 's Glenn Maxwell ( 324 runs at 64.80 , strike rate 182.02 , 5 wickets at 36.20 ) who provides the manic , out-of-the-box edge that can turn 320 into 380. What 's been amazing is how frequently he 's done it at this World Cup , with two half-centuries and a brilliant maiden hundred in a high-scoring game against Sri Lanka . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesAustralia 's line-up is full of battering rams , but it 's Glenn Maxwell ( 324 runs at 64.80 , strike rate 182.02 , 5 wickets at 36.20 ) who provides the manic , out-of-the-box edge that can turn 320 into 380. What 's been amazing is how frequently he 's done it at this World Cup , with two half-centuries and a brilliant maiden hundred in a high-scoring game against Sri Lanka . © ICC © ICCCorey Anderson ( 231 runs at 38.50 , 14 wickets at 16.21 ) laid down an early marker with a 46-ball 75 and two wickets in the opening game of the World Cup against Sri Lanka. He has continued to contribute with both bat and ball , scoring vital runs down the order , including a half-century in the tense semi-final against South Africa , and breaking partnerships whenever brought on to bowl . © ICC © ICCCorey Anderson ( 231 runs at 38.50 , 14 wickets at 16.21 ) laid down an early marker with a 46-ball 75 and two wickets in the opening game of the World Cup against Sri Lanka. He has continued to contribute with both bat and ball , scoring vital runs down the order , including a half-century in the tense semi-final against South Africa , and breaking partnerships whenever brought on to bowl . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesHaving opened the batting in 2011 , Brad Haddin ( 126 runs at 42.00 , strike rate 157.50 , 14 catches ) has had to bat in the lower order this time , but has still managed important contributions when called upon. Against New Zealand , he top-scored with 43 , an innings that almost won Australia a low-scoring thriller , and he also made quickfire cameos against England , Afghanistan and Sri Lanka to ensure he pipped Luke Ronchi to the wicketkeeper 's slot in this XI © Getty Images © Getty ImagesHaving opened the batting in 2011 , Brad Haddin ( 126 runs at 42.00 , strike rate 157.50 , 14 catches ) has had to bat in the lower order this time , but has still managed important contributions when called upon. Against New Zealand , he top-scored with 43 , an innings that almost won Australia a low-scoring thriller , and he also made quickfire cameos against England , Afghanistan and Sri Lanka to ensure he pipped Luke Ronchi to the wicketkeeper 's slot in this XI © Getty Images © Getty ImagesLong-running injury struggles had restricted Daniel Vettori ( 15 wickets at 18.80 , economy rate 3.98 ) to T20s alone for more than a year , and though he had played 11 ODIs since returning to the New Zealand side last October , no one could have foreseen the impact he would make at the World Cup with his undiminished ability to tie batsmen down with changes of pace and trajectory. He has been electric on the field as well , and has scored 41 runs in 25 balls while being dismissed only once in five innings . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesLong-running injury struggles had restricted Daniel Vettori ( 15 wickets at 18.80 , economy rate 3.98 ) to T20s alone for more than a year , and though he had played 11 ODIs since returning to the New Zealand side last October , no one could have foreseen the impact he would make at the World Cup with his undiminished ability to tie batsmen down with changes of pace and trajectory. He has been electric on the field as well , and has scored 41 runs in 25 balls while being dismissed only once in five innings . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesIt takes a lot to usurp Mitchell Johnson as Australia 's leading quick bowler in ODIs , but Mitchell Starc ( 20 wickets at 10.20 , economy rate 3.65 ) has managed to do so , with pace , swing and death-overs yorkers in the biggest tournament of them all. New Zealand will worry that his best performance in the World Cup came against them , a six-wicket haul that almost allowed Australia to defend a total of 151 . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesIt takes a lot to usurp Mitchell Johnson as Australia 's leading quick bowler in ODIs , but Mitchell Starc ( 20 wickets at 10.20 , economy rate 3.65 ) has managed to do so , with pace , swing and death-overs yorkers in the biggest tournament of them all. New Zealand will worry that his best performance in the World Cup came against them , a six-wicket haul that almost allowed Australia to defend a total of 151 . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesTrent Boult ( 21 wickets at 15.76 , economy rate 4.41 ) leads Starc narrowly at the top of the World Cup 's leading wicket-takers ' list , confirming that this has been a tournament for left-arm quicks. Boult began the tournament slowly , with his new-ball partner Tim Southee doing the more eye-catching work , but has since become the leader of New Zealand 's attack. Boult 's best performance was his five-wicket haul against Australia , where all his wickets came in a second spell that read 5-3-3-5 . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesTrent Boult ( 21 wickets at 15.76 , economy rate 4.41 ) leads Starc narrowly at the top of the World Cup 's leading wicket-takers ' list , confirming that this has been a tournament for left-arm quicks. Boult began the tournament slowly , with his new-ball partner Tim Southee doing the more eye-catching work , but has since become the leader of New Zealand 's attack. Boult 's best performance was his five-wicket haul against Australia , where all his wickets came in a second spell that read 5-3-3-5 . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesHe only played two games during the group stage , but it 's an indisputable fact that Australia 's attack has looked a whole lot better since Josh Hazlewood ( 7 wickets at 20.85 , economy rate 4.19 ) returned to the side. Replacing Pat Cummins for the quarter-final against Pakistan , Hazlewood picked up a four-wicket haul , and in the semi-final he frustrated India 's batsmen with his control during a vital part of their chase , dismissing the dangerous-looking Shikhar Dhawan and following up with a maiden to Virat Kohli . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesHe only played two games during the group stage , but it 's an indisputable fact that Australia 's attack has looked a whole lot better since Josh Hazlewood ( 7 wickets at 20.85 , economy rate 4.19 ) returned to the side. Replacing Pat Cummins for the quarter-final against Pakistan , Hazlewood picked up a four-wicket haul , and in the semi-final he frustrated India 's batsmen with his control during a vital part of their chase , dismissing the dangerous-looking Shikhar Dhawan and following up with a maiden to Virat Kohli .
