Five ways New Zealand went for the jugular World Cup 2015 Twitter Facebook 0 shares © Getty Images © Getty ImagesBaz [ ooka ] : Turbo-aggressive and fearless , whether it comes to captaincy or batting , Brendon McCullum has been at the forefront of New Zealand 's success. He opened the World Cup with 65 off 49 balls and went on to record a more devastating 18-ball fifty against England ; the fastest in World Cups. He crunched 50 off 24 balls against Australia , despite taking a painful blow on the arm , and followed it up with another breakneck fifty , this time setting New Zealand on the path to their first World Cup final . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesBaz [ ooka ] : Turbo-aggressive and fearless , whether it comes to captaincy or batting , Brendon McCullum has been at the forefront of New Zealand 's success. He opened the World Cup with 65 off 49 balls and went on to record a more devastating 18-ball fifty against England ; the fastest in World Cups. He crunched 50 off 24 balls against Australia , despite taking a painful blow on the arm , and followed it up with another breakneck fifty , this time setting New Zealand on the path to their first World Cup final . © ICC © ICCAttack-first approach : New Zealand 's strategy to contain runs ? Get wickets. The field shown in the picture was not at the start of the innings nor was it with the opposition in shambles - it was in the 14th over of the semi-final as New Zealand relentlessly attacked , even when the option was there to spread the field . © ICC © ICCAttack-first approach : New Zealand 's strategy to contain runs ? Get wickets. The field shown in the picture was not at the start of the innings nor was it with the opposition in shambles - it was in the 14th over of the semi-final as New Zealand relentlessly attacked , even when the option was there to spread the field . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesTrent Boult : Need a wicket right now ? Call Boult . His mastery of swing and his consistency have played a pivotal part in New Zealand 's progress. On his way to toppling Geoff Allott 's New Zealand World Cup record of 20 wickets , Boult took 5 for 27 , studded by a spell of 5-3-3-5 , in the trans-Tasman tussle in Auckland . Boult has bowled out six times in eight matches compared to Tim Southee 's three and Daniel Vettori 's four and has six wickets more than Southee and Vettori , who are level with 15 . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesTrent Boult : Need a wicket right now ? Call Boult . His mastery of swing and his consistency have played a pivotal part in New Zealand 's progress. On his way to toppling Geoff Allott 's New Zealand World Cup record of 20 wickets , Boult took 5 for 27 , studded by a spell of 5-3-3-5 , in the trans-Tasman tussle in Auckland . Boult has bowled out six times in eight matches compared to Tim Southee 's three and Daniel Vettori 's four and has six wickets more than Southee and Vettori , who are level with 15 . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesIntensity in the field : … And the bowlers have been backed up by some sharp fielding. McCullum has led by example there as well , often leaping , sliding , diving , flinging and prowling at the covers. Vettori also stepped up and matched McCullum 's reflexes when he backpedalled , leapt and pulled off a stunning one-handed catch to dismiss Marlon Samuels in the quarter-final against West Indies . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesIntensity in the field : … And the bowlers have been backed up by some sharp fielding. McCullum has led by example there as well , often leaping , sliding , diving , flinging and prowling at the covers. Vettori also stepped up and matched McCullum 's reflexes when he backpedalled , leapt and pulled off a stunning one-handed catch to dismiss Marlon Samuels in the quarter-final against West Indies . © Getty Images © Getty ImagesBowling depth and readiness : Adam Milne picked up only five wickets in six matches , but his extra pace and lift meant he was preferred over the experienced Kyle Mills and Mitchell McClenaghan , New Zealand 's most successful ODI bowler in the last three years. Even when Milne sustained a heel injury ahead of the semi-final , New Zealand went for the rookie Matt Henry , who was n't even in the World Cup squad a couple of days before the big game. McCullum explained the selection : " We have just gone for the aggressive option. A wicket-taking option. Best first-change option. When in doubt , go for the aggressive option. " © Getty Images © Getty ImagesBowling depth and readiness : Adam Milne picked up only five wickets in six matches , but his extra pace and lift meant he was preferred over the experienced Kyle Mills and Mitchell McClenaghan , New Zealand 's most successful ODI bowler in the last three years. Even when Milne sustained a heel injury ahead of the semi-final , New Zealand went for the rookie Matt Henry , who was n't even in the World Cup squad a couple of days before the big game. McCullum explained the selection : " We have just gone for the aggressive option. A wicket-taking option. Best first-change option. When in doubt , go for the aggressive option. "
