The most meaningful , wittiest and memorable quotes from the 2015 World Cup thus far shares 5 Some spoke their mind , some just joked around and some made strong statements © Getty Images It was a bit confusing with the tickets - they all said Hamilton on them so I kept picking up everyone else 's thinking it was mine Hamilton Masakadza on travelling to a place with the same name as his own . I 've gone on my knees and begged him not to retire Angelo Mathews tries to convince Kumar Sangakkara to stay on . It 's like watching the Matrix movie. There 's Neo right there. He does n't understand how good he is Dale Steyn 's analysis of AB de Villiers ' batting . Another 20 days and you can apply for citizenship MS Dhoni sums up India 's four-month long stay in Australia . He 's gon na look like England after Bangladesh got a hold of 'em WWE commentator JBL ca n't resist a dig at England when commentating on English wrestler Bad News Barrett . I do n't even know where the ball went Grant Elliott on the six he hit to put New Zealand into their maiden World Cup final . I would have called you a bunch of losers if you lost against Sri Lanka. You are championship material Fikile Mbalula , South Africa 's sports minister , welcomes the team home . I hate the term Associates. I do n't see why it has to be labelled different structures throughout. I think it should be ranked one to whatever William Porterfield on cricket 's class divide . Our employers are waiting for us Mohammad Tauqir puts UAE 's lot into sharp focus as bad weather threatens their return home . I might have been like 110-112kph when I started my career in Under -17 and Under-19 Wahab Riaz , who clocks over 150 kph now , gives hope to medium-pacers everywhere . The shot is called the back away , look away , deliberate cut through point Glenn Maxwell jokes about an outrageous shot that he somehow pulled off against Wahab Riaz . You would like to score runs every game but I do n't think that 's possible unless you are Don Bradman or AB de Villiers Hashim Amla , having become the fastest man to 20 ODI hundreds , suggests batting is easier for some . I do n't have too many trophies. We are chasing one at the moment and if we get that it will be nice to have a replica Brendon McCullum , when asked if he 'll need more space to display his New Zealand Sportsman of the Year award . I just said a few words about the World Cup , the current team and how they embarrass me when I watch a classic match on TV and we 're getting 220 and these guys are getting 400 Steve Waugh on what he told Australia 's World Cup team . Their unpredictability is not a challenge because they are predictably unpredictable. Their strength lies in the predictability of their unpredictability Russell Domingo tries to sum up Pakistan . Tough times do n't last , but tough blokes do Brendon McCullum on his " champion " friend Eoin Morgan . I just want to sit in my room and feel sad for a while AB de Villiers needs a hug after South Africa 's huge loss to India © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
