Australia v New Zealand , World Cup 2015 , final , Melbourne March 27 , 2015 Time to have the neighbours over New Zealand may be the " little brothers from across the ditch " but they are heading to the MCG and keen to remind their hosts of the local rivalry shares 18 One more to the rack ? New Zealand claimed the Chappell-Hadlee trophy earlier in the tournament. © ICC There was a time when everyone knew their neighbours intimately , popped around often for a cup of tea and a gossip , collected your mail and fed your dog when you went away. India and Sri Lanka seemed about that close when they met in the 2011 World Cup final ; in the previous five years they had tossed the coin in 39 ODIs against each other. They were co-hosts in name and nature . Australia and New Zealand have slipped into the modern neighbourly way , nodding politely when they happen to run into each other on the street , but never visiting each other 's house. In the past five years they have met in not a single ODI outside of ICC events. It has n't always been that way : in the previous five years they played 23 such one-dayers against each other . They have drifted apart , Australia more interested in the big-ticket campaigns against India , England and South Africa. But then , it had always felt like New Zealand prized the Chappell-Hadlee Trophy far more than Australia. In 2006-07 , Australia did n't even bother sending their captain or vice-captain to the series in New Zealand , and Michael Hussey led them to defeat . Of course , there is nothing new about such goings on - or non-goings on. Australia did not deign to play a full Test series against New Zealand until 1974 , a full 44 years after New Zealand were admitted to Test cricket. The underarm incident and the might of Richard Hadlee sparked a 1980s rivalry , but it is now a decade since the teams have played a Test series of more than two games . In the eyes of the Australians , the rivalry has died off. When the teams met in the Champions Trophy in England in 2013 , they forgot to put the Chappell-Hadlee Trophy up for grabs as they had done when they played in the 2011 World Cup. It was dusted off for their World Cup meeting in Auckland this year , and New Zealand won a low-scoring thriller . And yet , when New Zealand arrive later this year for Tests in Australia , they will use a pink ball and play day-night cricket , and will not be granted the Boxing Day Test at the MCG. No extra motivation is required for a World Cup final , but if New Zealand need it they have it. On Sunday they can prove they belong in front of a packed MCG . " We 're probably seen as the little brothers from across the ditch and we do quite well in other sports to compete , " New Zealand fast bowler Tim Southee said on Friday. " Australia have had the wood on us in cricket over the last few years but we 're slowly starting to even that ledger . " As a kid growing up it was always Australia that you wanted to play against , or if you 're playing against someone in the backyard it was New Zealand-Australia. There is a massive rivalry in whatever sport you play and in New Zealand you always want to have one up over the big brothers. " Ask an Australian cricketer what featured in their backyard games when they were kids and it would likely have been an Ashes imitation , or Australia against the golden era West Indies. The 11 Australians who will take the field on Sunday have probably dreamt about playing in a World Cup final , but against someone like India , or South Africa . New Zealand , with its near identical flag , its non-Australian-passport-stamping ways , its population smaller than Sydney - it has hardly been viewed as a big threat by Australia 's cricketers. In rugby union , yes. In netball , sometimes. But not in cricket. They should remember that New Zealand won the most recent Test between the teams , and the most recent ODI , and the most recent T20 ( in a Super Over ) . " I think in times gone by we probably have n't played to our potential or been as consistent as we should have been , " Southee said. " In the last two years we 've slowly gained a little bit more respect around the world because of the brand of cricket we 've played. We respect Australia . " They 're a quality side , they 're not No.1 in the world for no reason. I 'm sure they 've gained a little bit of respect for the brand of cricket we 've played over the last couple of years. I guess that opinion has changed a little bit over the last couple of years in the way that we 've played and the sides we 've beaten. " Sides like , say , Australia , when given the chance. Beating Australia in a World Cup final would be the ultimate respect-earner. On Friday , the Cricket Australia chief executive James Sutherland said that the co-hosts had " dared to dream " that they might meet each other in the final . " We knew it was probably a long-odds chance , but here we are a couple of days out and the two host nations are playing each other , " Sutherland said. " Congratulations to New Zealand on making the World Cup final. They 've been unbeaten throughout the tournament and are certainly deserving of playing off. " Sutherland 's tone was not patronising , though seeing the words in black and white they might look that way. Viewing the Australia-New Zealand fixture list of the past five years they probably appear even more so. The World Cup final might change that . Perhaps Cricket Australia should remember what all Australian TV soapie fans know : everybody needs good neighbours. Neighbours need to get to know each other. And next door is only a footstep away . Brydon Coverdale is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ brydoncoverdale © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
