Australia v New Zealand , World Cup 2015 , final , Melbourne March 29 , 2015 'I 'll try to have a beer with everyone in the place' ESPNcricinfo staff A selection of reactions from the Australia and New Zealand teams after the World Cup final shares 1 Steven Smith sealed Australia 's fifth World Cup title © Robert Cianflone/Getty Images You always dream about this as a kid and to have it finally happen especially at home at the MCG is an amazing feeling Local boy Aaron Finch enjoys a moment to savour . I 'll tell you what , I could n't think of a better team to sit on the sidelines and watch . Captain of Australia one game and 12th man in the next , but George Bailey does n't seem to have minded . I was just hoping we did n't lose another wicket because I would have had to walk out there and I was pretty nervous. That was as good as it gets , home final , MCG , 93,000 , it does n't get better than that . So now we know the recipe to put Glenn Maxwell under pressure. Have his team 175 for 2 with 19 overs left to get the eight runs remaining . I get tossed the ball when the skipper wants me to bowl and normally it 's in the power play. I like that job. Today it worked out for us. It can be tough sometimes . James Faulkner , on his brief as death-overs specialist. He bowled a double-wicket maiden in the 36th over to derail New Zealand . New Zealand have been a great team throughout the whole tournament. They 've really set the benchmark , but I think we came hard today and that really led to this performance . Mitchell Starc knew there was only one way to put their opposition on the back foot . The crowd support we 've got and how much all of Australia appreciate this effort has made it an enjoyable four weeks. I 'll try to have a beer with everyone in the place . Brad Haddin is likely to have a very long night considering there were 93,013 people at the MCG . We obviously were n't able to lift the trophy but the brand of cricket and the entertainment that we 've been able to give the people throughout our country but also throughout the world is something we can be immensely proud of . New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum had no regrets . Might give it back to Warney . Australia 's captain Michael Clarke on who he would pass on his number 23 shirt . That 's why I love them . Australia 's coach Darren Lehmann after being drenched by barrel full of drinks . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
