Australia v New Zealand , final , Melbourne March 29 , 2015 Ponting endorses Smith as next ODI captain Play 07 : 27 'Australia have got all the bases covered' Former Australia captain Ricky Ponting believes there is " no doubt at all " that Steven Smith should take over from Michael Clarke as the team 's next ODI leader. Clarke retired from one-day cricket after leading Australia to victory in the World Cup final against New Zealand in Melbourne . In the past , George Bailey has often filled in as captain during Clarke 's absence , and even led Australia in their tournament opener against England. However , Bailey , who has captained Australia to 16 wins and 10 defeats in his 29 matches in-charge , lost his place in the playing eleven once Clarke retained full fitness . " I am a huge George Bailey fan , we have played a lot of state cricket together , " Ponting told ESPNcricinfo. " He 's also been a great leader , but this guy , Smith , is just in the prime of his career right now. He is playing beautifully , and it looks like he has sewn down the No.3 batting spot , potentially even in the Test team. With Clarke making the decision to retire from one-day cricket , you would think he 's only got a couple of years of Test cricket left in him , so Smith should be serving as one-day captain to be totally ready to take over the Test job when Michael finishes. " Clarke bid a teary goodbye to a record crowd at the MCG after top-scoring in the final with 74 off 72 balls to ensure there were no wobbles in Australia 's pursuit of a small target. Praising his successor in the job for his " terrific record " over the years , Ponting said Clarke would have dearly enjoyed being out in the middle when the winning runs were scored . " The way he batted was a terrific way for him to finish , " Ponting said. " The New Zealanders decided to attack him early so he had a lot of open field where he could score from freely. He got through the initial 15-20 balls , then expanded his game and he would have loved to be not out at the end . " Walk off the ground as the winning captain , maybe hitting the winning runs , but it was n't meant to be. He 's done a great job with the leadership of this team and you only have to look at his record. It 's a terrific effort by him. " Ricky Ponting - " Smith is just in the prime of his career right now. He should be serving as one-day captain to be totally ready to take over the Test job when Michael finishes " © Getty Images Ponting , who played in three World Cup winning finals , also believes Australia have the building blocks in place to dominate one-day cricket in the years to come. He credited Clarke and coach Darren Lehmann for ensuring the balance of the squad was " spot on " going into the tournament . " It 's probably a better team than we give it credit for right now , " he said. " Probably because it 's a young team that 's developing we probably do n't know just how good a team this is. I 've sat back and looked at this one-day team over the last couple of years and it 's a very good team . " Only a couple of months ago , Johnson was the standout fast bowler in the world and all of a sudden , we 're not even taking about him anymore , we are talking about Mitchell Starc. Every one of the allrounders could get themselves picked in one format. James Faulkner will get himself picked as a bowler , Shane Watson as a batter and Glenn Maxwell also as a batter . " There 's a few senior heads , Clarke bowing out , Haddin probably has some decisions to make around his one-day future , Mitchell Johnson would probably not be around for the next World Cup. Every successful Australian team that I have been part of has been a mix of youth and experience and this one is no different. There were some very exuberant youngsters in that side like Smith , Maxwell , Starc and Hazlewood. The balance has been spot on. " Looking back on the final , Ponting said Brendon Mcullum 's dismissal for duck in the first over , and the quick wickets of Ross Taylor , Corey Anderson and Luke Ronchi early in the batting Powerplay were the decisive phases of the game . " The first over with Starc knocking over McCullum , if you look at the way he executed those first three balls , they were three yorkers that were right on the money . " Then at the start of the Powerplay when New Zealand had just fought their way back into the game , at that time Faulkner gets back to back wickets , Starc gets Ronchi in the next over and all of a sudden all the momentum the Kiwis had was completely taken away from them. " Ponting also lavished praise on Faulkner , who became the fifth Australian and the third from Tasmania to win a Man-of-the-Match award in a World Cup final. David Boon won the honour in 1987 for top-scoring in the final against England , and Ponting himself picked up the award in 2003 , for his decimation for India with a memorable hundred . " Faulkner is a very competitive person , " Ponting said. " It sums up his character in that Powerplay. He is one guy who does n't go running away from a Powerplay , he wants the ball in his hand , and he wants to compete. It was a terrific result for him today and you look back at the end of your career , there are only a few Man-of-the-Match performances that are memorable , and if it happens in a World Cup final that 's something you can always be proud of. " Gaurav Kalra is a senior editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ gauravkalra75 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
