World Cup 2015 Review March 30 , 2015 Best innings of the tournament - Guptill , Smith , Shenwari Among the many glittering innings in the 2015 World Cup , five stood out shares 15 The one-man show : Samiullah Shenwari single-handedly took Afghanistan to their first World Cup win © ICC Samiullah Shenwari 96 v Scotland , Dunedin It was a wildly seesawing day for Afghanistan. They let Scotland get away from 144 for 8 to 210. In reply , they slipped from 85 for 2 to 97 for 7. Samiullah Shenwari , who had come in at 46 for 2 , could well have been back in the hut too. On 20 , Majid Haq had dropped him in the slips . Eventually , it was Haq 's bowling that Shenwari would target as Afghanistan neared their target , but that was a while away. There was rebuilding to do , and Shenwari would do it patiently. He added 35 in 68 balls with Dawlat Zadran , and brought up his half-century shortly after that partnership ended. It had taken him 113 balls to get there , but Scotland were nervous. Shenwari was n't celebrating. He had bigger things on his mind. At the other end , Hamid Hassan was simply looking to stay put , and doing a great job of it . Shenwari 's moment arrived in the 47th over , which began with 38 required from 24 balls. Bang , bang , bang. Haq 's offspin disappeared for three sixes in three balls , all over cow corner. Next ball , with four to get for his century , Shenwari went for another big hit and picked out deep midwicket. Distraught , he remained slumped just beyond the boundary rope , head in his hands , but Hassan and Shapoor Zadran ensured his efforts would n't go unrewarded , calmly picking off the 19 runs Afghanistan needed for their first ever World Cup win . Brendan Taylor 138 v India , Auckland India had won their first five matches in the group stage , all by convincing margins , and when Brendan Taylor walked in at 13 for 2 , which soon became 33 for 3 , another easy win seemed imminent. Taylor , who had just announced he would be signing a three-year Kolpak deal with Nottinghamshire , was playing his final game for Zimbabwe . Taylor was in sparkling form , and in his previous match had made a brilliant 91-ball 121 against Ireland , which had brought Zimbabwe to within six runs of chasing down 332. Now , against a better attack , he played with the same sense of authority and showed the same disdain for the spinners , whom he swept and reverse-swept whenever he felt like . Taylor and Sean Williams batted with freedom , putting on 93 and ensuring Zimbabwe barely took any time wallowing over the loss of those early wickets. Taylor only grew more aggressive after the partnership ended , and hit his first six in the 34th over , launching R Ashwin over cow corner . Two more sixes came off a Mohammed Shami over in the Powerplay , the first a ramp over third man that made him the first Zimbabwean to make back-to-back World Cup hundreds. Then Taylor took Jadeja to the cleaners - 4 , 4 , 6 , 4 , 6. At 232 for 4 in 41 overs , Zimbabwe seemed set for a monster total , but Taylor 's dismissal in the next over precipitated a collapse that ended at 287 all out. It was n't enough to win Zimbabwe the game , but it stretched India 's batting more than it had ever been till that point in the tournament . Martin Guptill 237 * v West Indies , Wellington Before the World Cup , Martin Guptill 's place at the top of the order seemed under threat. He had averaged under 28 in his last 28 matches , during which time pretty much every other New Zealand batsman had looked in the form of their lives. Yet the selectors kept faith in him , and in New Zealand 's final group-stage game he repaid them with an important hundred in a tricky chase against Bangladesh . But he was n't done yet. Far from it. Grassed on 4 by Marlon Samuels at the start of the quarter-final against West Indies , Guptill cashed in like no man had done before in an ODI innings. By the third over , Guptill had struck three fours , all of them driven down the ground with the straightest of bats . Over the 50 overs of New Zealand 's innings , West Indies kept seeing that straight bat over and over again. They kept giving him balls to drive , and he kept hitting them to the boundary. Sometimes he closed his bat face a little and drove through the on side. Sometimes he extended his follow-through and landed the ball in the stands. Once he even hit the roof . The century came up in the 35th over. Plenty of time still left. How far could Guptill go ? He would go farther than any New Zealand batsman before him. Guptill went from 100 to 150 in 23 balls , and from 150 to 200 in 18 balls , the landmark coming up with another straight drive for four , off Andre Russell. Four batsmen had made double-centuries before Guptill , and Chris Gayle had done it in the same tournament , but this was a World Cup quarter-final. This was something else . Grant Elliott 's six sparked off wild celebrations at the Eden Park © Getty Images Grant Elliott 84 * v SA , Auckland This was New Zealand 's seventh World Cup semi-final. So far they had lost six out of six. Brendon McCullum had raised hopes of ending that run by giving New Zealand the blazing start they needed in a revised chase of 298 in 43 overs. Now , at 128 for 3 , they needed a cool head in the middle of a deafening , jam-packed Eden Park . The selectors had reckoned Grant Elliott was that man , when they recalled him a month before the World Cup , at 35 , after two years out of the New Zealand side. Now their judgment was on test , in a World Cup semi-final , against the country of Elliott 's birth . First ball he faced , Elliott calmly lap-swept Imran Tahir for four. No nerves. New Zealand lost the set Ross Taylor , but Elliott and Corey Anderson kept in touch with the required rate. Anderson made the muscular hits , while Elliott relied on placement , opening his bat face to steer Vernon Philander through cover point , shuffling across to whip Morne Morkel over the short boundary at square leg , stepping inside the line to lift Tahir over extra cover to bring up his fifty . New Zealand enjoyed a couple of slices of luck , including a dropped catch off Elliott in the penultimate over when two fielders collided , but lost Anderson and Luke Ronchi as the match reached its denouement. Twelve to get from one over. Daniel Vettori squeezed a yorker to the backward point boundary , the batsmen stole a couple of byes , and it came down to five from two balls. Dale Steyn sent down a length ball , in the slot , and Elliott swung it away over long-on. Eden Park erupted. New Zealand were in a World Cup final . Steven Smith 105 v India , Sydney The big players usually seize the big moments in World Cups , and while several batsmen put their hand up for Australia at various stages , it was Steven Smith , their No. 3 , who gave them their backbone with a run of five successive 50-plus scores , including one in each knockout game . In the semi-final , Smith walked in after the early dismissal of David Warner. He had tormented them over the summer , but over the course of the World Cup India 's bowling attack had grown in rhythm and confidence , and had bowled out all seven of their opponents so far. Maybe things would be different this time . They were , in a way , but they were n't. India were n't bowling particularly badly , and at one end were making Aaron Finch scratch and scrabble for his runs. Smith , though , was batting on a different planet. Umesh Yadav kept banging it in short , but he had the field for it , and still Smith pulled him away for three fours in an over . Smith motored along , bringing up 50 in 53 balls and collecting runs with great ease , using his feet to the spinners , walking across the stumps to the quicks , working the ball wherever he pleased . Australia took the batting Powerplay early , in the 33rd over , and Smith immediately switched gears , clipping , swiping and pulling Mohammed Shami for two fours and a six in one over to reach his hundred. Australia were well on their way to a match-winning total. In terms of impact , this innings was up there with Ricky Ponting 's in Johannesburg in the 2003 final . Karthik Krishnaswamy is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
