ICC news March 30 , 2015 ICC president rails at World Cup trophy snub Play 01 : 58 Isam : Kamal did not want to connect his umpires ' criticism with trophy rebuff ICC president AHM Mustafa Kamal has said that the game 's governing body denied him of his right to give the trophy at the post-match presentation ceremony of the World Cup final on Sunday . The trophy was handed over by ICC chairman N Srinivasan , despite the ICC 's amendment of its rules in January 2015 to mandate that ICC president is supposed to give trophies at global competitions . Kamal spoke to two Bangladeshi TV channels - Jamuna TV and 71 - following Sunday 's final , accusing the ICC of not honouring his rights. He also warned of revealing information from within the governing body after he returns home . " I was supposed to give the trophy today , " Kamal said. " It is my constitutional right. But very unfortunately , I was n't allowed to do so. My rights were dishonoured. After I go back home , I will let the whole world know what 's happening in ICC. I will let the whole world know about those guys who are doing these mischievous things. " He , however , told ESPNcricinfo that he would not connect Sunday 's rebuff with his controversial comments on umpiring of the Bangladesh-India quarter-final held on March 19 . Kamal had come close to questioning the integrity of the umpires by saying that the ICC should investigate the matter and questioned whether some decisions were " deliberate or not. " A day later , the ICC 's chief executive , Dave Richardson , termed Kamal 's criticism " unfortunate " . The amendment to the memorandum and articles of association was unanimously approved by Full Council in January 2015. According to 3.3 ( B ) : " With effect from the 2014 Conference Close Date , the President shall act solely as chairman at Conference and Special Meetings and be responsible for presenting trophies at global competitions and cricket events held under the aegis of the Council. For the avoidance of doubt , with effect from the 2014 Conference Close Date , the President will no longer act as chairman of the Executive Board or as chairman of any Committee or Sub-Committee. " Emails to the ICC had not drawn any response . Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo 's Bangladesh correspondent. @ isam84 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
