Retiring Misbah-ul Haq Vows to Give all for World Cup Win Retiring Misbah-ul Haq Vows to Give all for World Cup Win Pakistan captain Misbah-ul Haq , 40 , on Sunday announced he would quit the one-day game after the World Cup in February and March . Last updated on Tuesday , 13 January , 2015 20 : 00 IST Total Shares File photo of Misbah-ul-Haq © AFP Lahore : Retiring Pakistan captain Misbah-ul Haq vowed Tuesday to roll back the years and lead his team to victory in the World Cup starting in Australia and New Zealand next month . Misbah , 40 , on Sunday announced he would quit the one-day game after the mega event in February and March. ( Pakistan Squad for World Cup Picked Based on Nepotism ) He is one year older than Imran Khan was in 1992 when Pakistan won its only World Cup in 1992 , an event also held in Australia and New Zealand. ( Pakistan Players to Attend Counseling Sessions ) " For me it will be a big motivation to give whatever I can , whether it 's physical , mental or skill-wise to finish on a high and do what the 1992 Pakistan team did -- win the World Cup , " Misbah told reporters . Pakistan start their campaign with a highly-charged opening game against arch-rivals and title-holders India. ( Ajmal 's Bowling Action to be Tested on January 24 ) They also face the West Indies , Zimbabwe , the United Arab Emirates , South Africa and Ireland in Group B , with the top four teams from two groups progressing to the quarter-finals . Misbah added his players are were " focused and determined " and was confident they would adjust to the fast and bouncy Antipodean pitches . Misbah became Pakistan 's most successful Test captain with 15 wins last year , and has vowed to continue in the longer format . He has also led Pakistan in 78 one-day internationals with 41 wins , 34 losses and three ties or no results . Story first published on : Tuesday , 13 January 2015 18 : 54 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
