0 ( 3w ) 4.1 to Bell , 135.6 kph , oh what a beaut. Beats the outside edge to hit the top of off stump. That is a peach. Angling in but swinging away. Lands around off. Bell has been in this mode where he is trying to stay beside the line to open up the off side. So he is not quite behind the line of this , and the ball swings to beat his bat. Off stump , bu-bye 18/1 6.2 to Ali , 136.0 kph , that 's the one-two. Bowl a bouncer to those who do n't like bouncers. Have them expecting another one and thus staying back. Slip in a full one. Take the edge or hit the the stumps. Southee has hit the off stump here. This has swung back in towards the base of the off stump and squeezes under it. Apart from staying back he has played woefully down the wrong line 36/2 26.2 to Taylor , 134.0 kph , what captaincy , what bowling. McCullum calls his strike bowler. Look , get me a wicket. Southee bowls one wide outswinger. That draws an appeal. And now he bowls an outswinging yorker that beats the outside edge of the new batsman and pings back the off stump. What a joy to watch the aggressive approach and the execution thereof by New Zealand 104/5 28.1 to Buttler , 134.5 kph , lovely outswing bowling. Southee has a four-for. This is on a length , not too wide , you ca n't keep leaving them alone all day long in ODIs. Buttler pushes at it , Southee gets enough movement away to take the edge and England are six down 108/6 28.4 to Woakes , 138.7 kph , Southee. Unplayable Southee. Has a Michelle now. Four of them have been bowled to outswingers that have hit the off stump. That 's beautiful. Outswingers hitting the top of off. Too good for a No. 8. Woakes ' only mistake here is , he is not forward. Southee loves it. Gives him the space to let this outswinger drop and then move past the outside edge to hit the top of off. Nothing wrong in the pitch here. Just high-quality swing bowling and aggressive captaincy 110/7 30.4 to Broad , 132.0 kph , Southee has six. Broad needs talking to. Ordinary attitude to batting. Running away and hoping for the best. He has moved away from leg , and just put his bat there. The leading edge to the full ball carried to mid-off where Vettori takes a two-hander to his left 116/8 32.3 to Finn , 135.3 kph , Seven for Southee. This is lovely stuff. Just floats in an outswinger outside off , Finn follows it , edges it to Taylor at first slip. Best figures for a NZer in a WC match. Root is left stranded , but he really should have protected Finn and not taken the single first ball 117/9
