World Cup : India , Pakistan in New Colours World Cup : India , Pakistan in New Colours India and Pakistan will be seen in new jerseys during the World Cup 2015 in Australia and New Zealand . Last updated on Thursday , 15 January , 2015 14 : 51 IST Total Shares From left : Rohit , Kohli , Jadeja , Dhoni , Dhawan & Ashwin sport the new jersey The Board of Control for Cricket in India on Thursday , unveiled Team India 's new One-Day International kit which the players will sport in the triangular series in Australia starting Friday. ( India Threat in World Cup : Hussey ) The Indian cricketers will be seen in their new striking ODI kit when they take the field against Australia here on Sunday. The team will also wear the jersey during the World Cup which starts next month in Australia and New Zealand . BCCI in association with @ NikeCricket unveil the all new Official Team # India Jersey at the MCG pic.twitter.com/MtuPZr1z3o — BCCI ( @ BCCI ) January 15 , 2015 Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's men will take on arch-rivals Pakistan in their opening World Cup match on February 15 . India 's new kit is made of 100 % polyester. Cricket commentator Harsha Bhogle was among the first to tweet a picture of Team India 's latest jersey. ( Indian Bowlers Must Back Batsmen at World Cup : Wright ) Here it is. The World Cup jersey. pic.twitter.com/sqIiZqd4Ht — Harsha Bhogle ( @ bhogleharsha ) January 15 , 2015 India 's new jersey has been designed keeping in mind the players ' needs on the field. The makers have chosen to base their innovation on zero distraction and ease of movement. The shirt has laser-cut holes for better ventilation. The jersey has been crafted to the last detail with modern menswear collar. New materials have been used for thermoreegulation. The shirt will help Dhoni 's boys with enhanced breathability and cooling. Each kit has been made out of an average of 33 recycled plastic bottles . # newteamindia kit - the tech behind the look. Get yours at @ nikecricket @ BCCI pic.twitter.com/QzRFnDidh0 — Sundar Raman ( @ ramansundar ) January 15 , 2015 Pakistan , who lost to India in the semi-finals of the 2011 World Cup , will also be seen in an all new kit after their jersey was launched on Thursday. Explosive all-rounder Shahid Afridi took a selfie with the team in their new shirts. ( 'India Need a Bowler Like Zaheer ' | 'Pakistan Can Beat India at World Cup ' ) India and Pakistan have been clubbed in Pool B with South Africa , West Indies , Zimbabwe , Ireland and United Arab Emirates . Pakistan kit for WC 2015 is unveiled. Lala just took a selfie with whole squad. pic.twitter.com/A8EZQnhNJw — Mazher Arshad ( @ cricket_U ) January 14 , 2015 Story first published on : Thursday , 15 January 2015 09 : 01 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
