The following point system will apply : Win 2 Tie , No Result or Abandoned 1 Loss 0 In the event of teams finishing on equal points in its Pool , the right to play in the quarter-finals will be decided in the following order of priority : The team with the most wins in the Pool matches will be placed in the higher position . If there are teams with equal points and equal wins in the Pool matches then in such case the team with the higher net run rate in the Pool matches will be placed in the higher position ( refer to 21.10.5 below for the calculation of net run rate ) . If two or more teams are still equal , they will be ordered according to the head to head matches played between them ( points then net run rate in those matches ) . In the highly unlikely event that teams can not be separated by the above , teams will be ordered according to their original seed-ing . If all matches within a Pool are a no result , the top four seeded teams will progress to the quarter-finals . 21.10.2 Quarter Final If a quarter-final is tied , abandoned or if the match is a no result , then the team that finished in the higher position in the Pool stage shall proceed to the semi-finals . 21.10.3 Semi Final If a semi-final is tied , abandoned or if the match is a no result , then the team that finished in the higher position in the Pool stage shall proceed to the final. 21.10.4 Final In the event of a tied final , the teams shall compete in a Super Over to determine which team is the winner . If following a tie , weather conditions prevent the Super Over from being completed , or if the match is abandoned or a no result , the teams shall be declared joint winners . 21.10.5 Net Run Rate A team 's net run rate is calculated by deducting from the average runs per over scored by that team throughout the competition , the average runs per over scored against that team throughout the competition . In the event of a team being all out in less than its full quota of overs , the calculation of its net run rate shall be based on the full quota of overs to which it would have been entitled and not on the number of overs in which the team was dismissed . Only those matches where results are achieved will count for the purpose of net run rate calculations. Where a match is abandoned , but a result is achieved under Duckworth/Lewis , for net run rate purposes Team 1 will be accredited with Team 2 's Par Score on abandonment off the same number of overs faced by Team 2. Where a match is concluded but with Duckworth/Lewis having been applied at an earlier point in the match , Team 1 will be accredited with 1 run less than the final Target Score for Team 2 off the total number of overs allocated to Team 2 to reach the target. In circumstances where a match ( and the points for such match ) is awarded to a team as a result of the other team 's refusal to play , either by the umpires in accordance with Law 21.3 ( a ) ( ii ) or in accordance with the provisions of the relevant event agreements signed by the participating teams , the net run rate of the defaulting team shall be affected in that the full 50 overs of the defaulting team 's innings in such forfeited match shall be taken into account in calculating the average runs per over of the defaulting team over the course of the relevant portion of the competition. For the avoidance of doubt the runs scored and overs bowled in such forfeited match will not be taken into account when calculating the net run rate of the team to whom the match was awarded . Most Viewed
