India news March 2 , 2015 Gamechanger 's back but game itself has changed He will , now , not be judged on his past as India 's most influential cricket administrator but on how he handles two opposing factions led by the same people who ousted him in 2005 shares 36 Play 04 : 15 Srinivasan 's authority eroded Jagguda is back. Again. At the top of the tree. Not as interim anything , but as Jagmohan Dalmiya , BCCI president , full-time head honcho. Giving rise to chuckle and groans of disbelief in equal measure . It has been ten years since Dalmiya last held the post , ousted in 2005 by the very men - N Srinivasan and Sharad Pawar - whose cohorts hovered around him over the weekend in Chennai , seeking to draw him to their side. He was apparently even offered the post of patron-in-chief - custom-built for him - but refused , determined to send a message and reestablish his relevance in Indian cricket administration . It is another reminder that as one of the BCCI 's oldest hands , Damilya is instinctively familiar with the board 's bizarre election dance. The BCCI constitution had been amended to ensure that presidential hopefuls could jump their zonal loyalties should any zone wish to support their candidature. Yet with this much-deferred 2014 election , Dalmiya has proved in the East there could only be one shogun . He will , now , not be judged on his past as India 's most influential cricket administrator but on what he is able to do from this point on. In a four-month stint as interim president between June and October 2013 , Dalmiya made several promises including " Operation Clean-Up " , but did not exactly stamp his authority on either the IPL 's regulations or the board 's general operations . In many ways , Dalmiya steps into high office in a BCCI that must feel familiar but operates in an environment completely transformed over the last ten years. The Indian game 's rapidly expanding economic empire , which Dalmiya and IS Bindra first set in motion , now operates in an age of Twenty20 franchise cricket , the internet and social media. A forward-thinking 20th century cricket mandarin , must now handle a 21st century business . At 74 , Dalmiya 's sharpness and energy , which made him an administrator not to be messed with , will be of a lower wattage. He must now be the link between two bitter opposition groups , his favour and approval definitely sought after. Regardless of how much energy he may or may not have to send fur flying , the idea will amuse him greatly. His adversaries have fallen out and once again , like it did in his prime , the BCCI has turned to him. Jaggu the Redeemer . To those outside India , Dalmiya 's return brings a fresh sense of bafflement at the shenanigans of the orient. To those inside his country , it is another reminder that not only do the wheels of Indian cricket move in mysterious ways , they are capable of changing direction with alacrity . In the pre-Srinivasan-Chennai Super Kings era - it did exist - it was Dalmiya who was the Indian cricket administrator who earned the collective wrath and scorn of the western world. The first Asian head of the ICC , former BCCI president and the founder of cricket 's Asian bloc ( which the new regime under Srinivasan turned into the Big Four bloc of India Australia , England and South Africa ) , Dalmiya was considered the scourge of the world game. He was the man , working alongside IS Bindra in the BCCI , who began to generate money for Indian cricket through television rights . As ICC chief , he headed the team that turned the finances around leading even former CEO Malcolm Speed , with whom Dalmiya had many an arm wrestle , to admit that , " he taught the ICC how to capitalise on its new revenue stream. " Dalmiya 's prickly presence at the head of world cricket , established without any doubt that the power centre of world cricket had moved east . Before this repeat renaissance , Dalmiya was last seen at the churning apex of Indian cricket politics in 2005 battling Pawar , Shashank Manohar , Srinivasan and Lalit Modi. Even though Dalmiya was not competing for office himself , the 2005 election was the first time he ended up losing in his quarter-century in cricket administration when Pawar beat Ranbir Singh Mahendra , the man who was in Dalmiya 's corner . He was then deliberately and methodically sidelined by the forces that had ousted him. Expelled from the BCCI , briefly arrested , Dalmiya had cases of misappropriation slapped on him by the new regime and most painfully , his kingdom , Eden Gardens , had to make do with fewer Tests and ODIs. In 2011 , he and the Gardens faced what they thought of as the unkindest cut : the India versus England World Cup match was cancelled by the ICC , led at the time by Pawar. It is unlikely Dalmiya either forgot or forgave that slight . During his prime , he had run Indian and international cricket from his office at the ML Dalmiya headquarters in Kolkata , with his loyal personal assistant KK Ghosh , conducting business through typewriters and landline telephones. He was , until recently , thought of as yesterday 's man , 'former ' in every sense of the word. In June 2013 , he had stepped into the breach at the end of the raucous meeting in Chennai and was appointed interim president. In March 2015 , he is full-time president again. The political cycle begun in 2005 has been completed and closed . Dalmiya and Srinivasan are similar in many ways. They are both , an insider says , authoritarian , patriarchal and look after their own people with favours and largesse. The major difference between the two , however , is the absence of arrogance in one man and its overwhelming presence in another. Dalmiya has the ability to discuss , negotiate and eventually get what he wants. With Srinivasan , discussion is but an abstract noun . Compared to Dalmiya and his safari-suit-wearing Kolkata persona , Srinivasan appeared very nouveau when he first showed up. Cheques arrived on time for players , meetings were conducted briskly , the man had a dry sense of humour and was kosher businessman - golf-playing , Scotch-drinking , cricket-loving. But by 2013 , during the IPL 's corruption scandal , the 'tectonic plates shifted ' ( to borrow a phrase from actor Rahul Bose on ESPNcricinfo 's video chat show ) and Srinivasan 's true personality emerged , holding Indian cricket and its image outside the country to ransom for the sake of holding office . That office is now gone until the next BCCI elections ( in September 2017 , thanks to a freshly-amended BCCI constitution in which all office bearers enjoy uncontested three-year terms ) but for the next few months , Dalmiya will no doubt have Srinivasan in his ear more than he did for the last decade. His lietuenants happen to be two of the BCCI 's most ambitious young officials , Anurag Thakur as secretary and Anirudh Chaudhary as treasurer - the latter the son of Dalmiya 's aide Ranbir Singh. There is a very good chance that he will get opposing messages on some if not most issues. What is done about the chatter will be revealing. It will help us discover whether the old fox can once again tap into his old instincts at the head of the pack. Or if Jagguda 's edge will now be blunted . A version of this article first appeared in June 2013 Sharda Ugra is senior editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . OLDEST forzaps on June 3 , 2013 , 3 : 16 GMT I think the relationship between the BCCI and the IPL should be along the lines of the relationship between the English FA and the EPL , in that all the clubs should be members of the BCCI but the BCCI should n't actually run the league. This will result ( sooner or later ) in a professionally run league a bit removed from the influence of politicians/BCCI type strongmen . on June 2 , 2013 , 19 : 42 GMT In 1983 , a concert of Lata Mangeshkar was arranged to collect the funds for rewarding the world cup winning members of Indian Cricket team. Dalmiya had a great role in turning the things around for BCCI , from that economically awful state to the current state of being the richest cricket organization in the world . He even turned ICC who was in dole drums financially , into rich state by selling the television right of all the ICC tournaments for very high prices to the broadcasters . Whether you like him or not , he did some wonderful things to Indian cricket and to the world Cricket. Though Sudden appearance of him , like ugra said is a mysterious one , I Hope that is only for betterment of the administration of Indian cricket . on March 3 , 2015 , 23 : 56 GMT Good news for fans across the Wahgah border. We can now genuinely hope to see more India Pakistan matches and Pakistani players participating in the IPL at some point of time. Mr. Dalmiya believed in strong Indo Pak cricketing relations during his last tenure so at-least I 'm hopeful seeing him at the helm of affairs in India . on March 3 , 2015 , 11 : 30 GMT Surely , you 're not a CSK fan Sharda ! ! ! You are overthinking this thing , loosen up and let go soon . on March 3 , 2015 , 8 : 39 GMT " A forward-thinking 20th century cricket mandarin , must now handle a 21st century business. " Cheers Sharda ! CurrentPresident on March 3 , 2015 , 0 : 48 GMT It is really unfortunate that these are the alternative Indian cricket has. From one compromised individual to another. And the one who did not win was more of the same . The premier sports organization of the country that represents the wishes and aspirations of close to a billion fans is run like a fiefdom by a clique of privileged few and their family members. The poor fans have no say at all in how the game is run or where the money goes . The only silver lining might be a bigger role for Saurav Ganguly . grandad113 on March 2 , 2015 , 17 : 41 GMT From all my 72 years of watching Indian and world cricket individuals have come and gone but there will none with the impact that Mr. Srinivasan has made both positively and negatively. Though it would be wrong to just single him out for all the wrong doings , I do feel he needs to step aside at least for the time being until the case finishes. IPL itself has a whole is not doing any good for Indian Test team and to single out a franchise there also does n't make sense. As a old Indian fan I do feel highly letdown by our Test performances and do feel it 's time for players like GR Vishwanath , Gavaskar , J Srinath , Sachin , Ganguly , Dravid and Kumble to step up both in administration as well in team setup to help Indian Cricket move forward. I do feel everyone will agree . on March 2 , 2015 , 13 : 46 GMT In my opinion the administrators should have a Sharp Cricketing brain with business acumen and not more than 50 and should hold office only for one 5 year term and not from political background. We have 1.2 billion out of which I am sure at least a 1000 would fit that description. In that 1000 pick one from each state and Make them the state cricketing administrators and the best of them as their Chief controlling the cricket in India. That would be an Ideal world.Hope one day India gets there . Kirk-at-Lords on June 4 , 2013 , 14 : 13 GMT Thanks to Sharda Ugra 's unmatched insight into the depths of Indian Old Order cricketing politics , it has become clearer than ever that the world of cricket needs to achieve " escape velocity " in order to remove itself from the massive pull of gravity created by the Great Men in the Sky Boxes. New faces ( at least to cricketing governance , though not necessarily to the sport itself ) are vital , and even more so the involvement of the cricketing world beyond India. Dalmiya accustomed us all to thinking that as India goes , so goes the cricket. The importance of India is undeniable and appropriate , but the governance of the sport MUST be global AND it must be pitched at the highest possible level of quality. No longer can this be accomplished by the Great Game being under any country 's or any mogul 's thumb. A fundamentally new governance model is desperately needed. Cricket now needs to show as much desperation in the boardroom as players do on the field. Call the Cricket Convention ! TheOnlyEmperor on June 4 , 2013 , 5 : 07 GMT It is ironical and a sign of the times , that a man who had no corruption charge against him has been asked to 'step-aside ' by public/media pressure and replaced by a man who had embezzlement charges against him . forzaps on June 3 , 2013 , 3 : 16 GMT I think the relationship between the BCCI and the IPL should be along the lines of the relationship between the English FA and the EPL , in that all the clubs should be members of the BCCI but the BCCI should n't actually run the league. This will result ( sooner or later ) in a professionally run league a bit removed from the influence of politicians/BCCI type strongmen . on June 2 , 2013 , 19 : 42 GMT In 1983 , a concert of Lata Mangeshkar was arranged to collect the funds for rewarding the world cup winning members of Indian Cricket team. Dalmiya had a great role in turning the things around for BCCI , from that economically awful state to the current state of being the richest cricket organization in the world . He even turned ICC who was in dole drums financially , into rich state by selling the television right of all the ICC tournaments for very high prices to the broadcasters . Whether you like him or not , he did some wonderful things to Indian cricket and to the world Cricket. Though Sudden appearance of him , like ugra said is a mysterious one , I Hope that is only for betterment of the administration of Indian cricket . on March 3 , 2015 , 23 : 56 GMT Good news for fans across the Wahgah border. We can now genuinely hope to see more India Pakistan matches and Pakistani players participating in the IPL at some point of time. Mr. Dalmiya believed in strong Indo Pak cricketing relations during his last tenure so at-least I 'm hopeful seeing him at the helm of affairs in India . on March 3 , 2015 , 11 : 30 GMT Surely , you 're not a CSK fan Sharda ! ! ! You are overthinking this thing , loosen up and let go soon . on March 3 , 2015 , 8 : 39 GMT " A forward-thinking 20th century cricket mandarin , must now handle a 21st century business. " Cheers Sharda ! CurrentPresident on March 3 , 2015 , 0 : 48 GMT It is really unfortunate that these are the alternative Indian cricket has. From one compromised individual to another. And the one who did not win was more of the same . The premier sports organization of the country that represents the wishes and aspirations of close to a billion fans is run like a fiefdom by a clique of privileged few and their family members. The poor fans have no say at all in how the game is run or where the money goes . The only silver lining might be a bigger role for Saurav Ganguly . grandad113 on March 2 , 2015 , 17 : 41 GMT From all my 72 years of watching Indian and world cricket individuals have come and gone but there will none with the impact that Mr. Srinivasan has made both positively and negatively. Though it would be wrong to just single him out for all the wrong doings , I do feel he needs to step aside at least for the time being until the case finishes. IPL itself has a whole is not doing any good for Indian Test team and to single out a franchise there also does n't make sense. As a old Indian fan I do feel highly letdown by our Test performances and do feel it 's time for players like GR Vishwanath , Gavaskar , J Srinath , Sachin , Ganguly , Dravid and Kumble to step up both in administration as well in team setup to help Indian Cricket move forward. I do feel everyone will agree . on March 2 , 2015 , 13 : 46 GMT In my opinion the administrators should have a Sharp Cricketing brain with business acumen and not more than 50 and should hold office only for one 5 year term and not from political background. We have 1.2 billion out of which I am sure at least a 1000 would fit that description. In that 1000 pick one from each state and Make them the state cricketing administrators and the best of them as their Chief controlling the cricket in India. That would be an Ideal world.Hope one day India gets there . Kirk-at-Lords on June 4 , 2013 , 14 : 13 GMT Thanks to Sharda Ugra 's unmatched insight into the depths of Indian Old Order cricketing politics , it has become clearer than ever that the world of cricket needs to achieve " escape velocity " in order to remove itself from the massive pull of gravity created by the Great Men in the Sky Boxes. New faces ( at least to cricketing governance , though not necessarily to the sport itself ) are vital , and even more so the involvement of the cricketing world beyond India. Dalmiya accustomed us all to thinking that as India goes , so goes the cricket. The importance of India is undeniable and appropriate , but the governance of the sport MUST be global AND it must be pitched at the highest possible level of quality. No longer can this be accomplished by the Great Game being under any country 's or any mogul 's thumb. A fundamentally new governance model is desperately needed. Cricket now needs to show as much desperation in the boardroom as players do on the field. Call the Cricket Convention ! TheOnlyEmperor on June 4 , 2013 , 5 : 07 GMT It is ironical and a sign of the times , that a man who had no corruption charge against him has been asked to 'step-aside ' by public/media pressure and replaced by a man who had embezzlement charges against him . on June 4 , 2013 , 3 : 50 GMT @ Sharda Ugra - I have been reading/watching your comments/speech here/ TV channels. We seemed to be relishing on others failures than success. We seemed to target certain individuals and bury people around that individual. We seemed to forget that there is a BIG event in London which is due to commence in 2 days time and we are here , trying to disturb every one 's attention , including the players. . BCCI is a Corporate Body. Please allow it to function by itself. Law will taken its own course - Let us leave it at that. Let us stop spreading negativity since other countries are also watching us. This website is specifically meant only for cricket and not politics in cricket. I have already unsubscribed 1 leading English newspaper and channel with immediate effect . czar2008 on June 3 , 2013 , 21 : 40 GMT I think the title should be ' Who 's Cooking ? ' aarpee2 on June 3 , 2013 , 17 : 25 GMT One can not comprehend the ruthless and singleminded focus on Srinivasan by the media.Instead the attempt should be made to mould public opinion to bring about corrective measures which will help in identifying the loopholes and finding the right solutions in the interest of the game.The time has come maybe to bring in Anil Kumble at the helm of affairs and seek the services of upright individuals like Dravid and VVS into positions of authority.These gentlemen enjoy the respect and trust of the fans and public at large.Apart from their track record they bring to the table the right values which is most needed at this hour . on June 3 , 2013 , 15 : 59 GMT @ Posted by mravikiran on ( June 3 , 2013 , 13 : 57 GMT ) Sourav Ganguly will fancy his chances.. . Mr Ravikiran , Chances for what ? ? ? Can you clarify , please . acnc on June 3 , 2013 , 15 : 56 GMT The only problem I have with him is he pronounces cricket as 'kirkit'.. . MaruthuDelft on June 3 , 2013 , 15 : 46 GMT @ Ram Venkat...If you are from TN please do n't stand for any Tamil. We are a crazy community . Nampally on June 3 , 2013 , 14 : 59 GMT Instead of throwing open the BCCI at the mercy of " Political CEO 's " let us put it back in the hands of the ex-Cricketers. There are guys like Kumble , Dravid , Kapil , Gavaskar & many journalists with cricketing knowledge & background.It is nice to restrict the business Tycoons ' wings clipped to fit the industrial organisations. Money is the catalyst for greed. IPL has definitely provided the means for greed thru ' its off shoot Betting & Bookies. Hence the root cause of the current problem. Majority of IPL Cricketers do not have university education because Cricket has provided excellent job & killed that incentive for education. Hence the modern Cricketer is an easy prey. I think there should be schools for Cricketers to educate them on the values of life & on Cricket etiquette. This is the second step in moving forward. Third step is to eliminate Bookies & make betting illegal with stiff penalty for offenders. Lastly , BCCI must have a committee monitoring that Cricket is kept clean . mravikiran on June 3 , 2013 , 13 : 57 GMT Sourav Ganguly will fancy his chances.. . on June 3 , 2013 , 13 : 19 GMT JAGGUDA -- is a Man for All seasons ! ! You may love him or hate BUT CA N'T IGNORE HIM ! ! Being a shrewd businessman , He will show his own true colours in the days to come and put down all the ACES on the table .. Srini would remain on the history books .. so also Pawar sahib ! ! > > All those who gave him the " gaddhi " would then be cursing their fate ? ? on June 3 , 2013 , 12 : 30 GMT Dalmia done a lot for Indian Cricket deoshatwar on June 3 , 2013 , 11 : 45 GMT Enough of businessmen and politicians at the helm of cricket in India ; let the stalwarts of Indian cricket take over. Politicians , strategists , and businessmen can support them ; this way cricket will prosper without having to sell its soul or compromise on its dignity. Surely we can find 30 odd cricketers who have played at least 10 Tests ; and who can become BCCI members. At present , is similar to a situation where ward boys are in-charge of an operation theater , they dictate who to operate and how to , while surgeons are supposed only to perform surgeries without having any kind of say in these matters . Go_F.Alonso on June 3 , 2013 , 10 : 06 GMT Does the BCCI come under the Union Sports Ministry of India ? If not , why not ? How do these people - Dalmiya , Srinivasan. Pawar etc - get to be the Presidents of the board ? I do n't think any of them played the game. Are n't these people just private businessmen with only power and money in mind ? The right thing to do would be to allow only those people that have graced the game to run it . on June 3 , 2013 , 9 : 40 GMT BCCI is a monster created by the likes of Dalmia , bindra , pawar , lele and others..... . on June 3 , 2013 , 9 : 28 GMT Can someone enlighten the unennlightened like me what Srinivasan did , apart from his company owning CSK , that is wrong and that creates so much of hatred against him even from writers who are expected to be objective and reserve judgement until all facts are known ? on June 3 , 2013 , 9 : 08 GMT This was posted much before this article appeared. by Jose Puliampatta on ( June 2 , 2013 , 13 : 57 GMT ) What are the chances that Dalmia is shrewed enough to keep Srini out for as long as possible ? Extending that logic further , Dalmia keeping anybody else taking over as the President ? Even in September. What are the chances of Dalmia becoming another Srini - cussed , iron-fisted , and dictatorial. With or without the backing of the big ring masters of Indian politics from Delhi. That too bi-partisan ( BJP + Cong ) ! Yet , neutralized by Dalmia. Did " Delhi " play the role of a Frankenstein ? Resurrecting a forgotten monster. Let us not forget Dalmia is the biggest and the most experienced game player India Cricket have had in recent years. That much about Delhi-players . Will the " Western India " group with their " Big Political Daddy " in the background accept this arrangement ? What will be their next move ? Wait for the next episode in this sordid saga of Indian Cricket Maladministration . RajenVarma on June 3 , 2013 , 7 : 03 GMT Cricket governance in India has deteriorated into a mockery. This has happened when world all over corporate governance was emerging as the basic tenets of transparency and democracy.Cricketing shenanigans have been long at work to manipulate and muscle the interests of the stakeholders among whom the most important being players and fans. IPL cricket was boorishly positioned as cricket entertainment. Cricketers and fans had perceived it as an innovation ; but it soon became a marketing fad and took the shady shapes of the products that sprung from Enron and mortgage banks of the US that collapsed over night because of the economic immorality of the offerings and greed displayed by managers. BCCI has produced corporate leaders who encouraged greed and sleaze opening up options for Indian cricketers and public to pursue ugly routes of fame and riches. Dalmiyas and othes will continue to ruin Indian cricket if fans and cricketers have no credible role to play in BCCI affairs . IMcricfan on June 3 , 2013 , 6 : 55 GMT As a cricket fan , i would rather prefer Dalimiya than Srini or Powar.It was he who turned the tide in terms of money earned in favour of BCCI.He may have his shortcomings but at the current stage he seems to be more sound than the autocratic Srinivasan who does not want to resign , who has his own personal lawyer decide who the committee members will be and who has taken the fans for a ride by saying that he has done nothing wrong . Anwaruzz on June 3 , 2013 , 5 : 40 GMT JML is the most shrewd cricket administrator India ever had and thanks to him commercialization of cricket is currently at this stage making money for the BCCI , team owners and the players at mass , providing immense entertainment to billions of people. He has slighted for personal reasons out of petty jealousy and for immense power. This magician has reappeared from his disappearing act. Is he here to stay ? it will only bode well for Indian cricket. If he wishes he can even beat the best Indian politicians in their own game. These unfolding of events is as interesting as any very keenly contested T20. Keep going.............................Dalmiya . ReverseSweepRhino on June 3 , 2013 , 5 : 25 GMT Yes , Dalmiya may have outside interests influencing his decisions , just as Srini & Co. did. However , Dalmiya was much more responsible towards the development of cricket as a global game and helped support the growth of non-test playing countries as well. Dalmiya helped make cricket rich , Srini made franchises ( and a few cricketers ) rich . While the first priority should be to make both the IPL and BCCI transparent and accountable , I would like to see the development of cricket ( and not just cricketing franchises ) take center stage . jaikishan_k on June 3 , 2013 , 3 : 05 GMT I do not see how Dalmiya replacing Srinivasan for the interim period would help. Moreover , this move might be the ideal remote control for Srinivasan and I feel that this would give Srinivasan a chance to control and influence the outcome of the probe . In my view , Shashank Manohar was the cleanest guy to take on the interim role ( having a superb track record and being a no-nonsense guy ) and Srinivasan should have been sacked on sunday. Its disappointing to see that the Board members governing the national sport do not have any spine to see the obvious and act in the interest of the fans of the country and the betterment of the sport. They need to remember that BCCI 's power is only because of the fans following the game across the country . satishchandar on June 3 , 2013 , 3 : 00 GMT Hello Sharda.. From a senior writer like you " In the pre-Srinivasan-Chennai Super Kings era " was not expected.. Was it Srini/CSK the ruler ever since Dalmiya was ousted or Mr.Pawar was in power ? A senior writer need not use the current affair to demand attention. . Till today , Dalmiya was the most able head of the BCCI and i would seriously wish Dalmiya retains the post next time when it is the turn of East. . Also , the BCCI rather than looking to oust Srinivasan should work on demanding more from him and having him under control.. It is not that tough to tone down a aggressive man for the sake of the board.. Putting entire blame on one single guy and isolating him is no good for anyone.. It happened the same with Lalit.. But atleast , he was disloyal to BCCI whereas , Srini is till now that bad to BCCI.. Considering the experienced heads in the board , they can work together to draw a favorable solution for everyone. . KiwiRocker- on June 3 , 2013 , 2 : 48 GMT Thats an excellent move. Apart from tainting image of Indian cricket and making it a laughing stock on field and off field , Srinivasan has also betrayed the tradiational Asian allies. While Jagmohan Dalmiya was a great ambeassador of Asian cricket and was one of the founding fathers of Asian cricket council , Srinivasan has spent time buttering up likes of Australia , England and SA. This has not helped Indian cricket at all. India has lost more test matches last year than so called minnow teams B'desh and Zimbabwe. India 's cash cow IPL will always be seen with an eye of suspicion and Srinivasan 's Champion 's league with more alliance from Australia and SA is really a non affair.Jagmohan Dalmiya is immensely liked in Pakistan and he was the central figure to bring world cup to Pakistan and SL in 1996. Srinivasan should simply be sacked forever and the Dalmiya should be appointed to the role. Dalmiya knows who his real allies are and will create an inclusive cricket world unlike Srinivasan on June 3 , 2013 , 2 : 32 GMT We really need to focus on the issue at hand - spot fixing and match fixing ( remember ? ) - rather than digging up the buried hatchets and reminiscing India 's prior and recent status in the world and their aspirations that has little to do with cricket on the field. Let 's face it , unless folks shed their egos - and their desires for world domination - to rally and fix the home front - the IPL and cricket will die a horrible death in India ! We ca n't trust ANY cricketer from India any more until everyone co-operates in the police investigation and clean the mess. Period ! D-Ascendant on June 3 , 2013 , 1 : 35 GMT The BCCI meeting may have been a sham , but if one of the outcomes is more Test cricket for Eden Gardens , then it 's not all bad. For too long Eden Gardens has suffered because of all this political posturing , and we 've had Test matches handed to venues that clearly attract the T20/ODI-type spectators. It 's high time the BCCI start allotting Test matches to cities that truly understand and love the game , and Eden Gardens , being one of the best examples of that , should get at least two Test matches a year . chatas on June 2 , 2013 , 22 : 07 GMT However you slice the pie , you can not ignore that Shri Jagmohan Dalmiya is a seasoned , incisive and proven leader. He is largely responsible for India 's financial domination in cricket. No more the " Imperial " Cricket Conference dictating to the poor sub-continental players. Things have changed - drastically. Now IPL is the biggest event drawing cash-flows that are the envy of others. There is no question that Dalmiya ' s return is to be welcomed by every cricket-lover in India. We all need to support him whole-heartedly. He needs FULL power and should become BCCI President immediately . ashok16 on June 2 , 2013 , 18 : 56 GMT Gloating over the conflict of interest angle , we kept delighting in the Super Kings and it has come to bite us. What Dalmiya wants to do is curious but in the end it is probably more of the same. I think both the journalists and cricket watching tend to be too easily pacified ( for eg. Sharda Ugra 's praise of Jagdale and Shirke after resigning when until a few days back they were happy cronies of Srinivasan. ) I think questions need to be asked relentlessly until the situation clearly and measurably changes for the better . forzaps on June 3 , 2013 , 3 : 16 GMT I think the relationship between the BCCI and the IPL should be along the lines of the relationship between the English FA and the EPL , in that all the clubs should be members of the BCCI but the BCCI should n't actually run the league. This will result ( sooner or later ) in a professionally run league a bit removed from the influence of politicians/BCCI type strongmen . on June 2 , 2013 , 19 : 42 GMT In 1983 , a concert of Lata Mangeshkar was arranged to collect the funds for rewarding the world cup winning members of Indian Cricket team. Dalmiya had a great role in turning the things around for BCCI , from that economically awful state to the current state of being the richest cricket organization in the world . He even turned ICC who was in dole drums financially , into rich state by selling the television right of all the ICC tournaments for very high prices to the broadcasters . Whether you like him or not , he did some wonderful things to Indian cricket and to the world Cricket. Though Sudden appearance of him , like ugra said is a mysterious one , I Hope that is only for betterment of the administration of Indian cricket . ashok16 on June 2 , 2013 , 18 : 56 GMT Gloating over the conflict of interest angle , we kept delighting in the Super Kings and it has come to bite us. What Dalmiya wants to do is curious but in the end it is probably more of the same. I think both the journalists and cricket watching tend to be too easily pacified ( for eg. Sharda Ugra 's praise of Jagdale and Shirke after resigning when until a few days back they were happy cronies of Srinivasan. ) I think questions need to be asked relentlessly until the situation clearly and measurably changes for the better . chatas on June 2 , 2013 , 22 : 07 GMT However you slice the pie , you can not ignore that Shri Jagmohan Dalmiya is a seasoned , incisive and proven leader. He is largely responsible for India 's financial domination in cricket. No more the " Imperial " Cricket Conference dictating to the poor sub-continental players. Things have changed - drastically. Now IPL is the biggest event drawing cash-flows that are the envy of others. There is no question that Dalmiya ' s return is to be welcomed by every cricket-lover in India. We all need to support him whole-heartedly. He needs FULL power and should become BCCI President immediately . D-Ascendant on June 3 , 2013 , 1 : 35 GMT The BCCI meeting may have been a sham , but if one of the outcomes is more Test cricket for Eden Gardens , then it 's not all bad. For too long Eden Gardens has suffered because of all this political posturing , and we 've had Test matches handed to venues that clearly attract the T20/ODI-type spectators. It 's high time the BCCI start allotting Test matches to cities that truly understand and love the game , and Eden Gardens , being one of the best examples of that , should get at least two Test matches a year . on June 3 , 2013 , 2 : 32 GMT We really need to focus on the issue at hand - spot fixing and match fixing ( remember ? ) - rather than digging up the buried hatchets and reminiscing India 's prior and recent status in the world and their aspirations that has little to do with cricket on the field. Let 's face it , unless folks shed their egos - and their desires for world domination - to rally and fix the home front - the IPL and cricket will die a horrible death in India ! We ca n't trust ANY cricketer from India any more until everyone co-operates in the police investigation and clean the mess. Period ! KiwiRocker- on June 3 , 2013 , 2 : 48 GMT Thats an excellent move. Apart from tainting image of Indian cricket and making it a laughing stock on field and off field , Srinivasan has also betrayed the tradiational Asian allies. While Jagmohan Dalmiya was a great ambeassador of Asian cricket and was one of the founding fathers of Asian cricket council , Srinivasan has spent time buttering up likes of Australia , England and SA. This has not helped Indian cricket at all. India has lost more test matches last year than so called minnow teams B'desh and Zimbabwe. India 's cash cow IPL will always be seen with an eye of suspicion and Srinivasan 's Champion 's league with more alliance from Australia and SA is really a non affair.Jagmohan Dalmiya is immensely liked in Pakistan and he was the central figure to bring world cup to Pakistan and SL in 1996. Srinivasan should simply be sacked forever and the Dalmiya should be appointed to the role. Dalmiya knows who his real allies are and will create an inclusive cricket world unlike Srinivasan satishchandar on June 3 , 2013 , 3 : 00 GMT Hello Sharda.. From a senior writer like you " In the pre-Srinivasan-Chennai Super Kings era " was not expected.. Was it Srini/CSK the ruler ever since Dalmiya was ousted or Mr.Pawar was in power ? A senior writer need not use the current affair to demand attention. . Till today , Dalmiya was the most able head of the BCCI and i would seriously wish Dalmiya retains the post next time when it is the turn of East. . Also , the BCCI rather than looking to oust Srinivasan should work on demanding more from him and having him under control.. It is not that tough to tone down a aggressive man for the sake of the board.. Putting entire blame on one single guy and isolating him is no good for anyone.. It happened the same with Lalit.. But atleast , he was disloyal to BCCI whereas , Srini is till now that bad to BCCI.. Considering the experienced heads in the board , they can work together to draw a favorable solution for everyone. . jaikishan_k on June 3 , 2013 , 3 : 05 GMT I do not see how Dalmiya replacing Srinivasan for the interim period would help. Moreover , this move might be the ideal remote control for Srinivasan and I feel that this would give Srinivasan a chance to control and influence the outcome of the probe . In my view , Shashank Manohar was the cleanest guy to take on the interim role ( having a superb track record and being a no-nonsense guy ) and Srinivasan should have been sacked on sunday. Its disappointing to see that the Board members governing the national sport do not have any spine to see the obvious and act in the interest of the fans of the country and the betterment of the sport. They need to remember that BCCI 's power is only because of the fans following the game across the country . ReverseSweepRhino on June 3 , 2013 , 5 : 25 GMT Yes , Dalmiya may have outside interests influencing his decisions , just as Srini & Co. did. However , Dalmiya was much more responsible towards the development of cricket as a global game and helped support the growth of non-test playing countries as well. Dalmiya helped make cricket rich , Srini made franchises ( and a few cricketers ) rich . While the first priority should be to make both the IPL and BCCI transparent and accountable , I would like to see the development of cricket ( and not just cricketing franchises ) take center stage . Anwaruzz on June 3 , 2013 , 5 : 40 GMT JML is the most shrewd cricket administrator India ever had and thanks to him commercialization of cricket is currently at this stage making money for the BCCI , team owners and the players at mass , providing immense entertainment to billions of people. He has slighted for personal reasons out of petty jealousy and for immense power. This magician has reappeared from his disappearing act. Is he here to stay ? it will only bode well for Indian cricket. If he wishes he can even beat the best Indian politicians in their own game. These unfolding of events is as interesting as any very keenly contested T20. Keep going.............................Dalmiya . IMcricfan on June 3 , 2013 , 6 : 55 GMT As a cricket fan , i would rather prefer Dalimiya than Srini or Powar.It was he who turned the tide in terms of money earned in favour of BCCI.He may have his shortcomings but at the current stage he seems to be more sound than the autocratic Srinivasan who does not want to resign , who has his own personal lawyer decide who the committee members will be and who has taken the fans for a ride by saying that he has done nothing wrong .
