The West Indies crisis October 20 , 2014 BCCI suspends all bilateral tours to West Indies ESPNcricinfo staff Play 06 : 14 'Potentially catastrophic for West Indies' The BCCI working committee has decided to suspend all bilateral tours to West Indies , in response to the visitors pulling out of their India tour. India were expected to play five series against West Indies in the next eight years , including four visits to the Caribbean . While a BCCI release made no specific mention of any claim for damages , the Indian board will also initiate legal proceedings against the West Indies Cricket Board . The board statement also did not mention any action against West Indies players who participate in the IPL. The players were unlikely to be suspended from participation in the league , with franchises backing them . The working committee meeting in Hyderabad was convened to discuss the aftermath of West Indies ' pullout. The members unanimously felt that strong action needed to be taken against WICB in order to prevent recurrence of such an event . A working committee member revealed that the BCCI 's legal cell said that the bilateral agreement " has been breached " and the BCCI has " every right to claim damages " . This , according to him , made the decision easy for the committee. Another member revealed that the claim amount and the jurisdiction will be decided by the legal cell . It is understood that during the informal discussions during the build-up to the meeting in Hyderabad , some members had suggested that the BCCI suspend ties with WICB for a specific period. However , the committee was convinced that the abrupt manner in which the tour was called off deserved the harshest possible punishment. As an insider revealed " the manner in which the WICB put its hands up " during the whole standoff with its players which led to the cancellation of the tour midway made the BCCI believe that the bilateral ties should be suspended " indefinitely " . " At the moment , it looks unlikely that the bilateral series would resume anytime soon. It will be up to the legal cell now to see if and when a settlement takes place , " revealed an insider . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
