India news December 6 , 2014 Sehwag wants to play for 'another two-three years' shares 45 Play 07 : 43 Virender Sehwag has no plans to end his career in the near future , although he last played for India nearly two years ago. Speaking to ESPNcricinfo , Sehwag revealed he was keen to play for " another two-three years " before considering retirement. The 36-year old said he was still " enjoying playing the game " and will have no regrets if the opportunity to play international cricket does n't come again . " As a cricketer , everybody has a dream to play for your country , " Sehwag said. " When I took up cricket seriously , I wanted to play for India. When my dream was achieved , I thought what next ? Then a fellow cricketer told me , 'playing for India is easy , playing for 10-15 years is difficult'. Then I changed my dream to play 100 Test matches. I achieved that as well. Now there is nothing to achieve , so I am just enjoying things. " Speaking before the World Cup probables - from which he was omitted - were announced , Sehwag was asked if he would be fine if the selectors do n't consider him for a national recall. He shrugged and cheekily said , " Yes , whose loss ? " You should be happy in your life. Cricketers are worried about their milestones , worried that they should score 5000-10,000 Test runs but I am not fussy. I played 100 Tests and I am still playing the game , that 's what I want to do . " If I retire today or after two years , does it make any difference ? Not in my life. Does it make a difference if I score 8000 or 10,000 runs in Test cricket ? Not in anybody 's life. Even if I make 10,000 runs , who will be happy ? Only me , maybe , because people do n't care about 8000 or 10,000 or 15,000 runs. It is about individual satisfaction. " Virender Sehwag : " Now there is nothing to achieve , so I am just enjoying things. " © ESPNcricinfo Ltd Since being axed from the team after the second Test of Australia 's tour to India in 2013 in Hyderabad , Sehwag has n't made a compelling case for a comeback. In 12 first-class matches since , he has made 425 runs at an average of 25 with one century. Since his previous ODI in January 2013 , he has scored 228 runs in 11 List A matches at 20.72 with two half-centuries . " My approach is the same. Yes , I am not able to give the kind of performances that I used to , " Sehwag said. " If you look at my first-class stats , if I score runs I score them quickly , if I get out , I get out quickly. I have never tried to change my game. In some matches , I told myself to give some time , scored just five runs in 36 balls on green wickets in Delhi where it is difficult to score. It happens. When you are growing older , you have the experience and that can help you score but it 's not possible to get a hundred every time you go out there. " While Sehwag will be batting in the middle order for Delhi this season , he says he would have no problems opening if asked to. " Last season I batted everywhere - opening , one down , two down and three down , " he said. " It does n't matter to me where I am batting. If the selectors ask me to open the batting , I will do that. When I started playing for India , I was a middle-order batsman , the team management asked me to open the batting and I did that. If somebody asks me to , I will , I have done it in the past. I open for Kings XI ( Punjab ) . " While admitting that he " missed " being part of the India dressing room , Sehwag said he prays and hopes the team " wins whatever match they are playing in. " " I fight with my sons when they say , 'Dad you are not playing , ( so ) the Indian team should not win'. The priority is that the country should win , it does n't matter who is playing. I miss the dressing room but at least somebody else is playing and contributing to the team , winning matches. I am happy about that. " Having been on three previous tours to Australia , Sehwag said that India 's young batting line-up will need to be " given time " before they start delivering results. " I think we have a very good bunch of players , we have to give them time. On my first tours of England , South Africa and Australia , I managed to score a hundred but in the other innings I did n't score runs. If you look at the old days also when players came in , they failed in 15 innings but they still played 100 Test matches. " * This interview was conducted on December 1 , three days before the 30 probables for the World Cup were named. Sehwag was not among them Gaurav Kalra is a senior editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ gauravkalra75 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
