India news December 27 , 2014 Pragyan Ojha banned from bowling Play 04 : 02 Agarkar : Ban answers question why Akshar picked over Ojha Left-arm spinner Pragyan Ojha has been barred from bowling in competitive cricket after his action was found to be illegal. ESPNcricinfo understands that following a request made by the Hyderabad Cricket Association , Ojha 's home association in domestic cricket , Ojha 's action was tested at the ICC-recognised centre in Chennai. The tests , it is understood , concluded that Ojha 's elbow flexed more than the permissible limit of 15 degrees . The BCCI informed the HCA in a letter on Friday that Ojha can not bowl in competitive cricket till his action is cleared , and the bowler was subsequently withdrawn from Hyderabad 's squad for their Ranji Trophy game against Services , which begins on Sunday . It is understood that Ojha 's action had been under the scanner for more than a year now , which was one of the reasons why he disappeared from the selectors ' radar despite being one of the quickest Indian bowlers to reach 100 Test wickets. Ojha is believed to have discussed the issue informally with the national selectors , which resulted in him getting his action tested in Chennai . Purshottam Agarwal , the HCA joint secretary , admitted that the association had " received a letter " from the BCCI , but denied that the HCA had asked for Ojha 's action to be evaluated. Hyderabad 's coach Abdul Azeem , meanwhile , said he was surprised by the setback to his team , particularly since there had been " no whispers about it " . Former Test umpire AV Jayaprakash , a member of the BCCI 's committee to eradicate suspect bowling actions , had told ESPNcricinfo in October that Ojha had been asked to undertake corrective measures in the past. Following Jayaprakash 's claims , which came during the Duleep Trophy , Ojha started bowling in half-sleeves. In the Ranji Trophy this season , he bowled 133.4 overs in Hyderabad 's three matches , picking up four wickets at 75.25. It is understood that Ojha did bowl his arm-ball throughout the season , a delivery which is believed to have come under the scanner . Earlier this month , Ojha was released by Mumbai Indians ahead of the 2015 IPL season . Amol Karhadkar is a correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
