Corruption in cricket January 21 , 2015 'Do you want to sit over the liquidation of the game ? ' ESPNcricinfo staff India 's courts have had some strong words to say on the 2013 IPL corruption scandal. Here 's a selection shares 7 The BCCI and its sidelined president N Srinivasan have been the subject of censure and chastisement by India 's highest court © AFP India 's Supreme Court is expected to pass an order on the 2013 IPL corruption case on January 22 , after 17 months of hearings and investigations in relation to the role of BCCI and IPL administrators in the matter . May 23 , 2014 " How did he stay on despite all the allegations ? His staying on is nauseating for cricket … It seems that Mr Srinivasan has not taken the allegations seriously. " Supreme Court Justice AK Patnaik on N Srinivasan 's refusal to relinquish his position as BCCI President despite facing a barrage of allegations September 1 , 2014 " The BCCI 's annual general meeting is not our concern. Signing the account book can not be a ground for reinstatement. " Supreme Court Justices Tirath Singh Thakur and Fakkir Mohamed Ibrahim Kalifulla are unimpressed with the argument for the reinstatement of N Srinivasan November 24 , 2014 " Your duty as President is to keep the show [ IPL ] running and to keep it clean. What is your duty as a team owner ? To win the tournament. Is this not a conflict ? " Justices Thakur and Kalifulla ( henceforth , the Supreme Court ) brings up the question of the conflict of interest between N Srinivasan 's dual role as President of the BCCI and the Managing Director of India Cements , the entity which owns the Chennai Super Kings franchise " Do you want to sit over the liquidation of the game in this country ? " The Supreme Court 's puts a foreboding question to the BCCI about the future of Indian cricket " You mean to say when a decision is taken in the BCCI , the President is a mute spectator in all this ? That he has no say in the matter ? " More questions by the Supreme Court about N Srinivasan 's conflict of interest . " Recognition comes when one lakh [ 100,000 ] people turn up at Eden Gardens to watch a match. That recognition is not because of Srinivasan. The benefit of doubt must go to the game rather than the individual. " The Supreme Court restores the power enjoyed by Indian cricket to its rightful owner . " We expect you to challenge the Mudgal report and call it useless. We do n't expect people to stand up and confess. " The Supreme Court is not surprised when the counsel for the BCCI and N Srinivasan question the findings of the produced by the court-appointed Mudgal Committee investigating the 2013 IPL corruption scandal . November 25 , 2014 " Which private body sets up an anti-corruption body unless it feels there will be corruption ? " Leading Supreme Court advocate Harish Salve , appearing for the petitioners Cricket Association of Bihar against N Srinivasan , makes a whimsical observation about the anti-corruption measures adopted by the BCCI . November 27 , 2014 " What is more valuable to Mr Srinivasan ? Is it his office or his team ? " The Supreme Court is as perplexed as the general public about N Srinivasan 's many roles " The distinction between Mr Srinivasan and India Cements is getting to a vanishing point. " The Supreme Court finds it difficult to treat N Srinivasan and India Cements ' as separate entities when it comes to the roles performed in with the Chennai Super Kings franchise . December 1 , 2014 " Why are you taking his name ? Dropping names of unconnected individuals in not permitted " The Supreme Court asks why the name of Arun Jaitley , India 's finance and information and broadcasting minister , is repeatedly brought up in the courtroom by Srinivasan 's counsel Kapil Sibal . " Either there is a conflict of interest or there is no conflict of interest. There is no third truth. " The Supreme Court sees the conflict of interest issue in black and white , no grey December 8 , 2014 " Who should be allowed to fight [ the BCCI election ] ? People who are subject to a matter of inquiry , people who are indicted by the commission ? Should they proceed to capture the BCCI once again ? " The Supreme Court questions the BCCI and N Srinivasan 's urgency seeking permission to allow him contest the BCCI 's delayed annual elections . " You are a contractor and you 're heading a contracting party. " The Supreme Court 's spells out the advantage given to N Srinivasan following an amendment to a clause in the BCCI constitution . " Bias acts in a subtle way. Even as a president if you go away , the bias will continue to influence the judgement of other people. Will it make a difference ? [ If Srinivasan is distanced from the CSK case ] It wo n't. " The Supreme Court says it will make a little difference if N Srinivasan , in case re-elected as BCCI president , offers to step aside from all investigations surrounding his IPL team , the Chennai Super Kings . " The right to participate in the electoral process has nothing to do with conflict of interest. Why should I be saddled with the consequences due to the statements attributed to someone else ? " Prominent Supreme Court advocate , Kapil Sibal , counsel for N Srinivasan , on his right to contest the BCCI elections December 9 , 2014 " If you wish to contest as president , your investment is endangered. If you do n't fight the elections , your investment is safe. " The Supreme Court simplifies a complex situation for N Srinivasan " We can understand your passion for the game but not so much passion. " The Supreme Court tells Srinivasan that that too much passion is not necessarily a good thing " Have you invested money in cricket only for the love of the game ? Business is business. " The Supreme Court is not convinced that N Srinivasan 's cricket-related investments are based purely on love of the sport December 10 , 2014 " Could any other Board could call the team selected by them 'Team India ? ' You have a de facto and de jure monopoly " The Supreme Court is clear that the BCCI 's legal status as a private body does not prevent it from enjoying public monopoly over the sport in India . " If you fail in your duty , ca n't we get it corrected ? If there is some temptation for a thief to enter , why ca n't you stop it ? Why are you averse to it ? " The Supreme Court on the BCCI 's inefficiency and the subsequent need for the court to intervene " So you want us to catch the thief but not plug the scope of future theft ? " The Supreme Court on the BCCI 's plea for autonomy after the court investigation pointed out lapses in its administration . " It does n't make a difference , betting is betting. You should have ensured you are not surrounded by people who bet " The Supreme Court to the India Cements lawyer , unwilling to allow the company any leeway based on the argument that Gurunath Meiyappan was betting from the confines of his house December 15 , 2014 " You knew [ the ] role of officials in betting , you did nothing despite the knowledge , was it like putting your job at stake ? " The Supreme Court to Sundar Raman , Chief Operating Officer of the IPL , in response to the defence that his hands were tied even after being given the information that two IPL officials were involved in betting " What material did you expect ? Did you think these people keep cash books and ledgers ? Someone calls and says , ABC is betting , what will you ask ? You will say you need actionable information ? " The Supreme Court to Sundar Raman on his expectation of " actionable " evidence " You have done nothing. You are only looking after celebrities and just watching the fun. " The Supreme Court to Sundar Raman , on his not passing on the information he received about two IPL officials betting to anyone else in the BCCI . " You are saying that even if there are problems [ in Indian cricket ] , the court should not intervene. " The Supreme Court to the BCCI on its limited expectations of the court December 16 , 2014 " Your rules may be sacrosanct for you but not for us. You should take that off your mind that the court is powerless . The Supreme Court reminds the BCCI of its overriding powers " This is not the case of a Masonic lodge or a co-operative society. " Supreme Court lawyer Rajeev Dhavan , appearing for former BCCI president IS Bindra , on the case at hand involving a larger public issue , and it not being a private matter " The IPL is in a different class of its own. " CA Sundaram , lawyer for the BCCI , on the high-profile , profitable Indian Premier League " Sending out a team , selecting a team , calling it team India , offering players opportunities to play , barring players from discharging these opportunities because of a rule violation. " CA Sundaram defines the functions of the BCCI December 17 , 2014 " No IPL record of any player is considered during the selection of any Indian team at any level. " Kapil Sibal on the selection policy of the BCCI © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
