India news January 12 , 2015 Be more flexible with overseas Test XIs , says Kumble 65 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 65 Anil Kumble : 'If your 20 wickets are going to come with two spinners and two fast bowlers , so be it. If it comes with three spinners and one fast bowler so be it ' © Getty Images Anil Kumble , the former India captain , has said that while the team has quality bowlers , their progress has to be monitored season by season , and there has to be a flexible approach to selecting XIs when on tour . The performance of the Indian bowlers on the recent tour to Australia has come in for severe criticism , and Kumble said " some portion of the criticism is justified " , but added that the ability of bowlers to adjust to the longest format has to be taken into account when selecting squads . Speaking to ESPNcricinfo , Kumble , India 's highest wicket-taker in Test and ODI cricket , said : " We have the quality of bowlers , it 's just trying to see who can adjust to the Test format and then choosing your best four bowlers who you think can pick up 20 wickets , that 's also been an issue. " The question that was always raised on the eve of a Test match was simple , he said - how are you going to get 20 wickets ? But now , at times , the answer is made complicated , he said : " We have gone into this theory of three seamers and one spinner the moment we sit on an aircraft which travels more than seven hours - that 's the mindset … If your 20 wickets are going to come with two spinners and two fast bowlers , so be it. If it comes with three spinners and one fast bowler so be it. " He cited the example of the Adelaide Test , where on a track known to favour the batsmen and assist spinners from halfway through the Test , India went in with a single spinner - debutant , Karn Sharma. Kumble asked , " So who got wickets for Australia then ? If you look at the top two bowlers , it was one spinner and one fast bowler. " Australian off-spinner Nathan Lyon was the series ' top wicket-taker with 23 wickets . He said that in the last series Australia played before the India tour , " although the conditions were different … two unknown spinners won the series for Pakistan. Without Michael Clarke their batting line up was inexperienced. " The surfeit of short-form cricket , both ODIs and Twenty20s , may have led to the Indian bowlers " not being that disciplined in their approach to bowling when it comes to Test cricket " , Kumble said. In ODIs and T20s , " you get away with that. You are constantly thinking of pre-empting a batsman because you think he will play this shot - that 's what you do in one-day cricket. You are always guessing and trying to out-guess the batsman. In Test cricket you need to bowl line and length - it is that simple - and keep repeating the same thing. " He said , " That will only come with playing more of this format , and that will only come with what kind of an approach [ you have ] prior to heading off [ on tour ] . It 's the simple thing that needs to be considered. " " Test cricket is all about building pressure and how you can sustain it , the longer you can sustain the pressure , the more successful you can be , " he said . Modern batsmen , he pointed out , were also playing a large quantity of limited-overs cricket. " Generally today 's batsmen tend to look for runs , [ far ] more than what it used to be maybe five , ten years ago. That 's the kind of cricket that the batsmen are used to playing - ODIs , T20 … " Given the generally batting friendly pitches around the world , Kumble said , " The trend is that disciplined bowlers tend to get you wickets … The more disciplined you are with the line and length you will keep the runs down and that is the best way to get wickets because generally speaking , it 's [ the scoring rate ] been more than four runs an over. " Indian bowlers , he said , needed to be their own leaders and " not look over their shoulder " . Most of India 's bowlers have played a sizeable amount of cricket , " so they need to start looking at themselves as the leader of the pack. " Getting the bowlers to be " self-sufficient " was important , he said. " You ca n't be looking over your shoulder and ask which ball should I bowl , what field should I set ? At the end of the day you know what balls to bowl and what fields to set , you have to be your own captain , you ca n't be saying 'Okay , set the field and tell me where to bowl and I will bowl'. That 's not how we play cricket. You have to be your own leader. " He said the BCCI and team management need to " monitor its 20 best bowlers. It is just a matter of managing the top 20 bowlers and trying to follow them during the course of their season , whether they are playing Ranji Trophy or IPL or Test cricket. " It is a suggestion that Kumble had made to the BCCI in the past , but there is no indication that the suggestion has been followed through. " At home they seem fine , they are pretty used to the conditions , but generally overseas you need to be stronger. " The Indian bowling attack for Test cricket overseas , Kumble said , can be built by studying which of the bowlers have the capacity to be stronger when playing long-form cricket overseas. " Not physically stronger , but bowling-wise stronger. People tend to mis-interpret , strength by saying I need to spend time in the gym. That 's not strength. You need to sustain yourself for longer when on tour. How long can you bowl ? How effective you are in your last spell , whether you are a spinner or a fast bowler. That 's what matters in the end. " Sharda Ugra is senior editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
