Corruption in the IPL January 23 , 2015 All in the family shares 1 Former IPL chairman Lalit Modi has ties to the Rajasthan Royals and Kings XI Punjab franchises © AFP The Supreme Court order on Thursday dwelt at length on the conflict of interest between N Srinivasan heading the BCCI and owning an IPL franchise. However , Srinivasan 's is not the only instance - merely the most high-profile - of the BCCI 's clubbiness and its preference for keeping plum positions in-house. Here are other examples : Lalit Modi ( IPL chairman till 2010 ) : Suresh Chellaram , Lalit Modi 's brother-in-law , is one of the co-owners of the Rajasthan Royals franchise through a stake in Jaipur IPL Private Limited , which owns the franchise , and is also a director of the company Mohit Burman , one of the promoters of the Dabur group - an Indian company manufacturing Ayurvedic products - and a co-owner of the Kings XI Punjab franchise , is also linked to Lalit Modi. Mohit 's brother Gaurav is Modi 's step son-in-law. In 2008 , Mohit had told the Indian Express that the IPL was a business opportunity and " the relationship with Modi is a mere coincidence. " IS Bindra ( former BCCI president , headed the Punjab Cricket Association till 2014 ) In an affidavit filed before the Supreme Court in April 2014 , Srinivasan said Bindra 's son Amar had been an employee of Nimbus , which owned the BCCI TV rights between 2006 and 2011. Bindra , and Modi were on the committee that decided that Nimbus ' license fee should be reduced by Rs.255 crores . Amar Bindra was also a managerial consultant of the Kings XI Punjab franchise even as his father was part of the IPL governing council . Sharad Pawar ( BCCI president 2005-2008 ) : Sadanand Sule , Sharad Pawar 's son-in-law , had a stake in Multi Screen Media , which owns the broadcast rights to the IPL. Pawar 's daughter Supriya has said her husband inherited the stake from his father , who had been chairman of Sony , MSM 's parent company . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
