Imran Khan May Give Pep Talk to Pakistan 's World Cup Squad Imran Khan May Give Pep Talk to Pakistan 's World Cup Squad Imran Khan continues to enjoy a legendary position in Pakistan cricket annals and a source in the PCB said efforts were being made for the former captain to give the players a pep talk before they leave for New Zealand . Last updated on Friday , 16 January , 2015 23 : 44 IST Total Shares File photo : Pakistan team in action vs New Zealand . © AFP The Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) is trying to get cricketer turned politician Imran Khan to meet with the national team before it leaves for the 2015 World Cup. ( India , Pakistan in new colours for World Cup ) Imran was captain when Pakistan defied the odds to win the 1992 World Cup in Australia and New Zealand and earn the sobriquet of " cornered tigers " . ( Younis Khan has no plans to quit after World Cup ) Imran continues to enjoy a legendary position in Pakistan cricket annals and a source in the PCB said efforts were being made for the former captain to give the players a pep talk before they leave for New Zealand. ( Pakistan can break jinx , beat India : Younis Khan ) " We just want Imran to spend some time with the players and give them a pep talk and share his experiences of the 92 ’ event with them. He commands lot of respect among the players and he can certainly pass on some winning tips to the players , " the source said. ( Pakistan can beat India , says Umar Akmal ) The source added that the World Cup bound squad was due to meet with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in Islamabad on Saturday and if that happened than they would also go to the official residence of Imran in Bani Gali and meet him there . Imran , since his retirement from the game in 1992 has largely stayed away from involving himself in cricket affairs and made rare statements on the team 's performance or on cricket in general in the media . Recently he showed up at a charity match in Peshawar organised by his government in the Khyber Pakthunkhawa province and in 2004 when India toured Pakistan he spent a few hours in the Pakistan nets in Lahore working with fast bowler Muhammad Sami . " Misbah who also hails from Mianwala the hometown of Imran wants the former great to tell the players first hand how he coped with the challenges in 92. He believes the younger players in the side can be motivated by Imran , " the source added . Story first published on : Thursday , 15 January 2015 23 : 51 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
