India news March 6 , 2015 Srinivasan man could be Dalmiya 's new assistant shares AGM challenge delayed The Sharad Pawar faction 's decision to challenge the AGM chairman Shivlal Yadav 's ruling that allowed Samarjit Gaekwad to represent the Baroda Cricket Association at the AGM has been delayed due to holidays for the festival of Holi . Initially , the Mumbai Cricket Association , whose vice-president Ravi Savant lost to TC Mathew in the election for one of five vice-president 's posts , was planning to move Bombay High Court over Yadav 's ruling. However , the MCA headed by Pawar has also been considering the option of going directly to the Supreme Court , which is closed this week for Holi . It is understood a decision on whether to file a petition in the High Court or Supreme Court will be made over the weekend and a petition will be filed early next week . Rakesh Parikh , a BCA vice-president from the Pawar group , claimed the BCA managing committee had authorised him to represent the association at the AGM. However , Gaekwad , a Srinivasan supporter , exercised his right as the BCA president and claimed he was the legitimate representative. Yadav chose Gaekwad , which helped the Srinivasan group win four of the five posts . A proposal may be presented to the BCCI 's working committee for Cricket Association of Bengal ( CAB ) treasurer Biswarup Dey to be appointed as executive assistant to the newly elected board president Jagmohan Dalmiya. The BCCI is also likely to persist with Ranjib Biswal as the chairman of the IPL governing council because a little over a month remains for the tournament 's eighth season to begin. Anil Kumble is set to continue as the technical committee chairman . Dey is considered to be a supporter of N Srinivasan , the ICC chairman whose nine-year stint as a BCCI official ended on Monday when the board elected its new set of office-bearers in Chennai. According to a CAB insider , since Dalmiya 's health is a concern , Dey may undertake the presidential work on Dalmiya 's behalf . BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur , however , said he was not aware of the proposal. " I have n't received any request or communication in this regard , " Thakur told ESPNcricinfo . During Srinivasan 's three-year term as BCCI president , Mayank Parikh worked as his assistant from the board 's headquarters in Mumbai. While Parikh had to overlook and report on matters related to the BCCI president 's office , Dey may be awarded rights to sign documents on Dalmiya 's behalf. The proposal is likely to be presented to the working committee at its next meeting . Biswal and Kumble , also considered to be Srinivasan supporters , are likely to continue in their IPL and technical committee roles until the next BCCI AGM. On Monday , after finalising the working committee composition , the working committee authorised Dalmiya and Thakur to finalise the special and technical committees . Dalmiya is understood to have wanted that Kumble be replaced by Sourav Ganguly as the technical committee head. However , the other office-bearers made him realise the importance of keeping officials in important posts with barely seven months to go for the next AGM. It is understood that Dalmiya and Thakur will discuss the issue next week and give the committees a final touch. A working committee meeting will then be convened to ratify the composition of all the BCCI committees . Amol Karhadkar is a correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
