India news April 6 , 2015 'A test of character , technique and toughness ' - Pujara Play 09 : 22 'Will return a different player ' - Pujara Cheteshwar Pujara says he expects to be a " different player " when he returns from his stint with defending English county champions Yorkshire. Speaking exclusively to ESPNcricinfo , Pujara said he recognises the next few months will be a test of his " character , technique and toughness " . " They are challenging conditions and as a batsman you have to accept the challenge , " he said. " When you score runs in those conditions you get a different confidence. So , technically you have to be correct. You have to be really focused ; confidence has to be up to the mark. All the aspects of the game you really have to be very careful when you play in English conditions. So , in this way couple of months in Yorkshire will help me . " The weather is completely different. So , first of all you need to get adjusted to the weather and the conditions. Whatever I 've heard so far is that initially the ball might do more than what it does in the later stages of the season. So , as a batsman it will be challenging and I 'm aware about it but when I 'm going there I know that I will be tested - it is a test of my character , technique and my toughness. I 'll take it as a challenge. Once you succeed in such conditions , it is a different satisfaction as a cricketer. " Pujara signed a deal with Yorkshire after failing to attract a bid at the IPL auction in February. He was released by Kings XI Punjab after an underwhelming season last year that saw him score 125 runs in six innings at a strike rate of 100.8 before being dropped from the playing eleven. Pujara admitted that he while he was a " little bit disappointed " at being ignored by the franchises , his focus was on things he could control . " As a cricketer I always try and improve my game and try and focus on things which I can do , " he said. " I definitely want to play all the formats of this game I 'm working on improving my game in ODIs and T20s. I am very confident that I will be able to do so. It 's a matter of time and there are some shots that I 'm working on in the nets and with more and more practice I think I will be successful. " Not only has Pujara struggled to carve a niche in T20 cricket , his stock has fallen in one-day cricket as well. He was left out of India 's 30-man list of probables for the World Cup and has n't made much of an impression in the five ODIs he has played. With an impressive record in List A cricket , where he has scored 3403 runs at an average of 54.01 in 77 games with 10 centuries , the 27-year-old is confident of changing the mindset that has bracketed him as a long-format specialist . " If you look at the domestic circuit ( List A ) records , I 've got a very good average as well as a decent strike rate and I 've been successful even at India A level , " he said. " It 's just that I have n't played too many ODIs. So , I ca n't talk much about international level but if I can do it at the domestic and India A level - when I went to the UK and Australia there were decent fast bowlers against whom I could score runs - I 'm very confident that i can do it at the international level. It 's a matter of time and I 'm very hopeful that my chance will come. " While his one-day ambitions may take longer to realise , Pujara 's immediate concern will be to revive his Test career. Having established himself as India 's number three , Pujara lost his place in the playing eleven for the final Test of the series against Australia in Sydney after a string of below-par performances. Over eight Test matches in England and Australia , Pujara scored 423 runs at an average of 26.43 , going past the half-century mark just twice. While refusing to comment on being dropped , Pujara says he will " prove himself again " when the chance comes . " In Test matches , my start was really good ; there were some phases where i accept that I did n't perform well but it happens , " he said. " If you see a cricketer 's career , nobody 's always successful. You have those up and down phases. If I look at all the series , I did well in South Africa. England was a bad series although I did score in a couple of innings which were really crucial for the team . " I feel number three is the kind of position where you do n't just look at the number of runs you make but you also need to look at the team situation to make sure that the team does not lose another wicket. Once you see through the new ball , the middle-order batsmen get that benefit of playing against the old ball. There is a role which is defined. I do accept that I got starts in Australia but could not convert those starts into a big innings which I 'm known for. " Pujara 's indifferent run in recent times has meant a wide chasm has developed between his home and away records. While he averages 75.23 in 13 Tests at home , it plummets to 29.4 in 14 away Tests. Pujara insisted that scoring runs for the country was important , not the conditions they were made in . " When you 're representing your nation you need to perform , does n't matter whether it 's in India or overseas , " he says. " I had a decent series in South Africa so it is not that I ca n't score overseas. A couple of series were not up to the mark and I have been working on my game. When I play for India , i need to make sure that the team wins and I contribute to the team 's success. " With the retirement of MS Dhoni , India will be begin a new phase as Test team when they play in whites next. Having been a key member of the squad for the last couple of years , he believes the strong bonds built between the players will work in their favour . " Most of the players have played together for the A team and the Test team is almost the same since the last couple of years , " he said. " I just want to focus on the things that I can do for the team at number three and I have always enjoyed playing for the Indian team. I hope we get more success both at home and overseas. We did put up a good show in Australia though we did n't win too many games. Going ahead we would aim to win as many matches as possible. " Pujara is waiting for his visa formalities to be completed in time for him to join Yorkshire for their season opener against Worcestershire starting on April 12 at New Road . Gaurav Kalra is a senior editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ gauravkalra75 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . OLDEST Nampally on April 9 , 2015 , 14 : 13 GMT @ Naresh28 : Yes , I agree that # 3 spot is not yet sealed by Pujara. India definitely need batsmen who are adaptable to all pitches. Sadly , Pujara after his glorious start in Test series vs. England , developed chinks in his defence. As for Height , I can say Bradman ( 5'-8 " ) , Gavaskar , Tendulkar , Hassett ( All 5'-3 " to 5'5' ' " ) , Ponting ( 5'-7 " ) are examples of " great batsmen " despite their height. RB Desai @ 5'4 " was quicker with more lethal bumper than Ishant Sharma @ 6'-4 " ! . So batting or bowling excellence is not controlled by height - Skill , Talent & Discipline are major factors . Naresh28 on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 21 GMT India would have to have a re-look at that No3 test spot. Either Pujara would come back a different player after his county stint or maybe have Rahane get that spot. Anyone new ? lots of good batsman have come thru in the Ranji. Also amazed at how Rohit performs at IPL as compared to his WC game ? Just shows the vast difference from IPL and ODI or is it the low bounce of Indian pitches ? The test 11 is still a bit unsettled. I still feel Indian batsman are generally shorter and therefore their performance outside India changes - why not look at least two tall batsman for the test game ? Nampally on April 8 , 2015 , 18 : 59 GMT Pujara was Mr. Consistent Bat when he started his First full Test series vs. England in India. But since then his defence has faltered. He got bowled many times even after settling down. He has to close the bat-pad gap & go back to the old rock solid defence - his Hallmark ! His lapse in defence may have something to do with him trying to change into T20 player. India needs the " Old " Pujara for Tests - not the one vying for T20 ! Hopefully the Yorkshire stint will bring that Pujara back to India. Good Luck in getting back your " Rock solid defence " again ! IndianBarcafan on April 8 , 2015 , 15 : 14 GMT @ JAFFA79 , if we keep up at it we might end up becoming best of mates ! ! ! seriously speaking it is well established fact that T-20 is the main revenue earner for Counties , there has been whole host of articles on Cricinfo stressing the need to emulate Big Bash and reconnect with the youth , even just today Wisden came up with an Article highlighting dwindling numbers watching and playing Cricket in England , domestic English Cricket gets telecast here in India and one can see huge crowds for T20 matches , sorry for repeating myself but a Roses T20 match gets 10 times the fans than 4 day , look i have already established i am not a t-20 peddler but a good , lucrative,successful T20 league along with England doing well in Ashes and WC is going to preserve the game of Cricket in future , as inventors of the game i want Cricket to not only survive but flourish in England . Jaffa79 on April 8 , 2015 , 14 : 45 GMT @ ANSHU.S mate again some dubious facts ! Where do you get this 80 % from ? The Ashes is big business and most sports fans get drawn in. I have a ticket for the Oval but it is very hard to get a ticket for the Ashes ! Your belief it is some exclusive elitist sport is off the mark. T20 gets a younger demographic but also a corporate demographic but it is nothing to do with class ! The game is also in fine fettle in England ! You fail to understand that in most countries a host of sports are popular and compete against each other for spectators. In India , you have other sports I know but cricket is king by a country mile. In Eng cricket has to fight to keep its place in the spotlight. It generally vies with Rugby Union for no.2 spot but has slipped behind in recent years. Nevertheless , cricket is a summer staple and international games sell out fast. Also , Roses games get way more than 50-100 people too ! Where do you get your information from ? Coolcapricorn on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 02 GMT Just like VVS Laxman , think Pujara should accept that he is essentially a Test player & should really not bother with the shorter formats of the game. With his past knee problems which has probably compromised his fielding abilities , this is another reason for concentrating just on Test cricket as far as the Indian team is concerned. This will also limit the amount of cricket he plays which I think may help in improving the quality of his batting . baghels.a on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 58 GMT County standards are not the same as they used to be 30 years back , a county system that has a clueless and strokeless wonder Sam Robson topping the run charts tell you all really , bowlers will 100 % benefit from County system as they learn to bowl long spells day in and day out but not so sure about the batters , first month of County cricket in May are played on wet minefields and batting is a lottery , so not sure what you learn really i would much prefer our Indian batters to first play regularly in our Ranji Trophy but if it has to be overseas then they should play in Grade cricket in Australia or SA provincial system. Pujara if given a chance would always prefer to play in IPL not only for money but because every sportsperson,artists want to perform in front of packed stadiums and millions watching on TV and not in front of dozen people in Leeds with entire English press focused on Football . Matty123ac on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 44 GMT He is going to the best club in the world , if the Yorkshire staff ca n't sort out his technical issues then no one can. He has not got much time as first game sunday. Weather set fare so let us hope he can help propel Yorkshire to another title . anshu.s on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 38 GMT Fair enough you might be exception to the rule but harsh reality is more than 80 % of English people were unaware that a cricket World Cup was happening in Aus and similar number are unaware when " mighty " Ashes takes place , Cricket is a minority sports in English and would be extinct in 20 years if corrective measures are not taken .It is a fact you English invented ODI 's and T-20 and foisted it upon the rest of the world.You are assuming that i like T-20 , fact is i am as much a test lover as you are and probably would have watched more than you given my 35 years of cricket watching , my love for the game is unconditional and it is not specific to any particular format. County game is thoroughly dependent on T-20 money , a normal 4 day F/C match for a Roses match is barely 50 to 100 while a T-20 match between Yorkshire and Lancs reaches 10,000 to 20,000 and is telecast live on TV , story is same for other counties too,front up to the cold hard facts no good being in denial mode . SamRoy on April 8 , 2015 , 6 : 47 GMT Good for Pujara. Hope we can get similar contracts for KL Rahul and Unmukt Chand. Even Kohli and Rohit can plays some county cricket. Jinks is the only Indian player who has proven in all conditions ; though I am still to look at his ability in the square turner. And most importantly 3 county stints are required for Umesh , Shami and Aaron . Nampally on April 9 , 2015 , 14 : 13 GMT @ Naresh28 : Yes , I agree that # 3 spot is not yet sealed by Pujara. India definitely need batsmen who are adaptable to all pitches. Sadly , Pujara after his glorious start in Test series vs. England , developed chinks in his defence. As for Height , I can say Bradman ( 5'-8 " ) , Gavaskar , Tendulkar , Hassett ( All 5'-3 " to 5'5' ' " ) , Ponting ( 5'-7 " ) are examples of " great batsmen " despite their height. RB Desai @ 5'4 " was quicker with more lethal bumper than Ishant Sharma @ 6'-4 " ! . So batting or bowling excellence is not controlled by height - Skill , Talent & Discipline are major factors . Naresh28 on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 21 GMT India would have to have a re-look at that No3 test spot. Either Pujara would come back a different player after his county stint or maybe have Rahane get that spot. Anyone new ? lots of good batsman have come thru in the Ranji. Also amazed at how Rohit performs at IPL as compared to his WC game ? Just shows the vast difference from IPL and ODI or is it the low bounce of Indian pitches ? The test 11 is still a bit unsettled. I still feel Indian batsman are generally shorter and therefore their performance outside India changes - why not look at least two tall batsman for the test game ? Nampally on April 8 , 2015 , 18 : 59 GMT Pujara was Mr. Consistent Bat when he started his First full Test series vs. England in India. But since then his defence has faltered. He got bowled many times even after settling down. He has to close the bat-pad gap & go back to the old rock solid defence - his Hallmark ! His lapse in defence may have something to do with him trying to change into T20 player. India needs the " Old " Pujara for Tests - not the one vying for T20 ! Hopefully the Yorkshire stint will bring that Pujara back to India. Good Luck in getting back your " Rock solid defence " again ! IndianBarcafan on April 8 , 2015 , 15 : 14 GMT @ JAFFA79 , if we keep up at it we might end up becoming best of mates ! ! ! seriously speaking it is well established fact that T-20 is the main revenue earner for Counties , there has been whole host of articles on Cricinfo stressing the need to emulate Big Bash and reconnect with the youth , even just today Wisden came up with an Article highlighting dwindling numbers watching and playing Cricket in England , domestic English Cricket gets telecast here in India and one can see huge crowds for T20 matches , sorry for repeating myself but a Roses T20 match gets 10 times the fans than 4 day , look i have already established i am not a t-20 peddler but a good , lucrative,successful T20 league along with England doing well in Ashes and WC is going to preserve the game of Cricket in future , as inventors of the game i want Cricket to not only survive but flourish in England . Jaffa79 on April 8 , 2015 , 14 : 45 GMT @ ANSHU.S mate again some dubious facts ! Where do you get this 80 % from ? The Ashes is big business and most sports fans get drawn in. I have a ticket for the Oval but it is very hard to get a ticket for the Ashes ! Your belief it is some exclusive elitist sport is off the mark. T20 gets a younger demographic but also a corporate demographic but it is nothing to do with class ! The game is also in fine fettle in England ! You fail to understand that in most countries a host of sports are popular and compete against each other for spectators. In India , you have other sports I know but cricket is king by a country mile. In Eng cricket has to fight to keep its place in the spotlight. It generally vies with Rugby Union for no.2 spot but has slipped behind in recent years. Nevertheless , cricket is a summer staple and international games sell out fast. Also , Roses games get way more than 50-100 people too ! Where do you get your information from ? Coolcapricorn on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 02 GMT Just like VVS Laxman , think Pujara should accept that he is essentially a Test player & should really not bother with the shorter formats of the game. With his past knee problems which has probably compromised his fielding abilities , this is another reason for concentrating just on Test cricket as far as the Indian team is concerned. This will also limit the amount of cricket he plays which I think may help in improving the quality of his batting . baghels.a on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 58 GMT County standards are not the same as they used to be 30 years back , a county system that has a clueless and strokeless wonder Sam Robson topping the run charts tell you all really , bowlers will 100 % benefit from County system as they learn to bowl long spells day in and day out but not so sure about the batters , first month of County cricket in May are played on wet minefields and batting is a lottery , so not sure what you learn really i would much prefer our Indian batters to first play regularly in our Ranji Trophy but if it has to be overseas then they should play in Grade cricket in Australia or SA provincial system. Pujara if given a chance would always prefer to play in IPL not only for money but because every sportsperson,artists want to perform in front of packed stadiums and millions watching on TV and not in front of dozen people in Leeds with entire English press focused on Football . Matty123ac on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 44 GMT He is going to the best club in the world , if the Yorkshire staff ca n't sort out his technical issues then no one can. He has not got much time as first game sunday. Weather set fare so let us hope he can help propel Yorkshire to another title . anshu.s on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 38 GMT Fair enough you might be exception to the rule but harsh reality is more than 80 % of English people were unaware that a cricket World Cup was happening in Aus and similar number are unaware when " mighty " Ashes takes place , Cricket is a minority sports in English and would be extinct in 20 years if corrective measures are not taken .It is a fact you English invented ODI 's and T-20 and foisted it upon the rest of the world.You are assuming that i like T-20 , fact is i am as much a test lover as you are and probably would have watched more than you given my 35 years of cricket watching , my love for the game is unconditional and it is not specific to any particular format. County game is thoroughly dependent on T-20 money , a normal 4 day F/C match for a Roses match is barely 50 to 100 while a T-20 match between Yorkshire and Lancs reaches 10,000 to 20,000 and is telecast live on TV , story is same for other counties too,front up to the cold hard facts no good being in denial mode . SamRoy on April 8 , 2015 , 6 : 47 GMT Good for Pujara. Hope we can get similar contracts for KL Rahul and Unmukt Chand. Even Kohli and Rohit can plays some county cricket. Jinks is the only Indian player who has proven in all conditions ; though I am still to look at his ability in the square turner. And most importantly 3 county stints are required for Umesh , Shami and Aaron . Jaffa79 on April 8 , 2015 , 0 : 31 GMT @ ANSHU.S , You make many points but none seem rational or tied in to anything I have said. You go on some class based rant for some reason and state my love of Test cricket has something to do with working class people not embracing the game. Really ? 1 ) I am very working class ! 2 ) Working class people go to Tests in their many numbers in England , which actually funds the counties and most importantly 3 ) It has NOTHING to do with class ! It is about personal preference , which you fail to understand. I am not moaning about it ! Just stating that I think Tests are better and success in this arena counts for more in my opinion. You are more than welcome to like T20. Your preference and mine have nothing to do with any class system. I think you having your ranting wires crossed . Bobby_Talyarkhan on April 7 , 2015 , 23 : 06 GMT At last an Indian test batsman will get decent exposure learning how to play the moving ball. All lovers of test cricket should thank the IPL franchises for sparing one of our top test batters from another pointless couple of months of bish-bash and instead allowing him to hone his batting technique in the testing conditions of an early English summer. If the BCCI had any sense of purpose and responsibility towards the longer form of the game they would be arranging for Pujara to share what he has learnt with the rest of the test squad on his return. Not so long ago test cricketers on a tour of England would play a dozen first class matches against top opposition and gain a precious education in batting technique. Nowadays a cricketer can go on a tour of England without playing any first class opposition apart from a couple of devalued " practice " matches if they are lucky . Sanj747 on April 7 , 2015 , 22 : 04 GMT A smart move by a good cricketer . anshu.s on April 7 , 2015 , 18 : 44 GMT @ JAFFA79 , no matter how much you play around with words your views smack of elitism and best exemplifies why Cricket is considered a posh sports in England and not even among the top 3 sports in Eng where Football is the top dog by a massive distance , because of attitude like yours working class folks do n't embrace Cricket , weather you like it or not T20 Cricket is going to save Cricket from extinction in England. Fans in India go in there droves to all forms of the game , people in Ind might not go to the ground in large numbers for Test matches but TV viewership figures for tests is just triple of both Eng and Aus put together.Did n't you English invent the 50 over game in 60 's and T20 back in 2003 , so now it 's no good moaning about it , Modern Indian batters can handle pace and bounce pretty well but not lateral movement , our batters handled Mitch Johnson in recent test series much better than the English.So much so for lazy stereotyping . Jaffa79 on April 7 , 2015 , 17 : 37 GMT @ ANSHU.S...what is elitist about my post ? Do you know what the word means ? I personally like Test match cricket and consider success in this form of the game holds more gravitas than playing in the T20 format. I personally do n't care much for T20 but I do n't think you can call me 'elitist ' because of this ! I just admire a cricketer than wants to do the hard yards to improve himself as a cricketer. I think it a crying shame that Indians go to watch T20 in their droves but Test matches are poorly attended. This is probably the reason why India are so poor in Test matches and their batsmen struggle if the ball bounces over shin height . ReeceLeban on April 7 , 2015 , 17 : 27 GMT He can be leading run scorer in test cricket history'. how is he going to do that if he is only able to score runs on dead tracks eh ? you guys are really delusional . jigrac on April 7 , 2015 , 16 : 52 GMT First of all we need to congratulate pujara for this decision. At least he wants to improve his game. He can never be star. He is really a simple guy. As far his performance is concerned I do believe that he will bounce back with a bang. He can be leading run scorer in test cricket history. Its blessing in disguise for him to be not selected by any IPL team. All the best to Cheteshwar . SMageshwaran on April 7 , 2015 , 15 : 58 GMT He has already proved that he belongs to the Test cricket , lad got a tremendous skill as a batsman.I wish him good luck for his county stint . anshu.s on April 7 , 2015 , 14 : 08 GMT @ JAFFA79 : Oh please get down from your elitist high horse , plenty of snob value but very little facts. I can bet more than 80 % of the fans under the age of 35 now after 20 years will remember Glenn Maxwell and Brendon Mcullum much more than the likes of Pujara and Alistair Cook.True fan of the game of Cricket likes or atleast makes an effort to appreciate all three formats of the game , it gets really annoying when some fans try to pit one format against the other . on April 7 , 2015 , 14 : 04 GMT I bet it does. Too bad it does not test ECB check books ? ReeceLeban on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 50 GMT " IND now has now world 's best all round bowling attack. This bowling attack includes options in seam , pace and spin bowling " Boom , this just happened : ) forExcelienceInCricket on April 7 , 2015 , 12 : 49 GMT An inexperienced IND lost some test matches abroad during last 15 months. This was more due to some fielding errors and lack of discipline by 1/2 batsmen at key stages of matches than lack of talent. In the recent series v AUS with an unworkable 4 tests in 4 weeks schedule , IND missed an opportunity to win the series 2-0 due to lack of batting discipline at key stages in first two matches. AUS in last 2 years has lost 10 test matches abroad. IND now has now world 's best all round bowling attack. This bowling attack includes options in seam , pace and spin bowling. IND has also improved in ground fielding & catching. With batsman gaining experience , IND has now potentially all round best test team in the world that will dominate in all conditions for next 5 to 7 years. It will be catch up time for other teams including SA , NZ , ENG & AUS. . JasonGray on April 7 , 2015 , 12 : 09 GMT The mighty Pujara 's batting average. In NZ ; 15. In Eng ; 22.20. In Australia ; 33. Another flat pitch player . SanjeevHN on April 7 , 2015 , 11 : 00 GMT I do think all the younger batsman and bowlers must and should play atleat 2 full seasons of county championship cricket forr their growth as players and as individuals. This would help for their 2019 world cup campaign as well as for overseas tours YashasHosurSridharan on April 7 , 2015 , 9 : 22 GMT @ CASEYWILLIAMOZ & @ Jasongray. Firstly , when Pujara " Scored significant amount of runs on those dead pitches in India " there is no way we would have compared him to Smith. Smith has started coming of age in the last year or so and before that he was just bits and pieces player who could not even make it to the final 11 consitently. So that makes your reference to Smith null and void. Please see Pujara 's Debut dates. Secondly , Michael Clarke averages playing away from Aus are as follows - Bangladesh - 25.05 , UAE - 14.25 , India - 40.6 , SA - 40 , SL - 42. and drumrolls..in Aus -62.05. That is average. He is no great player you aussies make him out to be. And Jasongrey , seems like one batsman 's dead flat pitch is another batsman 's minefield. Thats life eh . annoyedofit on April 7 , 2015 , 8 : 47 GMT @ MOHAN KUMAR , Pujara failed in New Zealand , England and Australia. Ponting could bat in those countries. Pujara proved he can not on April 7 , 2015 , 4 : 54 GMT @ Jasongray Dravid also failed during his first tour to Australia , Ponting 's record in India is miserable. Does that make them flat track players ? Do n't be a loudmouth ! ! CaseyWilliamOZ on April 7 , 2015 , 4 : 51 GMT There was so much hype around this ordinary fella when he started ay. Scored significant amount of runs on those dead pitches in India and made Indian fans believe they had a player like Smith or Clarke in their side. This guy will never be selected for the ODI or T20 format. Even in the test format , he will play in India but on away tours , he will continue to struggle. His weaknesses are obvious as he seems to get out , pretty the same way . MinusZero on April 7 , 2015 , 4 : 10 GMT Nothing wrong with being a long format specialist. Great test players are are generally remembered more. Most would know how many wickets Warne , McGrath and Murali took in tests , how many know how many wickets in ODIs ? JasonGray on April 7 , 2015 , 3 : 38 GMT Meh. Just another flat pitch player. Merely playing defense is not good enough mate. Easily got found out during the England and Australian tours. Limited as a player . ToMori on April 7 , 2015 , 2 : 49 GMT I hope he succeeds in test cricket where he can make use of the county experience. Just that he will have to wait for nearly two years for the next away series . insightfulcricketer on April 6 , 2015 , 23 : 24 GMT I think Pujara 's temperament is ideally suited for No.3 batsmen but following chinks in his batting needs be ironed out - Playing off spin bowling especially the one with the arm he needs to be able to pick that out - Short bowling - like Sachin he should shelve the awkard hook shot he has and work on positively leaving the short ball by keeping the eye on the ball. Nothing demoralizes a fast bowler than to see a no.3 simply swaying away while keeping an eye at the ball. - Footwork while playing in-cutters . I think he was shown out by some medium pacers that he was late in coming forward to in-cutter and thus bowled. Other than the above he has shown strong square off the wicket and behind it on the off side which a strong no.1 should have and he is pretty equipped. Recognizing a problem and working to fixing is a big direction to making a comeback , Good luck Pujara we want to see you the class player back as regular no.3 and maybe the test captain too for the long term . Jaffa79 on April 6 , 2015 , 23 : 03 GMT Good bloke Pujara ! I have always liked this fella. He is a proper old fashioned batsman and he is prepared to further his game by playing a season in County cricket , This is a good decision because he 'll get exposed to a lot of wickets and he 'll get a lot of innings. Forget the pyjama hit and giggle stuff and aim to be the best in the 5 day proper stuff ! He has a fine technique so after a year of honing his technique , I would n't be surprised if he was a top test run scorer in a few years. I have no interest in T20. The legends of the game are for forged in Test cricket. No one will remember a slogger in 20 years . on April 6 , 2015 , 16 : 52 GMT For 2019 , BCCI should start thinking , planning , and taking some steps , NOW. Though the core of the class of 2015 will still be there , the time is just right to scan beyond, One step need to be taken soon , A few uncapped players like KL Rahul , Sanju Samson , Jaspreet Bumrah ( just picked up three at random and without really looking at all potential good players ) , should be sent to play county cricket for at least a couple of seasons. Do n't forget the class of 2019 , will be taking their final exams in England during that year. There are at least three more county seasons before that... It will be foolish to pass over that opportunity . I am sure that such a move will provide returns , far beyond the investment. For the players & for India . NandeeshGowda333 on April 6 , 2015 , 16 : 42 GMT I do n't think this might help Pujara , because upcoming test matches for India are played in India. His poor defence against a quality needs to be corrected first. India test pitches mostly spin friendly , so he has to undergo a good training against spin which you do n't get in county.. . Vacchu18 on April 6 , 2015 , 16 : 30 GMT Kudos to Pujara was making this move. Personally felt that he was very unlucky to have not converted the starts that he got in the tests against Australia. Having said that , he did get out to some very good deliveries where the Aussie bowlers were asking him questions outside off stump ! Hope this County stint will help him grow in confidence ! on April 6 , 2015 , 15 : 56 GMT He is in a make or break situation. As a batsman he has good techniue and temperament.He has to build his strength to adjust his technique to the conditions such as swing , bounce and so on.If he learns to adapt to different conditions he will be an asset . In past we have seen many batsman who could not master negotiating swing , bounce and the short pitched ones. But those who even just about found a way to handle these went on to become reasonably reliable. Immediately the name of AD Gaekwad comes to mind who used his guts and become a reliable opening partner to Gavaskar. Key is he did not become Gavaskar just because he was an opener . Similarly allow Pujara to become a reliable one drop.Let us stop thinking he will be come Dravid just because of similar temparament and because he plays # 3 ! Smilarly allow Rahane not to become VVS and allow Virat not to become SRT . LivingDead on April 6 , 2015 , 15 : 19 GMT It is a perception issue. He averages 29 in away tests but does n't talk much , keeps his head down , and grinds it out , so people think he is " reliable " . Whereas Kohli who averages 44 in away tests is still criticized and called a flat track bully. Not meant as a criticism but as an eye opener for fans. Ultimately , whoever scores runs is the most reliable. Be it Sehwag with his carefree attitude or Dravid with his grit . forExcelienceInCricket on April 6 , 2015 , 15 : 18 GMT Pujara is a fine batsmen & potential IND Test Captain. This stint in county cricket will help him to play in an unfamiliar environment and work on his game. This should not be seen as superiority or otherwise of county cricket. Also there is no need to overemphasise the weakness of batsmen against swing bowling or pitches with bounce. Many teams have struggled to play against spin and for generations. It requires no rocket science to infer that players benefit from advantage of home conditions and have to adapt to other conditions. Cricket boards may be better off creating home facilities including drop in pitches etc to help more cricketers adapt to foreign conditions. Despite opposition by many , IPL 's role in development of IND cricketers for all forms of cricket is crucial. It has also helped in areas of physical fitness , ground fielding , catching and performance under pressure.. These attributes apart from bowling & batting skills are crucial for wins at home or abroad on April 6 , 2015 , 15 : 12 GMT For Indian Test Cricket to benefit , it will not be a bad idea for the likes of Pujara , ( Rohit ) Sharma , Rahane , Dhawan , Yadav , and Shami to play in English County Cricket. IPL does not prepare any player for Test Cricket at all. Whether or not they will be " in demand " by the County Cricket Clubs is an altogether different question. Incidentally , at the moment , it seems that the IPL experience of these players does not take them anywhere except to the Indian National Team but when they do play at the Test Level , as they did in he recent past in England , South Afria , New Zealand and Australia recently , it failed them , and India , miserably. Good move by Pujara and it is worthy of emulation by others . on April 6 , 2015 , 14 : 40 GMT Pujara is only a reliable test cricketer in Indian team. After county he will be star in team India becoz many good innings is waiting for him . on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 54 GMT Bowlers like Shami , Aaron and Ishant should also play in county cricket , it will help them in becoming complete bowlers CricketChat on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 30 GMT Hope this county stint will help him with his technique and temperament. As is , even his test place is coming under scrutiny after twin failures in Eng and Aus series. Just like Dravid and Laxman before him , Pujara is too much entwined in this 'technique ' business that he ca n't free up his mind and play with freedom of say a Shewag , Warner , Finch , Amla. He will always be a long format player. Will be happy though if he can prove me wrong . on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 26 GMT India needs a couple of players who provide stability amongst a bunch of stroke makers. In the past , we could , most of the times , depend upon Dravid and VVS . I hope , Pujara & Rahane will prove to be worthy successors to play that role . I had always been pleading for India players to get solid experience by playing in English counties , the kind of which you ca n't get elsewhere,. I am glad that Yorkshire & Pujara found an opportunity with Younis ' withdrawal. Hope it is mutually beneficial . For a while he displayed 'desperation ' to get into the team , even trying his hand in bowling. Hope , he will just focus on mastering / perfecting his batting skills in English conditions , which will be of immense use for the India team for years to come . on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 12 GMT He get succede in those condition he will be complete batsman for india in future All the best Speng on April 6 , 2015 , 12 : 58 GMT Pujara is a proper # 3 and has the makings of someone who can play for India for a long time. I 'm sure part of the reason he had some recent failings was that the openers above him , particularly Shikhar Dhawan were themselves failing regularly. It is normal for a # 3 to have to come in early often but you ca n't expect it all the time . India have so many quality ODI/T20 bats that even if you have the slightest taint of being slow/inconsistent you wo n't have much chance KUMARPALV9 on April 6 , 2015 , 11 : 51 GMT He is a good batsman and can become the next middle order rock for India on April 6 , 2015 , 11 : 24 GMT India Need such stability Player to hold the Innings together both in ODI & Test. India really missed such player in just concluded World cup to hold one end.I am Big fan of Pujara.Sure he will make it as another Rahul Dravid . on April 6 , 2015 , 11 : 18 GMT I 'm a big fan of Pujara and I think he 'll score a lot of runs once he 's back in the side. He really is the kind of player who will benefit immensely from a county stint and I 'm sure he 'll score plenty of runs for Yorkshire . on April 6 , 2015 , 11 : 02 GMT This is the best thing happened for India. He should be preserved for test matches . adi133 on April 6 , 2015 , 10 : 37 GMT Sometimes it seems that he expects too much from himself. He had a couple of good test series a year back and he was stating that his next aim is to play the world cup. One should have his aims in mind but he 's still new in the international circuit. 1-2 game here and there and you 're out of the team as it happened in the Australia series. Its good that he 's working on his skills now . zaidvi on April 6 , 2015 , 10 : 32 GMT Pujara brings sleep when he bats . No featured comments at the moment . zaidvi on April 6 , 2015 , 10 : 32 GMT Pujara brings sleep when he bats . adi133 on April 6 , 2015 , 10 : 37 GMT Sometimes it seems that he expects too much from himself. He had a couple of good test series a year back and he was stating that his next aim is to play the world cup. One should have his aims in mind but he 's still new in the international circuit. 1-2 game here and there and you 're out of the team as it happened in the Australia series. Its good that he 's working on his skills now . on April 6 , 2015 , 11 : 02 GMT This is the best thing happened for India. He should be preserved for test matches . on April 6 , 2015 , 11 : 18 GMT I 'm a big fan of Pujara and I think he 'll score a lot of runs once he 's back in the side. He really is the kind of player who will benefit immensely from a county stint and I 'm sure he 'll score plenty of runs for Yorkshire . on April 6 , 2015 , 11 : 24 GMT India Need such stability Player to hold the Innings together both in ODI & Test. India really missed such player in just concluded World cup to hold one end.I am Big fan of Pujara.Sure he will make it as another Rahul Dravid . KUMARPALV9 on April 6 , 2015 , 11 : 51 GMT He is a good batsman and can become the next middle order rock for India Speng on April 6 , 2015 , 12 : 58 GMT Pujara is a proper # 3 and has the makings of someone who can play for India for a long time. I 'm sure part of the reason he had some recent failings was that the openers above him , particularly Shikhar Dhawan were themselves failing regularly. It is normal for a # 3 to have to come in early often but you ca n't expect it all the time . India have so many quality ODI/T20 bats that even if you have the slightest taint of being slow/inconsistent you wo n't have much chance on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 12 GMT He get succede in those condition he will be complete batsman for india in future All the best on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 26 GMT India needs a couple of players who provide stability amongst a bunch of stroke makers. In the past , we could , most of the times , depend upon Dravid and VVS . I hope , Pujara & Rahane will prove to be worthy successors to play that role . I had always been pleading for India players to get solid experience by playing in English counties , the kind of which you ca n't get elsewhere,. I am glad that Yorkshire & Pujara found an opportunity with Younis ' withdrawal. Hope it is mutually beneficial . For a while he displayed 'desperation ' to get into the team , even trying his hand in bowling. Hope , he will just focus on mastering / perfecting his batting skills in English conditions , which will be of immense use for the India team for years to come . CricketChat on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 30 GMT Hope this county stint will help him with his technique and temperament. As is , even his test place is coming under scrutiny after twin failures in Eng and Aus series. Just like Dravid and Laxman before him , Pujara is too much entwined in this 'technique ' business that he ca n't free up his mind and play with freedom of say a Shewag , Warner , Finch , Amla. He will always be a long format player. Will be happy though if he can prove me wrong .
