India news April 10 , 2015 Kohli hurt by critics going personal Play 00 : 57 Critics should be ashamed of themselves - Kohli Virat Kohli , India 's Test captain , has said that he was " disappointed " and " hurt " by the extreme reactions from sections of the media which were critical of him after he failed in the World Cup semi-final against Australia. Not just limiting their criticism to his batting , some even questioned the presence of Kohli 's girlfriend during the World Cup campaign , saying it might have had a negative effect on his game . According to Kohli , who finished as the third best Indian batsman in terms of runs - aggregate of 305 , including a century against Pakistan in the tournament opener - the critics had easily forgotten that he had been the best batsman for India in the last five years . " Personally I was very disappointed. I do n't think anyone has helped India win as many matches or performed as consistently as I have in the last five years , " Kohli said in Kolkata , where Royal Challengers Bangalore open their IPL campaign against Kolkata Knight Riders on Saturday . " After that , to see such reactions after just one poor innings , was very disappointing. What it does is it makes you lose faith in a lot of people. It 's a good thing in a way - you get to know who 's with you and who 's not. It was indeed a very difficult , well , not difficult because it 's not in my control. But the reactions were very disappointing. " Speaking on the issue for the first time in public , Kohli said the critics should be " ashamed " before going personal. " At a human level , I would say I was hurt. And the people that said things and the way they were said , they should be ashamed of themselves. " It was clear that Kohli had planned to make his feelings public today. Later on Friday afternoon as soon as the pre-match briefing at Eden Gardens came to an end , Kohli , unprompted , bared his feelings once again . " The way people reacted towards my personal life and Anushka in particular was really disrespectful. I wanted to put it out there in public because at a human level I was really hurt. I wanted to express that for quite a long time but I wanted to take a break for a few days. It is very important for people to know we are human beings at the end of the day. We do n't aim to become to successful. That is not our aim in life. We are doing what are doing. For people to react that way and to see what they did : blaming her for our loss [ World Cup semis ] and blaming her for my failure was absolutely hurtful for me. It is shameful to see that people can react like that to one loss. I just wanted to get out there because it is very important for people to know how we feel about these things. And that people should be respected more than they are in these sort of times in our country. " Kohli also could n't grasp what the critics meant by being in form . " I never know when my rough patch comes or when I am in form. It is for you all to decide - you make the judgements better than I do. It is funny because there are some standards a player sets for himself over a period of time and I like to perform consistently . " So in my case if I do n't do well in two games it is a dip in form whereas for some of the other players they perform two games out of ten they come back in form. I do n't understand that and I do n't really pay attention to it. It is how you hit the ball on that particular day. In my mind I am really more confident than I have been ever in my life. " Nagraj Gollapudi is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . OLDEST Nehru_Roger on April 13 , 2015 , 11 : 18 GMT Yeah...Rahane should be the Test Captain. I see Dravid in Him. He is calm , cool , smart and patient. He is perfect for Test captaincy for India . mjrvasu on April 13 , 2015 , 9 : 09 GMT Can not compare Kohli and Dhoni. The latter is a true leader , irrespective of batting talents of the two. Kohli can neither be a leader nor a diplomat. His open statement that nearly states that only he enabled India perform well in recent years , smacks of arrogance. It is doubtful if any future captain of India can bring about the qualities of Dhoni , or match his results . wolfgang68 on April 13 , 2015 , 5 : 53 GMT I am for Kohli leading india...... . on April 12 , 2015 , 19 : 44 GMT Well , that 's Indian Cricket fans for you. Passionate but stupid at the best of times ! Blackholesun on April 12 , 2015 , 19 : 43 GMT When a person says I have won more matches than anyone else , it 's a sign of success gone into head ! Though what he had said is true , but self praise is nothing but ego . He needs to keep his arrogance aside if he wishes to be a truly great batsman , respected by everyone . binojpeter on April 12 , 2015 , 14 : 57 GMT As some others commented here , I am optimistic about Kohli. He need to rediscover the kind of form he was in Asia Cup 2012. And also we have examples around us about cricketers who were immature when they broke into international scene and improved substantially over the years. The classical example that comes into my mind is Michael Clarke. I hated Clarke 's on-field and off-field antics when he came into the scene and I was surprised that Cricket Australia was projecting him as future captain and future great. But he underwent a significant transformation somewhere in his career and proved himself worthy of that position . m.tanzil on April 12 , 2015 , 14 : 14 GMT Well thats fair enough nobody has right to go in someones personal life virat is one of the best young player we have and I feel proud on him , people should not react on his performance just by considering a single match . criclover13456 on April 12 , 2015 , 14 : 14 GMT Rahane should be India 's test captain.....he is a better test player than kohli.....and shows lots of maturity...... . India-Do-Well on April 12 , 2015 , 13 : 44 GMT I am a huge fan of Kholi...... But I critisised his performance because I think he has changed his approach to batting. Earlier it was 20-30 runs off the first 40 odd balls and the he would accelerate. Now he goes for big shorts right at the beginning , which luckily for him did not hurt him during the Pakistan match ( difficult chance dropped ) . However and I truly believe this -- his personal life and his girlfriend should not be targeted. I never saw Sachin or Rahul 's wife get critisised. Please do n't give me the celebrity angle , there is no excuse to drag a Woman 's name through mud. No excuse and not done. Critisise Kholi objectively and I am on your side. That is what Kholi is trying to say about the personal aspect . on April 12 , 2015 , 13 : 10 GMT Make no mistake. As a batsman Kohli is way above Dhoni. His future scope is immense. His personal life is his. His PDA is none of our business . But.. . On a level of maturity , he has miles to go. But he can. As I said earlier , if Ponting & Clarke can , Kohli also can reach the required level of maturity for a leader. As an opponent , fine. But as a leader of men , not yet. . But as of now , his reaction may be very human , but not befitting the leader of leading cricketers. One never expected him to be one , to start with. But what is lacking is progress . Nehru_Roger on April 13 , 2015 , 11 : 18 GMT Yeah...Rahane should be the Test Captain. I see Dravid in Him. He is calm , cool , smart and patient. He is perfect for Test captaincy for India . mjrvasu on April 13 , 2015 , 9 : 09 GMT Can not compare Kohli and Dhoni. The latter is a true leader , irrespective of batting talents of the two. Kohli can neither be a leader nor a diplomat. His open statement that nearly states that only he enabled India perform well in recent years , smacks of arrogance. It is doubtful if any future captain of India can bring about the qualities of Dhoni , or match his results . wolfgang68 on April 13 , 2015 , 5 : 53 GMT I am for Kohli leading india...... . on April 12 , 2015 , 19 : 44 GMT Well , that 's Indian Cricket fans for you. Passionate but stupid at the best of times ! Blackholesun on April 12 , 2015 , 19 : 43 GMT When a person says I have won more matches than anyone else , it 's a sign of success gone into head ! Though what he had said is true , but self praise is nothing but ego . He needs to keep his arrogance aside if he wishes to be a truly great batsman , respected by everyone . binojpeter on April 12 , 2015 , 14 : 57 GMT As some others commented here , I am optimistic about Kohli. He need to rediscover the kind of form he was in Asia Cup 2012. And also we have examples around us about cricketers who were immature when they broke into international scene and improved substantially over the years. The classical example that comes into my mind is Michael Clarke. I hated Clarke 's on-field and off-field antics when he came into the scene and I was surprised that Cricket Australia was projecting him as future captain and future great. But he underwent a significant transformation somewhere in his career and proved himself worthy of that position . m.tanzil on April 12 , 2015 , 14 : 14 GMT Well thats fair enough nobody has right to go in someones personal life virat is one of the best young player we have and I feel proud on him , people should not react on his performance just by considering a single match . criclover13456 on April 12 , 2015 , 14 : 14 GMT Rahane should be India 's test captain.....he is a better test player than kohli.....and shows lots of maturity...... . India-Do-Well on April 12 , 2015 , 13 : 44 GMT I am a huge fan of Kholi...... But I critisised his performance because I think he has changed his approach to batting. Earlier it was 20-30 runs off the first 40 odd balls and the he would accelerate. Now he goes for big shorts right at the beginning , which luckily for him did not hurt him during the Pakistan match ( difficult chance dropped ) . However and I truly believe this -- his personal life and his girlfriend should not be targeted. I never saw Sachin or Rahul 's wife get critisised. Please do n't give me the celebrity angle , there is no excuse to drag a Woman 's name through mud. No excuse and not done. Critisise Kholi objectively and I am on your side. That is what Kholi is trying to say about the personal aspect . on April 12 , 2015 , 13 : 10 GMT Make no mistake. As a batsman Kohli is way above Dhoni. His future scope is immense. His personal life is his. His PDA is none of our business . But.. . On a level of maturity , he has miles to go. But he can. As I said earlier , if Ponting & Clarke can , Kohli also can reach the required level of maturity for a leader. As an opponent , fine. But as a leader of men , not yet. . But as of now , his reaction may be very human , but not befitting the leader of leading cricketers. One never expected him to be one , to start with. But what is lacking is progress . ABLcric on April 12 , 2015 , 12 : 47 GMT This is Kohli fan from Pakistan. Dear Virat , we , in Indian subcontinent react the same way. You are a great player. One day you will reach the heights of great subcontinental batsmen such as Miandad , Inzimam , Gavaskar , Tendulkar. You are surely not yet there. Just learn to accomodate these public feedback. Badaam khane sai aqaal nahi aati , dhoka khane sai aqaal aati hai ( sorry , cant express this in English ) on April 12 , 2015 , 12 : 23 GMT @ MANI SUBRAMANAIN ON APRIL 12 , 2015 , 10 : 31 GMT : For heaven 's sake , please do n't compare Kohli with Dhoni. As you say people are people. They consist of very different men & women. Using a defensible person as a ploy to support another is an age old way of supporting the non-defensible. On a maturity scale , Dhoni & Kohli are at very very different ends . on April 12 , 2015 , 10 : 31 GMT People are people. They say this all the time. See what they say about Dhoni despite the fact that he is the best thing that has happened to Indian Cricket ever by a long margin. No one yet is even close. When you are a celebrity , this thing happens all the time , another example Tiger Woods. So dear Kohli , do what you are doing...you are truly great...99.5 % of the people are your fans and they like. Only thing is that 0.5 % of the negative guys make the loudest noise. Remember it is just noise. Ignore and move along.. . baskar_guha on April 12 , 2015 , 8 : 44 GMT Understand Kohli 's feelings-- they are quite reasonable. However , he would be prudent not to put it out there as it will ultimately be used against him. Such is the hysterical state of some in the Indian press and many fans RaoVS on April 12 , 2015 , 7 : 16 GMT Has he ever wondered how the fans are hurt by his behaviour & attitude ? I do n't think Kohli is mature. Strongly feel it is a mistake to make him captain. It will only encourage is already bloated ego . on April 12 , 2015 , 6 : 09 GMT I really do think he is right. he is one of the best batsmen in the team and a bad performance in a game does n't mean he should be criticized too much on April 12 , 2015 , 5 : 09 GMT A bit immature. Boastful. Not befitting a " Captain " of one of the " big " teams in the world , who is expected to lead many equally talented players . I had been a big supporter of Kohli taking over India 's captainship. Now , I am disappointed. Let me state a few reasons : Much inconsistency had crept into his fairly long consistency in batting . Many of his moves as Captain are questionable. Choice of the playing XI also can be debated . If a pub-brawling youngster Ponting can grow into a solid leader , a little puppy-like playful youngster Clarke can grow into almost a cricketing statesman in a crisis , even beyond the cricket field , I thought , Kohli can also grow. And grow fast . But the signs are not THAT strong , as expected. Progress is not THAT fast as expected. Hope , I am wrong. For his sake. And , for Indian cricket 's sake . perl57 on April 12 , 2015 , 4 : 23 GMT Hopeless and pathetic Kohli. Did you just say you were the most successful in last 5 years than anyone else in Indian team ? That is pathetic. There is nothing to misunderstand and unpardonable. If history is an example people like you faded very very quickly . YAYAVAR on April 12 , 2015 , 1 : 23 GMT Virat is absolutely right that his personal life should be none but his business only. But as a public figure he should expect that people can and will go to any length to comment on his performance in cricket. We Indians love nothing but win ! So if he fails , it would not go well with us. I know he is a terrific player and once he settles down at the pitch , he could spell doom for any bowler on the other side. All he has to do is to learn how to handle the criticism , whether it is positive or negative.In my mind , I have no doubt that India needs him as much as he needs himself to be in the team. I wish him nothing but success in all the formats of the game . SUNDHUR on April 12 , 2015 , 0 : 47 GMT It is not fair to go into one 's personal life and criticise a performance. Everyone has his/her own rights and choices and it is not decent to go into those because they are stars and their day to day life is being followed closely by the media. I condemn this ! However , Kohli should learn to deal with criticisms and should not let it affect him. When a player who is is expected to provide the sheet achor role fails , that too in a crucial semi final of a world cup game and it makes a difference to winning , there will be some reaction from fans and the press. Kohli is an amazing critcketer and his statistics speak for themselves. He is also the captain of the test squad and RCB and Dhoni 's deputy in other forms of the game. If only Kohli could deal with his temper well , he will be a formidable and well rounded leader/performer like MSD ! Wish Kohli best of times both in Cricket and his personal life ! on April 11 , 2015 , 15 : 08 GMT Reading the comments here , I can clearly see there are n't a lot of sympathizers for Kohli right now. I think Sundar02 summed it up nicely : " Being positive is one thing , but being arrogant is another thing " . Reason why people jump on to bash-Kohli-bandwagon is his arrogance...it 'll be interesting to see how it shapes up for him when he takes over captaincy of ODI/T20 sides as well. Big question mark would be... " is he mentally ready and capable of handling it " ? on April 11 , 2015 , 13 : 01 GMT I too feel that it hurts when fans direct personal attack on cricket players. But more than fans , Kohli should feel ashamed of himself for his outburst against a Journalist who did n't do any mistake and the way he has handled the criticism. He is going to be a bad example captain. It is utter foolishness and immaturity to claim that he is better player than all his teammates . on April 11 , 2015 , 7 : 15 GMT This is a cricket-mad nation. People worship if you succeed and would act the other way if you fail in big tournaments. Even Sachin was not spared , he was booed in his own hometown. That is how cricketers are being treated in India. BTW , Kohli it is not just one failure in the WC , instead it is just one good innings against Pak. Flamboyance and heroism does not work in Indian cricket at least , only performance do matter. You have had a great start to your career and a terrific run. We just hope you do not lose direction midway . on April 11 , 2015 , 7 : 09 GMT He is well within his rights to say what he said. To some people it may seem arrogant and unnecessary , but it is not wrong ! on April 11 , 2015 , 6 : 52 GMT Ya thats fair enough nobody has right to go s in someone personal life kohli is one of best young player we have and I feel proud on him people should not react on his performence in one match he been a best bastmen in whole test series before worldcup jimbond on April 11 , 2015 , 6 : 51 GMT Indians who love Idol worship are also quick to demolish their idols once the festival is over. It would be good for Kohli to remember a few things. He has done enough to remain in the ODI team for a long time to come. While his performance has improved in tests in the past couple of years , he is still not that good in tests. I would still put Rahane and Pujara ahead of him in Tests , and these two are also nowhere in the range of Tendulkar , Dravid , Sehwag and Laxman. In terms of captaincy , my perception is that both Gambhir and Rohit Sharma are better captains than Kohli. However , I agree with him that nobody has any business discussing his personal life . on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 45 GMT Mr. Kohli...dont be so proud for helping India winning. Ofcourse that is your job and you have to do it. Look at Sachin or Dhoni.. They have never claimed how many mqtches they have own for India. If critics are praising you for your good inningwls , be ready to banged for your bad innings. . SamRoy on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 21 GMT Some of that stuff aimed at the personal life of Kohli was really below the belt. But as a professional who has a public life sometimes such abuse will be hurled at him and he needs to take them in his stride. That is the problem being a public figure. It is not ideal but it happens. One needs to develop thick skin for that. Anyway criticizing his cricket was fair as he destroyed all the momentum which Dhawan had added with a 13 ball 1 . phani30 on April 11 , 2015 , 3 : 47 GMT Kohili statements shows his inability to handle criticism , he will never be a successful captain if he keeps on complaining , though he was unfairly criticized and had he been converted in performances he will be respected. That is how Sachin , Dhoni and others came up. Virat is feeling the heat just a attack on social media but what about Sachin and Dhoni , all other players where the fans went till that extent pelting stones AT their homes and making them fear and insercure . on April 11 , 2015 , 2 : 07 GMT Kohli is apparently above the judgement of mere mortals. The god-captain of Indian cricket has spoken. Let it be heard. Well , that 's what I hear when Kohli speaks anyway. He is so out of touch with reality , somebody really needs to council him , not as a cricketer , but as a human being. A captain who leads by example... he is a pretty poor example to the team ! Not that I mind lol . sundar02 on April 11 , 2015 , 1 : 59 GMT Did ever , Dhoni,Dravid,Sachin and VVS responded to the personal comments made on to them ? They were treated even worse than what Kholi got. Kholi has temperament issues. If you do n't want criticism , then he should not be in commercials either. Why convert his popularity with money by doing commercials ? He think , he achieved so much. Mark my words , In few years , he will disappears from Indian team. Being positive is one thing , but being arrogant is another thing. India has many more talented player than he is. He has to thank every one who supported him with all his failures. Compared to him , Rahane , Pujara and to some extend Rohith sharma looks like down to earth people . mohsin9975 on April 10 , 2015 , 21 : 59 GMT " I do n't think anyone has helped India win as many matches or performed as consistently as I have in the last five years " . Exactly y he 's nt respected by all in India/world despite his talent. I remember another of his outbursts in IPL postmatch intervw after being booed by d crowd when he said dat same crowd wud chant his name when he comes out in a blue jersey for India. Really shows how full he 's wid himself. His attitude always suggested it. But , now he 's spoken his mind. Taking ur own supporters for granted. Such immaturity being Captain of India. He 's compared to Ponting , who also is nt respected by his opponents despite his records. At least Ponting never abused his own teammates & ws respected by them in return. Kohli is neither respected by his opponents nor does he respect his own teammates. Now , that his flawed batting technique been found out , donno who will come out to support him during his future failures . mahecric on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 29 GMT Is Kohli the only player in the world who got out cheaply in a Semi final or a final. There were other co-players out cheaply in the same match. Half of the New- Zealand key players were out on a duck in the Semis why are we not talking about it. Both our experienced openers were out cheaply in world cup final 2011 we never made a fuss about it. Why now ? Are we all talking here just because there was a celebrity sitting in the stands. The fact is " IT HAPPENS " why ? because we are humans. We have no right to be judge mental neither do we have any right to ask Kohli what he should do in his personal life. He is the highest contributor to the Indian cricket in the last 5 years and we all should respect that . on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 28 GMT Captaincy is somewhat another dimension of a cricket team. M.S. Dhoni so far I have seen the best captain for India. As a captain u have to bring out the best from all the players & Dhoni did the best in that part. I doubt if kohli reacts to critics like this & says he won matches for India , definitely he needs to learn a lot from senior players first . Sameer-hbk on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 16 GMT I think we all can agree that blaming the girlfriend in the stand was just stupid and those who did that obviously lost their mind collectively. That aside , just talking cricket , Virat should understand we are under no obligation to support him , let alone adore him as spectators always. We are paying fans & yes we will boo anyone we want at any point. Dude , u failed in WC knockout matches , and we have every right to call u out on it. You won many matches in 5 years ? So what , if I see 10 matches in the stadium will I get ticket for 11th for free ? We pay , u perform. If you fail we do RESERVE the right to criticise. U got ta take brick bats with the roses. Plz stop being a drama queen ! CricketChat on April 10 , 2015 , 19 : 44 GMT Ignoring personal comments from any quarter would have been the best course of action for Kohli. Now that he if the official test captain and soon to become captain in all formats , he should realize he will always be subjected to some sort of criticism or the other. Just the nature of being the blue eyed boy of Ind cricket at present much like Gavaskar and Kapil in the past. That he is an outspoken personality will only add to these sort of comments . LAKINGSFAN on April 10 , 2015 , 19 : 14 GMT While it 's correct fans should not encroach in player 's privacy , but Kohli let his outburst against a reporter ( A wrong one , indeed ) in public. It was completely wrong from Kohli . archnat1112 on April 10 , 2015 , 18 : 57 GMT Herein lies the biggest difference between him and Dhoni. No matter how many matches Dhoni might have finished for India , he would never make the statement that Kohli made , about winning matches. Dhoni also handles the media a 100 times better than Kohli - he is excellent at deflecting a question , he brushes off criticism , and more importantly , he handles their ups and downs the same way. Kohli has a lot of learning to do . VJGS on April 10 , 2015 , 18 : 53 GMT I am and have always been a huge Kohli fan , but his statements are really disappointing. Kohli is relatively a senior in the side and is the Test Skipper too. How can such a person be bogged down by some criticism ? Take a look at how other greats have played. Be it Dravid , Dhoni , Tendulkar , or any one else , they have always understood the simple fact that the Indian fans can support you one moment and criticize you the very next moment. Not that I am for these " fans " changing their colors so quickly , but it has always been how they have been. If Kohli is just realizing this fact now , and is going to be bogged down , I wonder how he will cope up the pressures of a skipper once MS retires from all formats of the game ! Jagadish1726 on April 10 , 2015 , 18 : 33 GMT Surely I m also not with u Kohli.. u might have played well in earlier tournaments , what 's use.. u have to perform in world cup where whole world see u.. urs attitude also irritates many.. As an Indian team and RCB team fan I respect u for Wht u achieved earlier on April 10 , 2015 , 18 : 05 GMT He 's so modest. One reason why he will never be the player Hashim Amla or De Villiers are . binojpeter on April 10 , 2015 , 17 : 52 GMT Personally I would n't blame Anushka 's presence to anything to do with Kohli 's performance. Except for the century against Pakistan , fact is that Kohli had an average ODI performance in world cup and triseries before that. But he had an excellent test series before that. He is a talented batsmen , he may not be technically perfect but he covers that flaw well with his talent , which is what matters in the end , in my opinion. What I do n't like about him is his emotional immaturity , but you ca n't expect everyone to be perfect in all aspects of their personality. But I would rather love to have Pujara or Rahane in test leadership role than him. But it seems that BCCI is going to go with him anyway , so I have to live with it . on April 10 , 2015 , 17 : 43 GMT This is just embarrassing to criticize Kohli at every situation..... What he shared with public was his feelings.... It is utter stupidity to blame Anushka for Kohli 's failure in World cup semi final... And we should n't forget his test centuries there at Australia... He is moulding captain in future... So we should support him to bring his best out..... I 'm through and through a Kohli Fan...... . Gmale on April 10 , 2015 , 17 : 38 GMT My only issue is that I do n't understand the correlation between someone 's cricket performance and privacy. I read some comments saying Kohli should not be criticized because he has performed well , while the critics seem to think differently about his exploits on the field. My question is this - even if we think Kohli did not score enough runs , which he did for my taste btw , who gave us the authority to challenge his off-the-field life ? Should we not respect Kohli 's privacy & our boundaries simply because that 's what courtesy demands ? Commenting on his personal life suggests our sense of entitlement , and criticizing his non-cricket activities says more about us than Kohli or his close ones . on April 10 , 2015 , 17 : 09 GMT I am disappointed at Kohli 's comments. He can not comment on everything that is said about him in media. I just do n't see any upside here. He might have been the best batsman in last few years , but he did have cold World Cup after the century against Pakistan. This is a sign of poor leadership and I hope he learns to show more maturity in the future and decides to not comment about these things . on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 56 GMT Kohli should focus on what he does best , that is batting. He is a poor communicator. Captaincy can be handed over to Ashwin or Rahane . BONUSPOINT on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 38 GMT People who are blindly supporting Kohli should feel ashamed of themselves besides the man himself. As someone mentioned here , Kohli should not expect accolades all the time , he has to be ready to face criticism too when he is not doing good on and off the field. Barring a few ignorant and blind fans , most of the Indian fans are reasonable in their expectations , they know that kohli is not super man to deliver all the time , what irked the most fans is his outburst and his self obsession. Its very clear from his comments , that he thinks very high about himself and indirectly belittling the efforts of other players in the team. If he does n't change his behavior , he will be succumbed to his own hubris . Suscom on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 18 GMT Sad to see people trying to under rate Kohli in these comment sections. . Ashamed of u ppl. . Kohli is the most targeted batsmen in Indian cricket team.. India was over dependent on Kohli 's performance.. And that was the fact.. Every team says that they will take down Kohli at any cost.. Because on Kohli 's day there is nothing called impossible.. Chasing down a 320 + run in 36 overs on a Australian pitch with a 24 run hit on Malingas over , when Malinga was at his peak , said what Kohli was. . 22 + odi 100s.. 5th in most number of 100s in world cricket.. India 's second highest.. That too at an age of just 26.. All happened in last 5 years. . And those people who speak about England series n judge Kohli.. : D guys he was out of form.. Do n't be too silly , to take someone 's bad phase n critisize him.. U ppl should be ashamed of it. . on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 09 GMT As much as he is disappointed with media targeting his personal life , he had no right to attack the writer who wrote ( at least Kholi thought ) about Anushka Sharma while he is on a national assignment for Team India. Take Dhoni for example who sacrificed his visit to see his first born , that 's what called professionalism. Respect is a 2 way street whatever you give you will get it. However I do feel bad for Anushka Sharma , fans would have called her lucky charm if Kholi did exceptionally well . on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 05 GMT I agree that critics who went after his personal life should be ashamed of themselves. Having said that I do n't think Kohli is meant to be a captain. If you are going to let such things impact you , then you wo n't last too long as captain. You are man in-charge and people will come after you with gusto. Some smart people are even paid to come after you. For Virat 's sake , I hope he develops a thick skin in addition to judging the ball moving away from outside off-stump . Suscom on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 00 GMT For those people who criticise kohli. . Man of the series in T20 world cup. . 4- 1000 plus runs and a 995 runs in a 5 calendar year , something never before. . 6 300 + run chases. . 13 odi 100s in successful run chases.. Next to Sachin 's 14.. The master of chasing.. Happened in last 5 years. . Reached number 1 in odi rankings and maintained his position in top 5 these many years. . When India lost a test series in Australia 2-0 , Clarke did n't fail to mention Kohli 's heroic test captaincy debute , when he chose to chase down a 362 + score on a 5th day , something never done before.. With 170 + runs of 145 balls " I remember watching Sachin ( Tendulkar ) play for so many years and really enjoying watching him bat on television but when you play against him it 's not the same feeling .You want him to get out. And Virat was probably like that today. " on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 47 GMT Kohli should be disappointed for his dismal performance in World cup rather than getting disappointed for the comments from media and fans . forExcelienceInCricket on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 25 GMT Comments about personal life of any player are unacceptable. Virat is a talented batsman but his contribution in IND 's matches in ICC events . test cricket and cricket abroad has been below par. This includes both batting and fielding. His batting in AUS was exceptional but failed to clinch a win for IND in first 2 matches. He probably has not a made a single significant contribution in IND 's test wins. In CWC15 he scored 153 in first 2 matches and scored only 152 runs in next 6 matches including matches v WI , ZIM , QF & SF. He clearly needs to improve his temperament , adapt to test cricket in general & pitch conditions abroad in particular.. If he does that he will be more consistent and will achieve greater heights in Tests , ODIs & T20. He has to play another ten years before he can be compared to batting greats like Gavaskar , Sachin , Dravid , Laxman and many others. It may be better for him and Team India if Vijay/Pujara/Ashwin ( also for ODIs ) are groomed as test captains . IAS2009 on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 25 GMT Wow , i did not know that kohli is so not popoular , personally i do n't like his behavior on field he is very much like Ponting in behavior , he already think he is prevliged , he will become more like Ponting once we will see him more as test captain. When kohli can not control his emotions on field for his arrogant behavior why he expects better from passionate followers. Popularity comes at a price , he is paying it, jo_n on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 22 GMT Rahane is currently the best batsman in Indian team because he performed well in all conditions and in all formats. Make rahane Indian test captain and see how rahane performs. Rahane seems more suitable to captain team India . joseyesu on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 22 GMT Agreed , Team India is too much dependant on Kohli. And it aggravated , when team quickly throwed their wickets after his departure. I would suggest selection panel to form a pool of players rather than rotating with just 20 players. Look how the Aus did with the batting and bowling. There is no dependency on any particlar player , To me Gambir , Yuvraj , DKarthick , Parthiv Patel , Ipathan , YPathan can still be included along with Sanju Samson , Pandey , Uthappa , SuryaKumar , Jedav , IPandey , Vinay , MPandey , Vijay. Selection Committee has a role to keep the players fresh , energetic , motivated to perform . ShanNachimuthu on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 21 GMT Like many people , I can not forget your choice of shot selection in the semi-final to the rest of my life. That costed another world cup for India. No matter whatever you do for your personal mile stones this will be always there to hinder that. You should soon realize that you quickly earning lot of haters. But its only you earned ! ! ! lipandutta on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 16 GMT Indian fans are difficult. They should understand a team can not win every match. So what Indian fans did was not good. But what Kohli just said is not expected. He is considered one of the best batsman at present. People expect both playing quality and behavior on the best players. But he should work on his behavior/attitude. I strongly believe a person spent lot of time with Tendulkar should not have attitude problem . jo_n on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 12 GMT Currently Dhoni is the No.1 captain in cricket irrespective of the format in this era many might argue clarke is best in test cricket but clarke lost 0-4 in india. Also give dhoni and clarke an envenly matched team. You will find Dhoni will come on top . Another point i want to make is Steve smith is going to be a top captain in coming years cant see kohli ahead of steve smith . on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 12 GMT Though it is not fair to bring personal issues up while criticizing Kohli , he should learn to take the criticism , otherwise. Yes , he is the best batsman in the team and expectations of him are high. When he performs , the accolades have been overwhelming but when he fails in a key match such as the semi finals against Australia in the WC , when the team was going along well , the rash shot was uncalled for. India could have even won the match and probably retained the World Cup. In fact he had not contributed much in the WC and could have regained some pride with some restraint in this match . on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 01 GMT Man 's right. Critics did overdo him . jo_n on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 56 GMT Kohli should remember he is representing India so every fan expects Kohli to perform well on big matches and when that doesnt happen fans start to make comment . Medias reaction is a reflection of what fans think of kohli. When a player gives his best and failed most fans can bear that loss but playing so poorly in a Worldcup semis brings dissappointment . Test_Fanatic on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 55 GMT As I see it , Kohli is a world class player. He is set to break many , many records before he retires. The criticism of the player is harsh and confusing . Where I come from , he is admired and respected... almost as much as we do Hashim and AB. Cricket fans here love to watch him. He is 100 % committed and passionate about the game and winning . If India does n't want him , please send him to South Africa. We 'll happily include him in any starting IX. In fact , I am willing to bet that he 'll walk into any team in the world without any problems or criticism . NandeeshGowda333 on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 39 GMT Do we even need to remind Mr. Kohli how many times he has let his team down with his behaviour ? Do we even need to bring up the finger salute or the verbal duel with Gambhir during an IPL game or the outburst against Shikhar Dhawan on Test tour Down Under or the most recent tiff with a journalist and then refusing to turn up himself to apologise ? You are not a saint , Mr Kohli , and no one expects you to be. But at least behave like a gentleman to play the gentleman 's game. And yes , respect the fans and consult Sachin to learn how to live with the burden of expectations . BONUSPOINT on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 33 GMT You should feel ashamed of yourself Kohli. You said you have one more matches than any one in the team shows the level of your self-obsession , this is completely unbecoming of a captain and a team-player. You said just one poor innings , if it is in any other match people would n't have minded , but you have failed to perform in two important matches quarters ans semifinal. People feel disappointed naturally and say a few words , so you are abusing them in return the very same fans who supported you all these years including when you were in disastrous form in England ? Your downfall started Mr. Kohli . on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 31 GMT @ Datta Abhijit You are talking about irresponsibe shot. Man he already had face 11 dott balls and when you are chasing 300 + you can not duck every balls , you can not leave every balls. This same guy made runs in the semi final and final of 2013 champions Trophy and 2014 World T20 . NewYorkCricket on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 29 GMT " Personally I was very disappointed. I do n't think anyone has helped India win as many matches or performed as consistently as I have in the last five years " . So you have performed better than your teammates ! ! Please do n't beat your own drum . NandeeshGowda333 on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 23 GMT " I do n't think anyone has helped India win as many matches or performed as consistently as I have in the last five years " .... I completely disagree with this. If he is a good player , then he could have atleast scored a 50 in 5 tests played in England 2014. He scored 134 in 10 innings at an average of 13.4. During that time nobody criticized him. Even in one of the interviews , Dravid mentioned about Virat Kohli that his position in the test team was in jeopardy ( during Aus vs India Test series ) . Virat Kohli 's performance in last ICC T20 was commendable but the pitch in Bangladesh was similar to Indian pitches. His performance in Australia test series was impressive followed by his foolish sledging but one can not deny the fact that it was not normal Australian pitches and also look at the results , he was able to manage only a single draw and that too after Dhoni 's intervention. RCB is struggling to reach final four for the last 2 years under his captaincy srikanthy on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 22 GMT In 1996 world cup sachin made 523runs in 7 matches and never claimed I am the best batsmen of India ( 2003-673runs ) . Dravid played his best to won the test matches out of Asia , but he never claimed that my bowlers are not supporting me. There are so many legends that played for country like Kapil , gavaskar , mohinder , chikka , sourav , VVS , . Do you think you are doing service for the country for free of cost ? You are earnings much and enjoying likes anything. You need to answer for every mistake what you have done in World cup. People are commenting because you played such an irresponsible cricket in semis. We need players who can be able to handle the critical situations and major tournaments. I personally felt that kohli is going to be the key person in semis ; but we felt disspointed with your performance. And last try to be like MSD , ABD , Steven smith , Kane , Amla , Sanga in this era of cricket asiacricket1234 on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 19 GMT I agree with Kohli here. People should not be attack others personal life. If he has not done well thats his fault what his partner has to do about it. Also Kohli has been a top performer for India what kind of fan , media goes after such player because of one bad performance . on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 07 GMT Kohli has been the best Indian batsman in ODI 's and T20 's for sometime now. He has performed for India everywhere and won crunch matches. He has won matches which as a fan in 1990 's i could not even imagine India could win , chasing high scores across difficult oppositions. Barring England , Kohli has performed exceedingly well in SA , NZ as well Australia. Infact Sachin , Dravid , Laxman have not scored that many runs and that many centuries in a series in Australia ever. He has a personal life , and he has every right to do feel disappointed when others interfere in his personal life. What if he expressed it , ultimately he his human. He could not perform to his own standards in WC does not make him accountable to us fans , neither it has anything to do with his personal life. Kohli is the best thing happened to India cricket in recent times and will probably go on to become the best Indian player ever. Let 's celebrate him and not criticize unnecessarily . STRAIGHT_TALK on April 10 , 2015 , 12 : 04 GMT Virat Kohli should first learn and understand that there are no critics in Indian cricket and there are only a large number of fans / enthusiasts who are all well opinionated on everything unrelated to the game. Add to this , the media which is equally 'knowledgeable ' about the game. This young gentleman should also realize that he is just a new player in the game and has the potential to do well. All that he has achieved has also been partly due to the hype that has been created by the same media over the last few years. If one sees this specific aspect critically , Indian cricket does n't really have a 'star ' today ( Dhoni is an ultra value player ) and BCCI also needs such 'stars ' for their own marketing reasons. Virat should continue to focus on improving his game and let his bat do all the talking. He urgently needs to hone his skills and learn the technique required to face bowlers like James Anderson. Have we already forgotten his travails against Anderson & Co. ? on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 51 GMT If it is just a joke , any celebrity has to face it ! It 's not so easy Mr. Kohli ! Way to go for becoming next Tendulkar for India. Expectations are tooooooo high ! However , passing such remarks by Media is never a joke ! No one has a right to pass such personal comments ! on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 50 GMT I am fully agree with Kohli. No one should attack on the personal life and we should not forget he has won so many matches for us in last 5 years. He is our superstar and indeed a match winner . Prats6 on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 47 GMT The media getting personal was really bad and I am with Kohli there. But statements such as 'I do n't think anyone has helped India win as many matches or performed as consistently as I have in the last five years ' is true in ODIs , however , does not befit an Indian Test skipper. I am amazed he has n't learned from the greats that he has played with . sach_waz on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 35 GMT Reading all the comments here , people ask kohli to take a leaf out of sachin , dhoni , dravid etc...sachin was sachin..you and me ca n't emulate his personality. so , goes dhoni. Now , kohli is kohli -aggressive , emotional and expressive. so , leave him alone. he has highlighted what hurt him. each individual gets molded in life with the events life throws at them - kohli is a tough and rough bloke and he should continue to be his own , no emulations with the other greats. indeed media and fans should be ashamed of dragging one 's personal life into this ! on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 30 GMT Critics job is to find flaws. Being a Vice Captain of the One Day side and Test Captain too , you should have shown more maturity while playing that particular irresponsible shot. When you now Aussies gon na bang short ball at you , you could have easily left those balls. Playing an irresponsible shot in a league matches and in a Semi Final match is a huge difference. In my opinion , you may score more runs or centuries then Sir Sachin Tendulkar , but still you wont be consider as Great as the Master . on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 26 GMT " I do n't think anyone has helped India win as many matches or performed as consistently as I have in the last five years " - Terrible line especially one that can create doubts within the team. Yes , there is some truth to it that he is indeed India 's best batsman , but if there is anything to learn from Tendulkar outside of his batting skills , it is his ability to be humble. However , knowing Kohli , he probably said it in the heat of the moment with the media , so I hope people and especially folks like Arnab dont blow it out of proportion on TV. Give Kohli the support he needs and lets build for 2019. Blaming Anushka is lame and immature , thats like blaming Sachin 's family for Sachin not getting a hundred in his last test match in Wankhede ; grow up guys. If Kohli hit a century in SCG , then Go Anushka ... since he hit only 1 , then Anushka is a problem ? Give me a break .. . on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 25 GMT Though I am not entirely in support of Virat Kohli claiming to be the best batsman in the Indian team , I dont understand why people are not able to accept that it was a fact he had mentioned..When he has won matches , scored more runs than any other player for India then why should he be ashamed to say so..It is sad that such a big player has not performed well when it mattered and he would hurt more than anyone else..I would ask people to first equal his contribution and then comment on him. . on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 23 GMT I think Virat got it all wrong here.I dont think anyone in the media or around the world thinks that he has not been a match winner for India.He has certainly done so on countless number of occasions in the past including the World Cup final in 2011 where it was him and Gambhir who got the game changing partnership.All the criticism now is that he has not been up to the consistency level he has set himself. His own words are going against him here.He talks about being consistent and reaching a particular level of achievement in a player 's career and he himself has failed to deliver and so he should be bold enough to take the criticism. I agree the media has been very critical and personal specially about the presence of his girlfriend on the stands and need to give Virat some breathing space but Virat knows how the media is and he needs to be more mature in his comments being India 's test captain , about which i m beginning to have second thoughts . mahi6342 on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 11 GMT These statement by Kohli , completely showing arrogant. How he forgot that what Dhawan did in CT-2013 and IN CWC-2015. None of Indian player criticized him when he failed badly in England. Even Dhoni supported him too much. And he is saying that I do n't think anyone has helped India win as many matches or performed as consistently as I have in the last five years , He forgot Dhoni , He forgot Raina. People know well that what Dhoni did when Team India need him very much. Recently Yograj criticized him too much , even he said that Dhoni will become a begger and no one will help him. but Dhoni did n't reply him a single time. This is ONLY reason that I do n't Kohli. Never . vippra on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 08 GMT I am surprised that Virat has given such an interview , he should take a page out of MS 's book and learn how to handle the media. This smacks of immaturity . Virat - Grow up and ignore the media , your cricket speaks for itself . on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 56 GMT The same reaction from people after Yuvraj failed to score in t20 WC 2014. But unfortunately he has been dropped from Indian team because of the single match failure . Apparantely we didnt rely only on with Virat in the past 5 years whereas we had masters and match winners . SACHIN , DRAVID and YUVRAJ . Need to be careful when talking to Media . on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 56 GMT well every coin has two sides good and bad ! when your performances are good people praise and embrace you with open arms and you also love it , similarly when you do n't perform be ready and humble enough to take the criticism positively. there is no point complaining about fans and announcing his own 's past record which we already know it . gannyboy on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 52 GMT A statement like " I do n't think anyone has helped India win as many matches or performed as consistently as I have in the last five years " is just ridiculous coming from a test captain. Time to handover the captaincy to someone like Ashwin or Rahane ( by the way no one has won more test matches for India than Ashwin in the last 5 years just see the comparison between the number of MOM and MOS won by the respective players during these period ) . I remember the selectors doing something similar by giving T20 captaincy to Dhoni in 2007 in spite of Yuvi being a much bigger star at that moment. Its time Kohli stopped crying for every little thing . on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 40 GMT Virat Kohli is absolutely right here. The critics should always talk about his game without getting personal. The critics should also watch out their language while commenting on a player. Virat Kohli scored 305 runs in the WC and also scored 692 runs at an average of 86.50 in the test series against Australia. The critics forgot these stats and criticized Kohli too much for his semi final performance. The critics claim , that Virat Kohli got distracted in the semi final due to the presence of his girlfriend , is just rubbish. In the the 4th test against Australia , in Sydney , Kohli scored 147. At that time , his girlfriend was present there too. Why did n't he got got distracted then ? The critics should remain in their limits and should only comment on the player 's game instead of getting personal . on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 39 GMT @ VinoVinu you summed up perfectly... This guy has indeed been the best batsmen in Tests as well scoring tons at SA. Media would n't hav questioned if he had been out to a good ball for duck but the mmode of dismissal hurts. we are not just dependent on Kohli as we showed that in CT 2013.. Only in WT20 he was amongst the runs but in ICC events Dhawan has emerged . People in India will judge players based on ICC events performance and not just on bilateral series. also he should n't forget that he is going to be next captain and handle media properly . on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 36 GMT Kohli should ask himself whether it was his one bad performance on the field or the bad performance off the field ( outburst towards the journalist ) that caused this huge uproar about his failure. On the field you might do wonders and we all do accept the fact that you are a good servant of Indian cricket , but that does not give you god like powers to belittle others. Be humble.. not just in words but through your actions. Follow the footsteps of the legend - Sachin Tendulkar. Learn how M S Dhoni - one of the best captains of the world , is handling criticisms. You be aggressive in your mindset but not to others. Be a role model to kids who are taking up the game. Better things are in store for you in coming days. All the best on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 30 GMT Cristiano Ronaldo of Indian Cricket ! ! Who does that ? " I have won the most matches for India in last five years " . As much as he made runs the bowlers were the key in getting the teams out. He ca n't just claim to have won matches single handedly . brave.murder.day on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 30 GMT Even though they are engaged in two completely different sports , Virat and Ronaldo are like two halves of the same apple ; two brilliant players with egos as enormous as their talent. Virat can actually take a leaf out of Tendulkar 's book and learn to be humble during both good and bad times. Tendulkar played cricket for 25 years but I can not remember a single instance where he gloated about his match winning skills like Kohli has done here. That 's why he 's still in the hearts of many cricket fans while Kohli is despised by many throughout the world . johny_86_bd on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 29 GMT Supporters should respect players personal life. Its true that supporters treat a player like a national hero when they perform well , but they should also realize that one ca n't play well everyday. Every sportsman goes through a lean period in career. During this lean period , a player needs the faith of the supporters most . GR8GAUR on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 26 GMT @ KNIFESPEED : Be careful with your words mate . on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 17 GMT It always hurts when the comments go on to the personal zone. " In the past five years no one else has performed as consistently as I did " . This is what Kohli says. There is truth in it. But , India , in the past five years , is not certainly dependent only on Virat Kohli 's performance. There are other match winners as well. During 1995 , It was only Sachin Tendulkar who held the Indian fans to watch Cricket. He was the batting core for India then. Most of the other batsmen appeared as if to fill in the numbers in the team. There were many people who stopped watching the match when Sachin gets out. People even criticised the performance of Sachin whenever his performance was below Sachin 's level. There were talks on his retirement since the end of 2003 world cup. Even after carrying huge pressure on the shoulders , Tendulkar never uttered anything like he was the best. People like Kohli , should learn how to talk to media from legends like Sachin and Dravid . on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 16 GMT Mr Kohli . You must remember that public and media memory is short . They will question why you did not perform instead of showering praises for the matches you have won for India . You can pick a leaf from careers of Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid and desist from reacting to the media. Let your cricket bat do the talking . Knifespeed on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 03 GMT Big deal.. You failed and got massacred.. You should have known this.. Not new in India..This country is as flimsy and fickle as they get... You sought out the attention.. Now deal with it ! Dust off and get back to what you do best... Cricket ! smudgeon on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 53 GMT Bradmanbestever - the " deal with this guy " is that ( surprisingly , some might think ) he is just a human who happens to be good at cricket. It 's very rare for someone to say they do n't care what people think of them , and genuinely mean it. I 'm not quite sure exactly why Kohli is deserving of this level of media criticism. He is a fine batsman who maybe did n't live up to expectation at cricket 's biggest showcase. The end. Leave the personal criticisms and assumptions about his life aside - I 'm sure he 'll write a book when he retires . on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 40 GMT It always hurt when someone talking about personal,... They are plastic fans and they had easily forgotten that he had been the best batsman for India in the last five years and they always want be winning side and not ready to be part of losing side...Win or Lose is part of sports. When it comes media just forget they are paid media they can do anything for TRP... Whatever people say but fact is at the moment Virat best batsman in the world... But do n't worry about hater Virat , win or lose always support Virat Kohli and proud of your achievement. All the best for IPL virat . on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 27 GMT This world is bad Kohli..you keep performing to the level you always do.these same people will be on your feet again.Cheers BradmanBestEver on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 24 GMT During the recent Australian saga he said " did not care " what people thought about him. So what 's the deal with this guy ? No featured comments at the moment . BradmanBestEver on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 24 GMT During the recent Australian saga he said " did not care " what people thought about him. So what 's the deal with this guy ? on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 27 GMT This world is bad Kohli..you keep performing to the level you always do.these same people will be on your feet again.Cheers on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 40 GMT It always hurt when someone talking about personal,... They are plastic fans and they had easily forgotten that he had been the best batsman for India in the last five years and they always want be winning side and not ready to be part of losing side...Win or Lose is part of sports. When it comes media just forget they are paid media they can do anything for TRP... Whatever people say but fact is at the moment Virat best batsman in the world... But do n't worry about hater Virat , win or lose always support Virat Kohli and proud of your achievement. All the best for IPL virat . smudgeon on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 53 GMT Bradmanbestever - the " deal with this guy " is that ( surprisingly , some might think ) he is just a human who happens to be good at cricket. It 's very rare for someone to say they do n't care what people think of them , and genuinely mean it. I 'm not quite sure exactly why Kohli is deserving of this level of media criticism. He is a fine batsman who maybe did n't live up to expectation at cricket 's biggest showcase. The end. Leave the personal criticisms and assumptions about his life aside - I 'm sure he 'll write a book when he retires . Knifespeed on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 03 GMT Big deal.. You failed and got massacred.. You should have known this.. Not new in India..This country is as flimsy and fickle as they get... You sought out the attention.. Now deal with it ! Dust off and get back to what you do best... Cricket ! on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 16 GMT Mr Kohli . You must remember that public and media memory is short . They will question why you did not perform instead of showering praises for the matches you have won for India . You can pick a leaf from careers of Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid and desist from reacting to the media. Let your cricket bat do the talking . on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 17 GMT It always hurts when the comments go on to the personal zone. " In the past five years no one else has performed as consistently as I did " . This is what Kohli says. There is truth in it. But , India , in the past five years , is not certainly dependent only on Virat Kohli 's performance. There are other match winners as well. During 1995 , It was only Sachin Tendulkar who held the Indian fans to watch Cricket. He was the batting core for India then. Most of the other batsmen appeared as if to fill in the numbers in the team. There were many people who stopped watching the match when Sachin gets out. People even criticised the performance of Sachin whenever his performance was below Sachin 's level. There were talks on his retirement since the end of 2003 world cup. Even after carrying huge pressure on the shoulders , Tendulkar never uttered anything like he was the best. People like Kohli , should learn how to talk to media from legends like Sachin and Dravid . GR8GAUR on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 26 GMT @ KNIFESPEED : Be careful with your words mate . johny_86_bd on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 29 GMT Supporters should respect players personal life. Its true that supporters treat a player like a national hero when they perform well , but they should also realize that one ca n't play well everyday. Every sportsman goes through a lean period in career. During this lean period , a player needs the faith of the supporters most . brave.murder.day on April 10 , 2015 , 10 : 30 GMT Even though they are engaged in two completely different sports , Virat and Ronaldo are like two halves of the same apple ; two brilliant players with egos as enormous as their talent. Virat can actually take a leaf out of Tendulkar 's book and learn to be humble during both good and bad times. Tendulkar played cricket for 25 years but I can not remember a single instance where he gloated about his match winning skills like Kohli has done here. That 's why he 's still in the hearts of many cricket fans while Kohli is despised by many throughout the world .
