India news December 7 , 2014 BCCI stops players from using board logo in domestic games PTI shares 4 Players can no longer sport gear with the BCCI logo during a domestic game © BCCI In a fresh diktat for players representing various teams in domestic competitions , the BCCI has instructed match referees to ensure that none of the India players - current or discarded - sport the board logo on their gear as that will be considered a violation of the association 's code . Normally , the moment a player breaks into the Indian team and then subsequently comes to domestic cricket , they have a habit of wearing India helmets , jerseys or caps. The BCCI wants to stop that . " The rule has been there from the start of the season but has only been implemented in all earnestness during the recently-concluded Deodhar Trophy final between West Zone and East Zone , " a BCCI official told PTI on Sunday . " The clear instruction given to the match referees is to tell team officials that the players are not permitted to use India jerseys , caps or helmets. If the players inadvertently wear India stuff , there should be taping on the helmet crest or caps. That 's the reason match referee Sanjay Raul intimated both Delhi and Saurashtra managers about BCCI diktat , " the source added . During the Deodhar Trophy final , Kedar Jadhav got his India helmet patched with white plaster and opposition captain Manoj Tiwary covered his India ODI cap with brown-coloured leucoplast . On Sunday , Gautam Gambhir , Virender Sehwag , Unmukt Chand had taped the BCCI logos on their helmets. When a BCCI office-bearer was contacted , he said : " For long this has been a trend but it should change. Even if you have played for India , when you are playing for your state , you should respect the state cap and the jersey . " I agree not all states provide helmets with association logos [ Mumbai and Tamil Nadu do ] , but you can always try to be a part of team rather than be portrayed as superior player. " © PTI
