Darren Sammy Avoiding Controversy over Dwayne Bravo , Kieron Pollard Omission Darren Sammy Avoiding Controversy over Dwayne Bravo , Kieron Pollard Omission The West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) and its selection panel headed by Clive Lloyd have come under fire from many quarters for excluding all-rounders Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard from the World Cup squad . Last updated on Saturday , 17 January , 2015 00 : 02 IST Total Shares File photo : Dwayne Bravo and Darren Sammy in conversation during a practice session in India . © BCCI Durban : West Indies Twenty20 captain Darren Sammy has said he would not be drawn into the controversy surrounding the omission of Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard from the regional squad for next month 's ICC Cricket World Cup to be jointly hosted by Australia and New Zealand. ( West Indies , South Africa Seek World Cup Warm-up ) The West Indies Cricket Board ( WICB ) and its selection panel headed by Clive Lloyd have come under fire from many quarters for excluding the two all-rounders from Trinidad and Tobago. ( All World Cup Squads ) Sammy has declined to comment on the specific issue only to say that Bravo and Pollard will bounce back . " I know with all the controversy guys will bounce back that 's just cricket , " said Sammy. ( Gayle Slams Bravo , Pollard Omissions ) " I wo n't be drawn into all whats going on cause that has never been me..so we are just looking to move on in the one-day series. " ( Lloyd Hits Back at Gayle , Says Selection on Merit ) Among those who have blasted the omission of Bravo and Pollard was flamboyant opener Chris Gayle who described the decisions as " ridiculous " and said it smacked of victimisation . The Prime Minister of St.Vincent and the Grenadines Ralph Golzalves has also accused the WICB of victimization despite public statements from the board 's president Dave Cameron and Lloyd denying those claims and arguing that the World Cup squad was selected on merit . " It 's a situation that you do n't really want to deal with in cricket but for me I have always stayed away from controversy and stuff like that , " said Sammy after the West Indies won the T20 series against South African 2-1 . " So it was good that we won the T20 series , moving into the one day series now it 's about supporting what 's there. We would have liked to have a lot of players in our one day team but I am not in charge of who selects teams. " Pollard and Bravo were members of the West Indies team during the controversial abandoned tour of India when the one-day team abruptly quit the series over a contracts dispute with their players union , WIPA . Story first published on : Friday , 16 January 2015 13 : 43 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
