IPL 2015 auction February 15 , 2015 Daredevils likely to top auction spending Having let go of half their team , Delhi Daredevils have Rs. 40 crore to spend , and are likely to make the biggest splash at the player auction shares 13 Yuvraj Singh 's international career may have lost its footing , but he is still likely to attract big bids at the IPL player auction © BCCI It is unlike the IPL to play second fiddle to international cricket. Yet , the World Cup has overshadowed this year 's IPL player auction , in Bangalore on February 16 , a day after what is being touted as the biggest game of the World Cup - India v Pakistan. Still , this auction will be significant at least for a few teams such as Delhi Daredevils and Sunrisers Hyderabad who decided to dismantle more than half the squads they only assembled last year . Topping the marquee list this time are three players who have attracted the maximum base price of Rs. 2 crore ( approx $ 0.33 million ) : India allrounder Yuvraj Singh , former England batsman and captain Kevin Pietersen , South Africa Test captain Hashim Amla and India wicket-keeper-batsman Dinesh Karthik . Still the supply with regards to top-quality Indian participation remains limited. Officials are predicting the most viable buys among the 22 capped Indians will be Yuvraj , Karthik , M Vijay , Amit Mishra and Pragyan Ojha . Franchise officials ESPNcricinfo spoke to agree that Yuvraj , who was the most expensive buy at Rs. 14 crore ( approx $ 2.33 million ) last year when he was bought by Royal Challengers Bangalore , could get the biggest billing once again , because he doubles up as an allrounder as well as a captaincy contender . Daredevils have a clear vacancy , having dropped Pietersen who was at the helm last year. Having shed 13 players , Daredevils , who are left with 11 players , are likely to be one of the biggest buyers - if not the biggest - this time. They also have the highest auction purse with a balance of Rs. 40 crore ( approx $ 6.67 million ) . Last year Daredevils finished bottom of the points table with only two wins. Hemant Dua , the Daredevils CEO , said there was no lesson to learn as such from last year 's debacle. He felt that the squad had not clicked. " We are going to go ahead and spend to build a team to give us a good squad that can go out and perform and deliver. I am very confident we have a very good core in place. It is just about strengthening it further. " In addition to Pietersen once again , other candidates Daredevils could consider for captaincy include West Indies T20 captain Darren Sammy , former Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara , and current England ODI captain Eoin Morgan . One senior player Daredevils could think about is Amla , considering their coach Gary Kirsten has always fancied a player with a good work ethic. Amla could , according to an official who has attended every IPL auction , play the same role as former Australian batsman Michael Hussey carried out at Chennai Super Kings : an effective batsman-cum-mentor. " Amla can be what Michael Hussey was at Chennai. Never regarded as a Twenty20 player but his basics and preparation are so good that he can do a good job. " Another team that will be looking to make significant purchases are Sunrisers , who cut out 12 players. They have the second-biggest auction purse of Rs. 20.85 crore ( approx $ 3.47 million ) . The players they released include Sammy , India legspinner Amit Mishra , India allrounder Irfan Pathan , Australia batsman Aaron Finch and West Indies fast bowler and ODI captain Jason Holder . Kolkata Knight Riders and Rajasthan Royals have Rs. 13 crore ( approx $ 2.17 million ) each in their purse. Kings XI Punjab , whose coach Sanjay Bangar focused on quality Indian domestic talents who played a crucial role in the franchise making their first final , are left with Rs. 11.8 crore ( approx $ 1.97 million ) . Mumbai Indians have Rs. 10 crore ( approx $ 1.67 million ) to spend while Chennai Super Kings only have Rs. 4.8 crore ( approx $ 0.80 million ) . It will be interesting to see what kind of moves Mumbai make this auction. Mumbai are still smarting from the dismantling of what was a formidable squad put together in 2013. Then , in a surprising move before last year 's auction , they released quality players including the Australian pair of Mitchell Johnson and Glenn Maxwell , and did not retain the homegrown Suryakumar Yadav. At the auction they opted for legspinner Shreyas Gopal ahead of the chinaman bowler Kuldip Yadav. Each of those players they let go played a pivotal role in Kings XI Punjab and Kolkata Knight Riders reaching the tournament final . Mumbai put their money on Hussey and New Zealand allrounder Corey Anderson , who had then just broken the record for the fastest ODI hundred. Hussey failed to provide the stability expected of him in the top order , and featured in only nine of Mumbai 's 14 matches , scoring 209 runs at 23.22 with two fifties. Poor returns for a batsman of his stature . Anderson was ineffective in his role as explosive finisher , scoring 265 runs at 29.44 in 12 matches , in which he managed only four wickets. Mumbai spent Rs. 5 crore ( approx $ 0.83 million ) on Hussey and Rs 4.5 crore ( approx $ 0.75 million ) on Anderson. Pit those against Maxwell 's returns - 552 runs in 16 matches at a strike rate of 187.75 - and you sense the extent of Mumbai 's anguish. Kings XI paid Rs. 6 crore ( approx $ 1 million ) to bag Maxwell . Mumbai have always spent lavishly but a fourth-place finish was clearly not satisfactory , as the move to overhaul the team management suggests. John Wright , who was the head coach for two seasons , was moved to grassroot development projects while former India captain and legspinner Anil Kumble , who used to have a greater say in cricketing matters , has reportedly paved way for Ricky Ponting . The former Australia captain , who played a season for the franchise and was a consultant last year , has been appointed head coach and will call the shots at the auction. Rivals are not surprised. " For the first time last year Mumbai faced a level playing field in terms of money after the uncapped players were brought into the auction fold. And look what happened , " a rival franchise official said . Overall , one plausible difference compared to previous auctions this time could be that player costs might be less inflated. On crucial factor , franchise officials say , is that prices in the market are depressed in terms of sponsorship. Even successful franchises like Knight Riders , the defending champions , are yet to sell the space on their shirt reserved for a title sponsor. So even if the IPL is anxious for franchises to break their bank vaults , it is highly unlikely to happen , considering owners might be happier playing safe. " The only controllable is player costs , " the franchise official said . Nagraj Gollapudi is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
