IPL 2015 news February 16 , 2015 Eager to play under Kirsten - Yuvraj PTI 10 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 10 According to Delhi Daredevils CEO Hemant Dua , Yuvraj Singh will fill in the role of an icon player in the side © BCCI Allrounder Yuvraj Singh , who on Monday became Indian Premier League 's costliest-ever buy by going for a whopping Rs 16 crore ( $ 2.67 million ) to Delhi Daredevils , said that he was happy to be playing again under former India coach Gary Kirsten . " I was sleeping when the auction was going on. I came to know of this only when some guests came to my house and told me the good news. The best part is I am going to play under Kirsten. I had my best years under him and hopefully I can repeat that with Delhi , " Yuvraj said , after he was bought for the record sum at the IPL 2015 player auction in Bangalore . Kirsten , who was present at the auction along with top team officials , said that his franchise had come prepared to go all out bidding for Yuvraj . " You want to know that throughout the season you have various combinations to fall back on. I think we learned from last year that if we want a player we need to push hard for him. Hence we were prepared to go all the way with Yuvraj and it 's great for the player as well , " the South African said . " Yuvraj can add good value to the side. We do n't know , it 's always the thing with the auction. At last year 's auction we thought we had a good team. Tough space the auction , trying to go on with the players who think can make a difference , " he added . Delhi Daredevils CEO Hemant Dua said Yuvraj would fill in the gap of having an icon player in the IPL side and the sponsors would like it . " We did not expect Yuvraj to go for that price. Yes , he is a very valuable asset. More than cricket , he brings in charisma. He brings in brand role to the team , and I am sure the sponsors would like that. I think we were lacking some form of an icon player in our team , " he said . Dua said they wanted Yuvraj in the team as he brings in lot of talent in the team with a good domestic season behind him this year . " We wanted him definitely. He brings lot of talent in the team and the combination we have. I think he is hungry and wants to play. He has had a good domestic season , " he said . " From the perspective of the team think-tank , I think the three buys we have got - Yuvraj , Angelo Mathews and Amit Mishra - they all fit in the team combination , " Dua said , adding that the captaincy issue will be decided by coach Kirsten . Sunrisers Hyderabad coach Tom Moody said his side wanted former England captain Kevin Pietersen , who was bought for a base price of Rs 2 crore ( $ 330,00 ) , even solely as a batsman . © PTI
