From a maiden stint in the Karnataka Premier League to being purchased for an astonishing amount in the IPL 2015 auction , KC Cariappa has had a few interesting months shares 22 KC Cariappa : " I am very excited. But how this kind of thing suddenly happened I have no idea " © Kolkata Knight Riders Who is KC Cariappa ? That was the first question nearly everyone would have asked once Cariappa was bought by defending IPL champions Kolkata Knight Riders for an astonishing sum of Rs 2.4 crore ( $ 400,000 ) , 24 times his base price . Konganda Charamanna Cariappa is a 20-year-old legspinner from Coorg in Karnataka. Curiously both the BCCI and the Karnataka State Cricket Association had him listed as an off-break bowler. However , Cariappa , known as Carri to his team-mates , confirmed he is primarily a legspinner with a grip that allows him to bowl off breaks and leg breaks . At 5 feet 11 inches , Cariappa is tall for a spinner and bowls with an orthodox round-arm action. The leg break is his stock ball , and he has variations like the googly and the faster one. His other strength , that could make it difficult for batsmen to read him , is his ability to bowl off-spinners without changing the grip . Like many keen and talented cricketers in India , Cariappa started performing in tennis-ball cricket. " I was a Sachin fan. But in my bowling I did not copy anyone. I would bowl with my three-finger grip. My coaches found that interesting and asked me to focus on my bowling , " Cariappa said . Knight Riders have always shown an interest in spinners with unusual actions , picking West Indies offspinner Sunil Narine , Sri Lanka offspinner Sachithra Senanayake and Indian chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav . For Cariappa , the breakthrough with Knight Riders came through an association with AR Srikkanth , who is the team analyst for Knight Riders and Bijapur Bulls , the franchise Cariappa represents in the Karnataka Premier League , which is a state-level , franchise-based Twenty20 league. In his first KPL season last year , Cariappa bowled impressively and finished as the third-highest wicket-taker in the tournament with 11 dismissals. His performances attracted attention from a few IPL team scouts . Cariappa was asked to give a trial during the Knight Riders camp in Hyderabad last September before the Champions League Twenty20 . " I was very nervous because it was the first time I was asked to bowl against an IPL team , " Cariappa told ESPNcricinfo. The spinner said he did not bowl anything special : " Nothing like that , I just bowled well. " His bowling must have impressed Knight Riders who asked him to enter the auction. Gautam Gambhir , the team captain and a good player of spin , had failed to read Cariappa consistently and told the team management about this , helping the legspinner 's case . The dramatic rise in his bidding , as Knight Riders contested fiercely with Delhi Daredevils , was not lost on Cariappa who was following the auction , but he never expected the price for which he was eventually bought . " I am very excited. But how this kind of thing suddenly happened I have no idea , " he said. " I thought they were interested in me so I would go for my base price of Rs 10 lakhs. I was not sure about Delhi also bidding. " The last six months have opened up a lot of options for Cariappa. Immediately after the KPL , the Karnataka selectors decided to include him in the 30 probables for the Ranji Trophy. According to one of the selectors , when the panel saw him bowl in the local league tournaments , they failed to read his hand . " Even we thought he was an offspinner to begin with. He is very much in the Sunil Narine league in terms of his action. He has the carrom ball , too which is deceptive. It was this X-factor that prompted us to pick him in the probables , " the selector said . Nagraj Gollapudi is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
