IPL 2015 news February 16 , 2015 Amazing that two teams showed faith - Zaheer Arun Venugopal shares 27 Zaheer Khan has not played competitive cricket since May 2014 © BCCI Zaheer Khan termed the faith reposed in him by teams at the IPL auction " amazing , " despite being sidelined from international cricket for a year. Zaheer last played a competitive fixture in May 2014 , in the IPL , before he was ruled out by a tendon injury in his bowling arm . After going unsold the first time his name came up in the auction , there was frenetic bidding between Delhi Daredevils and Mumbai Indians in the second round , and Zaheer was eventually picked up by Daredevils for a whopping Rs 4 crore ( $ 660,000 ) , making him the fourth-highest earner in the auction . " It was amazing that two teams showed such faith in me , " Zaheer told ESPNcricinfo. " Frankly , I was a bit concerned about how people would look at me , as I was completely out of the game for a long time. It [ being picked ] is an added responsibility on me. " Zaheer said it was easier for him to pick the T20 format over first-class cricket , having been away from the field for so long. " The reason I stayed away from Ranji Trophy this season was because of the workload , " he said. " [ Playing the longer format ] was still seven-eight weeks away. [ But ] I knew I could bowl four overs , and contribute in other ways in an IPL team by helping out younger bowlers. I do n't want my last memory to be one of walking off the field injured. " Zaheer also said he knew Mumbai would bid for him. " Obviously I was a part of Mumbai Indians , and I have been in touch with their management during my injury. They knew my status , and they really wanted me to be there. Surely it was n't a surprise that they went for me. " Playing under Gary Kirsten and TA Sekhar in the Daredevils set-up , Zaheer said , was something he was looking forward to. " Gary has seen me for a long time , and so has Mr. Sekhar. It will be great to work with them , " he said . Zaheer was first ruled out of IPL 2014 with a muscle strain , his left latissimus dorsi muscle , after which he said he was unlikely to be fit for the Champions League T20 in September. The long lay-off has helped Zaheer get up to date with some of his other interests . " Injuries do bring something. I started this new venture called ProSport which is mainly an injuries and rehabilitation centre , " he said. " This injury was very different. I was aiming to play CLT20 , but I got injured in May. It was very frustrating to be injured with the World Cup around the corner. I was hoping to do the right things , but my body was not responding. You got to listen to your body. If you are not ready , you are not ready. " Zaheer , however , is not inclined to stop playing the longer formats. " I just basically want to start playing again. Things are looking good , and hopefully they will stay that way. " Arun Venugopal is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
