IPL 2015 : Chennai Super Kings preview April 4 , 2015 IPL giants seek to end title drought Arun Venugopal Chennai Super Kings team preview Likely first XI 1 Michael Hussey/Dwayne Smith , 2 Brendon McCullum , 3 Suresh Raina , 4 Faf du Plessis , 5 Dwayne Bravo , 6 MS Dhoni ( capt & wk ) , 7 Ravindra Jadeja , 8 Irfan Pathan , 9 R Ashwin , 10 Ashish Nehra/Ishwar Pandey , 11 Mohit Sharma Click here for the full squad 2014 finish After a strong start that included six wins on the trot , Super Kings ' form tapered off towards the end of the league phase , but was still good enough to take them to the second qualifier , where they lost a runathon to Kings XI Punjab . Big picture R Ashwin 's stated ambition of Chennai Super Kings becoming the IPL 's Manchester United is the sort of chest-thumping theme fanboys and brand managers swear by. Such comparisons are , however , little more than a gimmicky twist given the relatively recent origins of the tournament itself . Still , it ca n't be ignored that Super Kings have been the gold standard for teams in the IPL. They have made the last four in each of the last seven seasons , including four straight final appearances and two titles. Given Super Kings ' success rate , three consecutive years without an IPL title is deemed an underachievement. But even as their supporters twitch nervously , Super Kings are unlikely to panic . The team 's accomplishments have come on the strength of sameness , and despite the inevitable shuffling , they have managed to keep their core intact , investing mainly in must-haves at the auction. Michael Hussey , who played for Mumbai Indians last year , is back , even as captain MS Dhoni , Suresh Raina , and Ashwin remain the team 's constants . Another familiar figure is coach Stephen Fleming , whose cricket brain is only one of his many strengths in the set-up. Apart from rigorously implementing his pet phrase 'consistency of selection, ' he has also been Super Kings ' trusted stone-waller at media interactions. His man-management methods - ranging from prankish bonding exercises to crisp team meetings - have kept the unit in a happy place . On the field , what hurt Super Kings the most in 2014 was the runs bled by their seamers. Their three frontline bowlers were hit around for more than eight an over. Seam-bowling has been their longstanding weak spot , and they tried to remedy it at the auction , acquiring Kyle Abbott , Irfan Pathan and Andrew Tye , who Aaron Finch called the find of last season 's Big Bash League , after offloading Ben Hilfenhaus and James Hastings.With Mohit Sharma , Matt Henry , Ashish Nehra , Ishwar Pandey and Dwayne Bravo already in the squad , it would appear this flank has more beef now . The batting department does n't lend itself to much change , but Hussey 's arrival will likely see him opening with Brendon McCullum , while Dwayne Smith , Super Kings ' highest-scorer last year , will remain an option as well . Big players Super Kings have a big complement of star names to call on , with Dhoni and Raina , who has n't yet missed a single IPL fixture , leading the way. But this year 's big draw has to be Brendon McCullum , after his smash-mouth striking - 328 runs at a strike-rate of 188.50 - and leadership brought New Zealand within a match of the World Cup title . McCullum was the third-highest scorer for Super Kings last year with 405 runs at an average of 31.15 , but with a surprisingly middling strike-rate of 121.62. Super Kings will also do well to remember that his dropping down to No.4 in the knockout games yielded poor returns . Bargain buy With every ball Kyle Abbott bowled in the World Cup - he picked up nine wickets in the four matches as replacement for the injured Vernon Philander- the Super Kings management must have been progressively thrilled. At Rs 30 lakh ( US $ 50,000 ) , Abbott was shopped for a steal. Abbott is tall , pacy and is capable of swinging the ball. It helps that he is tidy - at 4.19 , he was South Africa 's most economical bowler in the tournament . Availability McCullum will miss the last stretch of the tournament with New Zealand touring England in May . Coaches Head coach - Stephen Fleming , Bowling coach - Andy Bichel , Fielding coach - Steve Rixon Quote " Wow , the squad looks as good as it 's ever been. There have been some great signings in the last couple of years like Nehra , Smith , McCullum and Pathan. " Michael Hussey just ca n't stop raving about the team he spent six seasons with Arun Venugopal is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
