IPL 2015 news April 5 , 2015 Sunil Narine cleared to bowl in IPL 45 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 45 Flying high : Sunil Narine was given the go ahead to play for Kolkata Knight Riders after his bowling action was cleared © BCCI Sunil Narine will play the IPL this season for Kolkata Knight Riders after the BCCI 's sub-committee dealing with suspect actions gave him a clean chit . Narine had taken a retest at Sri Ramachandra University , an ICC-accredited centre , on Thursday where he was put through various tests by the panel comprising former India captain S Venkataraghavan , former India fast bowler Javagal Srinath and ex-international umpire AV Jayaprakash . " The committee concluded that Mr. Sunil Narine , who had remodelled his bowling action , was within the ICC approved limits for all types of deliveries that were assessed and has hence recommended to the BCCI , that his name may be removed from the warning list of bowlers with suspect action , " a BCCI press release said . This means Narine will be available for selection for the defending champions who play the tournament opener against Mumbai Indians at Eden Gardens on April 8 , and in all BCCI-organised tournaments henceforth . Narine was first called for a suspect action last October during the Champions League T20. Subsequently he was asked by the BCCI to get it tested at any of the ICC-accredited centres with a rider saying that he would need to travel to Chennai centre if the panel deemed fit. Objecting to this condition , Knight Riders management sought the intervention of BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmiya and lodged a protest . It was Dalmiya who made the first call to Knight Riders to inform that Narine was cleared. " The work has been done. Sunil Narine has been cleared , " Dalmiya told ESPNcricinfo . Venky Mysore , the Knight Riders ' chief executive , said the franchise was relieved that Narine , their premier match-winner , was available to play again. " It is a matter of genuine relief. We are very thankful to the BCCI president , secretary and other board officials for bringing the matter reach the appropriate conclusion. " Nagraj Gollapudi is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
