World Cup 2015 : Pakistan Cricketers Ask for Specific Jersey Numbers World Cup 2015 : Pakistan Cricketers Ask for Specific Jersey Numbers Spiritual advisors have helped Pakistani cricketers choose their preferred jersey numbers for the all-important World Cup next month . Last updated on Friday , 23 January , 2015 00 : 24 IST Total Shares Pakistan cricketers before their departure for New Zealand where they will play a series before starting World Cup campaign . © AFP Eager to do well in the upcoming ICC World Cup 2015 , some members of the Pakistan squad have asked for particular shirt numbers after consulting their spiritual advisors. Middle-order batsman Umar Akmal , who was recently blessed with a baby girl , has on the advice of his ‘ Pir ’ has opted for number 3 to replace 96 on his shirt. The report says Umar was fed up with his poor form and in a bid to change his luck , he has asked for this change. ( Complete coverage of World Cup ) “ Umar will be wearing number 3 on his shirt in the World Cup while newcomer Haris Sohail has opted for 89 instead of 80 which he wore in the recent series against New Zealand , ” the report said. ( Also read : Pakistan cricketers barred from social networking sites for duration of World Cup ) The Pakistan Cricket Board allows players to choose their shirt numbers before every mega event like the World Cup and normally players prefer to stick with the numbers they have been using for a while now. Shahid Afridi for example has worn number 10 for many years in his international career. The report says some players generally choose numbers on the advice of their spiritual advisors to bring them good luck. ( Related : Imran Khan unable to meet Pakistan team for pep talk ) The new numbers of some of the new comers are Wahab Riaz 47 , Ehsan Adil 91 , and Yasir Shah 86. Captain Misbah-ul-Haq has used the number 22 for a while now while senior batsman , Younis Khan has also stuck to 75 for years now. The report said that Muhammad Hafeez had run from pillar to post to get the shirt number used by former Pakistan captain , Inzamam-ul-Haq ( 8 ) before the Pakistan board finally relented and allotted him this shirt number . Story first published on : Wednesday , 21 January 2015 21 : 38 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
