IPL 2015 : Mumbai Indians preview April 7 , 2015 Mumbai look to overcome playoffs hurdle Team Preview : Mumbai Indians Likely XI Aaron Finch/ Lendl Simmons , Parthiv Patel/ Aditya Tare ( wk ) , Rohit Sharma ( capt ) , Ambati Rayudu , Corey Anderson , Kieron Pollard , Shreyas Gopal/ Pragyan Ojha , Harbhajan Singh , Vinay Kumar , Lasith Malinga , Jasprit Bumrah/ Abhimanyu Mithun . Click here for the full squad 2014 finish They entered the seventh edition of the IPL as defending champions but the title defence was shaky early on. They lost all five games in the UAE leg but turned it around remarkably with seven wins in the last nine matches. They pipped Rajasthan Royals to a playoff spot after chasing down a target of 190 off 14.4 overs , but were defeated by Chennai Super Kings in the eliminator . Big picture The joke in the IPL fraternity last year was that the Mumbai Indians ' support staff - which included Anil Kumble , John Wright , Jonty Rhodes , Robin Singh , Kiran More , Ricky Ponting and Sachin Tendulkar - could take on any other IPL outfit in a Twenty20 match. There has , however , been a reshuffle in the team management before IPL 2015 . While Kumble has been elevated into the owners ' group from the mentor 's role , Wright has passed on the head coach 's mantle to Ponting , who was an advisor last season. The former India coach , along with More , is now in charge of talent-scouting. Tendulkar , meanwhile , continues to enjoy the icon 's status while Shane Bond has joined as bowling coach . The emphasis on the composition of the thinktank shows Mumbai are meticulous about planning. Detailed strategising on and off the field has helped the team emerge as one of the most consistent IPL outfits. Mumbai have made it to the last-four stage in each of the last five editions , winning the title in 2013 . The planning has n't been able to find an answer for everything , however. In 2014 , playing their first season after Tendulkar 's retirement , Mumbai could n't find a reliable opening pair for almost the entire tournament. Lendl Simmons and Michael Hussey finally settled into the opening partnership for the last four league games - the sixth combination the team tried in the season . The opening combination will be the first big headache for Ponting , too. Mumbai have replaced Hussey with Aaron Finch for this season , but the Australia batsman will have to compete with Simmons - who was the leading run-scorer last season despite playing only eight games - for the opening batsman 's slot. The second opener 's slot is also far from certain with the competition between Aditya Tare and Parthiv Patel. It remains to be seen if Rohit Sharma will promote himself to the top of the order , a move that did n't work very well last year . If they find a settled opening pair early in the tournament , Mumbai could well be on course for making it to the playoffs for the sixth successive season . Aiden Blizzard is a smart buy for Mumbai Indians but may have to wait for a chance in the XI © Associated Press Big players Lasith Malinga , Kieron Pollard and Corey Anderson can walk into nearly any T20 side in the world. For Mumbai , their impact was best seen last season when the team bounced back after a stuttering start to their campaign. While Malinga and Pollard have been with Mumbai since their IPL debuts in 2009 and 2010 , respectively , Anderson made his maiden season memorable with his heroics with the bat in the last league match against Royals. The three players have had different experiences over the last year. Anderson played a key role in New Zealand 's World Cup campaign but Malinga and Pollard have had troubles. Hampered by injury , Malinga has n't been as effective in ODIs as he is in T20s , while Pollard will be keen to make a statement after being dropped from the West Indies ODI side for the tour to South Africa and the World Cup . Add Rohit to the mix and Mumbai 's perennial claim of being one of the favourites appears strong. Rohit is the second-highest run-getter in the IPL , after Suresh Raina , and is a proven match-winner in T20 cricket . Bargain buy Aiden Blizzard set the Big Bash League ablaze with his power-hitting , paving the way for a recall into the Mumbai line-up after a two-year gap. At his base price of Rs 30 lakh , Blizzard is a steal , considering he can play anywhere in the batting order. The cap on foreign players , however , means that Blizzard will have to wait for a chance. Malinga , Pollard and Anderson are certainties , while Finch and Simmons will compete for the fourth foreign player 's place . Availability Corey Anderson is set to miss the last couple of league games and possibly the playoffs to join the New Zealand squad for a Test series in England. New Zealand Cricket have set a deadline of May 19 for the players to join the squad in England , while Mumbai 's last league match is on May 17 . Support staff Ricky Ponting ( head coach ) , Shane Bond ( bowling coach ) , Jonty Rhodes ( fielding coach ) , Robin Singh ( batting coach ) Quote " These are big names in the world of cricket. What they think of the game is very valuable. You understand from what point they are talking. So it is important and very good to have these guys around , helping not just the young players but the whole squad. " Mumbai captain Rohit Sharma , on the advantages of having experienced former cricketers as coaches Amol Karhadkar is a correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 16 GMT wrong purchase during auction & trading window 1 finch 2 ojha 3 patel wrong retained player 1 bumrah 2 tare wrong release player 1 zahir khan 2 marathe good team if Buy 1 vijay 3 cr. 2 Williamson 60 lac 3 irfan 1.5 cr 4 rp singh 30 lac 5 s arvind 10 lac Ram-i on April 8 , 2015 , 10 : 38 GMT The problem with MI every year has been their thinking. Couple of years back Levi ( if anyone remembers ) scored a fast hundred and MI signed him , after few games he was discarded. Last year it was Corey Anderson after his whirlwind knock. This year they saw Boult and Southee bowling superbly so hired Shane Bond. Jonty was the best fielder so is their fielding coach. What MI needs to understand is that it is the players who play as a team and with a brain that can win you matches not just pick based on their 'awe ' performance before the IPL starts. Hope they are able to do something with this 'dream ' squad of support staff. This is where teams like RR , CSK , KXIP stand out. They are not using high-profile support staff , they are using people with a good head on their shoulders . BRUTALANALYST on April 7 , 2015 , 18 : 21 GMT Simmons was Mumbais big player last year Corey and Polly may have performed in only 1 or 2 games Corey just 1 with bat but at time it mattered however if he is going to miss end of tournament they should stick with side they can keep throughout so Simmons Finch Pollard and Malinga would be my choice of overseas unless they want to use another bowler like Hazlewood instead of Finch who has never really set IPL alight despite the big buck he receives . SS_Roh10 on April 7 , 2015 , 15 : 04 GMT How about this line up. Top 2 can utilize max use of Powerplay as they are not power hitters. Once they get out , the real destruction begins keeping Rayudu and Pollard as floaters based on match situation. 5th bowler to be shared by Corey , Pollard and Simmons. Batting goes till 9th position 1 ) Parthiv/ Tare ( WK ) , 2 ) U.Chand , 3 ) Rayudu , 4 ) Rohit , 5 ) Corey , 6 ) Simmons/ Blizzard , 7 ) Pollard , 8 ) H.Singh , 9 ) Vinay , 10 ) Ojha/ Gopal , 11 ) Malinga padhdhu on April 7 , 2015 , 14 : 09 GMT Am a big fan of Robin Singh for his attitude and athleticism but what on earth he is doing as a batting coach ? IndCricFan2013 on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 28 GMT Do not think MI will make to play off this year. Rohit and/or Malinga are the ones who can win matches. Malinga is less so these days. Corey is not good in India and Pollard has last his way . on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 05 GMT PLZZZZZZZZZZ No Parthiv Patel Anymore . Finch Simons Rohit Tare [ Wk ] Polard Raydu C.Anderson Harbhajan Malinga Ojha Bumrah . This Will Win . VyshakhP on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 03 GMT Simmons , Finch , Unmukt , Rohit , Rayudu , Anderson , Parthiv , Gopal , Harbhajan , Vinay K/Mithun , Malinga. Mumbai has to play Simmons. Simmons did really well last year and if they play him along with Finch they will have a formidable opening pair. Corey Anderson should open the bowling along with Malinga. If they want they can take out Unmukt and play Bumrah. But this will definitely shorten the batting line up. Then Mumbai would have to count on Gopal , Harbhajan and Vinay to make some contribution. Pollard should be back up for Anderson. Pollard is n't good with the ball anymore and his batting is n't as consistent as before. If they want to Rohit can play 3 , Parthiv should open and Simmons at 4. This could add some more fire power . BRUTALANALYST on April 7 , 2015 , 11 : 49 GMT Simmons turned Mumbais season around last year before he came I do n't think they won a game and were bottom he played like a man possessed how can they drop him ? he has to play . iGame on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 59 GMT I guess they must go with blizzard and see how this move goes because they seriously need a good , attacking opening pair. If it does n't work , they can always include Anderson back into the mix . on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 16 GMT wrong purchase during auction & trading window 1 finch 2 ojha 3 patel wrong retained player 1 bumrah 2 tare wrong release player 1 zahir khan 2 marathe good team if Buy 1 vijay 3 cr. 2 Williamson 60 lac 3 irfan 1.5 cr 4 rp singh 30 lac 5 s arvind 10 lac Ram-i on April 8 , 2015 , 10 : 38 GMT The problem with MI every year has been their thinking. Couple of years back Levi ( if anyone remembers ) scored a fast hundred and MI signed him , after few games he was discarded. Last year it was Corey Anderson after his whirlwind knock. This year they saw Boult and Southee bowling superbly so hired Shane Bond. Jonty was the best fielder so is their fielding coach. What MI needs to understand is that it is the players who play as a team and with a brain that can win you matches not just pick based on their 'awe ' performance before the IPL starts. Hope they are able to do something with this 'dream ' squad of support staff. This is where teams like RR , CSK , KXIP stand out. They are not using high-profile support staff , they are using people with a good head on their shoulders . BRUTALANALYST on April 7 , 2015 , 18 : 21 GMT Simmons was Mumbais big player last year Corey and Polly may have performed in only 1 or 2 games Corey just 1 with bat but at time it mattered however if he is going to miss end of tournament they should stick with side they can keep throughout so Simmons Finch Pollard and Malinga would be my choice of overseas unless they want to use another bowler like Hazlewood instead of Finch who has never really set IPL alight despite the big buck he receives . SS_Roh10 on April 7 , 2015 , 15 : 04 GMT How about this line up. Top 2 can utilize max use of Powerplay as they are not power hitters. Once they get out , the real destruction begins keeping Rayudu and Pollard as floaters based on match situation. 5th bowler to be shared by Corey , Pollard and Simmons. Batting goes till 9th position 1 ) Parthiv/ Tare ( WK ) , 2 ) U.Chand , 3 ) Rayudu , 4 ) Rohit , 5 ) Corey , 6 ) Simmons/ Blizzard , 7 ) Pollard , 8 ) H.Singh , 9 ) Vinay , 10 ) Ojha/ Gopal , 11 ) Malinga padhdhu on April 7 , 2015 , 14 : 09 GMT Am a big fan of Robin Singh for his attitude and athleticism but what on earth he is doing as a batting coach ? IndCricFan2013 on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 28 GMT Do not think MI will make to play off this year. Rohit and/or Malinga are the ones who can win matches. Malinga is less so these days. Corey is not good in India and Pollard has last his way . on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 05 GMT PLZZZZZZZZZZ No Parthiv Patel Anymore . Finch Simons Rohit Tare [ Wk ] Polard Raydu C.Anderson Harbhajan Malinga Ojha Bumrah . This Will Win . VyshakhP on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 03 GMT Simmons , Finch , Unmukt , Rohit , Rayudu , Anderson , Parthiv , Gopal , Harbhajan , Vinay K/Mithun , Malinga. Mumbai has to play Simmons. Simmons did really well last year and if they play him along with Finch they will have a formidable opening pair. Corey Anderson should open the bowling along with Malinga. If they want they can take out Unmukt and play Bumrah. But this will definitely shorten the batting line up. Then Mumbai would have to count on Gopal , Harbhajan and Vinay to make some contribution. Pollard should be back up for Anderson. Pollard is n't good with the ball anymore and his batting is n't as consistent as before. If they want to Rohit can play 3 , Parthiv should open and Simmons at 4. This could add some more fire power . BRUTALANALYST on April 7 , 2015 , 11 : 49 GMT Simmons turned Mumbais season around last year before he came I do n't think they won a game and were bottom he played like a man possessed how can they drop him ? he has to play . iGame on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 59 GMT I guess they must go with blizzard and see how this move goes because they seriously need a good , attacking opening pair. If it does n't work , they can always include Anderson back into the mix . on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 26 GMT By what logic does a batsman who top the batting aggregates last season have to compete with ANYONE in the new season ? on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 22 GMT MI are in with a real chance this season.. they have got depth within the playing 11 as well as depth on the bench.. I will not be surprised if MI shed their cautious ways of approaching batting and start getting after the bowling from ball one considering that Ricky Ponting will be at the helm of things on April 7 , 2015 , 9 : 41 GMT And it 's finally here the MI preview , so if finch and simmons are fighting for the 4th overseas ' players spot... who is gon na open ? ? ? ? ... Could be parthiv or maybe , they can have this 11 Blizzard , Finch , Rayudu , Rohit , Anderson , Pollard , Tare , Bhajji , Vinay Kumar , Mithun , Ojha Wo n't happen , but can dream since for the first time MI have a competent Indian bowling contingent No featured comments at the moment . on April 7 , 2015 , 9 : 41 GMT And it 's finally here the MI preview , so if finch and simmons are fighting for the 4th overseas ' players spot... who is gon na open ? ? ? ? ... Could be parthiv or maybe , they can have this 11 Blizzard , Finch , Rayudu , Rohit , Anderson , Pollard , Tare , Bhajji , Vinay Kumar , Mithun , Ojha Wo n't happen , but can dream since for the first time MI have a competent Indian bowling contingent on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 22 GMT MI are in with a real chance this season.. they have got depth within the playing 11 as well as depth on the bench.. I will not be surprised if MI shed their cautious ways of approaching batting and start getting after the bowling from ball one considering that Ricky Ponting will be at the helm of things on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 26 GMT By what logic does a batsman who top the batting aggregates last season have to compete with ANYONE in the new season ? iGame on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 59 GMT I guess they must go with blizzard and see how this move goes because they seriously need a good , attacking opening pair. If it does n't work , they can always include Anderson back into the mix . BRUTALANALYST on April 7 , 2015 , 11 : 49 GMT Simmons turned Mumbais season around last year before he came I do n't think they won a game and were bottom he played like a man possessed how can they drop him ? he has to play . VyshakhP on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 03 GMT Simmons , Finch , Unmukt , Rohit , Rayudu , Anderson , Parthiv , Gopal , Harbhajan , Vinay K/Mithun , Malinga. Mumbai has to play Simmons. Simmons did really well last year and if they play him along with Finch they will have a formidable opening pair. Corey Anderson should open the bowling along with Malinga. If they want they can take out Unmukt and play Bumrah. But this will definitely shorten the batting line up. Then Mumbai would have to count on Gopal , Harbhajan and Vinay to make some contribution. Pollard should be back up for Anderson. Pollard is n't good with the ball anymore and his batting is n't as consistent as before. If they want to Rohit can play 3 , Parthiv should open and Simmons at 4. This could add some more fire power . on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 05 GMT PLZZZZZZZZZZ No Parthiv Patel Anymore . Finch Simons Rohit Tare [ Wk ] Polard Raydu C.Anderson Harbhajan Malinga Ojha Bumrah . This Will Win . IndCricFan2013 on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 28 GMT Do not think MI will make to play off this year. Rohit and/or Malinga are the ones who can win matches. Malinga is less so these days. Corey is not good in India and Pollard has last his way . padhdhu on April 7 , 2015 , 14 : 09 GMT Am a big fan of Robin Singh for his attitude and athleticism but what on earth he is doing as a batting coach ? SS_Roh10 on April 7 , 2015 , 15 : 04 GMT How about this line up. Top 2 can utilize max use of Powerplay as they are not power hitters. Once they get out , the real destruction begins keeping Rayudu and Pollard as floaters based on match situation. 5th bowler to be shared by Corey , Pollard and Simmons. Batting goes till 9th position 1 ) Parthiv/ Tare ( WK ) , 2 ) U.Chand , 3 ) Rayudu , 4 ) Rohit , 5 ) Corey , 6 ) Simmons/ Blizzard , 7 ) Pollard , 8 ) H.Singh , 9 ) Vinay , 10 ) Ojha/ Gopal , 11 ) Malinga
