IPL 2015 April 7 , 2015 IPL 's five missing zing things IPL markets itself as World 's premier Twenty20 tournament but the innovations have been coming from elsewhere. Here is a list of things that could make the tournament more interesting shares 16 When will the IPL warm up to the real bling ? © Getty Images Two bouncers per over In an otherwise batsman-dominated World Cup , the bouncer emerged as a key weapon for fast bowlers , most memorably during the peppering Wahab Riaz gave Shane Watson. Most pitches in the IPL are nowhere near as quick as some of the Australian tracks , and misdirected short balls can disappear into the crowd in smaller grounds , but accurate bouncers delivered by good fast bowlers are never easy to play. An extra bouncer in the over also makes it harder for batsmen to make premeditated movements and second-guess bowlers ' plans . Room for crowd spontaneity The fan experience at IPL matches is heavily controlled. There 's an emcee telling you when to cheer and when to start a Mexican wave , a DJ blasting out Bollywood music at every opportunity , and the appropriate team song whenever there 's a boundary or wicket. Sometimes , as soon as you 've arrived , you find a home-team flag on your seat. Given all that , it 's difficult for a section of the crowd to make themselves heard if they 've come up with an innovative chant or for a group holding up an interesting banner to make themselves seen. There is a case , therefore , for the IPL and its franchises to make their in-stadium experience a little less in-your-face , a little less in-your-eardrums. And if it is n't too much to ask , maybe even allow fans a bit of room to watch the game and introspect ? Catch-the-ball contests What better way to reward keeping an eye on the cricket than by giving away prizes to fans who take catches in the stands ? At all the World Cup matches in New Zealand , orange-clad spectators in the crowd fell over each other , literally , whenever sixes sailed beyond the rope , to try and catch the ball one-handed. It might even serve the IPL 's commercial interests to add a crowd catch to their * insert sponsor 's name here * sensational catches package . Zing bails It somehow seems inappropriate that the blingiest cricket tournament in the known universe does not feature bails that light up. Apart from adding a flash of candy-shop neon to the spectacle of run-outs , stumpings and comprehensive clean-bowleds , they also bring the possibility of controversy. At the World Cup , their slight extra weight led to reprieves for Ed Joyce , Misbah-ul-Haq and Steven Smith when bowlers got through their defences. Imagine that happening in a crucial moment of an IPL play-off game . No-holds-barred commentators The greatest moment of the 2014-15 Big Bash League may have happened in the commentary box , where Ricky Ponting interviewed Kevin Pietersen without holding back on uncomfortable questions. For 20 minutes , the cricket seemed a sideshow to a chat between two great cricketers that was full of honesty and insight. Maybe the IPL could take a leaf out of its Australian counterpart , and allow its commentators to do more than merely cheerlead . Karthik Krishnaswamy is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . mohammedtaskeen on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 18 GMT Trending tweets on the screen ! ! on April 9 , 2015 , 11 : 14 GMT I think the Review system is a must for this league. . on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 30 GMT How about the Dance Cam like NBA ? on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 56 GMT Add one more thing , big boundaries like in Big Bash . on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 18 GMT " it 's difficult for a section of the crowd to make themselves heard if they 've come up with an innovative chant... " Are our crowds capable of coming up with anything other than " INDIAAAAAAAAA , INDIA " , " SACHIIIIIIIIIIN , SACHIN " , or " Jeetega bhai Jeetega... " ? I would n't hold my breath ! Sudhir65 on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 03 GMT The loud team song after every boundary or wicket is the most annoying thing. Sole reason I have stopped watching IPL. With so much music diversity in India and with foreign players present , why would IPL organizers play just one song more than 50 times ? And the stadiums need lot more cleanliness and organization . StevieS on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 10 GMT Increase it to 50 overs per side would make it interesting , after following the ODI 's over the last few months and then watching a 20/20 made me realise how boring and one dimensional the game is . the_animal on April 9 , 2015 , 7 : 56 GMT so to make ipl better your suggestion is to eliminate the cricket from the cricket and watch a talk show between the commentators ? ? Also thrice in the world cup the ball hit the stumps but the bails did n't fall because the LED bails were heavy. Why would you like that ? And on the catch the ball contest , while it seems like a good idea you do n't really want people fighting for the ball whenever it comes there way , it could put a lot of people in danger on April 9 , 2015 , 6 : 59 GMT PakistanI players should be allowed. Maybe even a Pakistani franchise or two.One of the franchises should have got Mohammed Amir. It would have created huge interest. Bowlers should be able to bowl 10 overs ( ie no restriction ) .That would differentiate the IPL from every other competition.2 bouncers is fine.Boundaries should be bigger and wickets quicker . People want to see fair contests between bat and ball more than just boundaries . FiGhtCluB_99 on April 8 , 2015 , 14 : 25 GMT Totally agree with @ RSDHONI. The constant shuffling of players is one of the main reasons why IPL lost its early popularity. The mega-auction/draft should be once in 5 years or so. There should also be emphasis on picking players from the team 's catchment area. I do n't see a lot of Delhi players in DD or Karnataka players in RCB . mohammedtaskeen on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 18 GMT Trending tweets on the screen ! ! on April 9 , 2015 , 11 : 14 GMT I think the Review system is a must for this league. . on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 30 GMT How about the Dance Cam like NBA ? on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 56 GMT Add one more thing , big boundaries like in Big Bash . on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 18 GMT " it 's difficult for a section of the crowd to make themselves heard if they 've come up with an innovative chant... " Are our crowds capable of coming up with anything other than " INDIAAAAAAAAA , INDIA " , " SACHIIIIIIIIIIN , SACHIN " , or " Jeetega bhai Jeetega... " ? I would n't hold my breath ! Sudhir65 on April 9 , 2015 , 9 : 03 GMT The loud team song after every boundary or wicket is the most annoying thing. Sole reason I have stopped watching IPL. With so much music diversity in India and with foreign players present , why would IPL organizers play just one song more than 50 times ? And the stadiums need lot more cleanliness and organization . StevieS on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 10 GMT Increase it to 50 overs per side would make it interesting , after following the ODI 's over the last few months and then watching a 20/20 made me realise how boring and one dimensional the game is . the_animal on April 9 , 2015 , 7 : 56 GMT so to make ipl better your suggestion is to eliminate the cricket from the cricket and watch a talk show between the commentators ? ? Also thrice in the world cup the ball hit the stumps but the bails did n't fall because the LED bails were heavy. Why would you like that ? And on the catch the ball contest , while it seems like a good idea you do n't really want people fighting for the ball whenever it comes there way , it could put a lot of people in danger on April 9 , 2015 , 6 : 59 GMT PakistanI players should be allowed. Maybe even a Pakistani franchise or two.One of the franchises should have got Mohammed Amir. It would have created huge interest. Bowlers should be able to bowl 10 overs ( ie no restriction ) .That would differentiate the IPL from every other competition.2 bouncers is fine.Boundaries should be bigger and wickets quicker . People want to see fair contests between bat and ball more than just boundaries . FiGhtCluB_99 on April 8 , 2015 , 14 : 25 GMT Totally agree with @ RSDHONI. The constant shuffling of players is one of the main reasons why IPL lost its early popularity. The mega-auction/draft should be once in 5 years or so. There should also be emphasis on picking players from the team 's catchment area. I do n't see a lot of Delhi players in DD or Karnataka players in RCB . on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 18 GMT catch the ball contest is never applicable in India because we have full packed crowd. I suggest the teams should be allowed to substitute one player at the end of first innings , so the law of four foreign players did not affect much . Shahed.Akhtar on April 8 , 2015 , 5 : 52 GMT Among the zing things Cricket ( and thus IPL ) can adopt : Zing boundary ropes , zing crease lines , zing footwear , zing batting gloves - and many more. Possibilities are many ; alas ! the willingness of the administrators seems to be missing . jokerbala on April 8 , 2015 , 5 : 06 GMT basically you want to say that ipl must become big bash league DBarot on April 7 , 2015 , 20 : 47 GMT Seriously ? ? Do you think catch the ball contest would work in India ? people will push very hard to each other to catch that ball. Even after that people in india will make sure that another person would not catch that ball if he/she cant get it . rsdhoni on April 7 , 2015 , 20 : 41 GMT Perhaps the best thing to borrow for IPL , is to move away from auction to the draft system followed in nfl/nba. The lowest ranked team gets to first pick a player from the pool of new players next year and the next lowest ranked team gets to pick player # 2. This way it ensures competitiveness and equal distribution of players. Teams should be allowed to retain the complete squad if required. By moving players around every 3 years , it makes it difficult to continuously folllow one team . DRS must be allowed with one review per team per inning . Karthi_2K11 on April 7 , 2015 , 15 : 22 GMT PART 1 OF 2 : You can add a sixth zing thing to all that which the Pepsi IPL 2015 is going to miss , Karthik , & that is the time-bound , constrained number of Decision Review System ( DRS ) reviews with audience-transparent voice-over narrative ( as to how the third umpire arrives at his decision ) - left ! In fact , BCCI has missed a fantastic opportunity in this edition of IPL , to tweak the rules of the game to make the Sport more interactive. Now , more than ever , the spectator watching / attending this event - does not have to be a mute , and apathetic bystander anymore. As he has the advantage of watching the real-time ( Hawk Eye , HotSpot , Snick-o-meter , and Slo-mo replays ) , & the statistics ( Wagon wheel , Worm , Manhattan , etc. ) presented to him , his technology-aided input is valuable in terms of arriving at the correct decision during any passage of play. If Captains had an " Ask the Audience " option , such as they have in KBC ( another " blingy " program ) , they would not use ( continued In Part 2 ) No featured comments at the moment . Karthi_2K11 on April 7 , 2015 , 15 : 22 GMT PART 1 OF 2 : You can add a sixth zing thing to all that which the Pepsi IPL 2015 is going to miss , Karthik , & that is the time-bound , constrained number of Decision Review System ( DRS ) reviews with audience-transparent voice-over narrative ( as to how the third umpire arrives at his decision ) - left ! In fact , BCCI has missed a fantastic opportunity in this edition of IPL , to tweak the rules of the game to make the Sport more interactive. Now , more than ever , the spectator watching / attending this event - does not have to be a mute , and apathetic bystander anymore. As he has the advantage of watching the real-time ( Hawk Eye , HotSpot , Snick-o-meter , and Slo-mo replays ) , & the statistics ( Wagon wheel , Worm , Manhattan , etc. ) presented to him , his technology-aided input is valuable in terms of arriving at the correct decision during any passage of play. If Captains had an " Ask the Audience " option , such as they have in KBC ( another " blingy " program ) , they would not use ( continued In Part 2 ) rsdhoni on April 7 , 2015 , 20 : 41 GMT Perhaps the best thing to borrow for IPL , is to move away from auction to the draft system followed in nfl/nba. The lowest ranked team gets to first pick a player from the pool of new players next year and the next lowest ranked team gets to pick player # 2. This way it ensures competitiveness and equal distribution of players. Teams should be allowed to retain the complete squad if required. By moving players around every 3 years , it makes it difficult to continuously folllow one team . DRS must be allowed with one review per team per inning . DBarot on April 7 , 2015 , 20 : 47 GMT Seriously ? ? Do you think catch the ball contest would work in India ? people will push very hard to each other to catch that ball. Even after that people in india will make sure that another person would not catch that ball if he/she cant get it . jokerbala on April 8 , 2015 , 5 : 06 GMT basically you want to say that ipl must become big bash league Shahed.Akhtar on April 8 , 2015 , 5 : 52 GMT Among the zing things Cricket ( and thus IPL ) can adopt : Zing boundary ropes , zing crease lines , zing footwear , zing batting gloves - and many more. Possibilities are many ; alas ! the willingness of the administrators seems to be missing . on April 8 , 2015 , 8 : 18 GMT catch the ball contest is never applicable in India because we have full packed crowd. I suggest the teams should be allowed to substitute one player at the end of first innings , so the law of four foreign players did not affect much . FiGhtCluB_99 on April 8 , 2015 , 14 : 25 GMT Totally agree with @ RSDHONI. The constant shuffling of players is one of the main reasons why IPL lost its early popularity. The mega-auction/draft should be once in 5 years or so. There should also be emphasis on picking players from the team 's catchment area. I do n't see a lot of Delhi players in DD or Karnataka players in RCB . on April 9 , 2015 , 6 : 59 GMT PakistanI players should be allowed. Maybe even a Pakistani franchise or two.One of the franchises should have got Mohammed Amir. It would have created huge interest. Bowlers should be able to bowl 10 overs ( ie no restriction ) .That would differentiate the IPL from every other competition.2 bouncers is fine.Boundaries should be bigger and wickets quicker . People want to see fair contests between bat and ball more than just boundaries . the_animal on April 9 , 2015 , 7 : 56 GMT so to make ipl better your suggestion is to eliminate the cricket from the cricket and watch a talk show between the commentators ? ? Also thrice in the world cup the ball hit the stumps but the bails did n't fall because the LED bails were heavy. Why would you like that ? And on the catch the ball contest , while it seems like a good idea you do n't really want people fighting for the ball whenever it comes there way , it could put a lot of people in danger StevieS on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 10 GMT Increase it to 50 overs per side would make it interesting , after following the ODI 's over the last few months and then watching a 20/20 made me realise how boring and one dimensional the game is .
