IPL 2015 April 7 , 2015 IPL hopes to cure World Cup hangover Within ten days after the World Cup final , the IPL is here. But one factor that will draw Indian crowds in is that after Australia and New Zealand , cricket is now closer to the fans shares 17 The IPL might start on a muted note but the volume is only going to get louder by the day © BCCI Kolkata is under the spell of Kalboishaskhi jhor ( thunder showers ) . But within 24 hours from now this grey , besieged city will erupt in joyful technicolour as the eighth season of IPL starts at Eden Gardens with defending champions Kolkata Knight Riders playing Mumbai Indians. Seventy-thousand fans are likely to fill the majestic ground not just to watch the cricket , but also to sing and dance at a party to be hosted by Knight Riders owner and in-house DJ Shah Rukh Khan . But in contrast to the past , the hype this time has been restrained , eclipsed by the build-up for the elections for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation , which take place next week. Take a walk or a drive across Kolkata and you will see more faces of local politicians staring and reaching out from cut-outs hanging across the city than cricketers. Add to the fact that the IPL is being played so close to the World Cup and it might be heading to a damp squib. But IPL has faced bigger challenges before . One factor that will draw crowds in is cricket is now close to the fans. The World Cup was played far away in Australia and New Zealand. A lot of those match-winners are now in the IPL. It would be a great opportunity to watch the heroes in person. But it is the stories and feats that will build the excitement. Will there be an almost famous story that Sanjay Bangar 's Kings XI Punjab scripted by finishing runners-up last season ? Riveting moments like Corey Anderson smashing Rajasthan Royals ' fast bowlers to capture an insurmountable asking rate which forced the usually stoic Rahul Dravid to throw his cap in disgust as Mumbai Indians made the playoffs . The new season has its own attractions : Ricky Ponting enters the coaching arena for the first time as the head coach of Mumbai Indians. Would his team be the no-holds-barred outfits he led wearing the baggy green ? Can Virat Kohli , back after a dominant season in the Test series in Australia in his first stint as India 's captain , finally inspire Royal Challengers Bangalore to their first IPL title ? How many and what kind of records can Chris Gayle , AB de Villiers , Glenn Maxwell , Brendon McCullum break in a tournament that favours batting ? Theatre is a huge part of IPL 's fabric. One of the most controversial moments of IPL history was witnessed when a verbal tussle between Royal Challengers ' Mitchell Starc and Mumbai 's Kieron Pollard virtually came close to physical blows. Starc threw the ball at Pollard who responded by flinging the bat in the direction of his opponent . Even at the World Cup , sledging was one of the biggest talking points and the IPL is bound to witness more. As reported last week players want to sort the issue among themselves as far as possible without being suffocated by the match officials. But would the new BCCI administration allow such leniency ? Jagmohan Dalmiya , the BCCI president , even when he was the interim BCCI chief two years back when the corruption scandal broke , has always favoured austerity. In his second stint as the BCCI head , Dalmiya wants to get the focus back on cricket. His administration reportedly did not want to spend too much on hiring very expensive A-list entertainers for the opening ceremony and instead set a restricted budget for the occasion. Probably Dalmiya understands the real entertainment remains in the tournament. It is a place where both cricket and Bollywood come together . Even the skeptic taxi driver is getting curious. He wants to know the big buys of this year 's auction. Who bought and dropped whom ? How many matches are Kolkata playing at home in April ? Despite the weariness , the cart puller , the taxiwallah , the man on the street knows the IPL is here. The skies are clear. They know their team is the defending champion. Soon the addas and kattas and local trains will be raging with debates about matches from around the country. The IPL might start on a muted note but the volume is only going to get louder by the day . Nagraj Gollapudi is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . mamalik1 on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 58 GMT Too many games. boring. Want to see some games like NZ Vs. SA Semifinal number-09 on April 9 , 2015 , 11 : 32 GMT I get the feeling that since India did not win the WC , for some CWC was boring . Arvindcit on April 9 , 2015 , 11 : 27 GMT Fans must be support their country team and not IPL..other country players are very well knows about Indian players weakness now...the result we seen in the semifinal match in WC'2015...IPL not for fans.. . Got_It on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 09 GMT Comparing the two events .. yeah circus vs Broadway . on April 9 , 2015 , 3 : 38 GMT I 'm looking forward to some decent test cricket myself...... The IPL and T20 are great games to get new fans interested , but the ICC are not using it for that. They should be using T20 to get countries like China and the USA playing cricket , to help broaden the sources of income and I 'd also be looking at T20 in the olympics too . As it is the IPL will drag on just like the CWC and the Big Bash does. Its much easier to forget about boring games , when the tournaments are compressed and not spread out . MANEESHROYwinner on April 8 , 2015 , 18 : 43 GMT Indian Premier League is played in humid,inhumane climate in India. This tournament has not positively contributed in any manner to Indian National Cricket Team. Indian batsmen have not been able to score freely outside Asia,although players have been participating in run-fest for many years . adi133 on April 8 , 2015 , 17 : 56 GMT I did n't find this year 's WC to be that exciting. For me What makes a cricket tournament interesting is the drama , the high tension in every match , live wire contests and the crowd backing it to their limits. The games after which you go home saying 'oh man , that was awesome ' , and IPL provides such games. Thats why people love it and that is the reason it is n't going to fade away . Smithology on April 8 , 2015 , 17 : 33 GMT Never got into IPL. It 's fun , no doubt. But it feels like going to a casino. I love the time spent , but wo n't be wearing the jersey with pride. Loved this years WC though . Arun14 on April 8 , 2015 , 16 : 40 GMT After the 2011 World Cup , there was a definite lack of appetite for the World Cup. However , this year after what has been the second most boring World Cup , fans are actually looking forward to the IPL. Not so sure about the players though. Some of the teams have been playing non-stop since Nov of last year . on April 8 , 2015 , 6 : 53 GMT though it is laughable,the ipl will provide more dramatic finishes than the world cup which saw a glut of one sided matches.there is no way it will be a damp squib,i mean who would not want to see how SRH openers dhawan and warners chemistry after they had a tiff during the test series,or boult and steyn bowling in tandem.it was the world which was a damp squib,now get ready for the breath taking ride that is the ipl mamalik1 on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 58 GMT Too many games. boring. Want to see some games like NZ Vs. SA Semifinal number-09 on April 9 , 2015 , 11 : 32 GMT I get the feeling that since India did not win the WC , for some CWC was boring . Arvindcit on April 9 , 2015 , 11 : 27 GMT Fans must be support their country team and not IPL..other country players are very well knows about Indian players weakness now...the result we seen in the semifinal match in WC'2015...IPL not for fans.. . Got_It on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 09 GMT Comparing the two events .. yeah circus vs Broadway . on April 9 , 2015 , 3 : 38 GMT I 'm looking forward to some decent test cricket myself...... The IPL and T20 are great games to get new fans interested , but the ICC are not using it for that. They should be using T20 to get countries like China and the USA playing cricket , to help broaden the sources of income and I 'd also be looking at T20 in the olympics too . As it is the IPL will drag on just like the CWC and the Big Bash does. Its much easier to forget about boring games , when the tournaments are compressed and not spread out . MANEESHROYwinner on April 8 , 2015 , 18 : 43 GMT Indian Premier League is played in humid,inhumane climate in India. This tournament has not positively contributed in any manner to Indian National Cricket Team. Indian batsmen have not been able to score freely outside Asia,although players have been participating in run-fest for many years . adi133 on April 8 , 2015 , 17 : 56 GMT I did n't find this year 's WC to be that exciting. For me What makes a cricket tournament interesting is the drama , the high tension in every match , live wire contests and the crowd backing it to their limits. The games after which you go home saying 'oh man , that was awesome ' , and IPL provides such games. Thats why people love it and that is the reason it is n't going to fade away . Smithology on April 8 , 2015 , 17 : 33 GMT Never got into IPL. It 's fun , no doubt. But it feels like going to a casino. I love the time spent , but wo n't be wearing the jersey with pride. Loved this years WC though . Arun14 on April 8 , 2015 , 16 : 40 GMT After the 2011 World Cup , there was a definite lack of appetite for the World Cup. However , this year after what has been the second most boring World Cup , fans are actually looking forward to the IPL. Not so sure about the players though. Some of the teams have been playing non-stop since Nov of last year . on April 8 , 2015 , 6 : 53 GMT though it is laughable,the ipl will provide more dramatic finishes than the world cup which saw a glut of one sided matches.there is no way it will be a damp squib,i mean who would not want to see how SRH openers dhawan and warners chemistry after they had a tiff during the test series,or boult and steyn bowling in tandem.it was the world which was a damp squib,now get ready for the breath taking ride that is the ipl mak singh on April 8 , 2015 , 6 : 22 GMT I hope so to that this time a new pepsi ipl champion on April 8 , 2015 , 0 : 54 GMT Feels like : Just returned from a five-course lunch from a friend 's house , and the kids are asking us ( parents & grandparents ) to join their evening barbecue party for their schoolmates... within a few hours ! That 's the way I feel about IPL , so soon after the WC . Ready to enjoy , though { } : - ) on April 7 , 2015 , 22 : 28 GMT mumbai win the match because every time kolkata lost their fast match so i hope kolkata lost this match mohsin9975 on April 7 , 2015 , 22 : 09 GMT The most interesting thing to look forward to would be VK 's form after he has been found out by most of the pace bowlers outside that off-stump mohsin9975 on April 7 , 2015 , 21 : 47 GMT We , the Indian fans , spent all our energy in pushing the slogan # wewontgiveitback for ~ 5 weeks , even though we very well knew India werent a great bet to defend the Title. Yes , we are a cricket crazy nation , but , i doubt many fans would turn up for another 6 weeks for an inconsequential tournament with not enough quality cricket at display. The recent player auction resulting in another reshuffle of teams is another hurdle in following IPL-8. With the player/fan loyalty towards any of the teams close to zilch & the fact that the players are together as a team only for 6 weeks in a year , the entire concept of the tournament seems very shallow & commercially oriented. The passion in the fans following IPL is conspiquous by its absence on April 7 , 2015 , 20 : 45 GMT I would say IPL is vitiate without the participation of Pakistan cricket Players on April 7 , 2015 , 19 : 05 GMT This time I feel like the teams are almost balanced.. Just my opinion : ) ! No featured comments at the moment . on April 7 , 2015 , 19 : 05 GMT This time I feel like the teams are almost balanced.. Just my opinion : ) ! on April 7 , 2015 , 20 : 45 GMT I would say IPL is vitiate without the participation of Pakistan cricket Players mohsin9975 on April 7 , 2015 , 21 : 47 GMT We , the Indian fans , spent all our energy in pushing the slogan # wewontgiveitback for ~ 5 weeks , even though we very well knew India werent a great bet to defend the Title. Yes , we are a cricket crazy nation , but , i doubt many fans would turn up for another 6 weeks for an inconsequential tournament with not enough quality cricket at display. The recent player auction resulting in another reshuffle of teams is another hurdle in following IPL-8. With the player/fan loyalty towards any of the teams close to zilch & the fact that the players are together as a team only for 6 weeks in a year , the entire concept of the tournament seems very shallow & commercially oriented. The passion in the fans following IPL is conspiquous by its absence mohsin9975 on April 7 , 2015 , 22 : 09 GMT The most interesting thing to look forward to would be VK 's form after he has been found out by most of the pace bowlers outside that off-stump on April 7 , 2015 , 22 : 28 GMT mumbai win the match because every time kolkata lost their fast match so i hope kolkata lost this match on April 8 , 2015 , 0 : 54 GMT Feels like : Just returned from a five-course lunch from a friend 's house , and the kids are asking us ( parents & grandparents ) to join their evening barbecue party for their schoolmates... within a few hours ! That 's the way I feel about IPL , so soon after the WC . Ready to enjoy , though { } : - ) mak singh on April 8 , 2015 , 6 : 22 GMT I hope so to that this time a new pepsi ipl champion on April 8 , 2015 , 6 : 53 GMT though it is laughable,the ipl will provide more dramatic finishes than the world cup which saw a glut of one sided matches.there is no way it will be a damp squib,i mean who would not want to see how SRH openers dhawan and warners chemistry after they had a tiff during the test series,or boult and steyn bowling in tandem.it was the world which was a damp squib,now get ready for the breath taking ride that is the ipl Arun14 on April 8 , 2015 , 16 : 40 GMT After the 2011 World Cup , there was a definite lack of appetite for the World Cup. However , this year after what has been the second most boring World Cup , fans are actually looking forward to the IPL. Not so sure about the players though. Some of the teams have been playing non-stop since Nov of last year . Smithology on April 8 , 2015 , 17 : 33 GMT Never got into IPL. It 's fun , no doubt. But it feels like going to a casino. I love the time spent , but wo n't be wearing the jersey with pride. Loved this years WC though .
