IPL 2015 news April 9 , 2015 Josh Hazlewood opts out of IPL ESPNcricinfo staff shares 59 Josh Hazlewood is the second Australian , after Kane Richardson , to pull out of IPL 2015 © AFP Australia and Mumbai Indians seamer Josh Hazlewood has pulled out of the IPL to keep himself fit and fresh for the West Indies tour and Ashes defence later this season . Keeping in mind the lengthy IPL schedule , which clashes with the Australian players ' resting time , and a tight international schedule ahead , Cricket Australia has opted to place him in cotton wool . " Josh 's workload has changed significantly since he first began attending the IPL , " Pat Howard , general manager of Team Performance , said. " The IPL is the players ' leave period and in Josh 's case it was deemed that not playing was the best use of that time in the lead up to a busy winter. " This was agreed to with the IPL following discussions at the end of the Test series. " Australia begin their West Indies tour with a tour game in Antigua , starting May 27 , three days after the IPL final. The teams face off in a two-Test series , which will be followed by the Ashes , beginning with the first Test in Cardiff on July 8 . Hazlewood , who claimed figures of 5 for 68 on Test debut against India in Brisbane , had been a vital cog for Australia this summer. He finished the Test series with 12 wickets in three matches at an average of 29.33 and backed it up with some impressive performances in the World Cup , most notably his 4 for 35 against Pakistan in the quarter-final in Adelaide , after replacing Pat Cummins . He capped off the World Cup with seven wickets in five matches at a thrifty economy rate of 4.10. Hazlewood , who was not with Mumbai Indians during the IPL opener against Kolkata Knight Riders , was earlier retained by the side , and was expected to bring his excellent form to the tournament. He becomes the second Australian after Kane Richardson to opt out of the IPL but Mumbai have well-stocked pace bowling options in Lasith Malinga , Corey Anderson , Marchant de Lange , Jasprit Bumrah , Mitchell McClenaghan , Abhimanyu Mithun and Vinay Kumar . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . OLDEST rickyvoncanterbury on April 13 , 2015 , 7 : 12 GMT @ baghels.a on April 12 , 2015 , 11 : 00 GMT Good onya and thanks for the luck wishes , not sure if fox will cover it live but they will have highlights for sure . baghels.a on April 12 , 2015 , 11 : 00 GMT @ RICKYVONCANTEBURRY : Fair enough mate , i see from where you coming from and respect that.Still not convinced by your Josh being on loan and IPL contract being a top up but hey one ca n't agree on everything , best of luck in advance to Aussie team for the Ashes , for that is the only Test Series not Involving India that i do try to follow atleast the highlights , just one last thing is Ashes on Fox Sports too ? ? rickyvoncanterbury on April 12 , 2015 , 9 : 16 GMT baghels.a on April 12 , 2015 , 8 : 32 GMT no mate not dismissive of IPL just do n't get to see it , not a mad fan of the big bash either but it is on telly ,so I see it.... so probably a little sarcastic but for me it is a non event , cricket Australia and cricket N.S.W do pay Hazelwood 's wages while on loan if the IPL want to top that up.... they can not help that . baghels.a on April 12 , 2015 , 8 : 32 GMT @ RICKYVONCANTEBURY : Hope you were being sarcastic when you said he should wait 7-8 years before venturing again in to IPL when he is nearing retirement or should i take in the narrative that some of the Aussie fans like yourselves being typically dismissive of IPL , either ways i do n't care but it is a fact that IPL provides great financial rewards to 30 odd Aussie cricketers/support-staff especially some of whom are not covered by CA Central contracts. In Football or Soccer as you Aussies refer it being on loan means that the loaning club pays the wages the parent club does but here it is not only the wages but the whole transfer fees that IPL teams pay , Josh is smart,as you say he wants to cement his place in Aus Test team coupled with the fact his current deal with MI is not worth much meaning next year in auction he will fetch much much bigger fees . on April 11 , 2015 , 3 : 18 GMT @ HATSFORBATS ON APRIL 10 , 2015 , 11 : 05 GMT : Thanks for your response. Being a lover of good cricket from anyone or anywhere , whether it is an Indian or Oz never bothers me. Only , the unique cherry picking of Josh for protection surprised me . Now see , even before Watto got injured , I posted that Watto is only second to Clarke , when it comes to injury-proneness . I think , my effort on subtle attack on MI think tank in preferring Malinga over Josh got lost . By the way , we are on the same wavelength. I share your view. Feel , all Boards should encourage , protect , and nurture the test specialists. They are the ones who will keep the old world beauty & charm of cricket going , in the midst of all the circus stunts emerging n the T-20 format. Of course they are entertaining , but many of us would like to occasionally zip and savor the old well-seasoned wine from the cellar. { } : - ) rickyvoncanterbury on April 11 , 2015 , 2 : 39 GMT @ anshu.s on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 54 GMT.... I will give my opinions on their posts if you need some , Hazelwood has just played in a winning W/C for Australia in front of full houses making a household name for himself and increasing his value to cricket Australia ten fold , now he wants to establish himself in the Aussie test team and play in what most Australians think is the most important test series , the Ashes... he probably want 's to cement a place in the Aussie team and try to become number 1 in all forms of the game , and he probably thinks there will be more money in the IPL in 7 or 8 years when retirement nears , As for club and country Hazelwood 's club is New South Wales and country Australia so the analogy to football is that Hazelwood would be on loan to the IPL . HatsforBats on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 05 GMT @ Jose Puliampata , not that I 've mentioned Starc or Johnson at all , but yes , ideally I 'd prefer CA withdraw any test player from the IPL if a tour schedule overlaps. But not Starc as he is not currently one of the frontline test quicks ( Johnson , Harris , Hazelwood ) . Why does this bother you ? It simply gives another player an opportunity , perhaps the IPL should start to use more domestic talent and stop relying on international imports for any semblance of quality . anshu.s on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 54 GMT Well both @ IndiaBarcafan and @ Baghels. A put forth some very relevant questions and facts but yet i do n't see Aussie fans addressing them , for the nth time it was CA who decided to pull Josh Hazelwood so please do n't either blame or praise Hazelwood for not playing the IPL Damien. on April 10 , 2015 , 8 : 52 GMT @ MikePatt , yes-that 's true mate. Need to call up Warner and watto too.. It 's crucial they need to be fit inspite of long long summer ! ! Nevertheless this IPL will help our blokes in the UK ! ! MikePatt on April 10 , 2015 , 8 : 16 GMT Geeze , for heaven sake please pull up Smithy and Johnson ! ! Not much days left for the Ashes. Ca n't think of any injury blow ahead of the Ashes ! ! CA look out of it... . rickyvoncanterbury on April 13 , 2015 , 7 : 12 GMT @ baghels.a on April 12 , 2015 , 11 : 00 GMT Good onya and thanks for the luck wishes , not sure if fox will cover it live but they will have highlights for sure . baghels.a on April 12 , 2015 , 11 : 00 GMT @ RICKYVONCANTEBURRY : Fair enough mate , i see from where you coming from and respect that.Still not convinced by your Josh being on loan and IPL contract being a top up but hey one ca n't agree on everything , best of luck in advance to Aussie team for the Ashes , for that is the only Test Series not Involving India that i do try to follow atleast the highlights , just one last thing is Ashes on Fox Sports too ? ? rickyvoncanterbury on April 12 , 2015 , 9 : 16 GMT baghels.a on April 12 , 2015 , 8 : 32 GMT no mate not dismissive of IPL just do n't get to see it , not a mad fan of the big bash either but it is on telly ,so I see it.... so probably a little sarcastic but for me it is a non event , cricket Australia and cricket N.S.W do pay Hazelwood 's wages while on loan if the IPL want to top that up.... they can not help that . baghels.a on April 12 , 2015 , 8 : 32 GMT @ RICKYVONCANTEBURY : Hope you were being sarcastic when you said he should wait 7-8 years before venturing again in to IPL when he is nearing retirement or should i take in the narrative that some of the Aussie fans like yourselves being typically dismissive of IPL , either ways i do n't care but it is a fact that IPL provides great financial rewards to 30 odd Aussie cricketers/support-staff especially some of whom are not covered by CA Central contracts. In Football or Soccer as you Aussies refer it being on loan means that the loaning club pays the wages the parent club does but here it is not only the wages but the whole transfer fees that IPL teams pay , Josh is smart,as you say he wants to cement his place in Aus Test team coupled with the fact his current deal with MI is not worth much meaning next year in auction he will fetch much much bigger fees . on April 11 , 2015 , 3 : 18 GMT @ HATSFORBATS ON APRIL 10 , 2015 , 11 : 05 GMT : Thanks for your response. Being a lover of good cricket from anyone or anywhere , whether it is an Indian or Oz never bothers me. Only , the unique cherry picking of Josh for protection surprised me . Now see , even before Watto got injured , I posted that Watto is only second to Clarke , when it comes to injury-proneness . I think , my effort on subtle attack on MI think tank in preferring Malinga over Josh got lost . By the way , we are on the same wavelength. I share your view. Feel , all Boards should encourage , protect , and nurture the test specialists. They are the ones who will keep the old world beauty & charm of cricket going , in the midst of all the circus stunts emerging n the T-20 format. Of course they are entertaining , but many of us would like to occasionally zip and savor the old well-seasoned wine from the cellar. { } : - ) rickyvoncanterbury on April 11 , 2015 , 2 : 39 GMT @ anshu.s on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 54 GMT.... I will give my opinions on their posts if you need some , Hazelwood has just played in a winning W/C for Australia in front of full houses making a household name for himself and increasing his value to cricket Australia ten fold , now he wants to establish himself in the Aussie test team and play in what most Australians think is the most important test series , the Ashes... he probably want 's to cement a place in the Aussie team and try to become number 1 in all forms of the game , and he probably thinks there will be more money in the IPL in 7 or 8 years when retirement nears , As for club and country Hazelwood 's club is New South Wales and country Australia so the analogy to football is that Hazelwood would be on loan to the IPL . HatsforBats on April 10 , 2015 , 11 : 05 GMT @ Jose Puliampata , not that I 've mentioned Starc or Johnson at all , but yes , ideally I 'd prefer CA withdraw any test player from the IPL if a tour schedule overlaps. But not Starc as he is not currently one of the frontline test quicks ( Johnson , Harris , Hazelwood ) . Why does this bother you ? It simply gives another player an opportunity , perhaps the IPL should start to use more domestic talent and stop relying on international imports for any semblance of quality . anshu.s on April 10 , 2015 , 9 : 54 GMT Well both @ IndiaBarcafan and @ Baghels. A put forth some very relevant questions and facts but yet i do n't see Aussie fans addressing them , for the nth time it was CA who decided to pull Josh Hazelwood so please do n't either blame or praise Hazelwood for not playing the IPL Damien. on April 10 , 2015 , 8 : 52 GMT @ MikePatt , yes-that 's true mate. Need to call up Warner and watto too.. It 's crucial they need to be fit inspite of long long summer ! ! Nevertheless this IPL will help our blokes in the UK ! ! MikePatt on April 10 , 2015 , 8 : 16 GMT Geeze , for heaven sake please pull up Smithy and Johnson ! ! Not much days left for the Ashes. Ca n't think of any injury blow ahead of the Ashes ! ! CA look out of it... . forExcelienceInCricket on April 10 , 2015 , 8 : 07 GMT Hazlewood 's skipping IPL2015 is not surprising. Why different standards were applied for the 4 tests in about 4 weeks schedule v IND ? . MI 's fortunes may not be affected by Hazlewood 's absence. IPL is without doubt a premier platform for cricketers to improve their skills in batting , bowling , fielding and above all to develop ability to play under pressure. As for series v ENG , ENG despite poor showing in CWC2015 , is too strong for the current AUS team . abchawha on April 10 , 2015 , 5 : 26 GMT @ jose starc is not regular member of test team from 2014 but hazelwood is regular player when pattinson come starc does it get chance . 3 year back when pattinson Cummins hazelwood and starc come to the picture. Starc was consider as the least talented player on that lot everybody goes gaga over these player excpet starc but he got nod only because he was least injury prone bowler . Andy199 on April 10 , 2015 , 5 : 14 GMT Against WI and England.. Australia 's second string bowlers are sufficient.. England have another decade of rebuilding to go before building a strong Ashes unit. . arun3169 on April 10 , 2015 , 5 : 14 GMT Good for Australian cricket. I have always felt that IPL is not a platform for bowlers like Hazlewood or Philander. Josh is grooming himself to become a line and length bowler , IPL will definitely distract his course. IPL is not advisable for Josh till he grooms himself to a certain level . on April 10 , 2015 , 4 : 26 GMT Johnson & Starc do n't need top red-ball form ? Why only Josh ? Johnson & Starc will not play test matches ? Oh , come on , Hats for bats ? SamWintson92 on April 10 , 2015 , 4 : 19 GMT Mumbai Indians should name a replacement player. I feel they should sign their Ex Mumbai Indians Krishmar Santokie. Excellent T20 player with such low average & economy. Other options Kevon Cooper or Robert Frylinck or Ajantha Mendis . on April 10 , 2015 , 3 : 42 GMT The questions , I raised earlier all lead to one thing which is in the hands of MI : The decision making style of their " Vast Think Tank " ! Some people like it ; obviously I do n't ! HatsforBats on April 10 , 2015 , 3 : 37 GMT Excellent news. We do n't need Hazelwood for the Aus T20 setup so his gains in the IPL would be purely monetary. Whatever the reason , I 'm much happier with him getting back into top red ball form before the next tours than risking injury in a meaningless domestic competition. If I was CA I 'd be paying out incentives to our test specialists to stay away from T20 . abchawha on April 10 , 2015 , 3 : 34 GMT @ joseph starc is not playing starting 3 week of tournament , last to last year when Rohit sharma make 209 on that match Johnson was taken back home for prepaing test match . Decision was taken in between test series of India its not like that he came to India for the match between mi and KKR he did not came to India sir . One more thing if your loyalty is toward your country then you dont need to prove loyalty toward any club team @ ananad difference between indian fast bowler and AUS fast bowler they work on the shortcomings on off season thats why they are better fast bowler. Even Johnson and starc didnot play IPL in starting 6 year. I wish my country also follow the same pattern our bowler bowled in test match like they are bowling in t20 we need to acknowledge this decision but as a nature we always criticize by giveing false reason . on April 10 , 2015 , 3 : 13 GMT Some readers seem to be giving misplaced credit to CA & Josh. Many questions remain . 1. When Josh entered the Auction , CA & Josh knew the WI tour. Did n't they ? 2. Why , Josh alone needs to be preserved in cotton wool ? Why not Johnson , Starc , Warner , Watto , Smith , Maxy , Faulkner and so many others ? They are all likely to tour WI , no ? 3. Why this decision AFTER Malinga on the downward slop was chosen in the XI ahead of Josh climbing the upward slop ? And not before ? Did Josh realise that as long as Malinga is available to MI , his chances to be in the playing XI is rather slim ? 4. AFTER point no. 3 , did CA realise , Josh being in OZ and doing some pre-tour training and R&R is more useful than sitting on the MI 's bench ? Post fact , all of us are wiser , and are willing to give plaudits to Josh for his national loyalty , and CA for far-farsightedness . Do n't pick on just one question ; the situation is a composite of ALL . { } : - ) michua on April 10 , 2015 , 3 : 08 GMT Certain main strike bowlers of different countries should not play IPL if they want to last for a few years longer.With the heat and humidity most would develop cramps and muscle injury which will ruin their career.For spinners and batsman its OK but not for fast bowlers.They will get ruined due to too much cricket , alcohol,ramp walking,advertisement contracts and of course the other side of life.The way the players are playing the IPL is pathetic to watch , worse than the street cricket . MiddleStump on April 9 , 2015 , 23 : 46 GMT I think it has more to do with spending time with family and not wanting to travel all over India. It is absurd to think that Hazlewood or any other fit bowler would break down after bowling 24 overs in 6 IPL matches played over a month. That is not even one over per day . JiminyCricket1969 on April 9 , 2015 , 23 : 23 GMT So good to see Test cricket selection is still valued above the pyjama party. IPL contracts for internationals have always been dependent on release from national duties. Hope that CA rewards Josh with a better contract for missing out on his IPL paycheck . on April 9 , 2015 , 23 : 20 GMT I think some of these bowlers pull out due to fear of being found out.. Why lose pride for money ? I 'll just play the bowlers game " Tests " and against WI you do n't want to miss out.. easy wickets to take home and add to your stats.. Hope he does n't pull out when Aus tour India or SL etc.. Who would say NO to Cricket ? ? If you tell me just training and 14 games , bowling 4 overs is going to burn you out , it 's a big big joke and going forward the auction should consider players who want to play. . perl57 on April 9 , 2015 , 21 : 54 GMT Wonder if these people also do the same thing to Big bash league. India should ban these cricketers who take part in the auction and does not want to make it. Had he been injured he could have been excused. If people feel their career will go down with IPL then they should ban themselves from County and all leagues and only play tests and ODIs. Country comes first but it does not take a superman to decide what you want to do. Josh may go Ford 's way. Graham ford accepted and left the job of Indian coach then kirsten took over and the rest was history . on April 9 , 2015 , 21 : 25 GMT If you commit to play for a team then it is poor form to drop out. However , as a young fast bowler he should have been advised not to enter the IPL and concentrate on becoming part of the CA setup . Mervo on April 9 , 2015 , 21 : 12 GMT Smart man - who wants to be a human bowling machine ? Fundamentally unbalanced game. I do hope CA pull out the other Australian bowlers. They are already paid enough without this mercenary stuff in the IPL. Maxwell for all his time in T20 still cant get into the Australian test team , nor can Faulkner now . mfislam on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 49 GMT Who wants to destroy their confidence early of their career , there is nothing for the bowler in ipl instead bowler would find their moral destroyed. Look at stein , not as threatening as before after ipl7 CricketChat on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 32 GMT Now , if only CA can pull out Mitch Johnson , Faulkner and Starc ( altogether instead of only 2 weeks or so ) , then they would have taken out a lot of sheen from IPL this year. Do n't know if it was forced upon the players. If it was , then I hope they are being decently compensated for most players would earn in one IPL what they will playing for their country regularly in about 5 years. Imagine if most of top SA bowlers withdraw , then it would be truly 'Indian ' league . on April 9 , 2015 , 19 : 05 GMT Hazzlewood should n't have done this. I agree country should come before money , but he knew the schedule well in advance and committed by making himself available for selecting. MI does buy players with plans for utilizing each player as per situation. Opting out puts a negative tag on him for future selection. Hope he does well in international format to keep franchises interested . on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 58 GMT The second rate tournament made Watson rediscover his form , created Faulkner , Smith , Maxwell to name a few... . FiGhtCluB_99 on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 45 GMT With de Lange and McClenaghan in the squad , MI wo n't really miss Hazelwood. I think de Lange is a far better T20 bowler than Hazelwood. So Hazelwood was n't actually gon na get a game anyway . on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 39 GMT Very sensible decision. IPL is a second rate hit and giggle tournament which does nothing to advance the standard of first class cricket for the rest of the world abchawha on April 9 , 2015 , 18 : 18 GMT Few people are commenting like mi is so strong he is not going to fit , guys any day he is one of the best bowler in the world in coming year .but my point is even if he is not selected in playing elven he get match fee and contract fee. I thing it will be in lakh not in crore. Now tell me who is not like the idea of earning without doing anything that win win situation for mr hazelwood but these guys priority is not earning but to improve himself by working on his bowling that the good thing . Now see Gayle even 2 month prior he know he is not fit to play test cricket because of his back but he can play IPL I do n't say who is correct who is wrong it their moral sense but country is always prefer then ipl. Respect for hazelwood brusselslion on April 9 , 2015 , 17 : 27 GMT I 'm definitely no flag bearer for the IPL , as I prefer the longer game. However , I must agree with @ raja92. Even if Hazelwood has no legal obligation to make himself available for MI , surely there is a moral obligation ? Same goes for KP incidentally. Wonder what the reaction would have been if the position had been reversed I.e. he made himself unavailable for Australia in order to play in the IPL ? vish2020 on April 9 , 2015 , 16 : 35 GMT Before all the " experts " here jump on ipl and how great hazlewood is to prioritize national duty over ipl , thing is he wasnt going to make opening 11. And with so many fast bowlers wanting aus job he cant afford to get injured in ipl Raja92 on April 9 , 2015 , 16 : 33 GMT Well I do n't think it 's a bad decision for Hazlewood but opting out of something after being picked out of an auction without any injury or major reason is bad. What if he is earing big amount ? will he opt himeself out ? I do n't think so.. If you have made yourself available for the auction you should also be available for the tournament . CRIC_FAN94 on April 9 , 2015 , 16 : 22 GMT Few years back even the likes of starc and johnson did n't want to play in the IPL but now they are very eager to play and it will be same with Hazlewood in coming years though he will not be picked by any team since he is lacking T20 skills . STUPID-GENIOUS on April 9 , 2015 , 15 : 59 GMT So it shows a few good players have some sense rather than for sake of money getting in to trash usernames on April 9 , 2015 , 15 : 57 GMT Good decision from him , imo. He 's better off focusing on his Test career . on April 9 , 2015 , 15 : 37 GMT Josh Hazlewood has just started his Australia career , with so much competition for fats bowlers in Australian team , if Hazlewood get injured in IPL , someone else might easily take over his position and it might become difficult for Josh to get back into that side. Considering that , its a very wise decision. In any case Ashes is more important then IPL for Aussies and Hazlewood has a long career ahead and can easily make money at a later stage in IPL. He was not getting much also in any case , as well unlike players from WI , Aussie players do not face any financial issues. If Josh was getting 2-3 crore , i am sure he would have played. Now is a chance for him to establish himself internationally and come back next year with a much higher price. So all in all , en extremely thoughtful decision which works well for Australia and Josh , may be not for IPL though . sohaibahmad on April 9 , 2015 , 15 : 04 GMT Thats the different between Australians and others. The commitment....for example look at the West Indians and you will know what I mean... . criclover13456 on April 9 , 2015 , 14 : 57 GMT He would not have got a match to play this season for MI.......as they already have malinga Anderson and mcclenaghan in their bowling line up.....so he decided to stay back home and discover his longer format bowling in this season 's ashes... . adi133 on April 9 , 2015 , 14 : 42 GMT Would n't have made any difference though as he was n't on the cards to play in the top 11. Good decision I must say as there 's nothing in warming the Mumbai benches . johny_86_bd on April 9 , 2015 , 14 : 23 GMT Very impressed to see that he is giving preference the national duty over IPL.Other players especially from West Indies should follow his example . vik56in on April 9 , 2015 , 14 : 08 GMT Josh Hazelwood and cricket Australia know what is real cricket. They know that the real cricket is Test matches and not 20/20 . SamRoy on April 9 , 2015 , 13 : 57 GMT Hazlewood , Starc , Pattinson , Cummins are all future 300 + test wicket bowlers if they fulfill their potential. Anyway , Hazlewood 's rapid rise might end Jackson Bird 's test career. ( Any way Bird was in Bhuvi Kumar in England category ; good , steady , nothing special. ) Hazlewood can do everything Bird can do and is a yard or two quicker . IndianBarcafan on April 9 , 2015 , 13 : 52 GMT I know wearing the baggy green comes first and will never dispute that ,but i would have understood the decision of CA if Ashes were imminent but for Aus v/s WI ? ? Hazelwood would discover that from playing to packed houses in IPL and being watched by millions on TV /Internet to playing in front of empty stands , forget the time difference , forget it 's being telecast on Pay TV Fox Sports , most of the Australian public would be following the AFL,NRL season which is reaching it 's peak. Please do n't get me wrong i am not a T20 peddler but just stating some honest facts . baghels.a on April 9 , 2015 , 13 : 28 GMT So it more a case of CA pulling Hazelwood out than vice versa , if this was already decided at the end of India v/s Australia test series then why it is being announced now ? ? despite being a IPL fan i have to admit national duties comes first so a fair call by CA but i contrast this situation with Football where i ca n't imagine English FA asking Man United to release Wayne Rooney or Argentina asking Barcelona to release Lionel Messi so they can prepare for a bilateral series even before there club season starts , is Cricket the only sport where a player gets paid/contracts by both his club and country ? ? on April 9 , 2015 , 13 : 16 GMT Anways he would be warming the bench in IPL , MI has many foreign players competing for 4 spots in the playing 11 . Yasin123Patel on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 55 GMT On current form , he is far better bowler than many in MI line ups. But still he would n't get in 11. So good decision. And please do n't tell me Anderson is better bowler than Hazelwood. Josh is impact bowler . BradmanBestEver on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 52 GMT Aussies should only permit retired or second string players to play in the IPL - we need the best players for the important games ! on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 51 GMT A blow to Mumbai Indians. Though they have many pace bowling options as mentioned there is nothing like having Worldcup victorious team 's lead bowler . Cricket-audience on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 49 GMT Good division man ! Busy days are coming , it 's time to take rest. And then perform well in two big series. GooD luck H.wood on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 43 GMT Hazlewood is a very good bowler. He has impressed me with the way he has been bowling test and odi 's. Good line and length bowler with close to 140 kmp and his height will cause problems to batsman . PrasPunter on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 39 GMT Fantastic ! ! With Ashes fast approaching , just what the Doc ordered ! ! Wish the Mitches pull out as well ! ! We got Ashes to retain ! ! on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 35 GMT Unlike many other players for whom IPL is more important than national team performance ! Good decision indeed . sweet2hrme on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 33 GMT Excellent decision as he do n't deserve any place in IPL. I do n't know how & why MI selected Hazlewood. There are many other better fast bowlers are still there. It was poor choice of selection. Now its good for MI they can easily pick 4 overseas players . BradmanBestEver on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 16 GMT Excellent decision ! Well done mate No featured comments at the moment . BradmanBestEver on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 16 GMT Excellent decision ! Well done mate sweet2hrme on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 33 GMT Excellent decision as he do n't deserve any place in IPL. I do n't know how & why MI selected Hazlewood. There are many other better fast bowlers are still there. It was poor choice of selection. Now its good for MI they can easily pick 4 overseas players . on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 35 GMT Unlike many other players for whom IPL is more important than national team performance ! Good decision indeed . PrasPunter on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 39 GMT Fantastic ! ! With Ashes fast approaching , just what the Doc ordered ! ! Wish the Mitches pull out as well ! ! We got Ashes to retain ! ! on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 43 GMT Hazlewood is a very good bowler. He has impressed me with the way he has been bowling test and odi 's. Good line and length bowler with close to 140 kmp and his height will cause problems to batsman . Cricket-audience on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 49 GMT Good division man ! Busy days are coming , it 's time to take rest. And then perform well in two big series. GooD luck H.wood on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 51 GMT A blow to Mumbai Indians. Though they have many pace bowling options as mentioned there is nothing like having Worldcup victorious team 's lead bowler . BradmanBestEver on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 52 GMT Aussies should only permit retired or second string players to play in the IPL - we need the best players for the important games ! Yasin123Patel on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 55 GMT On current form , he is far better bowler than many in MI line ups. But still he would n't get in 11. So good decision. And please do n't tell me Anderson is better bowler than Hazelwood. Josh is impact bowler . on April 9 , 2015 , 13 : 16 GMT Anways he would be warming the bench in IPL , MI has many foreign players competing for 4 spots in the playing 11 .
