World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh Eye Quarter-Finals World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh Eye Quarter-Finals Bangladesh have played four World Cups and gone past the first round only once in 2007 . Last updated on Thursday , 22 January , 2015 18 : 10 IST Total Shares Bangladesh have never made it to the quarters of the World Cup . © AFP Dhaka : Bangladesh have set their sights on the quarter-finals of next month 's cricket World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , the team 's Sri Lankan coach said Thursday . Chandika Hathurusinghe told journalists in Dhaka he was happy with the team 's preparations and hoped they would go " all the way " . But he said he was " taking one game at a time " and would focus on qualifying for the quarter-finals stage of the six-week tournament , which begins on February 14 . Bangladesh has only once got through to the second round in their four previous World Cups , when they ousted India from the group stage to qualify for the Super Eights in the West Indies in 2007 . Bangladesh are placed in Pool A , which includes co-hosts Australia and New Zealand , as well as England , Sri Lanka , Afghanistan and Scotland . Bangladesh will be initially based in the Australian city of Brisbane , where they will have two weeks of training . They will play two practice matches in Brisbane before taking on Pakistan and Ireland in Sydney warm-up matches on February 9 and 12 . They begin their World Cup campaign against Afghanistan in Canberra on February 18 . " Three wins give you a chance but if you win four games we will probably make sure that we qualify for the quarter-finals , " he said . " I think the Brisbane stint as well as four matches over there will give us a good indication about where we are. " Skipper Mashrafe Mortaza said the opening match against Afghanistan would be key to Bangladesh 's success . Underdogs Afghanistan beat hosts Bangladesh in the Asia Cup cricket last March . " Obviously we want to go to the second round , " said Mashrafe. " But it 's a tough job. We really need a good start in the tournament. " But he said Bangladesh was not targeting any particular side , adding , " if we can start well , we will be confident against every other side. " Story first published on : Thursday , 22 January 2015 17 : 04 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
