Chennai Super Kings v Delhi Daredevils , IPL 2015 , Chennai April 10 , 2015 Dhoni the finisher put on ice MS Dhoni 's batting has shown signs of decline. The big hits have grown less frequent and there is a definite sense that we are seeing a most singular career winding down shares 79 Dabs aplenty , but when was the last Helicopter ? © BCCI It was a chest-high short ball on an off-stumpish line , quick and skiddy. MS Dhoni , shaping to pull , was late on his shot and the ball hit the sticker of his bat and rolled to mid-on . A few years ago , he might have picked up the length a fraction earlier , and given himself time to swing his entire body through the shot , the vicious force of it lifting both his feet off the ground. The ball might have hit the sweet spot of his bat with a resonant crack and sped away through midwicket . Four overs earlier , Dhoni had played that trademark pull , but against the gentler pace of Albie Morkel. Now he was facing the genuinely quick Nathan Coulter-Nile . The next ball was slower , and Dhoni could n't muscle it past mid-off. Coulter-Nile then speared one very full , almost in the blockhole , and Dhoni clipped it straight to midwicket. This was the 18th over of Chennai Super Kings ' innings and Coulter-Nile had sent down three straight dot balls . Scattered applause rang out in the Upper G stand of the MA Chidambaram Stadium. It is a clich é to call the Chennai crowd 'knowledgeable ' , but here was evidence that they still appreciated good cricket from an opposition player , even in the hyper-partisan IPL era. This was uncomfortable watching for the mostly yellow-clad spectators , but it was good bowling , and they recognised it . They may have wondered , though , if a younger Dhoni might not have sent that last ball soaring over wide long-on with that famous whip of his bottom wrist. They may have wondered when they had last seen their hero play the helicopter shot . Such thoughts had seemed farthest from their minds when the stadium announcer called out the XIs after the toss. They had greeted the other names - notably Suresh Raina 's - with raucous cheers , but they did n't even wait for Dhoni 's to be called out before they exploded . And that was nothing compared to the reception they gave him when he stepped over the boundary rope in the 13th over , at the fall of Faf du Plessis ' wicket. It was a wraparound wall of noise , broken only by the I , J and K stands that had been left vacant because the Supreme Court had ruled they had violated safety norms. It took until Dhoni had faced a couple of balls and picked up a nurdled single and a late-cut two off Amit Mishra for the whistles and insistent chants of 'Dhoni , Dhoni ' to subside . But now they had gone quiet. Coulter-Nile bent his back and pounded the ball into the middle of the pitch. It leapt over Dhoni 's shoulder before he could swivel around fully to hook it. A leg bye the next ball took Dhoni to the non-striker 's end. He was batting on 15 off 21 balls , and had faced five balls in the 18th over of a Twenty20 innings without managing a run off the bat . They found their voice again when Dhoni hit Coulter-Nile for two sixes in the final over , but there was a flatness to the noise they made , a recognition that these were fortuitous runs R Ashwin hit the last ball of the over for four , simply standing tall and caressing it into the gap between point and third man , and picked up three intelligently placed twos in the next over , the 19th of the Super Kings innings. Ordinarily , the Chennai crowd would have grown restless at Dhoni being kept off strike at this stage of the innings , but now they may have almost been thankful for it . They found their voice again when Dhoni hit Coulter-Nile for two sixes in the final over , but there was a flatness to the noise they made , a recognition that these were fortuitous runs. The first one was an attempted leg-side slog that went off the top edge and carried all the way over the backward point boundary. The second was a slower ball that Dhoni swung too early at , and met much further in front of his body than he intended. Dhoni fell away to the leg side and his bottom hand came off the handle , but he made good enough contact for the ball to sail over the straight boundary . He skied the next ball into mid-off 's hands off the top-edge , late on another pull against another well-directed short ball. He had made 30 off 27. It was an un-Dhoni-like innings , but he 's played plenty of them in recent times . There were two innings at the World Cup that resembled this one against Daredevils. India batted first both times , and their top order had laid the perfect platform for a final flourish . Against Pakistan , Dhoni walked in to bat in the 46th over , and kept finding the fielders on his way to 18 off 13 balls. Against South Africa , he entered in the 45th and made 18 off 11. He punished the wayward Wayne Parnell for three successive fours but struggled against Morne Morkel 's pace and bounce. Both innings - like the one against Daredevils - ended with top-edged pulls . Dhoni could have been out to a top-edged pull even in the semi-final against Australia . On 42 he was rushed by an accurate short ball from Josh Hazlewood , but Michael Clarke put down the skied chance at midwicket. Dhoni had walked into a desperate situation , and winning seemed out of the question , but the discomfiting thing about his innings was the sense that none of the bowlers seemed particularly scared of bowling to him. That was never the case a couple of years ago , no matter what the situation was . The feeling of watching a fading Dhoni subsided when Super Kings were on the field. Here were the comfortingly familiar idiosyncrasies of his captaincy. Here were the traffic-policeman-like gestures to his fielders. Here were the weird field placements - leg gully made an appearance ; mid-on stood directly in line with long-on when Ashwin bowled to Morkel ; two backward points prowled within handshaking distance of each other when Dwayne Bravo bowled to Yuvraj Singh and Morkel. Here was the feeling of certainty that Ravindra Jadeja would not get a bowl as long as any of the left-handed trio of Morkel , Yuvraj and JP Duminy were at the crease. Here was the Dhoni you knew and despaired over and maybe even loved . Dhoni has retired from Test cricket. He has said he will think about his ODI future after the World T20 next year. Going by that , we might see him play for India for a while yet. " I 'm 33 , " he had said after India 's World Cup exit. " I 'm still running , I 'm still fit. " That he is. But his batting has shown signs of decline. The big hits have grown less frequent , as have the fire-and-ice finishing knocks. He may yet play one or two during this IPL season and dispel thoughts of his cricketing mortality for a while , but there is a definite sense that we are seeing a most singular career winding down. Enjoy him while he 's still around . Karthik Krishnaswamy is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . OLDEST on April 13 , 2015 , 14 : 02 GMT ...And Mr Karthik krishnaswamy hardly any bowler would be scared if the opposition ( whoever it maybe ! ) requires 200 from 20 overs with top order gone ! For the fear game to be applied here , there should be some balance in the situation. At Dhoni 's arrival , the pressure was totally on India . on April 13 , 2015 , 13 : 52 GMT Though.......against Aussies in SF....he did not have to finsh the game.....he had to score 200 + runs with an out-of-form tail. The bowlers dish up 330 runs and then the the top order wobbles to 120-4 with 200 needed. In comes Dhoni , with an edgy rahane and an out-of form no.7 in next. And then the writer says DHoni was not able to win us the game against the Aussies ! . Although i like Rahane but his innings in SF was sluggish and got himself out at a critical point when Dhoni was just starting to unleash his strikes. Had rahane supported dhoni for another 15 mins more or atleast scored at S/R of around 100 ( he scored 44 from 68 ! ) , the match would have been much closer if not won . on April 13 , 2015 , 11 : 02 GMT Totally agree on the analysis. Dhoni was toothless throughout the world cup. In the final game too , Dhoni showed his true character when he simply threw away his wicket once his half-century was done. On top of that he has the audacity to say that the chase was too much. Did anyone watch how Harbhajan played for Mumbai yesterday night ? He didnt give up scoring coming in at no 8. He and Suchit almost won the match for MI ! Now..thats what I call cricket ! RASH786 on April 13 , 2015 , 7 : 16 GMT I agree with you. MS Dhoni is n't the big hitting batsman that all bowlers were scared of anymore. It seems as if MS Dhoni has lost his great power to muscle the ball. When was the last time we saw him smash a fast express bowler 100m back ? What about the helicopter ? Yes he played a great knock last night , but most of his runs and sixes came of a very inexperienced spinner. Make no mistake , I think MS Dhoni is still a great batsman , wicketkeeper and captain ; but for the past year I have seen a decline in his batting skills . on April 12 , 2015 , 23 : 53 GMT I think author is missing very young Dhoni who was not the captain and had only one responsibilities- go and whack bowlers. Now Dhoni has grown clinical with tonnes of responsibilities. He had a lot of cricket left and as author suggested that even his mishits sails over for six. So dont write him off yet. He is still force to recon with and still the best finisher you may see for long long time . sweetspot on April 12 , 2015 , 7 : 28 GMT Haha ! Looks like the author wants to be ahead of the curve on this one ! If Sehwag , with his far more lethargic body was taking on the best well past Dhoni 's current age , there is no reason to think Dhoni is past his prime . Bowlers the world over have come up with plans to counter Dhoni 's style of play. Give him some time to figure out what they 're up to. His skill is n't anywhere near tested yet . He just chooses to be clinical instead of brutal a lot more these days , but that 's his adaptability , not weakness . moscowman on April 12 , 2015 , 5 : 08 GMT You have been too hasty Krish ! Actually only Dhoni has been steady while Virats n Dhawans n Rohits flash only now n then.See yesterday 's Dhoni.Do n't be hasty , misjudge n just watch.Appreciate good batting n judge at the end of tournament 's qualifying round . Alexk400 on April 12 , 2015 , 4 : 53 GMT Dhoni play well when he match up with bowler. If someone can bowl fast ( 150kmph ) at offside corridor , He can be made quiet 100 % of the time. It is just that. Aussies knows every indian batsman weakness. They may not have all the tools but they work hard to exploit that weakness. No other team has the tools or try to get the tools shut down team. Dhoni is still dhoni , he can hit 90 % of bowler when time for slog up . forExcelienceInCricket on April 11 , 2015 , 17 : 18 GMT To analyse great achievers one has to virtually get into their shoes to obtain greater insight about their thinking. If this is not done one can draw conclusions that are far from reality. In run up to CWC15 many had drawn wrong conclusions about IND including team selection. IND did overcome the inexperience of fast bowlers ,limitations imposed on the spinners ( due to new rules ) and improved in fielding to win 7 matches in a row. That IND did not go beyond SF stage was not due to the strike rate or batting order of Dhoni but inability of No.3 & No.4 to take up responsibility ( like previous 3 matches ) . In CWC11 Yuvi was cleaned up first ball in SF by Wahab Riaz .Riaz took 5 for 46 leading to IND 's collapse from 141 for 2 to 205 for 6. IND probably has now the best allround ODI side in the world but Vijay has to replace Rahane and open along with Rohit. Dhawan has to drop to No.3 with Kohli at No. 4. There is also a case for Vijay/Pujara/Ashwin ( also ODI ) as future Test Captain on April 11 , 2015 , 15 : 55 GMT Well have you seen dhoni s innings today ? I think the thoughts mentioned in the article were true to some extent but the fact that bowlers are n't fearing anymore - is too much. He is playing it safe for a weak lower order and if he gets out it will be a huge thing for discussion in the media the next day. really he does n't care about any criticisms or praises. we all want him to stay longer for India and csk on April 13 , 2015 , 14 : 02 GMT ...And Mr Karthik krishnaswamy hardly any bowler would be scared if the opposition ( whoever it maybe ! ) requires 200 from 20 overs with top order gone ! For the fear game to be applied here , there should be some balance in the situation. At Dhoni 's arrival , the pressure was totally on India . on April 13 , 2015 , 13 : 52 GMT Though.......against Aussies in SF....he did not have to finsh the game.....he had to score 200 + runs with an out-of-form tail. The bowlers dish up 330 runs and then the the top order wobbles to 120-4 with 200 needed. In comes Dhoni , with an edgy rahane and an out-of form no.7 in next. And then the writer says DHoni was not able to win us the game against the Aussies ! . Although i like Rahane but his innings in SF was sluggish and got himself out at a critical point when Dhoni was just starting to unleash his strikes. Had rahane supported dhoni for another 15 mins more or atleast scored at S/R of around 100 ( he scored 44 from 68 ! ) , the match would have been much closer if not won . on April 13 , 2015 , 11 : 02 GMT Totally agree on the analysis. Dhoni was toothless throughout the world cup. In the final game too , Dhoni showed his true character when he simply threw away his wicket once his half-century was done. On top of that he has the audacity to say that the chase was too much. Did anyone watch how Harbhajan played for Mumbai yesterday night ? He didnt give up scoring coming in at no 8. He and Suchit almost won the match for MI ! Now..thats what I call cricket ! RASH786 on April 13 , 2015 , 7 : 16 GMT I agree with you. MS Dhoni is n't the big hitting batsman that all bowlers were scared of anymore. It seems as if MS Dhoni has lost his great power to muscle the ball. When was the last time we saw him smash a fast express bowler 100m back ? What about the helicopter ? Yes he played a great knock last night , but most of his runs and sixes came of a very inexperienced spinner. Make no mistake , I think MS Dhoni is still a great batsman , wicketkeeper and captain ; but for the past year I have seen a decline in his batting skills . on April 12 , 2015 , 23 : 53 GMT I think author is missing very young Dhoni who was not the captain and had only one responsibilities- go and whack bowlers. Now Dhoni has grown clinical with tonnes of responsibilities. He had a lot of cricket left and as author suggested that even his mishits sails over for six. So dont write him off yet. He is still force to recon with and still the best finisher you may see for long long time . sweetspot on April 12 , 2015 , 7 : 28 GMT Haha ! Looks like the author wants to be ahead of the curve on this one ! If Sehwag , with his far more lethargic body was taking on the best well past Dhoni 's current age , there is no reason to think Dhoni is past his prime . Bowlers the world over have come up with plans to counter Dhoni 's style of play. Give him some time to figure out what they 're up to. His skill is n't anywhere near tested yet . He just chooses to be clinical instead of brutal a lot more these days , but that 's his adaptability , not weakness . moscowman on April 12 , 2015 , 5 : 08 GMT You have been too hasty Krish ! Actually only Dhoni has been steady while Virats n Dhawans n Rohits flash only now n then.See yesterday 's Dhoni.Do n't be hasty , misjudge n just watch.Appreciate good batting n judge at the end of tournament 's qualifying round . Alexk400 on April 12 , 2015 , 4 : 53 GMT Dhoni play well when he match up with bowler. If someone can bowl fast ( 150kmph ) at offside corridor , He can be made quiet 100 % of the time. It is just that. Aussies knows every indian batsman weakness. They may not have all the tools but they work hard to exploit that weakness. No other team has the tools or try to get the tools shut down team. Dhoni is still dhoni , he can hit 90 % of bowler when time for slog up . forExcelienceInCricket on April 11 , 2015 , 17 : 18 GMT To analyse great achievers one has to virtually get into their shoes to obtain greater insight about their thinking. If this is not done one can draw conclusions that are far from reality. In run up to CWC15 many had drawn wrong conclusions about IND including team selection. IND did overcome the inexperience of fast bowlers ,limitations imposed on the spinners ( due to new rules ) and improved in fielding to win 7 matches in a row. That IND did not go beyond SF stage was not due to the strike rate or batting order of Dhoni but inability of No.3 & No.4 to take up responsibility ( like previous 3 matches ) . In CWC11 Yuvi was cleaned up first ball in SF by Wahab Riaz .Riaz took 5 for 46 leading to IND 's collapse from 141 for 2 to 205 for 6. IND probably has now the best allround ODI side in the world but Vijay has to replace Rahane and open along with Rohit. Dhawan has to drop to No.3 with Kohli at No. 4. There is also a case for Vijay/Pujara/Ashwin ( also ODI ) as future Test Captain on April 11 , 2015 , 15 : 55 GMT Well have you seen dhoni s innings today ? I think the thoughts mentioned in the article were true to some extent but the fact that bowlers are n't fearing anymore - is too much. He is playing it safe for a weak lower order and if he gets out it will be a huge thing for discussion in the media the next day. really he does n't care about any criticisms or praises. we all want him to stay longer for India and csk VyshakhP on April 11 , 2015 , 14 : 13 GMT I 've got a feeling that Dhoni came out to bat at no. 4 today just to give a reply to this article. Yes , the bowlers are probably bowling much better to him now. But he is still one the best finishers. I feel that he did become more defensive over the years. Maybe its because of the lack batting depth in Indian cricket . on April 11 , 2015 , 13 : 59 GMT Well.. You might have to change a bit of it after today 's innings against Sunrisers Hyderabad. You are probably getting too much into something which is not yet to be worried upon . Desiboi80 on April 11 , 2015 , 13 : 23 GMT Do n't go by 53 he scored of 29 today , this was totally different circumstances where batsman on the other hand was hitting hard. Dhoni has mentally given up that he can score fast when there is a need and he just thinks about oh if I stay till the last over I can score 36 runs in that over. His approach is not right and his aging body his reflexes are slowing , so he should promote himself at no.3-4 and carry the inning around. Virat , Raina and Rohit can hit big shots , Rahane should open along with Dhawan. Dhoni promoted himself in 2011 WC final ahead of a very inform batsman ( Yuvi ) when the chase was easier , but in Aus he did n't do the same and that speaks volume . Ind_Sadiq on April 11 , 2015 , 12 : 29 GMT Now after seeing this 53 of 29 , you may have to rewrite the post againg.. he promoted himself , when wickets in hand , you can see real Dhoni ! that 3 sixes of karn Sharma over speaks for himself ! aby_97 on April 11 , 2015 , 12 : 08 GMT Meanwhile , Dhoni scores 53 off 29 deliveries . on April 11 , 2015 , 11 : 07 GMT I think he has changed his game over the years. He would like to stay and rotate the strike and leave others ( mainly Raina ) to go for the big ones. Since he nudges and pushes for singles , he is finding it hard to execute his trademark shots now. It is not that he has lost touch , he has changed his game and do not expect him to score another 183 not out in ODIs. He would still score those 40 to 50s with strike rate more than 90 . on April 11 , 2015 , 9 : 37 GMT Best way to describe MSD and change in years ! Indian team will miss Captain like him after him... The beast becomes the best and now fading away to give us a legend to perish on April 11 , 2015 , 9 : 09 GMT There is a saying " Old Dogs have to learn New Tricks to be in Business. Let him go back to academy for a week stint to get his eye hand co-ordination back. Keep removing the risky shots and play the sure ones with authority. He is a fit man and best judge of singles. He needs a bit of re-engineering his technique and prolong the carrier till next world cup. God Luck and God speed to My friend MSD . CaseyWilliamOZ on April 11 , 2015 , 8 : 37 GMT SIDDIEE. His wicket-keeping has always been below the international standards though ! ! Even early in his career , he lacked the fundamentals. His batting has always been his strength , especially in the ODI format. I think , he should retire from the ODI format and concentrate on T20. He should call it a day after next years T20 WC . Siddiee on April 11 , 2015 , 7 : 52 GMT Refreshing to read an honest article on Dhoni but assessment of his keeping skills is missing. Would like to read an article on that part of his game too as I am of the view that his keeping has deteriorated below international standards . shailesh_11star on April 11 , 2015 , 6 : 19 GMT even sachin changed his game according to age and he was much slower but he had advantage of technique and all shots in cricket which made hom possible to prolong his career . it should be acceptable from dhobi to not hit big shots but he is the most safe odi batsman today .. the way he builds his innings is awesome ...so he can come up the order now forExcelienceInCricket on April 11 , 2015 , 6 : 05 GMT India during 1992-2007 had a strong teams but underachieved. Captaincy can not be only measured by number of wins / defeats alone or how demonstrative the captain is on field. Captaincy is about optimising team performance based on team resources. Indian Cricket has been obsessed with individual records and preferences. This led many a cricketer believe that they can play as long as they feel like and not by their form and fitness. Dhoni has changed thinking in Indian Cricket with focus on Physical Fitness , Fielding , priority of Team Goals over Individual Records etc. There have been anomalies in Test & ODI Results abroad during the last 2/3 years. But these anomalies had more to do with handling team transitions and rule changes in ODI .During last 16 months IND missed opportunity of test wins in SA , NZ , ENG , AUS due to batting failures of star batsmen at key moments and dropped catches. MS Dhoni is the greatest captain ( in all forms of cricket ) in last 50 years . D-Coach on April 11 , 2015 , 6 : 02 GMT This article does not blame MSD but he is no more with the past Mojo ! MSD does more defense than earlier so called attacking defense. Wish he will prove wrong. He is not a player any more who can strike at 150 in consistent manner. He should clear his mind while striking. All the best MSD : ) Ahmed Naseef Chowdhury on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 55 GMT This article made me sad . on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 54 GMT Brilliant analysis of a subsiding yet enthralling career . tanstell87 on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 47 GMT Also India should not play hit and miss Ravindra Jadeja anymore in ODIs...some other all-rounder should get a look in...no point in playing 6 batsmen of which Raina also struggles against the fast bowlers...ideally there should be a batsmen playing at 7 & Rohit , Virat & Raina can fill the 10 overs of 5th bowler & Dhoni should bat at number 5 from here on and give up his number 6 spot to Raina.. . tanstell87 on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 46 GMT Dhoni has lost his finishing skills since NZ series last year....he could not finish chases that a younger Dhoni could...Dhoni sidelined big hitters like Yuvraj & Yusuf so that he gets all the spotlight by finishing matches...but i am afraid he cant do it anymore...Dhoni 's ideal spot in ODI team now is at number 5 after Ajinkya Rahane...he should have walked in at 91-3 in World Cup semi-final after Rohit got out...he could have controlled the innings with Rahane...a partnership of 110-120 ( Rahane-Dhoni put up 70 off 85 balls ) would have tilted the match in India 's favour with Raina coming at 6...but as usual Dhoni wanted the spotlight on him again...unfortunately with diminishing finishing skills , Dhoni could not stop the Aussie juggernaut . forExcelienceInCricket on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 27 GMT Dhoni is a small town boy who possibly did not receive great coaching early in his career. and has an unorthodox batting technique. He also has to keep wickets and captain the side. He started his career as an attacking batsman. Cricket is a team sport which involves roles for players as batsman or bowler or both and as a fielder. Cricket as a sport not only requires skills in batting , bowling & fielding but also physical fitness , dedication , discipline and above all mental toughness. A game of Cricket is affected by factors like opposition team capability , pitch conditions and match situations. Adapting to match situations is of paramount importance. Cricketers have to use batting skills according to situations and not play favourite shots or for individual performance. Dhoni has adapted his game outstandingly.. Dhoni 's knocks v WI , ZIM , AUS in CWC15 and v DD are excellent examples of adaptation for achieving team goals. He is still a force as cricketer & captain to reckon with Lokia on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 23 GMT Im a big fan of MS and I completely agree with the author. Dhoni is best finisher when the RRR is below 8. His running between wickets is phenomenal. He converts 1s into 2s nd 2s into 3s. But the power hitting is certainly missing. He has to bat up the order in place of raina. The need of the hour for India is big hitters around 40-50 overs. They got to identify a reliable all-rounder to replace jadeja. Ashwin can be a decent batsman if he bat up the order but will it be another Irfan patan story ? ? ? srinivasan1317 on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 21 GMT Do n't under estimate the power of Dhoni. If you 're not seeing the Dhoni 's shots , it can come any time soon. So , just have faith in him and allow him to play freely. We need him till 2019 world cup so just do n't bring any type of pressure on him . on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 15 GMT Its very easy to do a subjective analysis and you can even prove that great players like Ricky ponting/Sachin/Lara were ineffective. But any sane cricket follower will know that Dhoni/Faulkner is still one of the best finishers around ! Singh_farms on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 14 GMT Hit the nail right on the head. Just check his strike rate in international t20. It 's just 115. It 's just a bubble that is still existing around him of being a gud finisher. The fact is that nowdays he needs military medium pace bowlers to hit sixes. Dhoni Is average batsman nowadays SamRoy on April 11 , 2015 , 4 : 41 GMT Dhoni can easily play in England in 2019 if he maintains his fitness. England normally has all types of pitches ( sometimes green , sometimes hard and bouncy , sometimes a soft slow seamer , sometimes a dry turner ) for test matches but for ODIs they normally have dry pitches which may turn but the odd ball will definitely stop on the batsman. On top of that there will be some swing and reverse swing. India will feel very much at home in those conditions . gdalvi on April 11 , 2015 , 4 : 30 GMT Time to look beyond Dhoni and groom a proper team for future. I believe it is only because of Dhoni ( and CSK link with Srinivasan ) useless players like Jadeja , Raina , Ishant keep getting chances and keep out more promising players. As a captain - not sure why people think he is the best - particularly given his atrocious oversees record for last 4 years. Now that Srinivasan era is over - I hope fairness will return to India team selection and not soon enough . CaseyWilliamOZ on April 11 , 2015 , 4 : 06 GMT Defensive as a captain with little knowledge of how to use his bowlers or the type of field placements to set-up. I mainly saw him as a one-day player because in the shorter format , he could hide his flaws ( as a player and captain ) but in test cricket , away from home , he got found out many times . VJGS on April 11 , 2015 , 3 : 54 GMT There is a difference between being out of form and being on the decline. This is just MS being a bit out of touch. What he needs is just a break from cricket... for maybe a couple of weeks and then get back into groove slowly. Throughout the world cup and even in CSK 's first IPL match , he showed that he still has the attacking element to his batting , but all he needs is some rest . Siva_Bala75 on April 11 , 2015 , 3 : 28 GMT Dhoni should play only the last 3 or max 4 overs. His batting has definitely slowed down and tries those extravagant shots only in the last 2 overs or so. Though there is some decline in his batting , his WK and captaincy have improved a lot. Probably the smartest cricketer in the world today . on April 11 , 2015 , 3 : 26 GMT Sure , time waits for no one. Further , Dhoni was a limited player , technically. So when eye and feet coordination suffers , he is bound to struggle. He has lost the X factor. But then , he is a situational player these days and can come up with a few more surprises in the shorter formats . JasonGray on April 11 , 2015 , 3 : 24 GMT He has been on a state of decline for some years now mate. He never had the proper technique hence he struggled at test cricket , especially on challenging pitches. But through brute force , especially at home on those flat pitches/small boundaries , he did well. But his power is gone and that 's why the big hits have disappeared too. Looking from outside , I never cared for Dhoni. I thought he played politics by keeping out senior players ( Sehwag etc ) , so there would be no looming threats over his captaincy. Terribly defensive captain who on most occasions allowed the game to meander and waited for the opposition to make mistakes . on April 11 , 2015 , 3 : 19 GMT Dhoni is great player of the shorter formats.but the form has most certainly declined.he is not able to time the ball well.age is catching up.though still he can rotate the strike like he could ever.so he should come up the order and send raina 1 down . Tharunmedini on April 11 , 2015 , 3 : 04 GMT Thankfully people are noticing it now. I 've been saying this for an year and none of my friends accept. Last years NZ series was the starting point perhaps. He played several dots when singles were needed and asked others to compensate with boundaries. Others succumbed to pressure and commentators hailed him as the lone finisher in losing cause. Utter nonsense. It 's been long since he played an authoritative innings . chikkubukku on April 11 , 2015 , 2 : 59 GMT Agreed with the author 's view. The same thing happened to Tendulkar , but in his case it deteriorated drastically and it was painful watching him in his last days of test cricket. Looks like Dhoni is aware of this but his decline in scoring big shots started after last world cup and the pace of decline is slightly worrisome. I am a diehard CSK fan , for the way they have built the team , right from selection of players in auction and nurturing young ones , the classic case being Mohit Sharma. The author also , it looks like , feels sad for this. Wish I am also proved wrong. The fact is that , his presence even now in T20 or fifty overs , creates a sense of awe and fear in all in opponents. To his credit and to all Indians liking , he has kept this aura for a considerable length of time. Hats of to him , the best Indian cricketer ever in shorter forms . Humdingers on April 11 , 2015 , 2 : 51 GMT This decline happened several years ago - after the last WC . salil247 on April 11 , 2015 , 1 : 54 GMT I believe Dhoni is going to lead India in the next World Cup. So yeah , we 'll most definitely enjoy him while he 's around ! Dhoni 's batting ? Matured and seasoned. The author 's headline ? Delusive and fallacious . Aims181 on April 11 , 2015 , 1 : 36 GMT as u mention in article he doesnt even effictive against africa and pak as well.Againts zimbabwe as well i m pretty sure if raina coundt make century i will write firmly india wont win that match.coz dhoni plays very poor batting,he just managed his strike last 15 balls when team india almost get there .First of all,he cant play big shot as soon as he arrive on crease now days,second thing is that if he cant that why he shouldnt promote raina on batting order.because raina performs number 6 spot better than him.dhoni is no more big hitter now days so he must be promote himself at number 4 and 5 and tried to knock around balls and get single double.and if he stays and he could accelerate at the end than its okie otherwise leave it to raina or jadeja . Aims181 on April 11 , 2015 , 1 : 35 GMT Great,I am glad that finally someone notice ....infact i was noticed dhonis poor batting from almost more than one year..i just wonder why no one is talking about his poor batting form ,finally osmeone stood up and write article..gr8..there is no doubt dhoni is best captain and world best finisher as well.before i analyze let me tell u one thing i m big fan of dhoni and i am not hatred him.but thing as that as fan of dhoni from last many matches i coudnt see his batting effectively....and i lost my tempere completely afters seeing his batting in semifinal.why the hell he played like that.i mean he hits 2 sixes when team required 48 balls 121 run.doesnt he know its knock out game..there is no point of balance net run rate something like that . NCP1 on April 11 , 2015 , 1 : 20 GMT Never understood why he does not bat up the order being such an experienced player. in 2011 , you had Sehwag , Sachin , Gambhir , Yuvi but now he needs to contribute more by going upgo the order as young players come on board. It will be hard for him to contribute much if he keeps coming in the last 5 or 10 overs , what a waste of talent. India got lucky in the last world cup to go as far as they did. Dhoni is a much better batsman than # 7 . on April 11 , 2015 , 1 : 14 GMT The flight 's altitude is down to 40000 ft from 45000 ft , still its flying higher . SaintClair on April 11 , 2015 , 0 : 51 GMT Very good article , I too have been wondering this for some time. Many Indian fans would n't agree - it 's a hard truth to accept , but in reality Dhoni has looked uncharacteristically uncertain and out of sorts even in the most tailor made kind of situations. My suspicions were confirmed when he did not himself come out to bat when Kohli 's wicket fell in WC2015 SF. I believe , right now is the best time for India to start grooming a confident big hitting youngster by taking Ravindra Jadeja out of the equations. If there is no exceptional turn around in his fortunes in the near future , Dhoni would probably be not good enough to play another WC and that could leave a major dent in India 's 2019 WC ambitions . Raki99 on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 49 GMT I do n't think his would allow him to play the next world cup , By 35 his hand eye coordination would start waning down just what has happened to sehwag. It would be foolish to think he would play next world cup he is not 33 he is closing it on 34 , So by the time the next world cup comes in July of 2019 he would be 38 and not 37. He would struggle big time to slog unless he moves up the order and does the same job what Imran khan did in the 1992 world cup may be bat at 4. Also next world cup is in ENG where bowl swings from 1st over to 50 over . on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 33 GMT Decline in form is just a phase. Please remember a couple of years back , he was the one who resurrected many a innings against top teams. It 's just a matter of time when he gets his touch back. He 's a respected and talented player and i 'm sure in the present situation , he 's the go to man in whichever team he plays. So a couple of matches wo n't make any good to judge him. I hope he gets back his form . f1_cric_soccer on April 10 , 2015 , 18 : 38 GMT Stole my words , great article . on April 10 , 2015 , 18 : 14 GMT There is a point to the argument here. Think its time for MS to move up the order and bat 5. Raina these days is more capable of slogging from ball 1 , MS needs time before he can get going. The big hits may not be regular enough , but MS is the most dependable batsman in the side , and as such he should bat up the order and let Raina loose in the end. Hopefully , we will have a big hitting number 7 who can bowl as well emerging soon , so that Dhoni could play a freer game...... . on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 55 GMT Yawn ! I never read this article. Being a finisher doesnt mean u have to be mindless slogger like Maxi. It means calculative approach. That is why Dhoni stands tall as the world 's best finisher of all time on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 49 GMT I think Dhoni must reassess his role in the batting order. He has been lauded as a finisher for long , but now , with his adaptation into a much more risk-averse batsman who plays a well-paced innings by nudging ones and twos , he must move up the order to provide anchorage to the innings , both for India and Chennai . Dhoni 's early great innings all came at positions 3 and 4 , where he averages the highest. Later , he sacrificed his own batting glory by taking on a lower-order role. I think he must revert to controlling the middle order from the top. Latest case in point : WC 2011 finals . Brahams on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 39 GMT Folks , this is what the writer has summarized - " But his batting has shown signs of decline. " And those who have watched the WC SF would have noticed it , and perhaps , even grudgingly acknowledged it. Dhoni was no ABD or BC in the WC , when it came to big hitting ( he used to do it in the past though ) . The writer is not arguing that MSD is a finished article. But , yes , there are signs of slowing down , which by any standards , is an objective assessment . And perhaps , this is a right time to groom some big hitters for next WC . ritvic12 on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 27 GMT Dhoni is the most dependable batsman in Indian line up..kind of wat dravid was in his odi days..and boy he has a knack of finishing the matches..criticism will b always there..but he 'll stand up tall in the end. And his outstanding captaincy is well known add to that his sharp keeping skills.I think he has one more world cup left in him ..should give it a go. . SRAM20 on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 25 GMT Every player has to go through such phases where their strengths decline as they are approaching the end of their careers. Sachin , Saurav , Rahul , Laxman , etc all went through it. Dhoni will go through it too. He is already running on his last legs. Its a matter of time before he restricts himself only to IPL. Hope he has a dignified exit . vyseerx2 on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 01 GMT This person is suggesting ( that Dhoni is in decline ) and wishing that his suggestion comes true. Dhoni is in good form and hitting sixes. He is not struggling. All the instances the writer mentioned the strike rate is more than 100. That he was not equally successful in Australia as he would be in Sub-continent is kind of obvious. That happens to every batsman from Subcontinent when plays out side Subcontinent. If hitting consecutive sixes is considered fortuitous and what about getting wickets in 49th and 50th over when batsmen are going for leather ? Luck , bad luck are all part of the game and in the end results do matter. Dhoni is batting fine and is sure to be around for few more years . DipanjanMitra on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 55 GMT Dhoni 's batting has never been on the " upcline " barring the first few years of his career. I am sorry to write this but the art of batting is/was never his forte. Helicopters can not go the distance and precisely the reason why we have airplanes . on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 54 GMT I like to see MS give up keeping and become into a pure no4 batsman who shepherds the middle overs. Give the keeping gloves to UTHAPPA or DK on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 51 GMT Half of Dhoni 's shots are mistimed and edges which goes over small boundaries because of thick bats.He is extremely lucky to have bat in the era of bad bowlers + thickest bats possible + field restriction + small boundaries + flat wickets. Also someone like him can only perform consistently late in order where bowlers are tired and bowl does n't do anything. We have seen in Test cricket what happens to him when new ball is taken even with Tired bowlers.Plus he is someone you can ask to score 50-60 in last 5 overs or so.Whenever R.R. is 12 or more he smartly takes it to 15-16 then swings 1 or 2 in last over and his team loses by 15-20 runs but he remains not out and blames top order . ODI_BestFormOfCricket on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 48 GMT I can only smile after reading this article bcz in world cup we do n't have allrounder so Dhoni played responsible innings. IPL just started , only one game you guys started writing like this. wait and watch . perl57 on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 46 GMT This is why MSD should come one down. So what if MSD can not be in the finisher 's role. He is capable enough to get a good 50 or a 100. This is where world could not understand the greatness of Sachin , Sourav and Rahul. Even at the worst periods they could have consumed 60 balls to score a 50 or a 130 balls to score a 100. In the context of good bowling pitches that is immensely helpful. MSD needs to identify this aspect and come one down in ODIs and 4 down in tests . usernames on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 43 GMT Just out of form IMO. He 'll be back if he gets a few hits... he 's just not able to time it. He 's running fine , quick as ever , and his WK reflexes are as good as ever. So no problem with the fitness TBH. I do think he 'll retire next year . RatheeshNarayanan on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 39 GMT If you ask any bowler who do n't want to see a batsman in final overs , they will all tell one name " MSD " . You can claim that he is not good as he was in finishing the game with those stats , but assessing the mental status of the bowlers with those numbers is silly . FiGhtCluB_99 on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 26 GMT Dhoni likes to save it for the last over ( ask Gambhir ) and in the process gives us the feeling that he 's not as dangerous as he used to be. Agree he should bat higher up the order in IPL and not put a price on his wicket because CSK bat deep. He has reached a point in his career where he does n't want to throw his wicket away with a bad shot at the wrong time , with him being the captain and all . on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 25 GMT I think that this is really a witchhunt sorta article. Dhoni has been averaging over 50 in a finishers role for a really long time so rather than dispel his aura give credit where it 's due , stop fussing about Mia-hit sixes and reflect on the fact that he has played pivotal innings in each of the past seasons of the IPL and to degrade him after one innings is similar to the Goswami /times now attack on Kohli , give him a chance to finish the season and then bring him down -if the opportunity arises. . MiddleStump on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 25 GMT What is the purpose of this article ? In any sport , gradual decline starts around 32 years of age. It may be more apparent in the case of Dhoni because he has been such an exceptional player in the short forms of the game. The only question is whether Dhoni can still hold his place in the team. All the examples given in the article indicate a strike rate of over 100 , so Dhoni is still good enough. Besides he was responsible for India winning a couple of World Cup matches against Zimbabwe and the West Indies with his batting. His wicket keeping skills have not declined yet. Being an extremely smart cricketer , Dhoni will surely know when to quit all forms of the game when the time comes . on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 08 GMT how about trying mccullum at 5 or 6. I know it sounds too funky but think about it.....he is absolutely capable of hitting sixes from ball 1. He can be used as a finisher. Dhoni should bat at 4 and Faf to open with D Smith . hari2015 on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 01 GMT This is indeed a bad judgement by the author.You can not judge whether he has slowed or not by the virtue of a few innings.I believe MS is playing according to the situation.Still believe he is best one day /T-20 finisher .In the WC we did n't have any experienced all rounder after him or a rather had a ever collapsible tail ,so he needed to be mindful of that.Let us wait for a few more innings from him before we judge his batting . adi133 on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 45 GMT Agree with the article. And it 's been quite sometime now that dhoni has put up some ice. He can hit medium pace bowlers out of the park at will even today but his skills against faster 140 + bowlers are missing. There is a certain area above the off stump where he is being troubled by every good pacer. But I think over the years he has established himself as a player who can hold the innings rather than come late and hit sixes. Probably he should promote himself to no 4 and have a new finisher for the team , there are quite a lot of them in the domestic circuit . SPSD on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 39 GMT What do you expect from Dhoni - when he had to walks out at 25th over or 30th over. You cant hit the ball everytime out of the park especially when his role is a anchor in the team ! ! I would give some more time in this tournament before we decide on the missing helicopter ( shot ! ) soorya.dhoni on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 29 GMT The solution is simple : He must bat higher up the order , period. I mean we saw that against Zimbabwe in the WC that after he spent enough time at the crease , he went after the bowlers and finished the game just the way he can. This batting line-up of CSK is known to be a flexible one and if spinners are in operation and are keeping the batsmen under check , then MSD must walk out to control the situation before teeing off. I remember a game two years ago against SRH , It took him as many as 13 deliveries to open his account but after that , we saw vintage MSD , ending up with an unbeaten 67 off 37 to take CSK home. True , he 's not quite able to hit the ball just as soon as he walks out ( the last instance was probably in the CLT20 game against Perth Scorchers last year ) and it was the case in the WC as well. So he needs to spend some more time out there . on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 15 GMT Never write off MSD. He is a tough nut to crack. I believe if MSD thinks he is on wane he will make his way out. I do n't think he will sub-due or hang on to fortune. I think he is fatigued with lot of cricket and IPL madness. A break could do a lot of wonders. But will he opt out of IPL ? on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 08 GMT Why the hell anytime any bowler need to afraid just because in the last overs every good batsman see them over the park ? It happens all the time and we also see that in-form batsmen falter sometimes not always because he lost his touch. Only the thing that did not change is people like those who created this article go after a batsman when they feel he is near the end of his career. Even Sachin did not escape this kind of criticisms so why should anyone else. Dhoni will remain one of the best captains India ever had. View in a holistic manner not just based on what happens in one match of IPL. You can see the world cup that just got over that he was the only batsman who stood in some crucial wins and as it is , they are also in the death over . NandeeshGowda333 on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 49 GMT Dhoni plays too many T20 matches , he has never missed a single IPL and CLT20 matches , which has made him to tire. He needs a break now. Though he is tired , I 'm pretty sure that he is the most responsible trustworthy cricketer for India and he is far ahead than all his Team India 's XI in terms of maturity , responsibility and most importantly his sharp presence of mind on field on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 45 GMT I think you are jumping the gun ! I think he needs to define his role in the team. Either he plays a finisher or a sheet-anchor. Right now he 's confused between the two. He needs to summarize the situation like he used to earlier and take a stock of himself as a batsman. He still has it in him to hit 2-3,000 runs in ODI cricket. But he needs to define his role as a batsman , a call which only he can take . IndCricFan2013 on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 38 GMT While we can agree that brutal hitting has gone missing , we need to understand that , he is protecting his wicket to play out the innings and take risk only in the last over. If there is either one of the top or middle order stayed till end , he can take more risks. His aim to not to go for the glory and aim for 170 or 180 , but get to 160 or worst case 150 , rather losing him and CSK end up at 135 or 140. That has exactly helped yesterday 's 1 run win. These days you can not come down the order and smack from ball 1 , all the time. He can try and bat up the order , that could help him , but with Raina and Faf , he can only bat at 5. CSK , is sort one good Indian batsman , too much depend on Raina and Dhoni , due to the failure of Jadeja. One thing I can agree is Dhoni is no more inventor after the helicopter shot , like AB or Maxwell. But I do not think that is his strength anyways. May be no more chasing 16 runs an over in the last 4 overs , if he bats up and stays till end , still possible . No featured comments at the moment . IndCricFan2013 on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 38 GMT While we can agree that brutal hitting has gone missing , we need to understand that , he is protecting his wicket to play out the innings and take risk only in the last over. If there is either one of the top or middle order stayed till end , he can take more risks. His aim to not to go for the glory and aim for 170 or 180 , but get to 160 or worst case 150 , rather losing him and CSK end up at 135 or 140. That has exactly helped yesterday 's 1 run win. These days you can not come down the order and smack from ball 1 , all the time. He can try and bat up the order , that could help him , but with Raina and Faf , he can only bat at 5. CSK , is sort one good Indian batsman , too much depend on Raina and Dhoni , due to the failure of Jadeja. One thing I can agree is Dhoni is no more inventor after the helicopter shot , like AB or Maxwell. But I do not think that is his strength anyways. May be no more chasing 16 runs an over in the last 4 overs , if he bats up and stays till end , still possible . on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 45 GMT I think you are jumping the gun ! I think he needs to define his role in the team. Either he plays a finisher or a sheet-anchor. Right now he 's confused between the two. He needs to summarize the situation like he used to earlier and take a stock of himself as a batsman. He still has it in him to hit 2-3,000 runs in ODI cricket. But he needs to define his role as a batsman , a call which only he can take . NandeeshGowda333 on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 49 GMT Dhoni plays too many T20 matches , he has never missed a single IPL and CLT20 matches , which has made him to tire. He needs a break now. Though he is tired , I 'm pretty sure that he is the most responsible trustworthy cricketer for India and he is far ahead than all his Team India 's XI in terms of maturity , responsibility and most importantly his sharp presence of mind on field on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 08 GMT Why the hell anytime any bowler need to afraid just because in the last overs every good batsman see them over the park ? It happens all the time and we also see that in-form batsmen falter sometimes not always because he lost his touch. Only the thing that did not change is people like those who created this article go after a batsman when they feel he is near the end of his career. Even Sachin did not escape this kind of criticisms so why should anyone else. Dhoni will remain one of the best captains India ever had. View in a holistic manner not just based on what happens in one match of IPL. You can see the world cup that just got over that he was the only batsman who stood in some crucial wins and as it is , they are also in the death over . on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 15 GMT Never write off MSD. He is a tough nut to crack. I believe if MSD thinks he is on wane he will make his way out. I do n't think he will sub-due or hang on to fortune. I think he is fatigued with lot of cricket and IPL madness. A break could do a lot of wonders. But will he opt out of IPL ? soorya.dhoni on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 29 GMT The solution is simple : He must bat higher up the order , period. I mean we saw that against Zimbabwe in the WC that after he spent enough time at the crease , he went after the bowlers and finished the game just the way he can. This batting line-up of CSK is known to be a flexible one and if spinners are in operation and are keeping the batsmen under check , then MSD must walk out to control the situation before teeing off. I remember a game two years ago against SRH , It took him as many as 13 deliveries to open his account but after that , we saw vintage MSD , ending up with an unbeaten 67 off 37 to take CSK home. True , he 's not quite able to hit the ball just as soon as he walks out ( the last instance was probably in the CLT20 game against Perth Scorchers last year ) and it was the case in the WC as well. So he needs to spend some more time out there . SPSD on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 39 GMT What do you expect from Dhoni - when he had to walks out at 25th over or 30th over. You cant hit the ball everytime out of the park especially when his role is a anchor in the team ! ! I would give some more time in this tournament before we decide on the missing helicopter ( shot ! ) adi133 on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 45 GMT Agree with the article. And it 's been quite sometime now that dhoni has put up some ice. He can hit medium pace bowlers out of the park at will even today but his skills against faster 140 + bowlers are missing. There is a certain area above the off stump where he is being troubled by every good pacer. But I think over the years he has established himself as a player who can hold the innings rather than come late and hit sixes. Probably he should promote himself to no 4 and have a new finisher for the team , there are quite a lot of them in the domestic circuit . hari2015 on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 01 GMT This is indeed a bad judgement by the author.You can not judge whether he has slowed or not by the virtue of a few innings.I believe MS is playing according to the situation.Still believe he is best one day /T-20 finisher .In the WC we did n't have any experienced all rounder after him or a rather had a ever collapsible tail ,so he needed to be mindful of that.Let us wait for a few more innings from him before we judge his batting . on April 10 , 2015 , 15 : 08 GMT how about trying mccullum at 5 or 6. I know it sounds too funky but think about it.....he is absolutely capable of hitting sixes from ball 1. He can be used as a finisher. Dhoni should bat at 4 and Faf to open with D Smith .
