October 27 down the years The arrival of Sanga The birth of a Sri Lankan run machine shares 1977 An elegant left-hander is born. Kumar Sangakkara has been at the forefront of Sri Lanka 's Test dominance at home - they have lost just three Test series out of 18 in Sri Lanka since the beginning of 2002. A wicketkeeper-batsman , Sangakkara has , along with Mahela Jayawardene , been the backbone of Sri Lanka 's batting following the exit of the side 's 1996 World Cup heroes. Superbly consistent , he added a world record 624 for the third wicket with Jayawardene in July 2006 , against South Africa in Colombo ; his share was 287. A smart thinker , Sangakkara is perhaps one of the finest exponents of " mental disintegration " in the game , as Shaun Pollock famously found out once. Sangakkara gave up keeping in Tests in mid-2006 - though he continues to do so in limited-overs games - and was given the captaincy when Jayawardene retired from the job in early 2009. Sangakkara led Sri Lanka to their first home Test series win against Pakistan , the final of the 2009 World Twenty20 and the 2011 World Cup final. He gave up the captaincy at the end of the tournament . 1964 Birth of Mark " Tubby " Taylor who regained the Frank Worrell Trophy and inflicted on West Indies their first series defeat for 15 years a year after taking over captaincy from Allan Border. Taylor 's nose for a hunch ( how many times did he bring on bowlers like Blewett , Ponting and Co and see them take a wicket almost immediately ? ) and aversion to stalemate - Australia drew only 11 of his 50 Tests in charge - made Test cricket more watchable than it had been for many a year. As an opening batsman he struggled at times , most famously when he went 21 innings without a half-century between 1995 and 1997 , but a final average of 43.49 showed what a quality performer he was . 2000 Muttiah Muralitharan took India apart with 7 for 30 - the best bowling in ODIs at the time - as Sri Lanka eased home in a dress rehearsal for the Champions Trophy final in Sharjah . Marvan Atapattu and Mahela Jayawardene both made centuries in a total of 294 for 5 and then , with India 99 for 2 , Murali got to work - his seven wickets came for 23 runs in 50 balls. India played him better in the final two days later , when he only managed 3 for 6 , but it did n't stop them being hammered by 245 runs . 1954 Birth of the ultimate stonewaller. Chris Tavar é shaped up as a poor man 's Geoff Boycott - capable of all the shots , but offering only a few in match situations. But whereas Boycott was an average massager , Tavar é did it for the team at a time when England were crying out for someone to complement Gower , Lamb , Botham et al. His calm , scholarly demeanour - he was the antithesis of his lookalike Basil Fawlty - made him unpopular : in Australia especially. Much maligned for making a painful 89 in Perth in the first Test of the 1982-83 tour , Tavar é made the same score in the fourth match , in Melbourne ( which England won by three runs ) but in a completely different style. The Wisden Almanack said he batted with " unaccustomed vigour " as he got firmly stuck into Bruce Yardley. He never shook off the " boring " tag , though , and made his last Test appearance as a replacement against Australia in 1989 . 1997 South Africa pulled off a sensational victory in the third Test against Pakistan in Faisalabad to take the series 1-0. It was a remarkable match. On the first day South Africa were 98 for 7 before a century from Gary Kirsten and a thumping 81 from Pat Symcox ( who saw one Mushtaq Ahmed googly pass between off and middle without dislodging the bail ) got them to 239 , but Pakistan still took a first-innings lead of 68 , and despite another 50 from Symcox they needed only 147 to win the match and the series. They fell apart. Shaun Pollock took four top-order wickets in seven delirious deliveries and Symcox cleaned up the tail to claim the first Man-of-the-Match award of his Test career. Pakistan were blown away for a measly 92 to lose by 53 runs . 1984 Birth of Irfan Pathan , whose early promise saw him fast-tracked into the Indian side after successful series with the under-19 and A teams , Pathan made an almost immediate impact , troubling Australian batsmen on India 's tour there in 2003-04 - his first four Test wickets were Matthew Hayden , Steve Waugh , Adam Gilchrist and Ricky Ponting. He played a big part in India 's one-day and Test series wins on their revival tour of Pakistan , and his batting soon took off ; Pathan was regularly pushed up the order - his first stint at No.3 resulted in a spectacular 83 against Sri Lanka in Nagpur - and he often bailed India out of strife in the Test arena as well. However , regular and prolonged dips in form led to his being dropped and subsequent recalls ended in frustration , with Pathan being unable to cement his place after the odd flutter . 1986 Birth of the first cricketer since 1877 to make his Australia debut without having played first-class cricket. David Warner achieved the feat in Twenty20 , and in that first match , at the MCG in 2009 , having already landed an IPL contract , he smashed 89 off 43 balls against an attack that included Dale Steyn , Jacques Kallis and Makhaya Ntini. He made his one-day debut a week later , but had to wait nearly three years to play his first Test. It was worth it when he scored an unbeaten century in his second Test , in a tense chase that Australia eventually lost by seven runs to New Zealand. Three Tests later , he broke the back of India 's bowling with a 159-run 180 in Perth . Warner is second on the list of most domestic T20 hundreds , tied with Brendon McCullum . 1926 Nana Joshi , born today , competed with Narendra Tamhane for the wicketkeeper 's slot in the Indian team during the '50s. He took two catches and made two stumpings on debut , in Delhi in 1951-52 , but unfortunately that was to remain his best performance behind the wicket. Joshi is remembered for a record ninth-wicket partnership with Ramakant Desai - the two made half-centuries in an unbeaten 149-run stand - against Pakistan in Bombay in 1960-1961 in what was his last Test . 1963 At the Gabba in Brisbane , Bob Simpson smacked a mighty 359 for New South Wales against Queensland. It was the highest post-war score in Australia until Matthew Hayden 's 380 in October 2003. It was not enough for victory , though , in a remarkable match that saw 1301 runs scored for the loss of only 21 wickets. For good measure Simpson made 247 not out against Western Australia in Sydney , and by the end of a summer in which he scored a century , two doubles and a triple , he was the Australian captain. But he started with a duck , courtesy of Peter Pollock , in the second Test against South Africa in Melbourne . 1877 The Northampton Nugget was born. George Thompson earned that nickname for playing a crucial role in establishing Northamptonshire 's first-class status in 1905. He was an outstanding performer , strong in defence with the bat and a brisk fast-medium with the ball , who played for the 1st XI at Wellingborough School when he was only 13. But such was the depth of talent in English cricket that he played only six Tests , one against Australia in 1909 and five in South Africa the following winter. He died in Bristol in 1943 . 2013 A tragic day in the Eastern Cape as former first-class cricketer Darryn Randall was killed after being struck on the side of the head during a Border Cricket Board Premier League match at Alice. Randall , who was wearing a helmet , took the blow while attempting a pull shot and collapsed at the crease. He was rushed to Alice Hospital but medical staff were unable to revive him. He represented Border as a wicketkeeper-batsman in four first-class matches and four List A games during 2009 as well as the various provincial youth teams while a pupil at Stirling Primary and Selborne College in East London. He then established himself as a coach , running a highly regarded cricket academy at Stirling Primary School . Other birthdays
