A look at some of cricket 's most memorable strokes - and their makers shares 79 Not a mirror image : Kevin Pietersen unleashes his jaw-dropping switch hit © Getty Images Lara 's cover drive There 's something about left-handers that can make them appear more graceful than their right-handed counterparts. Brian Lara 's cover drive had a dreamy quality , starting with that flourishing pick-up , and a backlift that started somewhere above his head , like in those posed pictures of Ranji jumping out to drive. But Lara was for real. The bat came down , and the ball went scorching away through the covers. Garry Sobers , another sublime southpaw , also played this shot ( and most others ) to perfection . Gilchrist 's pull There have been several great pullers and hookers over the years : I 'll always remember Alvin Kallicharran - not just helmetless but capless - smashing Dennis Lillee and Jeff Thomson to the leg-side boundary at The Oval during the first World Cup in 1975. But arguably the most consistent puller of recent years was Adam Gilchrist , who recently gave viewers a glimpse of what it was like , during the Lord 's bicentenary match in 2014. Shaun Tait , not exactly a slouch , unleashed a short one that zeroed in on the camera atop the 42-year-old batsman 's helmet - but just before it destroyed this expensive piece of equipment , Gilchrist clunked the ball away . Bradman 's push to leg I 'm not old enough to have seen Don Bradman bat , but luckily some precious film survives. He 's clearly a master of all the shots , but arguably the most telling of them was his forward press , bat and pad locked together , to clip the ball somewhere between square leg and midwicket. He would often do this early on - he liked to get off the mark first ball if possible - before unrolling the rest of the repertoire. The action in those old black-and-white films sometimes looks a little dated , but the Don 's defence is very modern indeed . Tendulkar 's flick Sachin Tendulkar 's batting was , like the man himself , small but perfectly formed. The shot I will remember was the leg-side flick off a ball bouncing to about waist height : Tendulkar would dismiss the ball towards long leg with a wristy flounce that seemed to turn the bat almost back to front. He rarely missed. Virender Sehwag was pretty good at this shot too . Flintoff 's straight drive Few have hit the ball so hard and so straight as Andrew Flintoff at his best. A couple of monster sixes back over Brett Lee 's head helped set up the miracle of Edgbaston 2005 , and the year before that , Flintoff offered his dad a catch in the upper tier of one of the stands on the same ground. But the one that sticks in my mind was a searing flat six off Makhaya Ntini at The Oval in 2003 , which seemed to be still on the way up when it smashed into the Bedser Stand next to the pavilion . Dilshan 's scoop The " Dilscoop " , the over-the-shoulder ramp shot named after the audacious Sri Lankan opener Tillakaratne Dilshan , is one of cricket 's most thrilling strokes - and one of the most dangerous , since a miscalculation might mean the ball thudding into the batsman 's helmet rather than the boundary. That 's why some of Dilshan 's team-mates apparently called it the Starfish shot , " because you would n't play it if you had a brain " . Even though his name is now attached to it , the shot was n't really invented by Dilshan. Zimbabwe 's Dougie Marillier produced it a couple of times against a gobsmacked Glenn McGrath in an one-dayer in Perth in February 2001 , while about 80 years before that the Australian wicketkeeper Hanson Carter used something that sounds rather similar - a " shovel " shot , supposedly perfected during his time as a Sydney gravedigger . Take cover : Brian Lara 's high backlift gave the ball extra mileage © Getty Images Boycott 's back-foot force He 's not exactly remembered for flashy strokeplay , but Geoff Boycott was another master craftsman. In my mind 's eye he 'll usually be drawing back to a short ball , getting up on his toes and , hands high , forcing the ball out past point without much fuss or much risk. Later on , Mike Atherton played the shot with similar efficiency , and I 'm pretty sure I noticed Joe Root getting in on this particular act earlier this year . Greg Chappell 's on-drive The on-drive is one of the hardest shots to play well : mere mortals have trouble keeping the ball down. But Greg Chappell rarely had that problem. He would snap out of that military-upright stance , shimmy forward , then the back foot would snap to the front one as he cuffed the ball towards ( and usually past ) mid-on. All along the ground . Viv Richards 's flick to midwicket Viv Richards ' driving was brutal - remember Bob Willis ' Test career coming to a close in 1984 , as Viv smashed him down the ground - but perhaps his signature shot was a souped-up version of Bradman 's : a big stride forward to a decent ball , then the bat whipped across and powered the ball towards midwicket. There were several , against handy bowlers like Ian Botham and Derek Pringle , in that amazing 189 not out in a one-day international at Old Trafford in 1984. I suppose he must occasionally have missed it , but I do n't remember very many . KP 's switch hit Love him or hate him , Kevin Pietersen made ( and is still making ) quite a splash. The one-legged " flamingo " on-drive was an early trademark , but he made more headlines later with his switch hit , changing from a right-hander to a leftie and smacking the ball away behind him. The stroke even provoked discussion at Lord 's about its legality ; thankfully the lawmakers recognised the excitement it generated . Gayle 's off- drive An opener with two Test triple-centuries , and a one-day phenomenon : I 'm not sure Chris Gayle has really received the recognition he deserves , except perhaps from terrified T20 trundlers. This might be because he 's so laidback he does n't usually bother with footwork , which gets him into trouble if the ball is moving around. But when Gayle 's eye is in , the bat scythes through and the ball zips through the covers before anyone moves , as at The Oval in 2004 , when most of his six fours in a single Matthew Hoggard over hurtled through the off side . Steven Lynch is the editor of the Wisden Guide to International Cricket 2014. Ask Steven is now on Facebook © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
