Can Santa Claus find cricket a great Test spinner , and make the World Test Championship happen ? shares 3 Let there be no place for sledging in cricket in 2015 © Cricket Australia/Getty Images Dear Santa, Apologies for not being in touch lately - okay , for the past 49 years. In the interests of truth and reconciliation , I should come clean : the last time I sent you my demands I mistakenly assumed we played for the same team. Hard to credit , right , but I honestly believed you were a Jew - or at least Jew-ish . Yes , yes , I knew you were a mite too blond , but I thought mythical creatures were contractually obliged to be both different and instantly recognisable , so liberal use of peroxide was understandable. I 'm fairly sure I was n't the only eight-year-old Jew living in North London in 1965 who kidded themselves , somewhat conveniently , that you were Father C * * * * * mas ' agnostic dad . Still , let 's not let a silly thing like belief get in the way of what I 'm pretty confident we have in common. Given how you inspired WG Grace to renounce shaving , not to mention your legendary connection with the owner of my all-time favourite bowling action , Hedley Howarth - who was born on your big day of the year , after all - I do n't think it would be wholly preposterous to suggest you have a soft spot for cricket . When I last bothered you , a Mr GA Boycott had recently won the Gillette Cup with an exuberant display of unfettered strokeplay. In addition , the planet 's foremost fast bowler , Mr WW Hall , had his sights set on becoming a religious minister , while the finest batsman , Mr G St A Sobers , had been born with an unusually large number of fingers. I 'm reasonably certain , therefore , that you can appreciate my outrageous optimism in resuming relations . Why am I writing now ? Desperate times , desperate measures and all that. Mind you , if you have to ask , with all due respect , you really need to stay in more - and perhaps even pay your Sky Sports subscription. Quite frankly , the past 357/364ths of a year has been the most lurid of nightmares , albeit leavened by teasing glimpses of wondrousness from the likes of Mr MM Ali , Mr M-u-H K Niazi , Mr MY Khan , Mr MG Johnson , Mr DA Warner and Mr BB McCullum . Even if you have n't heard how the game has grown progressively and outlandishly unequal , or of the astounding contrast between the Test farewells of Mr JH Kallis and Mr KP Pietersen , or even the Gidman boys quitting Gloucestershire ( shame on you ) , I refuse to believe that the death of a batsman has eluded your attention . If nothing else , you owe every child under your jurisdiction a sign that 2015 will be a conspicuous improvement. In other words , only miracles will do. Still , given the myriad other pressing matters on your plate ( word has it that the Association of Elves and Reindeer is threatening to do what is referred to in these parts as " a West Indies " ) , you may be relieved to know that those of a minor vein will suffice . So here I am , cap in hand ( dark blue , assuredly not baggy green ) , begging you to give the following wish list some consideration. Bearing in mind your somewhat advanced age ( and if I might belatedly indulge in some schmoozing , you do n't look a day over 175 ) , please note that all relevant names are expressed as they would have been when the game was in its infancy . None of these pleas should be beyond someone of your prodigious talents. Last week alone , the US made peace with Cuba and the Church of England appointed a woman bishop , so you 're clearly in decent nick. Besides , name me someone else who has retained a global following for a couple of millennia despite persistently dressing in the same outfit ? ( A tip : if you 're ever tempted to go into the replica shirt trade , the only way to generate big profits is to make barely discernible changes on a regular basis. ) Time for Adil Rashid to be the next Graeme Swann in England 's plans ? © Getty Images A legal , world-beating Test spinner You do n't have to be a paranoid ex-offie like me to wonder whether the word has gone out : terminate spinners with pitiless and shameless prejudice. At the current rate of culling , the entire species will be extinct come the 60th anniversary of Mr JC Laker 's 19 for 90. To fearlessly misquote Mr J Lennon and Mr P McCartney , you know that ca n't be good . Fortunately , albeit not coincidentally , not a single one of those banned twirlers has been a specialist wristspinner , so it should n't be that big a stretch for you to push things along. Better yet , while there 's hardly a queue of plausible wannabe Shanes or Anils , one of the less unlikely contenders happens to be an Englishman , of all things . Granted , Mr AU Rashid sounds a good deal less English than Freeman , Greenhough , Hobbs , Salisbury or Schofield , but the world has moved on a wee bit since you began stacking shelves in the Tower of Babel branch of Tesco. How can it not appeal to your romantic , goodwill-to-all-men nature to make my country Adil-addled ? Muted mute buttons If ignorance is bliss , do the knowledgeable go to hell ? The more we hear what pleasantries players utter to each other in the middle , the more those of us in possession of a fully functioning guilt complex feel ashamed to splash out on cable TV fees. On the other hand , semi-ignorance is far more dangerous than complete ignorance. We already have a pretty good idea of what it takes to reach the top of the sledgers ' Premier League nowadays . Expose the yellow-bellied verbal warriors , I say. Strip 'em bare , name and shame , and let 'em dangle. And that means turning up the volume on every stump and/or pitch microphone , past 11 if necessary . Persuade the BCCI to adopt the DRS Now this one , I readily admit , is a proper toughie. Even if I unravelled those fearsome-looking acronyms for you , only a trillionth of our problems would be over. Put it this way : without wanting to complicate matters or offend anyone any more than is absolutely necessary , let 's just say the rich kids are throwing their weight around for no other reason than the sheer fun of watching the English media writhe in blathering impotence . Sprinkle some fairy dust on the umpire just before a crucial decision © AFP So here 's the script : World Cup final , India need two runs off the final ball to beat Australia , and on strike is Mr V Kohli , 99 not out. A thick edge into his pads ricochets for four , but at that very instant the umpire feels a sudden urge to scratch his nose , whereupon the crowd surge on to celebrate lbw and victory. Peasy . Make a World Test Championship happen My dearest , most fervent wish , and hence the only one you have no choice but to grant. Better yet , I 've been working on something . Loath as I am to confess it , the inspiration came from rugby league , a game for ruffians about which a chap of your unquestionable class and taste doubtless has only a suitably dim awareness. A couple of decades back , World Cup ranking points would be at stake for the last match in a bilateral series. Why not copy that ? If the last Test of every series is designated as a World Championship qualifier , and the result of the series also carries points ( more , obviously ) , we would kill two birds with one stone : 1 ) pave the way for a quadrennial World Championship final between the leading sides and 2 ) kill off what at least one semi-respectable sociologist has reportedly defined as mind-numbing , anti-competitive , corruption-enticing , dead-rubber syndrome ( but never DRS for short ) . Yours pleadingly ( and almost sincerely ) , A born-again semi-believer Rob Steen is a sportswriter and senior lecturer in sports journalism at the University of Brighton. His book Floodlights and Touchlines : A History of Spectator Sport is out now © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
