Cricket World Cup : ICC Approves Super Over in Case of Tie in Final Cricket World Cup : ICC Approves Super Over in Case of Tie in Final The 2011 Cricket World Cup final also had the provision of a Super Over . Last updated on Thursday , 29 January , 2015 13 : 49 IST Total Shares The 2015 World Cup in Australia and New Zealand begins on February 14 . © ICC The International Cricket Council Board in its first meeting in Dubai on Wednesday , reinstated the use of a Super Over in the event of a tie in the ICC World Cup 2015 final. This now replicates the arrangements for the World Cup 2011 final and other recent ICC events where a winner will be determined on the day of the final ( weather permitting ) , and a Super Over was the most credible way to separate the two sides . The ICC Board also approved a change to the application of ICC Code of Conduct offences relating to slow over-rates in ICC events so that captains do not carry any prior minor over-rate offence 'strikes ' or over-rate suspensions from other series into an ICC event . This approval means all captains will enter the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 with no over-rate 'strikes ' against their names , and they will only be suspended from playing in an ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 match if over-rate offences are committed during the event . Any over-rate 'strikes ' incurred prior to the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 will be carried forward to the first bilateral series after the event . Player behaviour and safety The ICC Board reiterated its support for the umpires clamping down on poor player behaviour , particularly leading into and during the World Cup 2015 . The Board considered issues around player safety following the tragic death of Australia batsman Phillip Hughes during a first-class match , and was briefed on the ICC-supported research project to improve the safety of cricket helmets which has recently resulted in a new British Safety Standard being introduced . It was noted that helmet manufacturers have now introduced a number of new helmet models that comply with the updated British Standard , and that an increasing number of international players have been choosing to wear the helmet models that comply with this new safety standard . Story first published on : Thursday , 29 January 2015 12 : 38 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
