Graham Onions picks the best beard in cricket , talks about his nine-for , and tells us who county cricket 's biggest softie is shares 4 Pretty predictable when it comes to choice of favourite vegetable © Getty Images Do you feel you 've been desperately unlucky to have only played 13 times for England ? I do feel a bit unlucky. At times I was compared to Jimmy Anderson , one of the best bowlers England have ever had and one of the best in the world. It was going to be hard to push him out the side , but for a period of time , Andy Flower and the captains did n't feel I was what they wanted. I suppose I do feel a bit harshly done by . How do you feel those 13 games went ? My one-day international career was short-lived. I felt I did n't get a great deal of opportunity. To be honest , I do n't think I was ready to play ODI cricket. Playing Test cricket was the pinnacle of my career , and I feel very , very lucky to have played in the games I did . Do you still harbour hopes of playing for England again ? Without a doubt. The flame is still burning. At the beginning of last year I had a good chance but it did n't happen. Now I 'm probably further down that pecking order but if I start the season well and take wickets in the first six weeks , anything can happen . You twice helped save Test matches for England with the bat. How seriously do you take your batting ? It 's an area that , if you 're a good professional , you need to work on. I 'd class myself as a bit more than a tailender , but my shot selection at times has let me down . Tell us about your 9 for 67 . Did you think about not running out Luke Fletcher ? I did n't mean to. I 'm such a bad fielder that I tried to miss the stumps and I accidentally hit . What is the plan for when you finish playing cricket ? During 2010 I did my Level 3 coaching qualification , as I did n't know if I 'd play again with my injury. I had back surgery before Christmas and now I 'm doing my Level 4 , just in case. I want to stay in the game and pass on what I know to others . You used to be a handy badminton player. What happened ? I had to stop and concentrate on playing cricket. I had a few injuries and in the end I had to make the choice. I love playing team sport . Who is the man you would least like to fight in county cricket ? James Taylor. He 's the perfect height to hit me in the goolies . And who is the biggest softie ? I do n't know , help me . I ca n't say that. He might go after me. I 'll go with Mitch Claydon . He 's a big lad but a big softie . Who is the laziest trainer at Durham ? Michael Richardson. He 's not really lazy , or a bad trainer , he 's just so laidback . Who is the most naturally gifted player you have played with ? Steve Harmison could naturally bowl so quickly. Nicky Peng was a class act too , and people could n't believe he did n't push on. I 'll go with Ben Stokes. He can bowl 85mph and hit the ball out the park . What is the worst headline you have seen using your name ? I saw one which read : Onions makes someone cry. What 's that all about ? That 's just bad headline-writing . Who has the best beard in cricket ? Mo Ali 's is good but I 'll go with Mark Stoneman . If we are on the road for two weeks he 'll let it grow and he 'll look like a caveman. Then , as soon as he gets home , his missus tells him to cut it. He 's proper under the thumb . What is your favourite type of vegetable ? Onions , obviously . Would you rather have legs as long as your fingers or fingers as long as your legs ? I 'd be tiny if I had legs as long as my fingers. I 'll go fingers as long as my legs . You are a Newcastle United fan : where are your boys going to finish in the Premier League ? We 've got a chairman who is n't ambitious - for whatever reason. It 's a pretty bog-standard answer really : we 'll be just below mid-table . Which cricketer at Durham is the best footballer ? Scott Borthwick likes to think it 's him but he 's not. We play two-touch but he has at least three , he 's so greedy. Mark Wood quietly goes about his business but he 's got skills . What are your superstitions ? I lick the tip of my finger just before I bowl to get a good grip on the ball . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
