Over the last six years , India has been the best country for opening batsmen in ODIs ; Australia has been one of the worst shares Shane Watson is the only opener to average more than 45 in ODIs in Australia in the last six years © Getty Images The 2011 World Cup was a pretty good one for openers . Tillakaratne Dilshan led the way with 500 runs at an average of 62.50 , while Sachin Tendulkar was n't far behind with 482 runs at 53.55. Both had strike rates of more than 90 , and they were also the two leading run-scorers in the entire tournament. Six other openers scored 300 or more runs in the competition , and all of them averaged more than 42. Overall in the tournament , openers averaged nearly 34 , at a strike rate of 82 . Even before the tournament started , it was clear that openers would do pretty well given the subcontinent conditions. The pitches were generally slow and not offering too much bounce , and there was only one ball being used ( and not one at each end , as is the case now ) , which meant the best opportunities to score were often at the start of the innings , when the ball was new and coming on to the bat well. The last time openers averaged more was in 1996 , when the tournament was again held in the subcontinent . The role of the opener in one-day internationals has changed too , over time. When the format started , most openers preferred to start cautiously , see off the new ball , and set a sound platform for the other batsmen to capitalise and score quickly. In the first two World Cups , openers averaged more than 35 , but their strike rate was less than the overall tournament rate. In 1983 the openers ' average dropped and so did their scoring rate , which was now 16 % lower than the tournament average. When the subcontinent hosted its first World Cup in 1987 , the openers ' average increased but their strike rate remained significantly lower than the tournament average . The 1996 tournament was the first time that openers scored faster than the other batsmen , as Sachin Tendulkar , Mark Waugh , Saeed Anwar and Sanath Jayasuriya spearheaded the idea that openers should not only build a platform but also set the pace , as they all scored at a strike rate of more than 85. Since then , in all World Cups save the one in England in 1999 , the collective strike rate of the opening batsmen has been higher than the overall tournament strike rate in each World Cup. At the same time , the averages have dropped from the highs of the first two tournaments , which indicates how the role of the opener has changed : no longer is it enough for teams to keep wickets in hand and expect the later batsmen to make up for a slow start. ( In the 1979 final , England , chasing 287 , had an opening partnership of 129 , but Geoff Boycott and Mike Brearley took 38 overs to score those runs , leaving the others with 158 to get in 22 overs ; they did n't even get close , and were bowled out for 194. It 's unimaginable that something similar can happen in an ODI today. ) Stats for opening batsmen in each World Cup Year
