South Africa v West Indies , 2nd ODI , Johannesburg January 18 , 2015 'The definition of a cricketing genius' ESPNcricinfo staff Twitter reactions to AB de Villiers ' record-shattering 31-ball ODI hundred shares 77 'Best in the world without a doubt ' © Gallo Images " Not the worst entertainment from AB right now. Best in the world without a doubt. " Zimbabwe batsman Brendan Taylor " Have to say @ ABdeVilliers17 is the definition of a Cricketing Genius ... absolutely incredible... # 31BallTon " Former England captain Michael Vaughan " Happy new year @ ABdeVilliers17 well played mate " Pakistan allrounder Shahid Afridi " No one ever will beat @ ABdeVilliers17 fastest ODI century in just 31 balls # crazyridiculous # genius " Former Australia batsman Dean Jones " AB de Villiers has scored 149 runs from 44 balls. That is as preposterous as his name. Remarkable performance ! " Former England footballer Gary Lineker " Records are there to be broken. Congratulations to AB , it must have been a hell of an innings. To then go on to get 149 off 44 is even more special. I have n't watched the highlights , but I 'd imagine it 's a pretty quick highlights package. " New Zealand 's Corey Anderson , who scored a century off 36 balls a year ago " I demand a DNA test of AB DeVilliers...this game is only for humans. # superhuman # WhatAPlayer " Former India batsman Aakash Chopra " Are we watching highlights ? ! # ABDevilliers # superb # fastestEverything ! " Former Pakistan allrounder Azhar Mahmood " 44 balls for 149 runs ! ! ! Unbelievable batting by the World 's best batsman. " South African golfer Ernie Els " SA to play the World Cup in pink after this display ? " Former New Zealand fast bowler Iain O'Brien " Well played @ ABdeVilliers17 unfortunately was n't quite enough to get @ KNCBcricket out of the record books for conceding highest ever total " Netherlands batsman Tom Cooper " World record fastest ODI century - Congrats @ ABdeVilliers17 ! " Former South Africa captain Shaun Pollock " The term genius gets bandied around loosely in sport but @ ABdeVilliers17 completely deserves that status. " South Africa spinner Robin Peterson " Congratulations @ ABdeVilliers17 for a world record fastest odi hundred. Awesome batting ! Unbelievable ! ! ! " Former India captain Anil Kumble " @ ABdeVilliers17 this guy is a freak . Unbelievable " Zimbabwe fast bowler Kyle Jarvis " You do n't often pray to get the bloke with 150 not out on strike when you 're bowling ! Well done AB , gentlemen and a class act # carnage " Former England spinner Ashley Giles " If ab faced as many balls as Amla he 'd be on 450ish " Australia fast bowler Ben Laughlin © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
