India 's batting is going the way of their bowling in Australia , and they need get their order sorted before the World Cup shares 102 A spin combination of Axar Patel and R Ashwin will give India some control during the middle-to-late overs © BCCI India 's World Cup defence is looking as shaky as Christchurch in the midst of an earthquake . The batting was rocked by England 's Steven Finn at the Gabba and he rarely exceeded 135kph. In fact , Finn 's lack of genuine pace - the asset that made him stand out as a young bowler - must be a matter of concern for the England hierarchy , as he continues to tinker with his action . The failure to cope with Finn 's bounce is worrying , because if India are to have any chance of successfully defending the World Cup trophy , they will need the batsmen to score heavily. The bowling has been profligate throughout the Australian tour and there are no signs that failing is about to be rectified . An opening attack of Stuart Binny and Bhuvneshwar Kumar , which India utilised at the Gabba , is not going to have the opposition batsmen searching for sleeping pills. There might be an argument for fitting Binny into the ODI side as an allrounder who can provide some runs and a few economical overs , but certainly not as a new-ball bowler . If India achieve nothing else in this tri-series - and the way they have started , it 's looking ever more doubtful - they need to sort out the make-up of their attack for the World Cup. With their major pool matches to be played in Australia , one of them at the bouncy WACA , adapting to prevailing conditions will be crucial for the bowlers. So far they have shown no signs of making the adjustment to Australian pitches in either Tests or ODI matches . The Indian bowling has lacked consistency of line and length , and the odd good delivery is bookended by a series of boundary-worthy balls. This regular diet of deliveries asking to be plundered means the opposing batsmen never feel threatened or under pressure to pick up the scoring rate. Add to that MS Dhoni 's maddening habit of occasionally " tuning out " of his captaincy duties and it 's a disturbing combination . India have placed so much emphasis on their World Cup campaign from the start of their tour , it 's to be wondered if they are using the tri-series as a rehearsal for the main show. If that is their mindset , then they need to change it quickly , because sloppy play and a series of defeats is not the way to enter a major tournament. If the idea was to lull the opposition into a false sense of security , it has probably been successful . A good start to a resurgence would be to reinstate Virat Kohli at No. 3 , where he previously spent some time in ODIs. With Rohit Sharma and Kohli at the top of the order , India have their firepower to the fore - an approach based on getting your retaliation in first. In addition , it puts the two best players of the short-pitched ball front and centre , and if it 's the intention of opponents to bounce the Indians out , then these two could short-circuit those plans very quickly . As Shikhar Dhawan continues to struggle under Australian conditions , perhaps the time is right to open the batting with Binny. He looks technically capable and this would give Dhoni another bowling option , which appears to be a priority . Despite his batting woes , young Axar Patel looks okay with the ball. A spin combination of Patel and R Ashwin might help give India some much-needed control in those crucial middle-to-late overs and also provide some wicket-taking impetus . Australian conditions are well known to assist the quicker men but the emphasis should be on good fast bowling , not just any old delivery flung down at pace in the general vicinity of the stumps . There 's no doubt that India need to sort out their bowling quickly if their defence of the World Cup is going to amount to a serious challenge. However , the bowlers could also gain some inspiration from a rejigged and more dominant batting order . Former Australia captain Ian Chappell is now a cricket commentator for Channel 9 , and a columnist © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
