West Indies opening batsman Kraigg Brathwaite talks about his mental approach to batting , trusting his game , and his captaincy ambitions shares 17 Play 12 : 49 Subash Jayaraman ( SJ ) : You made your first-class debut as a 16-year-old and you debuted for West Indies at 19. Who were your role models ? Kraigg Brathwaite ( KB ) : In terms of role models , when I was a youngster , obviously everyone liked Brian Lara. As I started to get older and get into the game , I got to like [ Shivnarine ] Chanderpaul as well. The main aspect about his game is his concentration and he bats for long periods. I really admire that about him. Batsmen across the world - Hashim Amla and Alastair Cook - these are guys I like to watch scoring hundreds across the world . SJ : Has there been an influence from within the dressing room on how you play , from Chanderpaul ? KB : No , not necessarily. As I said , I am learning a lot [ from him ] . Every chance that I get , I ask him a few questions. For me , it is just about playing my own game and not necessarily worrying about what people say. I still look up to him , he works hard. One thing I have learned from him is that if you put in the hard work , you will get the results . SJ : You play for the Wanderers Cricket Club [ in Barbados ] . What is the influence of club cricket in your development as a cricketer ? KB : I think it is very , very important because I remember when I was dropped , against Australia. It was in 2010 I think. I went back home. You know , it 's easy to say you do n't want to play club cricket but I believe [ playing club cricket ] helped me a lot. Obviously , I scored some runs and that did a lot for me. I played for Wanderers last year. That has helped my game , my confidence. No matter what kind of cricket you play , you have to take it seriously . SJ : Even when you played club cricket , your outlook on playing - you seem like a very focussed cricketer and you take that into club cricket as well . KB : It is a habit , I think. So wherever I play , I play as seriously as possible , because you score anywhere , runs is runs. I believe it 's habit , whatever you do , wherever you are playing - whether you are playing Test cricket or club cricket , I take everything seriously . SJ : How would you describe your growth as an international opening batsman ? KB : A lot has changed. When I first started , I had some technical flaws that I had to work on. I am better now. But I think I have batted well , especially in the last year. It 's about improving , and like I said , there is still some things to work on. It 's just about believing in your ability whenever you go out to bat . " Once you fight hard , stay strong in the mind and say to yourself that you can do it , then you will get through " © WICB SJ : People say that 90 % of the game is played in your mind. From your point of view , what has been the mental approach and focus ? KB : I do believe it is a mind game. Coming in and playing here [ in South Africa ] against the No. 1 team , you tell yourself you can do it , but it is n't easy. Obviously , they have some good bowlers , and you are going to have [ to face ] good spells and tough spells. You have to work through it. Once you fight hard , stay strong in the mind and say to yourself that you can do it , then you will get through. You have got to be strong . SJ : You made your first century in your 11th Test , at Port-of-Spain against New Zealand. Did you feel any pressure coming into the Test , that you needed to produce a big hundred as a top-order batsman ? KB : I obviously felt the pressure. I had played before , and had four fifties then , I think. In the end , you are coming back , and you already want to show what you can do. I played against Bangladesh a year ago and got a hundred and played a first-class season and got three or four 90s , so I knew that I could do it. I had the scores behind me. I was hitting the ball well , too . The feeling [ on scoring the century ] was unbelievable. I could n't believe that I had done it at first. I never thought that I would ever score a hundred for West Indies. Then it was a reality and I really enjoyed my moment. I just want to keep growing from strength to strength . SJ : You come from Barbados , which has produced many legends. What does it feel like for you , coming from Barbados , and playing for West Indies ? KB : I am a very proud Barbadian. A lot of legends come from Barbados. Not that I feel any pressure to become a legend or anything , the aim is to score as many runs as I can. That 's my only goal . SJ : Do you feel that with your technique and mental approach to the game you have arrived as a Test batsman ? KB : I believe I have what it takes to be a great Test batsman. But as I said , I am still learning. I am very young. No matter how many runs I score , I have to improve. That is my goal. No matter how many runs I have in club cricket or first-class or Test cricket. I have to improve all the time . " For me , it is just about playing my own game and not necessarily worrying about what people say " SJ : Where do you improve as a batsman from here on ? KB : Well , for me , it 's about being as mentally strong as possible , because I know sometimes you do n't score for a few innings , it can put you off. It 's just about keeping strong always . There are different shots that you could work on. Also , there are various aspects of the game that I can develop. Different shot selections. So far , I have been batting well , hitting my shots with variety around the ground. Let us hope I get the confidence to play more and more . SJ : How satisfying was it to get a hundred against the No. 1 team in the world [ in Port Elizabeth ] , against bowlers like Steyn , Morkel and Philander ? KB : When you are opening [ the batting ] , it 's about being patient , trying to hit the ball as straight as possible. As I said , I have been working on different shots. When I see the balls in my zone , I backed myself to go after them . [ Getting the hundred against Steyn and Co ] was another unbelievable feeling. As I said , I knew I can do it. It 's about not putting pressure on myself. These guys are top bowlers , so just go out there and play and see [ what happens ] . " The main aspect about his [ Chanderpaul 's ] game is his concentration and he bats for long periods. I really admire that about him " © AFP SJ : In that match where you made a hundred against New Zealand , in the second innings Chris Gayle made 80 in 46 balls , chasing 93. How do you recalibrate your approach to batting when you see these guys at the other end who make batting look so easy ? KB : It may not be easy for me but I know that these guys are very good players. So all I have to do is make sure I do n't get caught up in it , not that if they are going after it then I must too. I just have to play my game and keep patient. Otherwise , you are going after balls that are n't in your zone. Like I said , it may not be easy. Those guys go after it , but they are playing some good shots. You just have to make sure you are playing your own game . SJ : What sort of captain are you ? Are you laidback , intense , aggressive , or do you adopt a wait-and-watch approach , like your batting ? KB : I am still learning a lot about captaincy. I think I could be laidback , but I like to be aggressive , to tell you the truth. Especially , with spinners bowling , you do n't necessarily want to [ be laidback ] . You want to try and make the batsmen go over the top , with different field settings. At times I tend to be aggressive. Still learning , there is a lot to work on. I ca n't say much as yet . SJ : But there have been some voices around the West Indies saying that Kraigg Brathwaite is a possible candidate for the captaincy of the West Indies Test team. Your thoughts on that ? KB : Well , captaining my first-class team [ Barbados ] back home , I have some experience with captaincy. If the opportunity presents itself , obviously , I will be very happy. But I 'm still learning a lot. When I go back home , I will be captaining my first-class team again and will try to learn as much as I can from that. Like I said , if it comes , I will be very happy to take it , but you have to keep learning . SJ : Do you feel that you will be ready if and when it comes ? KB : Yes , absolutely ready . SJ : Do you have any such goals , like 20 or 30 Test hundreds or 8000-10,000 runs ? KB : I obviously have a goal. For me , especially now , it 's focusing series by series. This series [ v South Africa ] I 'm trying to get as many runs as possible. Later on , we have some tough series coming up. I just want to take it series after series from now and score as many runs as possible . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
