India Players Need Family Touch to Recreate World Cup Magic : Sourav Ganguly India Players Need Family Touch to Recreate World Cup Magic : Sourav Ganguly Sourav Ganguly feels a few Team India cricketers can return to their fighting best if they can squeeze a short trip back home ahead of the World Cup . Last updated on Friday , 30 January , 2015 18 : 40 IST Total Shares File photo : India will be aiming for their 3rd World Cup title when the tournament commences on February 14 . © AP Battered , bruised and woefully out of form , Team India hardly appears like defending champions ahead of the World Cup. In a do-or-die match against England in the ongoing tri-nation series at Perth on Friday , the batsmen failed once again with only 200 to show for their efforts. Former India captain Sourav Ganguly feels it is time they packed their bags and rushed home to rejuvenate themselves. ( Ravindra Jadeja 's poor batting angers Sourav Ganguly ) In what has been a long tour to Australia , the Indians have not tasted a single win. Australia won the Test series 2-0 and continued their form in the ODIs. India even failed against England in the first match and conceded the contest by nine wickets. Fatigue is written all over the faces and Ganguly says not making it to the tri-series final would be a blessing in disguise. ( Boss Dhoni hints Kohli has to sacrifice no.3 batting position ) " What this team needs is rest. It has been a long tour and it 's time they meet their families before competing in the all-important World Cup , " Ganguly said. " If it were up to me , I would fly some of them back home. " ( Dhoni searching for 'Best XI ' before World Cup ) Ganguly also appreciated how Australians have performed in recent contests and says playing at home - near friends and families -- have been an added advantage . " See , the reason I wo n't compare someone like ( Steve ) Smith and ( Virat ) Kohli is because while Smith goes home to his girlfriend after each match , Kohli has to go from hotel to hotel , " explained Ganguly on STAR Sports. " The players need their families to come out hard in the World Cup. " India 's ragged batting form has been a major concern with Kohli - the batting 's mainstay - managing just 24 from his four ODI knocks. At Perth , he came out to bat at No. 3 for the first time on the tour but failed once again despite all the debates about his batting position . Ganguly feels that form really is n't subject to batting number. " It does not matter whether he ( Kohli ) bats at No. 3 or 4. It was for all to see today. It is form and sheer application which will help him at the end of the day. " Many experts , including Ganguly , believe that it is imperative for Kohli to find form ahead of the World Cup. A quick trip back home then , may just do the trick . " I do n't care about the warm-ups. I just want the team to be ready to give it their all when February 15 comes and Pakistan stand on the opposite end of the field at Adelaide. Kohli and rest of the team already know what to expect at Adelaide. " Captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni echoed Ganguly 's thoughts at the post-match conference. " We will take a break for the next ten days and try to be fresh. Hopefully , we can come out as a completely new team , " he said when asked if India would be ready for the first World Cup battle - against arch-rivals Pakistan . Story first published on : Friday , 30 January 2015 13 : 56 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
