Opener Ken Eastwood got to play only one Test for Australia - under unusual circumstances - but he continues his association with the game even as he nears 80 shares 11 Ken Eastwood made his Test debut at 35 , played club cricket till 54 , and continues umpiring at the age of 79 © Brydon Coverdale " The ABC wo n't come and take one back , will they ? " Ken Eastwood jokes as he unpacks his two baggy green caps from their protective plastic wrap . He should be pretty safe. The Australian Board of Control for International Cricket has been through a couple of name changes since Eastwood played his only Test in 1971. If the ABC did n't , and then the ACB did n't , then Cricket Australia wo n't worry too much about the oversight . " They gave me two caps to try on for size , and nobody asked for the other one back , so it stayed in my bag , " Eastwood says. " I finished up with two caps for one Test. No sweat marks on them , they 're in pristine condition. " Frankly , so is Eastwood himself. This is a man who turns 80 later this year , but still takes an active part in club cricket every weekend. He played for Footscray until he was 54 , got bored during a season of retirement , and took up umpiring in the Victorian Turf Cricket Association , which he still does more than 20 years later . " I can see , I can get to position quick enough for run-outs , " Eastwood says. " I pull up all right. Sunday mornings I 'm not too stiff , just the legs are a little bit tired. I think back and I 'm 79 , I started playing cricket on a Saturday when I was 11... I 've been getting up on a Saturday morning to go to cricket for nearly all that time. " One morning sticks in his memory more than most , though it was a Friday , not a Saturday. It was the morning of Eastwood 's Test debut , February 12 , 1971. The circumstances of his call-up were unusual enough - more on that shortly - but he must surely be the only cricketer who had to hitchhike to his Test debut . Staying at a motel not too far from the SCG , Eastwood and his team-mates were waiting for the taxis that captain Ian Chappell had ordered for 8.30am. By 8.45 the taxis had n't arrived. Another ten minutes - still no taxis. They had been sent to the wrong motel . " Imagine how toey I was getting , " Eastwood says. " Terry Jenner says , 'Come with me , we 'll get our own taxi. ' He gets out there and sticks the thumb out. A bloke pulls up and we get a lift with him and get him into the members ' car park. " It was far from the only unusual thing about Eastwood 's debut. For one , it was the seventh Test in an Ashes series , the third having been washed out without a ball bowled . For another , Eastwood was 35 years old and had not even been in the Victoria team at the start of the summer . For yet another , Eastwood replaced the captain , Bill Lawry , who was averaging 40.50 in the series and found out about his axing via a radio report. Eastwood learnt the news of his call-up from journalist Rod Nicholson , who phoned him at work for a comment. You could say he made Eastwood 's day . " I said , 'Are you fair dinkum ? ' because I was basically battling to cement my place in the Victorian side , " Eastwood says. " It was a pleasant surprise , let me tell you , especially at 35. " " It 's surprising what one Test does for you. I always get an invite to at least one function during the Melbourne Test , and I 'll never knock back a free lunch. You catch up with the blokes you played with and against " Only a series of fortunate events led to him becoming the 256th man in the baggy green. Having played every game for Victoria the previous summer and topped their run tally , Eastwood was left out of the first match in the summer of his debut. For the first time in his life , he felt bitterness towards the selectors . Then came a stroke of good luck : he was dismissed cheaply ten minutes before stumps in a club game for Footscray one Saturday afternoon. Why was that lucky ? Because Victoria suddenly needed a 12th man for a match the following weekend , after Jim Higgs withdrew late due to a university exam. The selectors did n't want to pick anyone who had to bat or bowl on the second Saturday of the club round , so Eastwood was called up . And as the incumbent 12th man , he kept the job for the next game , a home fixture against South Australia. Then came the next fortuitous event : Lawry retired hurt in that match with a thigh strain. After the game , Lawry and selector Sam Loxton were in the rooms discussing the situation. The injury was not bad , but there was an Ashes series coming up , and Lawry was captain. Was it worth him playing the next Shield game against New South Wales ? " Bill says he 'll be okay , Sam says if you do more damage you could miss the Test , " Eastwood recalls. " I 'm sitting there listening. I want to put my two bobs ' worth in and say , 'Phantom , I think you should save yourself for the Test. ' But I kept quiet. Anyway , he sees the logic of it and sits out. They could n't pick anyone but me to replace him because I 'm already in the dressing room. " So Eastwood played his first state match of the season the following weekend. And he scored 201 . Naturally , he kept his place , and two games later made 177 . It meant that when the seventh Test came around in early February and the selectors decided it was time for Lawry to go , Eastwood was the man they called upon. Lawry 's axing was not so much a matter of form as the culmination of a lingering displeasure that began on the previous summer 's tour of South Africa . Back-to-back tours of India and South Africa had taken their toll on the Australians , but the boards wanted to add a fifth Test to the four-Test series in South Africa. Lawry stood up for his exhausted players and said they would only play for an extra $ 500 per man. The board refused , the fifth Test was not added to the schedule , and Lawry 's cards were marked . " Obviously it was political , although I did n't find that out until years after , " Eastwood says . For him , it was an opportunity he never expected to receive , and one for which he was not exactly ready. A wet summer meant that in the six weeks before his Test debut , he had barely trained , had played no state cricket and only one shortened club match. He flew in to Sydney for his debut with the series on the line , and it rained until the afternoon before the Test . A lack of off-field support also irked him. No officials met him at the Sydney airport when he arrived. He had to make his way into a city sports store to find a jumper himself. His Test blazer turned up six months later. And he had to hitchhike to the SCG on the morning of his debut , his first glimpse of the ground that week due to the wet weather. All the same , he had a spring in his step . Chappell , in his first Test as captain , sent England in on a pitch with a little bit of juice in it. England were bowled out in 76 overs and Eastwood had to bat late on the first day. He scored 5 , his only runs in Test cricket , before he was caught behind off Peter Lever . " I ca n't remember the runs I scored or how I got them , " he says. " I remember getting out - a big inswinger and I was caught down the leg side. This one started on middle stump and started swinging on to my legs. I thought , 'Thank you very much ' and tried to help it on its way , and it just kept going. " There had been no team meetings , no plans discussed to handle certain bowlers. Nobody warned Eastwood that Lever was known for bowling big inswingers , which caught him by surprise . There was more surprise to come later in Australia 's first innings , when Terry Jenner was struck by a delivery from John Snow. The umpire Lou Rowan took issue with the delivery , and the upshot was the crowd hurling bottles over the fence in protest and England captain Ray Illingworth leading his players off the field until it was safe to resume . " I do n't blame John Snow for it , " Eastwood says. " Terry ducked into it. He was a pretty handy bat but did n't like quicks. It was common knowledge you could bounce him and he would n't want to hang around. " Eastwood 's own occasional left-arm wristspin was far from intimidatory , but it did bring success when Chappell called on him in the second innings. He took 1 for 21 from five overs , one of only six first-class wickets of his career . " I had a wrong'un that if it landed , it turned , " Eastwood says. " A very high percentage of batsmen in first-class cricket ca n't pick wrong'uns from the hand , which is surprising. The Poms are very much like that because they do n't see many wristspinners. Anyway , the wicket I got was a well-flighted full toss. K Fletcher caught K Stackpole bowled K Eastwood , caught at midwicket. " In their second innings , Australia needed 223 for victory , which would have meant a drawn series , and Australia would have retained the Ashes. As it was , they were bowled out for 160 , England won the urn , and Eastwood added a duck to his first-innings five , bowled by a yorker on the pads from Snow in the first over of the chase . " We had to get about 220 in four sessions on a wicket that was still pretty good for a fourth and fifth-day wicket , " he says. " It would have suited Bill right down to the ground. He 'd handled those blokes , he 'd got runs against them. He could n't have done any worse than me. " So where did that leave Eastwood ? He made 221 in his next Shield game , at Adelaide Oval , and would have considered himself a chance to make Australia 's next tour , to South Africa the following summer. But that tour was cancelled , Eastwood had a disappointing 1971-72 for Victoria , and he was resigned to being a one-Test player. One was enough . " What is there - 200 or 250 living Australian Test cricketers ? What 's the population of Australia , 23 million ? What 's that - .001 % of the population ? It 's a pretty elite group ! " " It 's surprising what one Test does for you. I always get an invite to at least one function during the Melbourne Test , and I 'll never knock back a free lunch. The Australian Cricketers ' Association have a function each Test. You catch up with the blokes you played with and against. I enjoy it , it 's about the only time I see them these days . " Ian Chappell amazed me - about 20 years after that Test I ran into him at the MCG coming down the stairs , and he said , 'G'day Ken , how you going ? ' I felt great that he still recognised me. " Eastwood admits he was n't a walker as a batsman - " what you lose on the hurdy-gurdy you make on the merry-go-round , " he says - and as an umpire gives his decisions quickly , on instinct. He long ago stopped trying to memorise all the exotic rules that never come up in a match . Do the young club players have any idea the man adjudicating their appeals is a former Test cricketer ? " Word does get around , " Eastwood says. " I generally tell them , 'Google me , you 'll find everything there ! ' " Now they 'll find a little more . Brydon Coverdale is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ brydoncoverdale © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
