Mahendra Singh Dhoni Insists Team India Primed for World Cup Mahendra Singh Dhoni Insists Team India Primed for World Cup Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led India bowed out of the ongoing tri-series on Friday after finishing win-less . Last updated on Saturday , 31 January , 2015 17 : 07 IST Total Shares MS Dhoni 's men begin their World Cup title defence against Pakistan on February 15 . © AP India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni insisted on Friday his team will be primed for their upcoming World Cup title defence , despite ending a miserable tour of Australia without a win. ( India Knocked Out of Triseries ) India bowed out of the one-day international tri-series with another poor batting effort , which condemned them to defeat in their clash with England at the WACA Ground in Perth. ( Jadeja 's Poor Batting Angers Ganguly ) Sent in to bat , India were dismissed for 200 and although England stumbled early , they recovered to edge their way to 201 for seven and win with 19 balls to spare. ( India Need Family Touch to Recreate World Cup Magic : Ganguly ) That booked England a berth in Sunday 's final against Australia at the same venue. ( Kohli 's Batting Position Does n't Matter : Gavaskar ) It ended a fruitless three-month tour for India ahead of next month 's World Cup in Australia and New Zealand , in which they failed to notch a win in 10 matches , including four Tests and four one-day internationals. ( Escapist Attitude Hurt India in Perth : Gavaskar ) Dhoni conceded their batting had been a concern . However , he expected his batsmen to regain their best form before the World Cup and said the focus would be on recharging their batteries in the coming weeks . " From a confidence point of view we are quite good , " he said . " It has been a long tour so far but with this break now , it will really help us. The guys should be able to come back strong. " With the winner of the game advancing to Sunday 's final , England looked in deep trouble when they slumped to 66 for five in their run chase . However , James Taylor and wicketkeeper-batsman Jos Buttler rescued their cause . The pair rode their luck to put on 125 for the sixth wicket and carry their side to within 10 runs of victory , before both fell in quick succession . Taylor made 82 ( 122 balls ) before holing out to deep fine leg from the bowling of Mohit Sharma in the dying stages of the chase . Buttler made the most of an early reprieve , when he should have been run out . He went on to make a match-winning 67 from 78 balls before falling just two runs after Taylor , caught on the boundary from the bowling of Mohammed Shami . Taylor said England was looking forward to the final with a win handing them a psychological advantage ahead of their World Cup opener in Melbourne . " It would make a massive statement , no doubt , " he said . " It is going to be a challenge , they are playing some great cricket at the moment , but we are all looking forward to it . " We know if we string all three facets together and do them to the best of our ability , which we are getting close to doing , we know we are going to put in a real good performance on Sunday " - Poor batting - Having been sent in to bat , India squandered the good platform provided by their openers . They lost six wickets for just 31 runs to slump to 165-9 , before some late hitting from Mohammed Shami ( 25 from 18 balls ) and Mohit Sharma boosted their total . The Indians made an encouraging start to their innings through the previously out-of-form Shikhar Dhawan and opening partner Ajinkya Rahane . The pair put on 83 , but the innings started to unravel when Dhawan was caught behind by Buttler from the bowling of Chris Woakes for 38 . Virat Kohli 's poor series then continued when he was caught by Joe Root from the bowling of spinner Moeen Ali ( 2-35 ) for just eight . Kohli averaged 86.50 during the Test series against Australia , which India lost 2-0 , but has been unable to continue that form into the limited overs format , making just 24 runs at 8.00 . From there , wickets fell steadily , with only Rahane offering serious resistance with 73 . Steven Finn 's good series continued when he claimed 3-36 for England , with every English bowler tasting success . Story first published on : Saturday , 31 January 2015 11 : 15 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
