World Cup 2015 : Team India Lack Experience but Have Fighting Spirit , Says Kapil Dev World Cup 2015 : Team India Lack Experience but Have Fighting Spirit , Says Kapil Dev Team India will kick-start their World Cup defence against arch-rivals Pakistan on February 15. The team will aim for their third title , after Kapil Dev 's men won in 1983 and Dhoni &amp ; Co. in 2011 . Last updated on Monday , 02 February , 2015 15 : 37 IST Total Shares File photo : India coach Duncan Fletcher ( L ) with Virat Kohli during a training session in Australia . © AFP Former India captain Kapil Dev Monday said that though the country 's World Cup squad lacks experience , they can fill the void through their energy and commitment. ( Team India get 'luxury break ' before World Cup ) Indian selectors excluded veterans Yuvraj Singh , Harbhajan Singh , Virender Sehwag , Zaheer Khan , Ashish Nehra , Gautam Gambhir from the squad that will defend the World Cup title in Australia and New Zealand later this month. ( 'India 's tri-series exit not surprising ' ) " If you see the 2011 World Cup winning squad , there are a lot of big names missing. They lack experience as comapred to the 2011 squad , " Kapil Dev , who led India to their first World Cup triumph in 1983 , said at the News24 cricket conclave. ( Captains should do what Dhoni did in World Cup 2011 : Fleming ) " However , this team has the energy and enthusiasm. They have the fighting spirit. That will hopefully take them ahead. " ( Odds stacked heavily against Team India ) The legendary all-rounder also said that at the World Cup , it is not experience but commitment that defines a winning team. ( Dhoni insists Team India primed for World Cup ) " Every time you go onto the field , you strive to do better. During a match , commitment makes the difference , " Kapil said . Story first published on : Monday , 02 February 2015 12 : 48 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
