The long winless Australian summer might just have given those watching the wrong impression shares 147 Shikhar Dhawan has got his swagger back © Getty Images Piece by piece , India are rediscovering their one-day mojo. Or perhaps they had never lost it really , and their lacklustre performance during the tri-series that preceded the World Cup was merely a tactical retreat to keep something in the tank for their title defence. Four months of international cricket on the road can make you fall out of love with your job , and that India have looked fresh and sharp in their opening World Cup matches is a win in itself . For Indian fans , this 144-day campaign carried the risk of the nightmare of 1992 repeated , when defeats in the stop-start Test series and in the tri-series finals were followed by just two World Cup wins - against Pakistan and Zimbabwe. This time , India came to the World Cup with an even more dismal record : not till they beat Afghanistan in the final World Cup warm-up match had they managed to win a thing all summer. After a spirited Test series , their batting seemed to have lost its spring , and the bowling had n't turned up at all . But throughout his captaincy , in one-day cricket in particular , MS Dhoni has made the ability to play around the limitations of his team his greatest virtue. He ran the 2011 World Cup campaign around an unfit team , with the knowledge that he could only push his bowlers so much. Four years later , with a team that has only four survivors from 2011 , Dhoni has had two big challenges : to give belief to his inexperienced charges , and to keep them from burning out. Those familiar with Dhoni 's methods know that he will have invested very little in the tri-series , both in terms of mental and physical energy. In fact , not getting to the final meant more downtime . And now , two games into the World Cup , the levers of the Indian one-day machine are falling into place. The win against South Africa was achieved with a felicity that might have surprised even them , but a template is becoming evident. And what will encourage the Indian supporters - they are a story in themselves - is that the perceived weak links of the team have played starring roles in both wins . Throughout the tour , Shikhar Dhawan , India 's major batsman in their last successful world title campaign - the Champions Trophy in the UK - has cut a forlorn figure , unable to come to grips with the bounce on Australian pitches. For the second successive Test series away from home , he had to be dropped from the playing XI following a sequence of poor scores apparently caused by a lack of technique for the given conditions. He was so unconvincing that not retaining M Vijay , one of India 's major batting successes during Test tour , for the World Cup had begun to seem a tactical blunder . But as Dhoni said after the South Africa game , the space and time to work in the nets is sometimes underestimated. Dhawan 's 38 in India 's final game of the tri-series , against England , was perhaps the only gain for India from their poor batting performance , but Dhawan has returned from the break in a far more decisive frame , and his off-side strokeplay , his strength as well as his weakness - has regained its verve. He has been prepared to leave balls outside the off stump , and the tentativeness that had crept into his game is gone : the bat now meets the ball with the old swagger , and the cuts are going screaming again. He was set for a century when he was run out against Pakistan , and in Melbourne , he made good his luck from a drop by adding nearly a hundred runs to his total . From the Indian perspective , the performance of the bowlers , the butt of a million jokes through the summer , will be more uplifting. In the Tests , only twice in eight innings did they manage to take ten wickets , and neither time was it for under 500 runs. It took the Australians swinging away in a practice match for India to take ten wickets in a limited-overs game. The cost : 371 runs . India 's fast bowlers resembled run-feeding machines , obliged to provide at least one boundary ball every over. Many opening spells in the Tests cost over six , and Ishant Sharma was the only Indian fast bowler to finish the Test series with an economy rate of under four . Play 03 : 34 Agarkar : India bowlers unfairly criticised sometimes The batting has delivered in the first two matches. Not spectacularly , but not as massively as it was feared they would need to do to compensate for the misfiring bowlers. There has been a calm assurance about the construction of the innings. Against Pakistan , the 50 came up the 12th over , and against South Africa in the 14th. Against Pakistan , the run rate first touched 5 in the 21st over ; against South Africa , it did n't happen till the 27th. But in both matches , the second-wicket partnership put on more than 100 , and both involved Virat Kohli , who , it might seem now , was saving his one-day form for the World Cup. The ballast was provided on both occasions by the No. 4 : Suresh Raina against Pakistan and Ajinkya Rahane against South Africa. And from that base , 300 had become an inevitability by the 40th over. However , when the innings ended , it felt on both occasions that India had finished at least 20 short of what was achievable . But remarkably the bowlers have not merely ensured wins but a net run rate of over two. Perhaps the format , and the clarity of the task , has settled their focus. Something certainly stirs within Mohammed Shami when he has the white ball in hand. The wrist is obedient , and the ball has stayed in the channel around off stump. In the World Cup matches he has provided the breakthrough with the new ball , and conceded less than 4 in the first five overs. Umesh Yadav , who could invariably be relied upon by the opposition to concede over seven runs per over in his opening spells in the Tests , has hustled the openers with pace , and the boundaries off him in the opening spells have come off hurried top edges . In many ways , Mohit Sharma has been India 's most impressive bowler. A replacement for the injured Ishant Sharma , he has been chosen ahead of Bhuvneshwar Kumar , and he has rewarded the faith showed in him with remarkable accuracy and smart use of the bouncer. The bounce on Australian pitches makes his length awkward , and at the MCG , Dhoni encouraged Mohit to bowl short with men on the long square boundaries. Hashim Amla 's wicket was a plan executed to precision . As the icing , India also managed to outfield South Africa , taking all their catches , and effecting two crucial run-outs that terminally punctured the chase . India were never in real danger of missing out on the knockouts , but these wins have put them in a position to top their group and earn a lighter quarter-final opponent. Australia , South Africa and New Zealand carried the buzz into the tournament , and now with the reigning champions gliding in , the din in the stands is no longer just white noise . Sambit Bal is editor-in-chief of ESPNcricinfo. @ sambitbal © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
