University Orientation week , with 20,000 students returning home after a long summer break , is probably not the best time to be visiting Dunedin shares 8 Students spell litter © ESPNcricinfo Ltd I leave my motel room on a bright Tuesday morning ahead of the New Zealand-Scotland match , and Dunedin appears to be having a festival of vomit and broken bottles. In the convenience store where I 'm buying breakfast , I ask the middle-aged woman behind the counter what is going on. Distress dawns on her face. Her pupils are suddenly trained on mine , the whites around them intense. " It 's … it 's university orientation week. " Dunedin , I 'm certain , is a lovely city the remaining 51 weeks of the year. There are blue penguins within driving distance , beautiful old stone buildings , and a friendly southern vibe. The surrounding landscape and coastline are lovely , and the local vineyards produce world-class red wine. But when 20,000 students return to the town after the long summer break , free at last from the supervision of their parents , some ( not all ) take the first chance to prove why they might not quite be ready for the freedom to begin with . They move in swarms , like a plague of insects , stripping one neighbourhood of its alcohol , leaving puke and refuse in their wake. Next evening , they do it all again in some other place. Police often patrol the streets , but so vast are student numbers , there is little even they can do. Home owners see the week as an annual ordeal. Even the businesses that profit from the students ' return are jaded by it all . The offenders , for the most part , appear completely oblivious to the trauma they are visiting upon their city. During the week , one flat party attracts around 1000 revellers , and the next morning , the small road this house is on is a carpet of broken glass and food wrappers. When the council refused to commit resources to clean up an estimated 550kg of debris , the young men who hosted the rager were forced to do it themselves. Next day , they crowed about their efforts in the local paper. " We did n't just clean in front of our flat , we cleaned the whole street , " said one. He only rendered the road unusable for 24 hours. Ah , what a hero . On Saturday evening , it 's the turn of the young people next door to my motel room to host the evening 's brain-cell massacre. When I make my way to my room at about 8pm , their subwoofer is thrumming at a hair-raising frequency. I exit for an evening meal and return to find that the flub-wub-wub of their stereo has given way to even something even more aggravating. From the shrieking , bellowing , dry and wet heaving , I deduce the theme of their party is " mass exorcism " . I awake the next day with a throbbing ache in my ears and a weariness that I can only describe as a contact hangover. I had n't managed to sleep till the early hours , but on Sunday evening , the city has relaxed. Everyone over 23 is beginning to smile again. Tears of joy are forming in our bloodshot eyes. We had all made it through , together . Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
