Mahendra Singh Dhoni , Ishant Sharma go for Trekking , Fishing at an Adventure Park Mahendra Singh Dhoni , Ishant Sharma go for Trekking , Fishing at an Adventure Park Ahead of the World Cup , Mahendra Singh Dhoni along with injured pace duo of Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma and stand-by pacer Mohit Sharma has set off for the pleasure trip while a couple of other players have left for different cities to meet their relatives . Last updated on Wednesday , 04 February , 2015 15 : 36 IST Total Shares File photo of MS Dhoni . © AP New Delhi : India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has decided to completely unwind and take his mind away from cricket before the ICC World Cup as he along with three teammates have left for an adventure park in the outskirts of Adelaide on a " two-day trekking and fishing trip. " ( Also read : 'Sehwag , Yuvraj World Cup omission a blunder ' ) The wicketkeeper-batsman along with injured pace duo of Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Ishant Sharma and stand-by pacer Mohit Sharma has set off for the pleasure trip while a couple of other players have left for different cities to meet their relatives. ( Disappointed to miss out on World Cup spots : Gambhir and Yuvraj ) " Dhoni , Bhuvi , Ishant and Mohit have gone to an artificial 'Adventure Sport Park ' , which is around 150 kms from Adelaide. The particular 'Adventure Sport Park ' has all facilities like trekking , fishing and boating. They will be there for two days and back in team hotel on February 5 , " a senior BCCI official told PTI on Tuesday. ( India aim for fifth World Cup ) It was learnt that two other players , all-rounder Stuart Binny has left for Sydney to spend some time with his elder sister while Shikhar Dhawan has left for Melbourne to be with his wife and kids. ( World Cup special : Highs and lows of cricket 's showpiece event ) " The others relaxed at the hotel today. Some of them went out for shopping while a few others enjoyed a pool session and did some gym work , " the official added. ( World Cup : Minnows take heart from memorable upsets ) After being ousted from the tri-series , Dhoni had stressed the need to " switch off " from the rigours of the game in order to come back fresh before the World Cup . Story first published on : Tuesday , 03 February 2015 19 : 21 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
