Our correspondent displays horrific ignorance about the finer things in life , and begs for a lift to McDonald 's shares 6 Bruny Island : if you do n't know your cheese , just enjoy the view © ESPNcricinfo Ltd February 11 The stereotype goes that Cantabrians are people of strong opinions. Occasionally the word " myopic " is used to describe them , usually by Aucklanders. But two days out from the World Cup , Christchurch 's World Cup expectations are restrained and nuanced. " We look good , but I wonder if Brendon McCullum can play as aggressively as he does against some of the better attacks , " says a man in a caf é . " I also worry that Trent Boult wo n't swing the white ball as much as we expect , " replies his companion . February 12 Tens of thousands turn out for the World Cup opening ceremony , which is more community carnival than global showpiece. It is refreshing , uplifting , and typically for New Zealand , understated. The only high-octane moments of the evening are when the biggest fireworks display Christchurch has seen light up the sky , a little while after mayor Lianne Dalziel stormed the stage and bellowed , " We are back " , like some 1980s hip-hop hype-woman. All she needed was a clock around her neck . February 13 Colleague Andrew McGlashan and I return to our lodgings starving , late in the night. No restaurants save the 24-hour McDonald 's down the road are open. I volunteer to go fetch the food , but to my dismay , only the drive-through is in operation. Too hungry to go back empty-handed , I approach the latest car to pull into the queue and ask if I can climb into the back seat and order and pay from there , since they only allow vehicles into the drive-through. Not only do the couple in the car agree , they end up dropping me back to our apartment. Gnasher is in stitches when I tell him the story. He describes it as the perfect combination of Sri Lankan informal ingenuity and Kiwi friendliness. I reflect I probably should n't try this again outside of those two countries . The opening ceremony in Christchurch © ESPNcricinfo Ltd February 19 Dimuth Karunaratne sees me near the Sri Lanka nets and comes to say hello. He 's trying out a heavier bat. He smiles when another journalist and I tell him that Aravinda de Silva had switched to a much heavier bat during his epic 1996 World Cup as well. Dinesh Chandimal comes over for a chat a little later. Mahela Jayawardene exchanges a few words walking past. A lot of people want to know what the Sri Lanka players are like in person. I can almost never say a bad word. There are no airs , for most of them. They are normal to the point of being a little boring . February 26 Meet a Bangladesh fan in the lobby of the apartment building I 'm staying in in Melbourne. She and her husband have flown from Sydney to watch the following day 's game. " My perfect match would be for Sanga to score a hundred , then for the Tigers to win , " she says. She will get half her wish. They have also booked tickets to the Melbourne quarter-final. " I just have a feeling we will get to the quarters this time. " February 28 Arrive at the departure gate to find I 'm on the same flight as the Sri Lanka team. I board and find myself sitting next to selector-on-tour Sanath Jayasuriya. He laughs to himself when he sees me. " This is going to be my quietest flight ever , otherwise tomorrow everything will be on Cricinfo. " I retort with : " I 'll just be happy if none of the players try to open the plane door at 35,000 feet " ( as a Sri Lanka A cricketer had done last year ) . He laughs again . ESPNcricinfo 's Match Point set overlooking the Sydney Harbour bridge © ESPNcricinfo Ltd In the end Jayasuriya is quite chatty , speaking knowledgably about the story of two young Australians currently facing execution in Indonesia for drug smuggling. I fall asleep , hoping earnestly I do n't wake up nestled in his shoulder , a stream of drool on his shirt . March 3 I know nothing about wine. But that does not stop me , or two other wine-ignoramuses from attending a tasting at a Hawke 's Bay winery. As we begin to glug down the samples , we offer questions of profound obtuseness to the young lady hosting us. " Do you chill white wine before you drink it ? " And " why is some wine white and others red , when they are made from the same grape ? " We pause for a few seconds , as if to aerate the tannins of our own daftness , then let fly with : " What 's the difference in taste between Shiraz and Syrah ? " ( They 're the same thing , apparently. ) There is a moment when I am personally impressed with the apparent grasp of viticulture that underlies one of our queries. This is a delusion. Our hostess is visibly more and more dismayed with the quality of each fresh probe. " Yes , Merlot does actually improve over time , " went one of her particularly downbeat responses. In between these rounds of inane q&a , she leaves us and goes into her office for a few minutes , presumably to weep . March 6 Within 24 hours of being in Sydney , I have already seen enough male cleavage to last me a lifetime. There seems to be a council law that skin-tight plunging v-neck shirts are all men are allowed to wear. I hope I do n't get pulled up and fined. I guess if you 're putting in the work for those muscles , you may as well show them off. The Mardi Gras gay pride parade is in town too. Lots of noise. Lots of exposed skin . Nibble or chomp - there are many ways to enjoy Tasman produce © ESPNcricinfo Ltd March 9 Sydney has never been my favourite Australian city , but boy , that harbour is something else. Colleague and liker-of-own-voice Raunak Kapoor shows me around the Match Point set , overlooking the grand Harbour Bridge and Opera House. He was about to go for a run when I turn up , but we end up drinking milkshakes , eating ice cream and having a heavy lunch instead. His plans to exercise apparently pan out much the same way as mine . March 13 I am even more ignorant about cheese than I am about wine , yet here I am again , attending a cheese tasting on Bruny Island , just off Tasmania , with Jarrod Kimber for company. To break the silence as we taste , I offer : " Mmm , yes , that one had quite a cheesy quality to it , do n't you think ? I was definitely getting flavours of cheese. " He furrows his brow , tucks his chin in , nods his head and makes an observation whose insight stuns me. " I like that last one better because it was softer than the one before it. " He buys some cheese , hopefully as a gift for people who know more about it than him , and we spend a few hours just driving around Bruny Island , taking in its many dramatic landscapes , gorgeous beaches and imposing eucalypt forests . Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
