7 12.5 * South Africa have lost four and tied one , but that famous tie was n't enough to see them through to the next round Few surprises there , nor in this pitiful titbit : not only have England failed to win a single win-or-bust match for 23 years , they have never pulled off consecutive wins come pointy-bit time . Pressure may impair excellence , but it is when every match might be your last - whether literally , as it was for Mahela Jayawardene in Sydney , or in that particular tournament - that sport can attain its most theatrical , even cinematic , expression . When context is everything and everything is on the line. When ecstasy can slide so speedily into agony. When one moment of brilliance , born of skill , daring or wisdom , can conjure victory from defeat. When minor aberrations and marginal misses can ripple for decades. That 's how we file these episodes , shrinking them for ease of access : Mike Gatting reverse-sweeping Allan Border in '87 , Wasim Akram skewering Allan Lamb in '92 , Lance Klusener freezing in '99 , Kumar Sangakkara following suit yesterday . In Cape Town in 2011 , with series defeat a distinct possibility , the usually orthodox Jacques Kallis changed his mindset and reverse-swept his way to a century © AFP Ray Knight was named Most Valuable Player after the New York Mets ' consummate brinkmanship brought victory in the 1986 World Series. To him , winning the big games , the death-or-glory bouts , was born not of inspiration but proficiency. Not raising but maintaining standards. There you are , assailed by turbo-charged butterflies and baying , beseeching crowds , by managerial demands and collective responsibility , trying like buggery just to keep on keeping on. To do what you 've learned to do without thinking , to perform as you do when dogs outnumber spectators and the TV cameras have better places to be. To succeed , in short , is to normalise . In Sydney , Sri Lanka merely had to pretend they were in Galle. Jayawardene doubtless warned them about Imran Tahir , but who knew JP Duminy would have such a ball ? Still , at least Angelo 's boys were n't as cravenly complicit in their own downfall as Chelsea were against Paris St-Germain last week. Guided by Jos é Mourinho , commonly cited as the sharpest strategist in European f * * * ball , the London side , playing most of the match against ten men , went about ensuring a place in the last eight of the Champions League with shameless negativity . Trouble was , having drawn the first leg in Paris 1-1 - away goals count double - they kicked off eyeing a goalless draw , that sworn enemy of joy. Indeed , the London club 's only fruitful ploy of the night was to bully the referee into unjustly sending off the opposition 's star striker - and even that backfired. United in fury , undaunted by numerical disadvantage , PSG were far more enterprising ( unlike their hosts , to be fair , not scoring was not an option ) . When Chelsea went ahead with nine minutes left , and again in extra time , PSG roared back , prevailing on away goals. Mourinho had been stripped bare , justice deliciously done . Not that this should dissuade the ICC from dancing the two-legged tango - although this would mean , with away runs counting double , memorising scorelines such as 324-276. Balancing home advantage is a good thing. So are second chances and prolonged tension. Sure , this can also breed caution , that murderer of adventure - and sport bereft of adventure is like music devoid of rhythm. Fortunately , defensive cricket does n't get you very far these days , especially not when a draw is off the menu . That 's why even the canniest , shrewdest , most calculated strategy can founder when the opposition counterattacks. Hence Gatting and his decision to unsheathe that reverse sweep. The idea was sound : second-string bowler , grab initiative , seize day. What hurt was the imperfect execution . Pakistan 's title in 1992 came after they failed to win four of their first five matches in the World Cup © Getty Images Consider another departure from the norm , this time from a decisive contest where the draw was an option. Cape Town 2011 and a historic series victory looms. With India protecting a negligible first-innings lead , Harbhajan Singh is on song , exploiting some spiteful rough and netting South Africa 's top three in his first four overs. Then , with nary a hint of a glimmer of a scintilla of a warning , Jacques Kallis , the Emperor of Orthodox , unveils a reverse sweep ; unlike Gatting , he executes it properly. Again and again he goes for it , ten times all told ; only once does he fail to score. Tide turned , he cruises to an unbeaten hundred , saving match and rubber . To pull off that coup , Kallis had to undergo a radical metamorphosis : change his habitual mindset , reconfigure his game face , chuck out the script and improvise. Not every competitor is able to achieve such a rapid transition , let alone prepared to take the risks required : meddling with the tried and trusted , inviting failure and condemnation . In other words , whether it 's a knockout , winner-takes-all or the final act of a five-day gripper , the most priceless assets are serenity , flexibility and fearlessness : all the virtues England currently lack. The mantra ? " He who blinks sinks " has a nice ring , but the nod goes to " Relish or perish " . Think Ricky Ponting in the 2003 World Cup final , cooking up his highest and most brutal ODI score to date against searching opposition ; think Collis King in the 1979 final , uncowed by nerves , anonymity or even His Vivness ; above all , think MS Dhoni promoting himself in the 2011 showpiece , laughing in the face of unfeasible , relentless expectation , lifted rather than diminished by the occasion. Not the least potent signifier of Sachin Tendulkar 's greatness is that , among those who have played in two or more World Cup semi-finals , he is alone in scoring a half-century every time . The greatest collective World Cup deeds thus far have been performed by Pakistan ( 1992 ) and Australia ( 1999 ) . Both faced an early exit ( Pakistan won just one of their first five games , Australia one of their first three ) then streaked to the final ( Pakistan won their last five , Australia six of their last seven , plus a tie that qualified them for the final ) . Momentum was all . The San Francisco Giants went on a similar roll en route to taking the 2012 World Series , emulating the 1985 Kansas City Royals by winning six eliminators on the trot. Forget the flash stuff , the walk-off homers or other last-gasp heroics ; the secret , such as it was , was strong pitching and " fundamentals " , i.e. fielding , base-running and resistance to temptation ( to swing at every pitch ) ; i.e. efficiency at the bare necessities . Time , then , for white knuckles and blue-sky thinking , purple patches , red faces and the unsung virtues of competence. As they perch on their stools at the end of the bar , may the calmest thirsts win . Rob Steen is a sportswriter and senior lecturer in sports journalism at the University of Brighton. His book Floodlights and Touchlines : A History of Spectator Sport is out now © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
