OLDEST khan1221 on March 27 , 2015 , 10 : 03 GMT New zealand team is playing with passion and determination in this world cup , I noticed three or four fielders chasing the ball in the field and putting their 100 percent for all games. They might not be as better team as Australia and south Africa , but they are committed more than them. Good Luck New Zealand . Anurag_Bansal on March 26 , 2015 , 21 : 28 GMT ( 2/2 ) But the way Mr. McCullum and his team have continued with their tribute to their fallen comrade is really inspiring. It started with the day in Sharjah , " Without any bouncers " and is still continuing. If batsman is attacking the bowlers , kiwis ' response is to strengthen the cordon and counter attack. If a bowler is bowling attacking lines , kiwis ' response is counterattack. The cricketing sides have always tried to emulate the successful style. If it was intimidating aggression of the windies in the 80s , it became " mentally disintegrating " aggression of the aussies in coming decades. However , this Counter attacking aggression from the current kiwi side is the purest form of attack. I wish this side lots and lots of success so that this becomes template for all other sides. Thanks to the kiwi side for bringing the enjoyment back to the game. Lots of RESPECT and good luck. Winning hearts is lot more important than winning silverware and you have already done that . nskaile on March 26 , 2015 , 19 : 03 GMT I 'm just so pumped up , soo excited to see the final of this WC . BAZ YOU ARE A LEGEND - TELL ME YOU GOT THE POWER . khan1221 on March 27 , 2015 , 10 : 03 GMT New zealand team is playing with passion and determination in this world cup , I noticed three or four fielders chasing the ball in the field and putting their 100 percent for all games. They might not be as better team as Australia and south Africa , but they are committed more than them. Good Luck New Zealand . Anurag_Bansal on March 26 , 2015 , 21 : 28 GMT ( 2/2 ) But the way Mr. McCullum and his team have continued with their tribute to their fallen comrade is really inspiring. It started with the day in Sharjah , " Without any bouncers " and is still continuing. If batsman is attacking the bowlers , kiwis ' response is to strengthen the cordon and counter attack. If a bowler is bowling attacking lines , kiwis ' response is counterattack. The cricketing sides have always tried to emulate the successful style. If it was intimidating aggression of the windies in the 80s , it became " mentally disintegrating " aggression of the aussies in coming decades. However , this Counter attacking aggression from the current kiwi side is the purest form of attack. I wish this side lots and lots of success so that this becomes template for all other sides. Thanks to the kiwi side for bringing the enjoyment back to the game. Lots of RESPECT and good luck. Winning hearts is lot more important than winning silverware and you have already done that . nskaile on March 26 , 2015 , 19 : 03 GMT I 'm just so pumped up , soo excited to see the final of this WC . BAZ YOU ARE A LEGEND - TELL ME YOU GOT THE POWER . No featured comments at the moment . nskaile on March 26 , 2015 , 19 : 03 GMT I 'm just so pumped up , soo excited to see the final of this WC . BAZ YOU ARE A LEGEND - TELL ME YOU GOT THE POWER . Anurag_Bansal on March 26 , 2015 , 21 : 28 GMT ( 2/2 ) But the way Mr. McCullum and his team have continued with their tribute to their fallen comrade is really inspiring. It started with the day in Sharjah , " Without any bouncers " and is still continuing. If batsman is attacking the bowlers , kiwis ' response is to strengthen the cordon and counter attack. If a bowler is bowling attacking lines , kiwis ' response is counterattack. The cricketing sides have always tried to emulate the successful style. If it was intimidating aggression of the windies in the 80s , it became " mentally disintegrating " aggression of the aussies in coming decades. However , this Counter attacking aggression from the current kiwi side is the purest form of attack. I wish this side lots and lots of success so that this becomes template for all other sides. Thanks to the kiwi side for bringing the enjoyment back to the game. Lots of RESPECT and good luck. Winning hearts is lot more important than winning silverware and you have already done that . khan1221 on March 27 , 2015 , 10 : 03 GMT New zealand team is playing with passion and determination in this world cup , I noticed three or four fielders chasing the ball in the field and putting their 100 percent for all games. They might not be as better team as Australia and south Africa , but they are committed more than them. Good Luck New Zealand .
