Whatever happens , the Australia-New Zealand World Cup final at the MCG will be the most divine fun shares 142 Play 01 : 10 'Crowe has been instrumental in helping some of us ' - McCullum The World Cup organisers might just be born of exceptional water-divining stock. They have , with the Anzac final now lined up , struck to the very core of what a global event is all about - sharing the love for the game , all drinking from the same well. It has built up to a perfect ending to a well-staged celebration of the modern game . On Sunday , in front of a packed house at the one and only Melbourne Cricket Ground , Australia and New Zealand go to war once again. This time not as brothers in arms but as fierce rivals , a rivalry all the more meaningful for our long history together. We are brothers and will always be. On Sunday one sibling will upset the other . As one of those proud brothers , I am stunned by the prospect. Without question , this will be the personal cricketing highlight of my life , and I sense for New Zealand too. Those six previous attempts to reach such a pinnacle have given this inspired band of men the foundation and the mindfulness and an ever-present awareness of the job they have to do . Without the past pain , Brendon McCullum 's men today would not be ready to deliver Aotearoa its holy grail. Without the long trek endured previously , these men would not have the stomach to think so big. It has been a team effort , going back to 1975 , and it will remain one. I will be there to share my gratitude at seeing a baton carried with such brilliance and daring . To see the two sons I never had , Ross Taylor and Marty Guptill , run out in black , in sync with their close comrades , will be mesmerically satisfying. I will hold back tears all day long What captivates me most is the style and substance of both leaders as they enter the biggest stage of their fine careers. They , along with their fine coaches , determine the team ethos and resilience. But it is the captain who ultimately runs the cutter. Time in charge , in this case nearly four hours in the field apiece , means the captain has to steer his side no matter what . Michael Clarke and McCullum are similar breeds. Firstly , because they have been two of the most misunderstood men in the modern game. They have both been misjudged for their words , not their deeds. What is fascinating is that they have acquired the gift of knowing what 's coming , and knowing what to do to take that next step forward. They do n't hesitate. The game , on and off the field , is constantly fluid , shaping this way and that , as they marshal proceedings at each juncture. I marvel at them both , seeing how they handle such constant pressure . McCullum has won his nation 's heart already. He has been simply irresistible. Clarke has one more game to win , to win not only another title , a fifth , for Australia , but a better understanding from his countrymen. Some may never warm to his style , or " get " him , but he deserves a deeper kudos. I do get Clarke , and think it will be the ultimate match-up of wills and imagination. In many ways , McCullum ca n't lose , yet he wo n't see it that way. And Clarke must win , and even then it may not be enough , which is madness. I say , let 's salute them both . If New Zealand win , for the very first time they will step out of the All Blacks ' shadows. That is arguably the greatest feat of all. And yet it could be relatively short-lived , as the All Blacks will soon enough step back into the breach to defend their world rugby crown in England come September , and attempt to create an unprecedented triumph of the nation holding two World Cups at the same time , in the same year. If . My precarious life ahead may not afford me the luxury of many more games to watch and enjoy. So this is likely to be it. The last , maybe , and I can happily live with that. To see the two sons I never had , Ross Taylor and Marty Guptill , run out in black , in sync with their close comrades , drawing on all their resolve and resilience , will be mesmerically satisfying. I will hold back tears all day long. I will gasp for air on occasions. I will feel like a nervous parent . I will , like so many Kiwis making the short trek across the Tasman , feel this , as McCullum has stated clearly , to be the greatest cricketing time of our lives. Four million dare to believe , while 11 ( and back-up ) dare to achieve. Whatever happens , March 29 at the MCG will be the most divine fun ever . Martin Crowe , one of the leading batsmen of the late '80s and early '90s , played 77 Tests for New Zealand © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
