As long as ODIs are governed by stifling regulations , only imaginative captaincy can keep the format from being hopelessly dull shares 35 Aggressive captains know looking for wickets throughout an innings will bear fruit © ICC Are limiting regulations the reason many captains are conservative in their ODI approach , or are there too many unimaginative skippers who are relieved to be bound by stifling playing conditions ? It 's no coincidence that the three best sides in the World Cup - Australia , New Zealand and India - were captained aggressively. Michael Clarke , Brendon McCullum and MS Dhoni all took the attitude : " Damn the regulations , taking wickets is what winning captaincy is all about. " Instead of being looked upon as purely a cricketing contest , too often ODIs are viewed as a game of containment. Well , I 've never seen a better way to contain batsmen than by dismissal. I do n't recall a single run made while a player was sitting in the pavilion , unless you count pencil cricket during a rain delay . It 's impossible to stifle the best batsmen , as witnessed by some of the extraordinary feats of AB de Villiers , the string of centuries amassed by Kumar Sangakkara , and the two history-making double-hundreds by Chris Gayle and Martin Guptill. When it 's their day , players of that calibre will still regularly reach the boundary and clear it , no matter where the fieldsmen are placed , so the only hope is to try to dismiss them before the mayhem commences . There were numerous complaints about ODIs being boring , especially in the middle overs. Consequently , a host of stringent playing conditions and gimmicks , like Powerplays and Supersubs , were introduced. None of these were designed to stretch the captain 's imagination , and the batting Powerplay is a perfect example of how it dulls the initiative. The bulk of the batting Powerplays are taken at the compulsory stage , which is either a case of taking the easy way out or thoughtlessness , or a combination of both . With the dominance of bat over ball increasing every day - in part due to a superior weapon - it has now become fashionable to retain wickets in order to launch a prolonged onslaught in the last 15 overs , which are now treated as an elongated Powerplay . What really makes the middle overs of an ODI boring is when the fielding captain is happy to " just " concede six runs an over and the batting side gratefully accepts the gifts on offer. If there is little risk in batting , because of deep and meaningless fields , only a desperate or impetuous batsman is going to gift his wicket by holing out in the deep . Too many fielding captains are happy to concede six runs an over during the middle overs © AFP How many times is it remarked upon that when captains are forced to bring fielders inside the circle by the regulations , a wicket is gained because a batsman holes out trying to loft a ball through the infield ? Cricket , like most sports is a game where winning trends are often copied. It 's to be hoped that the enterprising captaincy of Clarke , McCullum and Dhoni is replicated by other skippers . I sympathise with captains having to deal with batsmen armed with lethal weapons that often make third man a more likely catching option than third slip. Nevertheless , Clarke , McCullum and Dhoni showed that when backed by good bowling , the search for wickets throughout an innings can be fruitful . Apart from introducing encouraging regulations - like reducing the field restrictions and having more flexible over allowances for bowlers - the way to improve captaincy is via proactive selection. If selectors both choose and encourage aggressive captains and sack those who show little initiative , it will send a strong message to prospective skippers. For maximum success , this policy needs to be implemented from the bottom up ( club , first-class , international ) rather than top down . A well-played ODI should be exciting for the crowd and fulfilling for the players. The format will remain a viable product as long as the regulations and the captains encourage a spirited contest between bat and ball and there are an increasing number of teams of roughly equal ability . Former Australia captain Ian Chappell is now a cricket commentator for Channel 9 , and a columnist © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
