South Africa need a new narrative Dr Ken Jennings To break their World Cup hoodoo , they need a new philosophy and paradigm of thinking , resulting in a new way of being on and off the cricket field shares 85 The ability of South Africa 's players to " show no weakness " did not quite translate © Getty Images Like all South Africans , I have witnessed the pain that South African cricket teams have endured at World Cups. I have previously written about possible solutions to the problem , but I am not sure if any of the information was received by the players or teams. I have also considered that some or all of my ideas may have been rejected . The intention of this article is to offer a new way of looking at past problems , as well as to move into the future with a clear vision . As you know , the team failed again at the 2015 World Cup. While this may sound harsh , I believe that the first step to any revival is to truthfully acknowledge the problem. It is not emotionally weak to do so. It takes courage to look at a painful problem , especially if it has caused much embarrassment . In the final overs of the semi-final against New Zealand , the intensity of the situation got to be too much for the players. Two easy run-out opportunities were missed due to the phenomenon of " rushing " ( which manifests itself in a desperate , panicked and impatient mind-set ) . Over the years , South African teams going to World Cups have been repeating the same mistakes over and over. This repeated pattern has created the historical problem of choking , which you now need to address. I believe that the failures were embedded in a way of thinking , speaking and acting that inadvertently created the very problem they were trying to resolve . Please do n't despair about this. You have an opportunity to resolve this issue. But this will require a new philosophy and paradigm of thinking , resulting in a new way of being on and off the cricket field . All of the teams leaving South African shores have had excellent camaraderie and team spirit. They have also been totally committed on the field and have always given 100 % effort. Further , I do not feel that their cricket skills have been an issue. However , the fundamental emotional and mental issues that all of the previous teams have struggled with are definitely a problem . Teams going to the World Cups have had sports psychologists , mental conditioning coaches , motivational gurus and expert consultants to assist them with the mental aspects of the tournament. I do n't know what is discussed or advised by these professionals , but sometimes information about strategies and/or techniques that these professionals suggest tends to make its way into media reports. I am not sure why , since this should be a private , confidential process . Be careful to not promise to bring the Cup home before any match is played : there is no need to tell everyone how important it is for the nation that you win , or that you need to make the nation proud by winning For example , I read in an article that in this World Cup the idea of " showing no weakness " was part of the team 's strategy. Given this mantra , I was surprised to see how the players reacted on the field after the loss against New Zealand. It became apparent to me that in failure and disappointment the ability of the players to show no weakness was compromised , and instead a child-like emotional reaction ( and to some extent self-pity ) was revealed. The 2019 captain will have to deal with these images when the press again confronts the team with the harsh reality of failures in the World Cups. In other words , 2015 has added another layer of emotional pain that will have to be dealt with . If you do decide to bring in a mental consultant for your preparation , be sensitive to the confidential nature of the process. Do not go public with any intervention that may be decided on , since this reduces the effectiveness of the work that is done at the mental level . I mentioned that a new paradigm of thinking and acting is necessary if you want to win the World Cup. This paradigm is based on , among other things , co-evolved reality creation , energy and information flow , process-orientated thinking and zen-like attitudes. While this may sound complex and difficult to comprehend , it is not . The team will need to be taken through a process of change and maturation , in which they heal past pain and learn from past mistakes and approach the challenge of competition in a more co-operative way . Every team at the World Cup is playing for their country and wants to bring the trophy home. Every team tries its best to win. Every team feels the pain of losing. Your team is no different. Every opponent your team faces will be challenging you to produce your best , just like you will be challenging them to be at their best. That is the nature of competition . As part of the transformation in your team , you will need to shift the sense of entitlement and intense desperation in the team to prove its worth to the world. Be careful to not promise to bring the Cup home before any match is played : there is no need to tell everyone how important it is for the nation that you win , or that you need to make the nation proud by winning. The nation will always be proud of you if you deal with victory and loss in an humble and honourable way , after you have given 100 % commitment on the day of competition. It is not necessary to speak about this ; actions are far more powerful. Let the nation see for itself . Think of life as being a co-operative energy flow between what you think and say and the way that life responds to you. I believe that you have half a pen to write your life story , life has the other half. It is very much the same when it comes to competing against another team , batsmen or bowlers. The opposition also influences the process. As a case in point , I was impressed with the way the New Zealand batsmen chased the target of 298 in only 43 overs , batting second. They were remarkably calm and emotionally balanced. They were also part of the story of the match. They had half their pen to make a mark on history and go through to the finals . You need to be able to assess your abilities in a realistic way. Most South African teams tend to exaggerate their abilities and underestimate the task at hand. For example , in November last year , the one-day team was beaten 4-1 by Australia . In the round-robin pool matches of the World Cup tournament , the team lost to India and Pakistan . In the semi-final , they lost to New Zealand by four wickets. South Africa lost to teams that are considered mainstream cricket-playing nations. The team may have built up the expectation of being able to win the World Cup by putting too much emphasis on their emphatic , one-sided results against teams such as UAE , Ireland , Zimbabwe , and an uninterested-seeming West Indies . Every cricketer , coach , member of support staff , and administrator ( past and present ) is wrapped up in the problem that the South African team is trying to resolve. Given this , very little new information can be generated internally. That 's the nature of the situation that they find themselves in . Doing charity work could be one way of helping players see life as more than just cricket © Sri Lanka Cricket As part of the new way of thinking and the new transformational process , some of the following ideas could be considered : 1. Bring in poets , philosophers , artists and ordinary every-day people with inspirational stories to address the team on an ongoing basis as part of a development programme. Group discussions and individual reflective writing need to follow. This will help to expand creativity , heighten sensitivity , and take the players out of the restrictive world of cricket . 2. Each member of the team needs to do a soft internal exercise that will help balance the energy system. Doing a martial art , tai chi , yoga , meditation or pilates will assist in developing an inner balance . 3. The team needs to go through an ongoing group therapy process to heal past pain and to develop an internal dynamic that resolves issues effectively. Linked to this is the idea that each player develops more self-awareness and becomes a leader of self . 4. Each player needs to commit to a hobby and/or field of study , and this needs to be monitored. This process will help broaden players ' interests outside of the world of cricket . 5. Every player needs to do some charity work. This should be ongoing , not done as a one-off promotional event , accompanied by media attention. This will help ground the players emotionally , so they see life as a bigger picture . After developing the team as described above , will the team be guaranteed to win ? Unfortunately , no . The process of human transformation goes beyond winning. A new narrative is required for the team , and it should not be judged by a result in a tournament. Instead , the purpose of the transformation is to develop a more grounded , emotionally balanced , energetic system in each player . I am reminded of the story of the two samurai warriors who were pitted against each by their respective emperors to fight to the death to see which empire would be victorious and so able to annex the other. There was a lot at stake. Before the fight each warrior went into solitary meditation for about a week. To meditate on what ? The story goes that they meditated on their death. They made peace with dying. They did this since the worry of death during the fight would have distracted their focus , which would result in their death. They both knew that only one would remain , yet there was a serenity in both as they faced each other . As with previous teams , in 2019 there will be a great group of players who will be proud to represent their country. The South African spirit is resilient. The challenge is to combine this with a culture of learning that facilitates a quantum leap in the team . All the best for the challenges in 2019 and before . Dr Ken Jennings specialises in the field of performance psychology. He consulted with the SA cricket team in 2000-01 , and has extensive experience in working with international athletes and teams across various sports © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . OLDEST on April 10 , 2015 , 3 : 53 GMT It is well known that all the South African cricketers think they are best cricketers under the sky thinking they are all well trained by best coach at the same they always underestimate the opposition and play copy book cricket like stereo without adjusting to the circumstances and this s causing many times a downfall and they do not experiment with new ideas .On the other side their opposition knows how play in adverse circumstances this was well demonstrated by India and New Zealand . To be frank barring two or three players in South African team rest is useless and very good tourists .Take from at least another ten years they wont win world cup. Look how Australia and New Zealand played with bold approach and adjusting to all circumstances aus_trad on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 00 GMT SA fans - I think it might just be a matter of time. Aus has never really had a problem with 'choking ' in ODIs , but there has long been one in tests ( close finishes ) . It started in 1981 , when two tests were lost while chasing small targets. Stats since then show an extraordinarily lopsided loss-win ration for Aus in tests decided by 1 or 2 wickets , or fewer than 30 runs. Perhaps unsurprisingly , one of the nations Aus has done better against in this regard is S.A. It 's only over the last several years that the entire Aus team has had no connection to the disasters of 1981 ( no one left in the team who played with Alan Border , specifically ) . Correspondingly , there are signs that the 'hoodoo ' is starting to lift. I think we underestimate psychological factors at our peril. For S.A. , it might similarly be a case of waiting for a generation who no longer identify with the 'choker ' label due to not having been a part of one of the teams involved in such debacles . TheBigBoodha on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 15 GMT I agree with the overall idea that the team was just trying too hard. Martin Crowe picked this up in an article before the WC began. They do need to loosen up a bit. I like the idea of yoga , as suggested ! That 'll get them loose ! Somewhere there 's a line to be drawn between intense focus and relaxed presence. It 's probably somewhere in between AB 's over-intense attitude and Dhoni 's kicking a soccer ball around before the game ! And I do n't buy the " arrogant Aussie " thing for a second. Australia was well focussed and disciplined. When they lost in NZ they publicly congratulated NZ , admitted their weaknesses , moved on. They always do this when they lose. You never hear Clarke or anyone else whinging about umpires , how badly behaved the opposition is , or pitch doctoring. They could have protested about the way they were treated in NZ by the crowd. But they said nothing . ToMori on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 03 GMT This time , there was no choking ; both teams played very well during that game , and the better side won. For consultants and critics , it is their job to find something and drool over it. All teams have misfielded or dropped catches in games like these ( a good example is the 1996 WC final where Aussies dropped three catches ) . Well played , Saffas ! And for SA fans , do cheer your team for their performance and also for giving us the best game of WC2015 ! ! on April 9 , 2015 , 5 : 53 GMT I did n't really see this one as a choke by South Africa , New Zealand played very well and South Africa were unlucky with the rain delay as I think they would have batted New Zealand out of it had they gotten their 50 overs in . Possibly the biggest problem was Dale Steyn 's form , he was n't at his best and that allowed New Zealand to collar him. My thought was that DeVillers felt that showing a high degree of confidence in his team would help their performance . For all the talk about batting during the tournament , it was the team with the best bowlers that won it Given Steyn 's form , even if South Africa had scrambled over the line , I do n't think they 'd have threatened Australia in the final . Lonely_Shepherd on April 8 , 2015 , 19 : 46 GMT unfortunately until you get a team which actually wins the cup out of a hook or crook we can keep writing about south Africa 's always bridesmaid but never a bride performance till world 's end ? ? please publish its my 25th attempt on April 8 , 2015 , 19 : 20 GMT I remember watching the game and thinking 5-10 overs out that the result was inevitable. The big problem was AB DeVilliers ' body language. He looked so tense and it was obvious he was not psychologically in control of the situation. It did not look fun at all and it seemed like Eden Park was the last place in the world he 'd rather be. In the press conference after the game , it was obvious from AB 's interview how much pressure he felt to prove to the world that the team was worthy. I think the South Africans wanted it too much and when it counted , they could n't make calm decisions. Great players like DeVilliers and Duminy were reduced to half capacity because of stress. Whilst I agree with the author about all the problems of the SA team , I think they need to take a leaf out of Darren Lehmann 's book and just learn to enjoy the game more. With a team that good , you 'll win it one of these times . on April 8 , 2015 , 19 : 18 GMT Nice try but gobbledegook. To win you 've got to have the best team. Ali Bacher 's team of the early 70 's won everything because they were the best team . We will never know if they could have beaten India Pakistan West Indies etc but they had such balance and depth. This 2015 South African team was one player should of a full deck. That player 's name is Trevor Goddard. Unfortunately he is in his 80 's and there was n't a tight-as-a- tickey , swing-and-seam , close-in catching , opening or # 7 batsman in South African cricket at this time. This South African team got as far as possible with what they had . Grant Elliott besting Dale Steyn ! ! Who woulda thunk it. If Steyn could take that second last ball back and turn it into a yorker on leg stump all would be different. One Ball. Pretty close. And lets face it they probably would n't have beaten those preening Aussies in the final. Though it would have been a much better contest . dunger.bob on April 8 , 2015 , 14 : 07 GMT @ MIKENQN : Yes , there is a difference there. As an Aussie I find it a bit annoying that we 're always seen as the arrogant ones. The fact is you very rarely see an Aussie captain making statements like DeVilliers did. Some of our players have got a few tickets on themselves but the team philosophy is not based on arrogance by any means. I just do n't think you can win 5 of these things by being too arrogant. .. Of course , no-one other than another Australian is likely to agree with that . MikeNQN on April 8 , 2015 , 12 : 03 GMT Prior to the start of the World cup Clarke said " If Australia plays to its potential we should do well " when questioned further and asked if Australia would win , Clarke said " We will know in about a months time " . On the other hand AB for South Africa said " Our batsman are making runs , our bowlers are taking wickets. If we play to our potential we can match it with any team , and I honestly believe we have the team to win the world cup " . There is not much difference in what is said , but there is a difference and it makes all the difference . on April 10 , 2015 , 3 : 53 GMT It is well known that all the South African cricketers think they are best cricketers under the sky thinking they are all well trained by best coach at the same they always underestimate the opposition and play copy book cricket like stereo without adjusting to the circumstances and this s causing many times a downfall and they do not experiment with new ideas .On the other side their opposition knows how play in adverse circumstances this was well demonstrated by India and New Zealand . To be frank barring two or three players in South African team rest is useless and very good tourists .Take from at least another ten years they wont win world cup. Look how Australia and New Zealand played with bold approach and adjusting to all circumstances aus_trad on April 9 , 2015 , 12 : 00 GMT SA fans - I think it might just be a matter of time. Aus has never really had a problem with 'choking ' in ODIs , but there has long been one in tests ( close finishes ) . It started in 1981 , when two tests were lost while chasing small targets. Stats since then show an extraordinarily lopsided loss-win ration for Aus in tests decided by 1 or 2 wickets , or fewer than 30 runs. Perhaps unsurprisingly , one of the nations Aus has done better against in this regard is S.A. It 's only over the last several years that the entire Aus team has had no connection to the disasters of 1981 ( no one left in the team who played with Alan Border , specifically ) . Correspondingly , there are signs that the 'hoodoo ' is starting to lift. I think we underestimate psychological factors at our peril. For S.A. , it might similarly be a case of waiting for a generation who no longer identify with the 'choker ' label due to not having been a part of one of the teams involved in such debacles . TheBigBoodha on April 9 , 2015 , 10 : 15 GMT I agree with the overall idea that the team was just trying too hard. Martin Crowe picked this up in an article before the WC began. They do need to loosen up a bit. I like the idea of yoga , as suggested ! That 'll get them loose ! Somewhere there 's a line to be drawn between intense focus and relaxed presence. It 's probably somewhere in between AB 's over-intense attitude and Dhoni 's kicking a soccer ball around before the game ! And I do n't buy the " arrogant Aussie " thing for a second. Australia was well focussed and disciplined. When they lost in NZ they publicly congratulated NZ , admitted their weaknesses , moved on. They always do this when they lose. You never hear Clarke or anyone else whinging about umpires , how badly behaved the opposition is , or pitch doctoring. They could have protested about the way they were treated in NZ by the crowd. But they said nothing . ToMori on April 9 , 2015 , 8 : 03 GMT This time , there was no choking ; both teams played very well during that game , and the better side won. For consultants and critics , it is their job to find something and drool over it. All teams have misfielded or dropped catches in games like these ( a good example is the 1996 WC final where Aussies dropped three catches ) . Well played , Saffas ! And for SA fans , do cheer your team for their performance and also for giving us the best game of WC2015 ! ! on April 9 , 2015 , 5 : 53 GMT I did n't really see this one as a choke by South Africa , New Zealand played very well and South Africa were unlucky with the rain delay as I think they would have batted New Zealand out of it had they gotten their 50 overs in . Possibly the biggest problem was Dale Steyn 's form , he was n't at his best and that allowed New Zealand to collar him. My thought was that DeVillers felt that showing a high degree of confidence in his team would help their performance . For all the talk about batting during the tournament , it was the team with the best bowlers that won it Given Steyn 's form , even if South Africa had scrambled over the line , I do n't think they 'd have threatened Australia in the final . Lonely_Shepherd on April 8 , 2015 , 19 : 46 GMT unfortunately until you get a team which actually wins the cup out of a hook or crook we can keep writing about south Africa 's always bridesmaid but never a bride performance till world 's end ? ? please publish its my 25th attempt on April 8 , 2015 , 19 : 20 GMT I remember watching the game and thinking 5-10 overs out that the result was inevitable. The big problem was AB DeVilliers ' body language. He looked so tense and it was obvious he was not psychologically in control of the situation. It did not look fun at all and it seemed like Eden Park was the last place in the world he 'd rather be. In the press conference after the game , it was obvious from AB 's interview how much pressure he felt to prove to the world that the team was worthy. I think the South Africans wanted it too much and when it counted , they could n't make calm decisions. Great players like DeVilliers and Duminy were reduced to half capacity because of stress. Whilst I agree with the author about all the problems of the SA team , I think they need to take a leaf out of Darren Lehmann 's book and just learn to enjoy the game more. With a team that good , you 'll win it one of these times . on April 8 , 2015 , 19 : 18 GMT Nice try but gobbledegook. To win you 've got to have the best team. Ali Bacher 's team of the early 70 's won everything because they were the best team . We will never know if they could have beaten India Pakistan West Indies etc but they had such balance and depth. This 2015 South African team was one player should of a full deck. That player 's name is Trevor Goddard. Unfortunately he is in his 80 's and there was n't a tight-as-a- tickey , swing-and-seam , close-in catching , opening or # 7 batsman in South African cricket at this time. This South African team got as far as possible with what they had . Grant Elliott besting Dale Steyn ! ! Who woulda thunk it. If Steyn could take that second last ball back and turn it into a yorker on leg stump all would be different. One Ball. Pretty close. And lets face it they probably would n't have beaten those preening Aussies in the final. Though it would have been a much better contest . dunger.bob on April 8 , 2015 , 14 : 07 GMT @ MIKENQN : Yes , there is a difference there. As an Aussie I find it a bit annoying that we 're always seen as the arrogant ones. The fact is you very rarely see an Aussie captain making statements like DeVilliers did. Some of our players have got a few tickets on themselves but the team philosophy is not based on arrogance by any means. I just do n't think you can win 5 of these things by being too arrogant. .. Of course , no-one other than another Australian is likely to agree with that . MikeNQN on April 8 , 2015 , 12 : 03 GMT Prior to the start of the World cup Clarke said " If Australia plays to its potential we should do well " when questioned further and asked if Australia would win , Clarke said " We will know in about a months time " . On the other hand AB for South Africa said " Our batsman are making runs , our bowlers are taking wickets. If we play to our potential we can match it with any team , and I honestly believe we have the team to win the world cup " . There is not much difference in what is said , but there is a difference and it makes all the difference . on April 8 , 2015 , 11 : 58 GMT When a player from another team glides the ball to thirdman , its an edge ; when a SA player nicks one towards third-man - it 's superbly played ! ! ! Those that hang around the SA team , especially their analysts and commentators need to come out of this mentality.They have some very good players in their ranks that any team will be proud of - so stop inculcating arrogance and look at the best of what Australia ( consistency ) , New Zealand ( attack ) , West Indies ( flair ) , India ( playing within their limits ) and Pakistan ( passion ) have to offer . remnant on April 8 , 2015 , 11 : 36 GMT @ Praspunter , Well the article itself is an analysis , so what i have provided is also a valid what if scenario based on certain outcomes and assumptions. I have nowhere denied that Australia was a better team than India & only sought to have a critical look at the assertions that SA was somehow denied when it could have been a worthier champion. Not sure what got you twisted up so badly . PrasPunter on April 8 , 2015 , 11 : 24 GMT @ Remnant , 10 days since the WC is over , Aus are the champions and still you have time and space for ifs and buts ? ? ? Accept the fact that Aus took all the teams it faced to cleaners and yours is no exception ! ! on April 8 , 2015 , 11 : 11 GMT I do n't agree. Forget about other WC matches. This match against NZ , they are having enough run 's to defend. Like India , they also got flattered again OZ 's. So , I think they need a better side of Luck in these matches to win on any given day. The point you are raising is good for England team . PrasPunter on April 8 , 2015 , 11 : 06 GMT And what else @ Remnant , if Aus had lost to Pak , if india had played Pak , if NZ had played india.. if sun rises in the west and sets in the east.. The fact is that its almost 10 days since WC 2015 is over and Aus are the winners. Accept the fact and move on rather than glorifying a team that was taken to cleaners all summer by Aus ! ! remnant on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 57 GMT The SA attack was also the most ageing of the four semifinalists&not same it was a few years ago.Reason why they were taken apart by most teams.Both SA&NZ would have struggled in the final , due2first time jitters , and it was evident how the final would pan out once BMC implored Indian fans to support NZ.He was focusing on big stage atmospherics.Reminded me of fervently praying Brazilians at the WC. Fact is Aus were the only team that could have beaten India IN Australia , during the WC ; when they recoiled like a sleeping cobra , despite a forgettable tour prior &had QF gone in favor of Pakistan,d final would have been India 's. SA , NZ & Pakistan , all would have struggled to beat past India. Its cup pedigree , a good attack , chasing potential &a very astute captain who could soak up any pressure.With Aus out , Pak&SA would have melted facing their own WCdemons& NZ were too reliant on local pitches & conditions , as attested by final&would have struggled to contain a rampant Indian attack . on April 8 , 2015 , 9 : 10 GMT Well they really showed no weakness even Newzeland missed the catches and run out of AB but it does n't matter because they managed to hit six on the second last ball if Elliot failed to hit that you will be talking different. Kindly stand by your team i am watching south africa from 1992 and the way they played in this world cup i can never forget i am deeply hurted because i love them from 1992 but they played their hearts out this time and again rain caused the problem . Mervo on April 8 , 2015 , 6 : 49 GMT Thoughtful , but really it was not lack of ability or focus that beat them against NZ , just plain bad luck. You can never plan for that. Elliott had all the luck of both teams combined and SA should have won that contest if there had been any balance of luck. Even the commentators at the time there were a bit embarrassed. All credit to NZ but SA would have made for a better final. They would have lost of course .. . SA were good enough and are good enough with the strengths they have in bowling and batting. They do n't spend most of their time playing T20 and do practice the long game. Sometimes the best teams do n't win. Life 's like that . on April 8 , 2015 , 6 : 15 GMT @ Dunger and Jo_n - really thoughtful observations. The country ( including us fans ) and the team create so much pressure that the opposing teams just have to apply a little bit more and over we go ( mentally ) . I think we might just be starting to relax a bit though. It seems we handled this semi loss better than previous ones . jo_n on April 8 , 2015 , 5 : 45 GMT SA puts too much expectation on themselves and when not lived upto , they tend to express their disappointments. Take it easy thats the way to go for SA. There are also teams like england , newzealand who also havent won a world cup. SA should be more clinical in their final lapses in major tournaments if they have to cross the line. SA got talent and performers at top level but they need someone to inspire them or guide them to suceed a Worldcup in ODIs . One mistake that SA made during a crucial match is leaving Kyle Abbott Whos the best bowler for SA in the tournament for recovered Philander that shows poor decision making , lack of adaptive thinking ( SA not ready to change plans when situation demands ) & poor leardership. No captain would leave an inform player for a recovered player in a crunch game . on April 8 , 2015 , 4 : 38 GMT @ Rachit I was not trying to single out India. I like many others just believe there is a gap there. India did great but quite frankly over achieved at the WC. After that series in AUS I 'm sure you would have taken a SF result , and had ENG been your QF opponent it possibly would have ( based on recent form and talent ) again required somewhat of an upset for you to progress. In contrast SA underperformed and lost games they were favored to win in the group stage , but like I said all it takes to win a WC ( barring an ENG like catastrophe ) is to win 3 in a row. Do n't forget IND lost to SA when they won. WC.And AUS lost 2 NZ. You do n't have to be unbeaten just win QF , SF and F. We had the toughest QF opponent in SL and won that easy. And then performed really well against NZ in a tight loss that I still believe we would have won without the rain. In reality 2 of SA 's best performances were in the QF and SF which is what you want. Happy to call not winning it all a failure if you like though . dunger.bob on April 8 , 2015 , 2 : 52 GMT I think with SA it 's a classic case of wanting something just a bit too much. Whenever it comes into view and looks gettable they get shaky hands and drop it. It really is weird how many times it happens to them. I 'm not a big fan of the concept of a 'national psyche ' , but I 've got to say , SA ODI teams seem to invariable wobble in the really big games. Is it something in the Saffer way of seeing things that makes them do it ? I 'm still not convinced but they 're definitely making it hard to dismiss altogether. .. As an Aussie , I think a big advantage we have these days is that we broke our duck as far as WC 's go way back in the 80 's. Before SA was even re-admitted. I 'd say that 's a very under-appreciated difference between our teams. Just knowing you 've won the damn thing before has got to be an advantage does n't it ? on April 8 , 2015 , 0 : 03 GMT I disagree entirely - SA were definitely good enough to win this world cup but they ran into a red hot NZ team at home. I think the best thing to do for them is just to move on , be proud of their performances and understand that they were right in the contest and the have the ability to win a World Cup. Even as an Aussie , I thought this was their time. It 's a matter of when not if SA will win a World Cup . Also remember that a World Cup is the most difficult competition to win and by focusing too much on why SA have lost it in previous editions will do much more harm than good . SRAM20 on April 7 , 2015 , 23 : 19 GMT There seems to be two major frontiers in WC cricket - 1 ) Pakistan not being able to beat India in a WC match and 2 ) South Africa not being able to make it to the final ( and win ) of a WC tournament. And these two frontiers are hugely hyped up by the media these days. SAF need to take it easy and not stress themselves over the fact that they have n't won a WC. If they mentally demystify the idea of winning a WC , they should find it a lot more easier . srivatsan on April 7 , 2015 , 22 : 52 GMT @ vkarthik : Spot on dude. I 've seen this numerous times. Oz won the world cup so many times not because of fluke , be it 1999 or 2003 or 2007 every time they were pushed ( if they were ) some one stood up , Ponting / Steve Waugh / Gilchrist /Symonds / Warne/ Gillespie / Mcgrath heck even their ODI spinners like Brad Hogg. Even 2011 quarter final except for Yuvraj Singh Aussies would have closed the match . on April 7 , 2015 , 21 : 44 GMT Six months before the WC I tweeted Dale Steyn that if they wanted the Cup one of the fast bowlers needed to perfect the yorker. So what happens ? No-one can bowl a yorker. A year ago Starc was best remembered for his big mouth , right now he 's just about unplayable. What happened ? It 's called practice. Practice , practice , practice. Malinga has built a career on medium paced yorkers. Is no-one prepared to do the hard yards in the nets ? on April 7 , 2015 , 21 : 32 GMT One thing that stands out in all the Australian teams is a thorough professionalism.It is an amazing story of the turnaround of things in Australian cricket after the ICC champions trophy and the Ashes . As far as the Indian team is considered I do n't think our cricketers are as professional or as commited as the Aussies . The Indian premier league is all they are bothered about . Even the BCCI is least bothered about the team 's overseas performance.We get whacked time and again but we never see any sportive pitches for the domestic season . Pickwick on April 7 , 2015 , 18 : 00 GMT SA just werent good enough. And the panic showed and only the very polite wouldnt point it out. The contrast with the NZ cool was striking. But even NZ lost their cool against the remorseless Aussies. The Indians couldnt cope either , trying to guide bouncing balls down to third man four months after playing in those conditions.. . Vkarthik on April 7 , 2015 , 17 : 21 GMT This was probably their best chance. They might have been beaten by Australia. But atleast reaching final would have been a start. They put up decent score. All they had to do was get rid of McCullum. The chase would have been a non starter. But giving 25 runs to him in one over was a crime. Look how Starc delivered under pressure. Everything bang on target at the base of the stumps where Dale Steyn was serving length ball pies. If you give Australia a slight sniff they can win matches even from losing positions. SA does the opposite. They just lose from winning positions through daft captaincy or terrible fielding or atrocious bowling or pathetic batting or even running between the wickets. They just fail spectacularly in unison in crunch situations . r1m2 on April 7 , 2015 , 16 : 34 GMT I think the author and South Africa in general needs to take the ODI World Cup a little less seriously. At least to me it has very little importance in the world of cricket. I think " World Cup " does not make sense in the world of cricket. Cricket was , is and will always be run as a sport for the elites. It 's currently being run by ICC ( which somehow stands for India , Australia and England ) and pretty much every decision made is in their best interests. South Africa should see this is as just another tournament of the most boring format of the 3 . IMHO a true cricket world cup should be outside of ICC control and should only involve B teams from the nations with proper infrastructure and A teams from all others , where all but 2 nations have to qualify. The 2 nations who wo n't have to qualify are the host nation and the current champs ( like soccer world cup ) . telemarkskier on April 7 , 2015 , 16 : 32 GMT They just need to play better. They dont have the final thing , the something that takes them over. They lost to all the good teams they played against and thumped the bad teams. Heck , they even lost to a very average Pakistan team , that too , handily. For all their initial bluster , they were thumped by India and then in the semis when it all mattered. Basically , they lost to teams that showed some spine . ennem on April 7 , 2015 , 16 : 31 GMT Excellent advice by Dr,Jennings. I would like to add one more : SA team acts as if they can play only and exactly to , the script given to them , before the beginning of the match. This script is often made after a lot of video analyses and such things. in the match situation , the opponents do not always stick to their normal images or practices. They do improvise and I find that at such moments , SA team is caught off-guard. The freedom to improvise and innovate should be cultivated by the team. Then , they would not allow themselves to get into the pressure situations , as described by Dr.Jennings or even if they are , they will know how to get out of such situations. Be more purposefully intensive and be innovative. That is what I can tell the SA p ; ayers. Good luck to that great team ! on April 7 , 2015 , 15 : 59 GMT On psychoanalytical approach : Circa 1992 : Post economic liberalisation , one of the highly respected Indian companies called in two of us from a leading B Schools to run a workshop , to help them face competition better. My colleague was a highly respected Professor of Behavioral Science and Psychoanalysis. On the first morning he administered a questionnaire to all the managers attending the workshop , to be analysed during lunch break and fed back post lunch . Post lunch. we all assembled , and my colleague started reeling out his conclusions to the participants. Half way through , the MD of the group , who was also attending the workshop raised his hand , and asked with all seriousness he can command , " Are you talking about our company or some other.. " to the chagrin of the Prof , amidst loud laughter across the room . When I read this article , I could n't help recollecting that embarrassing situation in a real life situation . { } : - ) johnthekiwi on April 7 , 2015 , 15 : 43 GMT Ummm..am I missing something here ? SA made it to the SF of the World Cup. They are simply members of a group of nations that have n't won it yet. SA is an extremely solid test side and really the only threat to continued Australian dominance in that arena. Both teams are going through a phase where they will be losing stars in the near future but they have a core of newer , younger players in the wings ready to carry the torch. The same can not be said for any other side I can think of ( at least in terms of batting ) and so SA/Aus will dominate red ball cricket for the rest of this decade. SA vs Aus IS the most meaningful test series that is played every cycle. White ball cricket is for fun and money , red ball cricket is for making history and continuing a legacy . Cashiph on April 7 , 2015 , 15 : 17 GMT Winning and losing is the part of the game but the issue with Saffers is the attitude. If you go through the statement of ABD during WC you will see how much he was afraid of losing , he kept on saying " we are the best and will win the WC " even after loss to IND and PAK without realising that against India their bowling failed and against PAK their batting. I agree with point that they need a leader like Imran Khan/Steve Waugh/MS Dhoni who know how to pull victories when matters and without the best of resources in hands. So , try to make one great King rather than hundreds of perfect warriors ... a sincere advice from Pak passionate fan remnant on April 7 , 2015 , 14 : 07 GMT @ redneck , your observation on the Arthur stint was spot on.D changeover under Lehman has revived a team. Conversely SA are really like those studious blokes who obediently follow their teachers. This has led to a too much coaching culture. Who can forget the original uber coach Bob Woolmer and who revolutionized coaching.I suspect its this over emphasis on coaching/method that has been the bane of their quest to the biggest prize.Perhaps an Aussie coach or the advent of some real tenacious type cricketers ; maybe from rougher backgrounds , who would n't follow the script , would change this status.But then would such players be even tolerated in the first place ? It could be speculated that maybe the cricketing culture there could be preventing the emergence of such players ; unknowingly of course , but to its own detriment.I think SA cricket needs a breath of fresh air via spontaneity. Certainly not the one on a group mountain climb ! pjd_Howzat on April 7 , 2015 , 14 : 01 GMT The one thing that always costs us as South African cricketers are that we are too 'nice ' and do not have the 'arrogance ' and self-belief that we are better than other 's even if we are not . That is something the Aus players have in abundance. They do not really care or consider the oppositions skills. They just have an arrogant and unwavering belief that they are better than any one else . This you can also see in the way South Africans are raised. We are raised to consider other people and that we are not better than other 's but always equals. In cricket where this mental situation is exposed , it causes our downfall. In rugby that is different because you are meant to smash the opponent as hard as you can and this physical aspect of the game overrules the 'being nice ' on the field . Overcoming this way that we are raised will be the challenge , but possible on April 7 , 2015 , 13 : 20 GMT hogwash ..... . SA played well throughout the WC. India beat us cause they were best on the day , We played poorly against Pakistan , and the Sem-Final against NZ was every bit as competitive as it should have been . I do n't think we lost the game with our bowling attack... i do however think it was McCullum 's power up front that set the tone. We pulled it back nicely . There is no need for all these analysts , i think we have the right mental and physical strength at the moment. The thing with WC 's is that you only have one chance every 4 years. The previous WC 's we panicked , this WC we did not , but we were out powered : ) PROTEA FIRE all the way. i have no shame in being one of their biggest fans Kirstenfan on April 7 , 2015 , 11 : 16 GMT If you look at all the stats , the issue for SA was bowling ! We were one of the best if not the best batting sides statistically , but if you look at the bowling there were a few serious issues : - Steyn had a terrible WC , especially as he did n't strike with the new ball - Philander was injured , and similarly either did n't play or when he did was unable to strike up-front - Morkel had a great WC , but is the first change bowler and often when he did bowl there was already a partnership that had developed - Abbott was the stand-out bowler in every statistical and real sense , most importantly he struck with the new ball every single time - The 5th bowler was clearly an issue This was in that Zim , India , NZ all developed really strong top-order responses vs SA , which in the cases of India and NZ led to losses. Only in the Pak game did SA lose due to batting issues . So I 'd start with getting a new bowling coach who values bowling on the stumps , and who values yorkers over full tosses . pauliangenius on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 54 GMT This article just rubber stamps the fact that the rivers of medical and cricketing sense flow in opposite direction. Cricket has been made so glamorous that for God 's sake , doctors will now tells us winning formulas , Cricket is played on the day and it is about grabbing the moments that a team wins . Humdingers on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 40 GMT " Bring in poets , philosophers , artists and ordinary every-day people " ... this is exactly why SA have been knocked out/choked. Do you see other teams doing any of this ? Just get out there and play ! They do it in Tests anyway which is even more baffling as to why they ca n't do it limited overs formats. NZ were guilty of this to an extent and b/c of that additional pressure lost in the finals - or it could have been just a too strong a team they were up against. If anyone was going to beat the Aussies it would have been SA. But they have another 4 years to think abut whilst holding the undisputed chokers tag till then. The one good thing to come out of it...silence from some of their fan base ! Rahul_78 on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 35 GMT You do n't need shrinks , doctors or consultants who know nothing about the game of cricket. You need a Imran , Rantunga or Border to lead you out on the battle field. The day SAF ll find a leader of that caliber they ll win the world cup . thebestallrounder on April 7 , 2015 , 10 : 03 GMT Right from the start we did not pick the most balanced team for the world cup , why did we take Phangiso if he was not going to play any game. Ryan McLaren was the best and the most under rated player and so unlucky to miss the world cup when we clearly knew we needed a good solid all rounder. We were blessed for a while with the best all round players in world cricket namely Kallis , Klusener , Pollock , etc.... but I believe politics had a role in including Phangiso and not McLaren . It was a hard job for A.B but with politics you can clearly see we will never win any trophy until politics are kept away from the sports field . Harris652 on April 7 , 2015 , 9 : 45 GMT My guess is that New Zealand did n't employ an army of performance psychologists , nor spend any more time on studying , hobbies , charity work , yoga and development programmes. Take away all the overblown talk of philosophies and 'paradigms of thinking ' and a close game of cricket had a winner and a loser , simple as that . PrasPunter on April 7 , 2015 , 9 : 35 GMT @ Redneck , you are right - no way are SA and Aus similar in their approaches. Aus lost a few series off-late , but we rebounded very quickly as we have gone through all these sort of things in the past. Mickey Arthur 's text book stuff worked with SA but not with Aus. And see what Boof has done to this team in 2 years time ! ! That says enough about how things are different with Aus . on April 7 , 2015 , 9 : 33 GMT @ Steven Charie. Wow ! ! so you think only Aus , NZ and SA were similarly strong ? basically , 3 out of the 4 semi finalists - leaving only india out. regardless of the fact that india won all 7 matches till that stage. AND that SA lost most of the matches against top teams ! let me tell you why everyone thinks SA 's campaign was a failure - not because they lost in the semis - hey , that was the furthest any SA team has gone , winning a knockout match ! ! it was a failure because if you only look at the top 8 ranked teams , SA lost 3 matches out of 5 - now THAT is a failure ! ! docarw on April 7 , 2015 , 7 : 33 GMT SA need to learn to use their brains to relieve the pressure. When you have been trying and trying and trying without success , trying harder does n't help. When the pressure is on it comes down to how you use your brain. Do something different to what you have been doing. Make a choice you would n't normally make. And communicate better. Instead of constantly firing each other up , sometimes there is a time to calm down and take the pressure off yourselves as a group. Tell each other to take it easy and think through it. Trying harder does n't help when the pressure is on. Being relaxed , enjoying the game and thinking clearly , does help . on April 7 , 2015 , 7 : 30 GMT I would agree SA underperformed , but to WC you just have to win 3 in a row. There is nothing between AUS , NZ and SA and any one of can beat the other on any given day. We made the Semis by totally out playing SL and then lost to NZ on the second to last ball of the match. If and buts are great because they can never be proven right or wrong. The fact is we lost a tight game to a good team. When you lose like that there is no hiding emotions and with the margin being so small there are an infinite amount of ifs that may have won us the game. I still think we should have won ( Abbott ) with the total set , but there is no doubt that when the rain started there were happy NZers everywhere on the pitch and off. ABD is an outstanding cricketer and human being. Should he have not said the things he did ? No he believed we were the best and he wanted the players to believe. The fact that us making the semis is considered a huge failure by everyone here suggests you might agree with his comments . on April 7 , 2015 , 7 : 22 GMT Firstly - we lost fair and square to a better team on the day. It infuriates me to still read stuff about SA being unlucky. RUBBISH MAN ! Secondly , there needs to be some staff changes if the Protea 's want to go further. Look at the difference between Lehmann and Arthur. Lehmann transformed the Australian side in into living legends in a short period of time - whereas Mickey virtually destroyed the Australian team culture ( perhaps he was our secret weapon ) . Hire a bloke like Martin Crowe who gives real world practical advice and knows how cricket players think. Maybe even hire an Aussie or two to teach them how to 'mentally obliterate ' the competition. The last thing the Protea 's need is this airy fairy stuff where they go to a mountain to 'find themselves' redneck on April 7 , 2015 , 7 : 12 GMT i used to think that australia and south africa had very similar out looks on sport , certainly dont anymore ! as @ remnant points out they are too text book and methodical. yes you need to have a good technique to succeed in cricket but there is way too much emphasis put on homework etc. saffa mickey arthurs aussie coaching stint comes to mind. in aus sport has to have an element of enjoyment , the players have to want to be out there playing it. the south africans turn sport into an exam like situation ( who the hell likes taking exams , or the presure you feel in the lead up to one yet alone turning something you enjoy into one ? ? ? ) enlightenedone on April 7 , 2015 , 6 : 45 GMT It seems even the media has taken pity for South Africa. Facts are South Africa choked again. Dropped grant elliot catch was an example. Failure to bowl the yorker by dale steyn another . Kaka13 on April 7 , 2015 , 6 : 38 GMT SA performance in WC was not good as they did n't win any match against good teams ( India , Pakistan , NL .. ) , exception being SL and crushed the weaker opponents ruthlessly. If we analyze closely , they cracked under pressure , SL offered the match them on platter. Batting hero was ABD and bowling , not Steyn no Morkel but Tahir ( Spinner ) . Andre117 on April 7 , 2015 , 5 : 51 GMT I think what lost us the world cup was that it was the first world cup where we did not have balance in the team. They did not have that superstar all-rounder we had in every world cup until this one. There was always insecurity over whether we should play an extra batsman or an extra bowler. If Quinton is in form we will have the strongest top 6 batsmen. So I would say to be a strong ODI side we need to trust our top 6 to do the business ( they do so more often than not ) and play with 5 bowlers. Alternatively spend the next few years unearthing a superstar all-rounder. Bonus : PRACTICE BOWLING YORKERS ! 4Klove on April 7 , 2015 , 5 : 26 GMT SA should remove the fear psychosis while playing in ICC tournaments. They should take some lessons from other formidable teams like Australia and India on how to play major tournaments while you 're representing your country . on April 7 , 2015 , 4 : 38 GMT this is nonsense the only way they will get through that tag in semi 's is to bat second.they take a safety first approach in crucial games which is unnecessary.they are not prepared to lose in order to win.they shld bat second let whatever happens take it.i didnt pity them when they lost because they were haunted by the fear of failure when weather clearly was to play spoil sport . PrasPunter on April 7 , 2015 , 4 : 36 GMT @ YouKnowIAmRight , you are pretty much right - they kept denying that they were thoroughly beaten by Aus and the score-line of 4-1 did n't make any sense to them . How on earth would a team that lost 1-4 be better than the one that won it ? Obviously they were flattered by the series victory against Aus in Zim ! ! Aus picked the signs from there as well the defeat against NZ in the league match. SA did n't pick any , remained in denial mode and eventually paid the price . @ Jose P , yes Sir , they played poorly throughout the WC - save for a few victories against minnows , their performance has largely been poor. And they still believe they were robbed of something and unlucky . Paddyclark on April 7 , 2015 , 3 : 38 GMT The suggestion that luck or duckworth-lewis is what cost South Africa the game against New Zealand is nonsense . South Africa won the toss and in circumstances where there was inclement weather and rain forecast , they still chose to bat. This was AB 's and South Africa 's decision to bat in what was likely to be rain interrupted D/L affected innings and to then bowl with a wet ball . I would say any other team in international cricket , given the same conditions , would have bowled first - hard to say that 's anything to do with luck . Secondly , they still had several opportunities to win the match that were pretty straight forward ( even by club cricket standards ) . Why sugar coat it ? They grasped defeat from the jaws of victory and we know what that is called . on April 7 , 2015 , 3 : 22 GMT @ KINGOWL ON APRIL 7 , 2015 , 3 : 01 GMT : I agree with you. SA-NZ game could have gone either way. SA committed more errors in the field , on that day . My View : If SA had won the semi , it would have been still tough to beat Australia , who were a far better side than any other team in this WC . As I posted earlier , throughout the tournament they ( SA ) did not play well , There were only a few honourable exceptions like AB in batting and Tahir in bowling . KingOwl on April 7 , 2015 , 3 : 01 GMT I am sorry , but I think this is just a load of rubbish. We always find such views after major tournaments. SA does not need a new philosophy nor a new paradigm. They just need to play exactly the way they were playing during this world cup. Winning WCs is a matter of luck. NZ-SA , match could have gone either way. NZ were just a bit luckier. Everybody panics at the death in huge games. NZ did too , but still they prevailed. If SA went to the final , it might have been quite different. Although NZ were a very good side , they had no experience playing in Australia during the WC. SA did , on the other hand , and they could have gone on to win against Aus. I have no doubt . YouKnowIAmRight on April 7 , 2015 , 2 : 36 GMT The Saffers were delusional about their prospects in the CWC. After getting back from Australia in November after being thrashed 4-1 by Australia the captain declared that the Proteas were the better team. Perhaps the good doctor can help the Proteas reconnect with reality . samincolumbia on April 7 , 2015 , 1 : 54 GMT SA does not have it in them to win a World Cup or any multi nation tournament for that matter. The only reason they even won the matches in the group games against associates was that they batted first. Put in a good team like NZ and even that safety net is gone as it happened in the QF . landl47 on April 7 , 2015 , 1 : 22 GMT Although as an England supporter I have no reason to feel superior , I thought SA was the most disappointing team in the WC ( no-one expected England to do anything anyway ! ) . I had them down as second favorite to Australia before the tournament started , but they lost to India , Pakistan and New Zealand and did n't even play Australia. By any measure , they could n't be rated as better than 4th in the world and Pakistan fans might challenge that . The depressing thing is that they do n't have the young talent that other teams do. They have always depended on their stars. By the next WC Amla and Steyn will be 36 and ABD 35. They are not going to be any better then than they are now. Other leading players , DuPlessis , Duminy , Morkel and Philander , will also be in their mid-30s . This might have been their best chance for a trophy and they blew it . kickapakibutt on April 7 , 2015 , 0 : 21 GMT What SA needs is Duckworth and Lewis system replaced by something sensible . Hold_the_line on April 6 , 2015 , 23 : 20 GMT Some interesting ideas , many that are not without merit. However SA will not overcome the weight of past failures , patterns of pressure induced losses and the intense expectation of their nation until each member of their team has a fearless attitude , led by an agressive fearless leader , ref. NZ and Brendan McCullum. NZ earned much respect for their style of play and their " we might just win it " attitude. South Africa need that kind of attitude , not one that believes they have the best side in the world when they dont. Best batsman yes , best test bowler yes , but not best side. DeVilliers comments about his team during the tournament were highly polarised and were n't helpful either , " we have the best team " then " they guys were lacking in excitement " " I cant say anything good about the team today " . 2019 could well be their WC but only if they stop sabotaging their own chances . dsig3 on April 6 , 2015 , 22 : 44 GMT Its pretty hard to win a world cup mate. SA dont have a god given right to win it. There seems to be an expectation among their supporters that they should win it but I think that hurts them. They have a good team but lost to a better team in the Kiwis on the day. SA should not feel as if they should of won that match because the Kiwis were a very good side at home. If SA had of made it to the finals I still think they would of come up short against the Aussies who peaked at the right time. If I was going to be critical , I would look at their captaincy. AB really wilted under the pressure in that game. I think alot of teams in the world would of noticed that too. Great batsman , not sure if he is a great leader . remnant on April 6 , 2015 , 22 : 42 GMT The points 1-5 proposed by the author are so funny. Its this thought pattern of quantifying every thing so that a desired result will be produced , which has created an Android ( not the phones ! ) type cricketer that plays like a machine , and wins as efficiently as a machine , throughout seasons , but come crunch time , fails to lift up their game , which their rather human opponents are able to do and some even conjure it up when no chance is given to them against such man-machines. SA is obsessed with method and unable to rouse its passions. Actually there are teams that are too methodical and some like WI & Pak too passion lay , while some in between such as India and Aus have found a good middle ground to harness both. If SA wants to win the cup , charity and poets will definitely not help. Take it from me . on April 6 , 2015 , 22 : 26 GMT Interesting read , some valid points as well as some silly ones. One thing should be remembered always , SA made their first mistake before a ball was bowled. Selection. They lack the conviction to pick players on their day like other managements do. this costs them in such tournaments. Their foolproof method of sticking to their guns has worked in Tests cricket but will never in a WC. The best men must play on the day or we will never see SA lift a trophy. All said and done , the 11 on field did their part , u need luck to win a WC and NZ had the better of us in that department. in essence , a WC is like a final Exam , hardly a true test or reflection of a team. A lot needs to go your way for u to win one . __PK on April 6 , 2015 , 22 : 05 GMT Sorry , MATHEW CONSTABLE , do n't agree. Go back to the second last over of the match and watch Duminy spoil Behardien 's catch off Elliott which would almost certainly have guaranteed SA the win. Then tell me SA did n't lose it . glen1 on April 6 , 2015 , 21 : 07 GMT Maybe , SA does not function as a team ; in this way , it may be close to West Indies with Stars but not a team. Moving forward , it needs to address how to build a team with members emerging from different demographics. Maybe in this sense , it needs to look up to India . Sir_Francis on April 6 , 2015 , 20 : 45 GMT " truthfully acknowledge the problem " So what you are saying is ( much like the english media ) your team was the BEST team in the WC and there are other excuses why you lost . It 's very rare for anyone to acknowledge that the best team won. However , in the WC , the best team did win . SA 's problem is they were n't the best. They were in the Top 4 , certainly. But not the best . Full disclosure : I 'm Australian. Further disclosure : I wanted NZ to win ( I was hoping they were the best but unfortunately they were n't ) millsy24 on April 6 , 2015 , 20 : 45 GMT I agree with a lot of the comments below. ABD coming out and saying they were the best team in the World Cup was probably the wrong thing to say. If Clarke had come out and said that he would have been slammed from end of the world to the other. De Kock was very ordinary pretty much the whole way until the last couple of games. The bowling was n't good either , especially Steyn. Then leaving out the in form bowler for someone who was very underdone by the looks of it was a huge mistake. In the semi , ABD looked and acted panicked from the minute they walked out to field. Nowhere near the cool head required and his panic passed onto the rest of them . on April 6 , 2015 , 19 : 54 GMT You know who needs a new narrative ? New Zealand. They WON this game. SA did n't loose it , NZ won it. They won it by taking their opportunities , chasing hard and overcoming their own mistakes. They made plenty of thpse in the field , and they were just as bad as the Proteas mistakes. In the end they chased a near impossible target and won. That 's the narrative , SA were outplayed on the day by a very good team . yenjvoy1 on April 6 , 2015 , 18 : 25 GMT Funny as hell. South Africa do not need a new narrative. No team won the world cup because it had the best narrative. South Africa need to win. They need to not lose . on April 6 , 2015 , 18 : 25 GMT Or they could score more runs and/or take more wickets ( especially when they are being offered on a plate like at the end of the New Zealand innings ) .. . PrasPunter on April 6 , 2015 , 16 : 37 GMT In my opinion , there is no substitute for something very basic - the skills on the field ! ! Did SA have the best opening pair ? How about their much taunted bowling attack ? How good was their middle-order , save for a certain ABVD ? I bet the answer would be negative for all these ! ! I guess they just denied that they were outplayed by Aus back in Nov ! ! That should have been a wake-up call but no signs were picked ! ! Aus might have lost a couple of series to SA . But I can say for sure that when it comes to winning , Aus is way too superior to them ! ! vkumar_086 on April 6 , 2015 , 16 : 20 GMT SA continuously being stopped by Aus & NZ since from 1999 in world cups...in 1999 by Aus , in 2003 by NZ , in 2007-Aus , in 2011 by NZ & in 2015 by NZ...so they have a psychological effect when either of Aus & NZ in WC knock out matches...it requires some philosophical/psychological change in mind of players to break the hoodoo...false confidence like " we are best team in the world cup " will not have any effect on performance of the team on April 6 , 2015 , 15 : 48 GMT There is a bit of over analysis here. There are a few facts one should accept and move on . 1. The performance of the bowlers was far below their normal standards. Except the new comer Tahir 's. Steyn was a shadow of his normal self. Every bowler goes over the hump before the gradual decline starts. Has Steyn just passed over that hump ? Same is the case with Morkel. Philander 's injury should not be used as an excuse. Even before the injury , he was below par. What can the team do when the frontal attack does n't fire . 2. Batting : Except AB , others did not come up to their normal standards. Amla & de Cok were the 'best ' cases in point. Faf & others also disappointed . 3. In the semi 's. the team defeated themselves. There I agree with the author. " High ' & " loud " expectations , artificially trumped by their own public pronouncements , certainly knotted their nerves facing a cool opponent inches towards victory . Simply put : Performed poorly . headleyy on April 6 , 2015 , 14 : 55 GMT I agree that psychology is critical in sport at the highest level.It is important however to remember that the advantage often goes to the home team , and objectively South Africa was not clearly the best team.In fact there is no truly dominant team in cricket. Finally South Africa has a lot more to do to become a truly unified country . izzidole on April 6 , 2015 , 14 : 35 GMT I remember before the South Africa cricket team left for the 2015 cricket world cup they were given a big send off and were considered favourites by their country men to win the world cup. This no doubt put lot of pressure on the team to win the title somehow. They managed to beat weaker teams like the West Indies , Zimbabwe , UAE,and Ireland and lost to tougher teams like India and Pakistan in the group. Defeating New Zealand at home was indeed going to be a difficuilt proposition and the pressure of not losing this crucial game in the semi finals was too much of a burden on the team. As a result they choked once again and lost the match even after putting up a big score. Their bowling and poor fielding let them down . The teams reaction on the field after losing the game said it all that they had let down their fans once again and were ashamed to return home empty handed. Another 4 years before the next world cup is a long wait . ODI_BestFormOfCricket on April 6 , 2015 , 14 : 31 GMT AB De villeries over reacted after losing match against India and pak. He said we are best team , we will win world cup , we will beat any team etc. he was hiding weakness of his team ! ! GermanPlayer on April 6 , 2015 , 14 : 06 GMT How about we start an investigation on why an in-form Abbott was replaced by a struggling Philander ? If SA want to be successful , they need to put their best 11 out their , not the best 'transformed 11'. Equal opportunities should be given at grass roots level not at the national team level . on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 44 GMT There is some over-philosophizing here. SA could easily have won. If DeVilliers had not fumbled the run-out chance ( not really his fault , the fielder should have gently lobbed it in ) , if two fielders had n't run into each other with an over to go , they would have beaten NZ. Maybe if it had n't rained they would have won - ca n't blame them for that. There is a lot of luck in cricket - fielding errors sometimes make a big difference and sometimes they do n't. Australia were probably the best side overall , but they lost to NZ earlier when both sides were 100 % trying. If those two matches had been the other way around , NZ would be champions. We should all be happy that Australia , who overall looked just about the strongest , won the tournament. NZ and SA should be happy that they were close and could have won if luck went their way. If you want to talk about teams who need a new attitude , talk about England who did not look capable of beating any of the top teams . on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 35 GMT You left out possibly the most important point of all : The team needs to be selected on merit , not quotas. Behardien should have been nowhere near that squad , with McClaren and Weise around. It left the squad unbalanced , with the laughable result that Duminy was the 5th bowler on a tiny ground like Eden Park. And Phangso did n't play a single match. So why select him ? cricket-india on April 6 , 2015 , 12 : 54 GMT agree regd expectations before the cup and the reactions after the failure are concerned ; first , face the reality - you displayed bravado by suggesting india were ripe for the picking , and we saw what happened when you played india. then u lost to pak , and only won against an uninterested windies ; the only real credit u deserve is for pulling your weight against SL ( no mean feat , considering how SL always find a way out esp in knockouts , as opposed to u so far ) . the writer is alos correct abt how the proteas were found out by pressure ; if i had a steyn-like bowler defending my total againts the kiwi lower order , the pressure would be on the other side , what with old man vettori and a rusty , unproven , third-choice elliot to bowl to - but lo and behold , steyn bowls length and gets hit out of the park. in all the self-pity and consolation mania , has anyone asked why steyn had to bowl length at that time ? bottom line , SA have a longer way to go than the QF against SL showed . Sgtm1993 on April 6 , 2015 , 12 : 44 GMT SA 's Main problem is their stubbornness ! I do n't like AB 's captaincy..He 's a kind of captain who leads from the front with his batting and that 's very admirable but as a tactician..he 's pretty clueless at times. You do n't have to have 5 slips to be a great captain , but you got ta work out plans for each individual batsman. For Example : We 'll knew Brendon Mccullum loves to come out of his crease and have a swing at it , and AB for once in that innings against him told his bowlers to just stick to the basic and bowl good yorkers...and BAZZ took the game away from SAFFA 's. Having yoga therapy , reading poems , and all are great but you need an astute tactician to think out of the box , and win games and AB just seems to be stubborn with his tactics and thinks one day it will eventually workout ! No featured comments at the moment . Sgtm1993 on April 6 , 2015 , 12 : 44 GMT SA 's Main problem is their stubbornness ! I do n't like AB 's captaincy..He 's a kind of captain who leads from the front with his batting and that 's very admirable but as a tactician..he 's pretty clueless at times. You do n't have to have 5 slips to be a great captain , but you got ta work out plans for each individual batsman. For Example : We 'll knew Brendon Mccullum loves to come out of his crease and have a swing at it , and AB for once in that innings against him told his bowlers to just stick to the basic and bowl good yorkers...and BAZZ took the game away from SAFFA 's. Having yoga therapy , reading poems , and all are great but you need an astute tactician to think out of the box , and win games and AB just seems to be stubborn with his tactics and thinks one day it will eventually workout ! cricket-india on April 6 , 2015 , 12 : 54 GMT agree regd expectations before the cup and the reactions after the failure are concerned ; first , face the reality - you displayed bravado by suggesting india were ripe for the picking , and we saw what happened when you played india. then u lost to pak , and only won against an uninterested windies ; the only real credit u deserve is for pulling your weight against SL ( no mean feat , considering how SL always find a way out esp in knockouts , as opposed to u so far ) . the writer is alos correct abt how the proteas were found out by pressure ; if i had a steyn-like bowler defending my total againts the kiwi lower order , the pressure would be on the other side , what with old man vettori and a rusty , unproven , third-choice elliot to bowl to - but lo and behold , steyn bowls length and gets hit out of the park. in all the self-pity and consolation mania , has anyone asked why steyn had to bowl length at that time ? bottom line , SA have a longer way to go than the QF against SL showed . on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 35 GMT You left out possibly the most important point of all : The team needs to be selected on merit , not quotas. Behardien should have been nowhere near that squad , with McClaren and Weise around. It left the squad unbalanced , with the laughable result that Duminy was the 5th bowler on a tiny ground like Eden Park. And Phangso did n't play a single match. So why select him ? on April 6 , 2015 , 13 : 44 GMT There is some over-philosophizing here. SA could easily have won. If DeVilliers had not fumbled the run-out chance ( not really his fault , the fielder should have gently lobbed it in ) , if two fielders had n't run into each other with an over to go , they would have beaten NZ. Maybe if it had n't rained they would have won - ca n't blame them for that. There is a lot of luck in cricket - fielding errors sometimes make a big difference and sometimes they do n't. Australia were probably the best side overall , but they lost to NZ earlier when both sides were 100 % trying. If those two matches had been the other way around , NZ would be champions. We should all be happy that Australia , who overall looked just about the strongest , won the tournament. NZ and SA should be happy that they were close and could have won if luck went their way. If you want to talk about teams who need a new attitude , talk about England who did not look capable of beating any of the top teams . GermanPlayer on April 6 , 2015 , 14 : 06 GMT How about we start an investigation on why an in-form Abbott was replaced by a struggling Philander ? If SA want to be successful , they need to put their best 11 out their , not the best 'transformed 11'. Equal opportunities should be given at grass roots level not at the national team level . ODI_BestFormOfCricket on April 6 , 2015 , 14 : 31 GMT AB De villeries over reacted after losing match against India and pak. He said we are best team , we will win world cup , we will beat any team etc. he was hiding weakness of his team ! ! izzidole on April 6 , 2015 , 14 : 35 GMT I remember before the South Africa cricket team left for the 2015 cricket world cup they were given a big send off and were considered favourites by their country men to win the world cup. This no doubt put lot of pressure on the team to win the title somehow. They managed to beat weaker teams like the West Indies , Zimbabwe , UAE,and Ireland and lost to tougher teams like India and Pakistan in the group. Defeating New Zealand at home was indeed going to be a difficuilt proposition and the pressure of not losing this crucial game in the semi finals was too much of a burden on the team. As a result they choked once again and lost the match even after putting up a big score. Their bowling and poor fielding let them down . The teams reaction on the field after losing the game said it all that they had let down their fans once again and were ashamed to return home empty handed. Another 4 years before the next world cup is a long wait . headleyy on April 6 , 2015 , 14 : 55 GMT I agree that psychology is critical in sport at the highest level.It is important however to remember that the advantage often goes to the home team , and objectively South Africa was not clearly the best team.In fact there is no truly dominant team in cricket. Finally South Africa has a lot more to do to become a truly unified country . on April 6 , 2015 , 15 : 48 GMT There is a bit of over analysis here. There are a few facts one should accept and move on . 1. The performance of the bowlers was far below their normal standards. Except the new comer Tahir 's. Steyn was a shadow of his normal self. Every bowler goes over the hump before the gradual decline starts. Has Steyn just passed over that hump ? Same is the case with Morkel. Philander 's injury should not be used as an excuse. Even before the injury , he was below par. What can the team do when the frontal attack does n't fire . 2. Batting : Except AB , others did not come up to their normal standards. Amla & de Cok were the 'best ' cases in point. Faf & others also disappointed . 3. In the semi 's. the team defeated themselves. There I agree with the author. " High ' & " loud " expectations , artificially trumped by their own public pronouncements , certainly knotted their nerves facing a cool opponent inches towards victory . Simply put : Performed poorly . vkumar_086 on April 6 , 2015 , 16 : 20 GMT SA continuously being stopped by Aus & NZ since from 1999 in world cups...in 1999 by Aus , in 2003 by NZ , in 2007-Aus , in 2011 by NZ & in 2015 by NZ...so they have a psychological effect when either of Aus & NZ in WC knock out matches...it requires some philosophical/psychological change in mind of players to break the hoodoo...false confidence like " we are best team in the world cup " will not have any effect on performance of the team
