OLDEST Roshan_P on April 13 , 2015 , 12 : 59 GMT If he 's as quick as they 're saying then this could be promising. However , as with Reece Topley and a few others , we need to wait until they have been performing consistently for a while at county level . CricketingStargazer on April 13 , 2015 , 9 : 04 GMT I find the Tymal Mills bandwagon a bit depressing really. This is someone who has struggled to get into the rather average attack of an average 2nd Division county yet , because we were awful , for the second winter running he becomes the Messiah. Balanced against that I suppose we do have the counter-opinion that Bob Willis ( who was decent in Tests ) rarely performed at county level but , for every Bob Willis you have several Devon Malcoms ( lest we forget , he debuted with 0-176 v Australia before briefly firing ) . Right now Mills would be a shock weapon only : 2 or 3 spells a day of 3-4 potentially wild overs, SamWintson92 on April 13 , 2015 , 4 : 13 GMT 1. Tymal Mills is an exciting prospect for England. Someone bowling at 90 + mph is no joke. Left arm fast is trending nowadays. He needs a good county season under his belt. 2. I also feel Reece Topley should have been in line or around for a England pace . Jaffa79 on April 11 , 2015 , 22 : 05 GMT This is the kind of writing that will get England into more problems ! Mills like Footitt or whoever else is being touted are not good enough ! Their records are average at best and are both lucky to have contracts ! Just because they are quite quick means nothing ! It shows England 's paranoia about not having a pace option. Let me make it clear : I would love England to have a serious pace bowler but we do n't and square pegs do n't fit into round holes ! Cricket is simple : pick your best bowlers ! Whether that is 4 left arms quicks or you include two offies , just pick the best bowlers ( I concede that you need a combination of seamers and spinners ! ) but do n't over think it ! For England to pick a budget left arm quick or someone that bowls 94mph but sprays it everywhere would be ridiculous . landl47 on April 11 , 2015 , 18 : 54 GMT @ Arthursashes : I 've been very high on Topley even since I saw him bowling in the Under-19 World Cup. His health has been a concern , but when he 's fit he 's a really fine bowler . Both he and Mills are still very young and have lots of time to develop into international-class bowlers. I would n't want to see either of them rushed into the side just because England needs a left-arm seamer. They wo n't be in the test team this year , but if they 're ready by the time Australia next visits England , that will be great . HagarHaddock on April 11 , 2015 , 8 : 38 GMT Is it only me or does he actually look like England 's rugby union lock Courtney Lawes Patchmaster on April 11 , 2015 , 7 : 57 GMT I 'd be happy to try anyone instead of Stuart Broad 's 130kph trundlers.... . davefromluton on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 00 GMT Vastly over-rated. Last year not even the best left armer in Essex kiwicricketnut on April 11 , 2015 , 4 : 48 GMT think England are missing the point entirely here , once again they are just trying to copy everyone else in the hope that they will catch up , you would think after the last world cup that they would of seen that the successful sides were the innovative sides not the ones trying to copy what the others do , the whole lets find a left arm quick and the problem is solved is a bit of a laugh , by the time you find the players to copy the other sides those top teams would be doing something else and you 're chasing the game again. If england are serious about being a heavy weight again its time they think outside the box they are trapped in and start reinventing the game instead of copying sjm5000 on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 24 GMT If he has a really good summer with Sussex and picks up 50 wickets at 25 , then maybe there 'll be some substance to the talk. At the moment presenting him as the salvation just smacks of desperation. Still , good luck to the lad he is rocket fast . Roshan_P on April 13 , 2015 , 12 : 59 GMT If he 's as quick as they 're saying then this could be promising. However , as with Reece Topley and a few others , we need to wait until they have been performing consistently for a while at county level . CricketingStargazer on April 13 , 2015 , 9 : 04 GMT I find the Tymal Mills bandwagon a bit depressing really. This is someone who has struggled to get into the rather average attack of an average 2nd Division county yet , because we were awful , for the second winter running he becomes the Messiah. Balanced against that I suppose we do have the counter-opinion that Bob Willis ( who was decent in Tests ) rarely performed at county level but , for every Bob Willis you have several Devon Malcoms ( lest we forget , he debuted with 0-176 v Australia before briefly firing ) . Right now Mills would be a shock weapon only : 2 or 3 spells a day of 3-4 potentially wild overs, SamWintson92 on April 13 , 2015 , 4 : 13 GMT 1. Tymal Mills is an exciting prospect for England. Someone bowling at 90 + mph is no joke. Left arm fast is trending nowadays. He needs a good county season under his belt. 2. I also feel Reece Topley should have been in line or around for a England pace . Jaffa79 on April 11 , 2015 , 22 : 05 GMT This is the kind of writing that will get England into more problems ! Mills like Footitt or whoever else is being touted are not good enough ! Their records are average at best and are both lucky to have contracts ! Just because they are quite quick means nothing ! It shows England 's paranoia about not having a pace option. Let me make it clear : I would love England to have a serious pace bowler but we do n't and square pegs do n't fit into round holes ! Cricket is simple : pick your best bowlers ! Whether that is 4 left arms quicks or you include two offies , just pick the best bowlers ( I concede that you need a combination of seamers and spinners ! ) but do n't over think it ! For England to pick a budget left arm quick or someone that bowls 94mph but sprays it everywhere would be ridiculous . landl47 on April 11 , 2015 , 18 : 54 GMT @ Arthursashes : I 've been very high on Topley even since I saw him bowling in the Under-19 World Cup. His health has been a concern , but when he 's fit he 's a really fine bowler . Both he and Mills are still very young and have lots of time to develop into international-class bowlers. I would n't want to see either of them rushed into the side just because England needs a left-arm seamer. They wo n't be in the test team this year , but if they 're ready by the time Australia next visits England , that will be great . HagarHaddock on April 11 , 2015 , 8 : 38 GMT Is it only me or does he actually look like England 's rugby union lock Courtney Lawes Patchmaster on April 11 , 2015 , 7 : 57 GMT I 'd be happy to try anyone instead of Stuart Broad 's 130kph trundlers.... . davefromluton on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 00 GMT Vastly over-rated. Last year not even the best left armer in Essex kiwicricketnut on April 11 , 2015 , 4 : 48 GMT think England are missing the point entirely here , once again they are just trying to copy everyone else in the hope that they will catch up , you would think after the last world cup that they would of seen that the successful sides were the innovative sides not the ones trying to copy what the others do , the whole lets find a left arm quick and the problem is solved is a bit of a laugh , by the time you find the players to copy the other sides those top teams would be doing something else and you 're chasing the game again. If england are serious about being a heavy weight again its time they think outside the box they are trapped in and start reinventing the game instead of copying sjm5000 on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 24 GMT If he has a really good summer with Sussex and picks up 50 wickets at 25 , then maybe there 'll be some substance to the talk. At the moment presenting him as the salvation just smacks of desperation. Still , good luck to the lad he is rocket fast . Iddo555 on April 10 , 2015 , 17 : 41 GMT He takes wickets at 36 in division 2 county cricket which let 's face it , is pretty poor. I 'm not sure he should have the attention on him that he has with that kind of record . Balladeer on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 53 GMT To add to the below , Mitchell Starc , wonder of the one-day game , has n't exactly astonished in Tests. I 'd love England to find a genuine " lf " , but let 's not get ahead of ourselves . Iddo555 on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 52 GMT He cant take wickets for less than 30 in county cricket division 2 , how can he do it at international level ? Far too soon to be talking about him playing for England , needs to start doing it in county cricket first . ArthursAshes on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 43 GMT I 'm sure one of the reasons why Essex let Mills go is that they have decent fast bowling to call on and a promising young left arm quick who hardly ever gets a mention in current England dispatches in Reece Topley. Does n't have the pace of Mills , but at 21 he already has 118 first class wickets at 25.56 and while he ca n't hold a bat to save his life he can bowl sides out - when fit. Now , if Mills had those figures you just know he would be in the England set up because of his pace and everyone would be talking about him as the one to give the Aussies a taste of their own medicine. Unfortunately , pace alone is n't everything , if it were Shaun Tait would be one of the best of all time and Devon Malcolm would n't have needed some off the cuff remark by a South African to get him fired up . Hopefully Mills steps up this year and starts taking wickets. Be interesting to see who has the better career from here , if they can stay injury free , Mills or Topley . brusselslion on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 56 GMT " Never mind his modest career statistics - 52 wickets in 30 first-class matches to date , and only 25 more in the limited-overs game.. " So the nub of it is : Pick him because he can bowl a quick ball , and about twice a match , it will get the batsman out ? Sorry , I 'm one of those conservative types , who will get excited if we can uncover a McGrath type quick bowler , who might take a 5for every 6 innings or so . Basingrad on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 35 GMT Oh , Andrew , how many more people are going to fall for this ? Yes , he 's quick. But his record is appalling and he 's been given enough chances by Essex. Andre van Troost was quick. Frighteningly so. But he was never any good. Can he ever add accuracy and movement ? Mitchell Johnson never achieved much consistency until he turned 30. Devon Malcolm was one of the all-time quickest and his test average is very modest. There is little evidence to suggest Mills is going to find it earlier and throwing him into international cricket based purely on pace is a recipe for disaster. I still wince at Saj Mahmood being thrown in on pace alone and being horribly exposed. Please , please , please stop talking Mills up and wait until he has put together a full season of first team cricket and taken 60 + wickets before talking him up for England . No featured comments at the moment . Basingrad on April 10 , 2015 , 13 : 35 GMT Oh , Andrew , how many more people are going to fall for this ? Yes , he 's quick. But his record is appalling and he 's been given enough chances by Essex. Andre van Troost was quick. Frighteningly so. But he was never any good. Can he ever add accuracy and movement ? Mitchell Johnson never achieved much consistency until he turned 30. Devon Malcolm was one of the all-time quickest and his test average is very modest. There is little evidence to suggest Mills is going to find it earlier and throwing him into international cricket based purely on pace is a recipe for disaster. I still wince at Saj Mahmood being thrown in on pace alone and being horribly exposed. Please , please , please stop talking Mills up and wait until he has put together a full season of first team cricket and taken 60 + wickets before talking him up for England . brusselslion on April 10 , 2015 , 14 : 56 GMT " Never mind his modest career statistics - 52 wickets in 30 first-class matches to date , and only 25 more in the limited-overs game.. " So the nub of it is : Pick him because he can bowl a quick ball , and about twice a match , it will get the batsman out ? Sorry , I 'm one of those conservative types , who will get excited if we can uncover a McGrath type quick bowler , who might take a 5for every 6 innings or so . ArthursAshes on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 43 GMT I 'm sure one of the reasons why Essex let Mills go is that they have decent fast bowling to call on and a promising young left arm quick who hardly ever gets a mention in current England dispatches in Reece Topley. Does n't have the pace of Mills , but at 21 he already has 118 first class wickets at 25.56 and while he ca n't hold a bat to save his life he can bowl sides out - when fit. Now , if Mills had those figures you just know he would be in the England set up because of his pace and everyone would be talking about him as the one to give the Aussies a taste of their own medicine. Unfortunately , pace alone is n't everything , if it were Shaun Tait would be one of the best of all time and Devon Malcolm would n't have needed some off the cuff remark by a South African to get him fired up . Hopefully Mills steps up this year and starts taking wickets. Be interesting to see who has the better career from here , if they can stay injury free , Mills or Topley . Iddo555 on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 52 GMT He cant take wickets for less than 30 in county cricket division 2 , how can he do it at international level ? Far too soon to be talking about him playing for England , needs to start doing it in county cricket first . Balladeer on April 10 , 2015 , 16 : 53 GMT To add to the below , Mitchell Starc , wonder of the one-day game , has n't exactly astonished in Tests. I 'd love England to find a genuine " lf " , but let 's not get ahead of ourselves . Iddo555 on April 10 , 2015 , 17 : 41 GMT He takes wickets at 36 in division 2 county cricket which let 's face it , is pretty poor. I 'm not sure he should have the attention on him that he has with that kind of record . sjm5000 on April 10 , 2015 , 20 : 24 GMT If he has a really good summer with Sussex and picks up 50 wickets at 25 , then maybe there 'll be some substance to the talk. At the moment presenting him as the salvation just smacks of desperation. Still , good luck to the lad he is rocket fast . kiwicricketnut on April 11 , 2015 , 4 : 48 GMT think England are missing the point entirely here , once again they are just trying to copy everyone else in the hope that they will catch up , you would think after the last world cup that they would of seen that the successful sides were the innovative sides not the ones trying to copy what the others do , the whole lets find a left arm quick and the problem is solved is a bit of a laugh , by the time you find the players to copy the other sides those top teams would be doing something else and you 're chasing the game again. If england are serious about being a heavy weight again its time they think outside the box they are trapped in and start reinventing the game instead of copying davefromluton on April 11 , 2015 , 5 : 00 GMT Vastly over-rated. Last year not even the best left armer in Essex Patchmaster on April 11 , 2015 , 7 : 57 GMT I 'd be happy to try anyone instead of Stuart Broad 's 130kph trundlers.... .
