New Zealand news January 9 , 2015 Bond to quit as NZ bowling coach after World Cup ESPNcricinfo staff shares 20 Shane Bond took up the role of New Zealand bowling coach in October 2012 © Associated Press Former New Zealand fast bowler Shane Bond will quit as the national team 's bowling coach at the end of the 2015 World Cup. Lindsay Crocker , NZC 's head of cricket , said Bond had not wanted the extension offered to him . Bond will be taking up a role of a coach of the Mumbai Indians franchise during IPL 2015 , joining a support staff that includes Ricky Ponting , Jonty Rhodes and Robin Singh. Bond had played one season of the IPL - in 2010 with Kolkata Knight Riders . " Make no bones about this - we 're very disappointed to be losing Shane , " Crocker said. " He 's given great value to the Blackcaps programme and we were hopeful of having the benefit of his input over the next few seasons. However , we respect his decision and his reasons for making that decision , and wish him well in his endeavours post-world cup. " Bond said family considerations had played a part in his decision. " The [ Mumbai Indians ] offer came out of the blue , it was something I was n't expecting. I weighed everything up and it was an offer I had to take , " Bond told NewstalkZB. " It 's sad in one sense to be leaving a great group of guys , but as a family we 're rapt . " It can be pretty draining and tough on families at home [ for people in this industry ] when you have to up and leave from particular roles and move countries or cities every year. This way I get to spend a lot more time based at home in Christchurch. It 's a chance that was too good to turn down. " " When you 're away 200-250 days a year , it 's certainly demanding. That 's not to say I do n't love the role but now I 've got a gig where I can still do the job I love and get that time at home. I 'm still hoping to have some role helping bowlers out in New Zealand. " Bond had taken the role of New Zealand bowling coach in October 2012 , two years after ending a promising career that was blighted by a spate of injuries . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
