International Cricket Council Set to Regulate Bat Sizes Before World Cup International Cricket Council Set to Regulate Bat Sizes Before World Cup This World Cup , the balls might not fly over the boundary ropes as the International Cricket Council look to regulate the edge of the bats . Last updated on Wednesday , 04 February , 2015 21 : 16 IST Total Shares AB de Villiers had wanted to send Miller in at No. 3 © AFP The ICC is all set to deliver a yorker to batsmen as it looks to crackdown on bats with monster edges. On eve of the World Cup , in an effort to render a " fair " balance between bat and ball , the ICC has decided to regulate the edges of the bats , reports the Sydney Morning Herald . The ICC chief executive David Richardson in an interview with ESPNCricinfo admitted that the balance of the game " may have shifted a bit too much " in favour of the batsmen . " No one begrudges an AB de Villiers , who plays some superb shots , " Richardson said. " Him , Brendon McCullum , Kumar Sangakkara , they are exceptionally talented and no one minds if they hit some great shots which go for six. ( World Cup 2015 : Full Coverage ) " But where some batsmen are mishitting balls and it is just carrying over the rope and going for a six instead of being caught at the boundary , that is what some cricket people believe has become unfair . " The MCC ( World Cricket Committee ) , as law makers , and the ICC will be looking at giving perhaps some consideration to placing limitations on the depth of a bat in particular. " ( Top 5 Batsmen to Watch Out for ) Richardson also mentioned that the boundary ropes will be pushed back to at least 90 metres " where possible " at the World Cup . The crackdown however , has n't gone down well with the bat manufacturers. They have labelled the pending action on bat sizes as short-sighted . " It 's got nothing to do with the bat sizes , " said Spartan Sports owner Kunal Sharma. " It 's purely because you 're using a brand new ball for the first 20 overs. I 've got cricket bats here in my business and they 're half the size and they ping just as much. It 's only a psychological thing in your mind. " Greg Eime , the brand manager at Gunn & Moore , had a different view and pointed out at the factor of smaller grounds . " Effectively the game has changed and the way the batsmen play has changed , " Eime said. " It 's a combination of a lot of things , even down to the players ' physical fitness and strength. To go finger pointing at the bats , I do n't think that 's quite fair. " The players too were in agreement with the manufacturers. Australian all-rounder Dan Christian responded on social media tweeting : " 2 x 200 's , and fastest 100 broken twice , all since 2 new balls and only 4 fielders out rule came in " . Former Australian Test opener Ed Cowan agreed and replied : " Bingo. That IS the issue. Bats may have changed 5 % in last 10 years but easy target to blame. " With a fortnight to go for the World Cup , this news would be a big jolt to the batting fraternity while the bowlers might breathe a sigh of relief . Story first published on : Wednesday , 04 February 2015 19 : 13 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
