World Cup 2015 January 14 , 2015 New Zealand not risking burnout - Taylor 4 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 4 Ross Taylor : " I like playing. Any more than a week or so off , you just start getting a little bit rusty " © Getty Images New Zealand 's heavy schedule before the World Cup is no more taxing than that of several other teams , Ross Taylor has said , though some experts had warned the team was risking burnout . New Zealand play six more ODIs against Sri Lanka , then play two matches against Pakistan , ahead of two practice matches immediately prior to the World Cup. In all , the team is set to play 10 more one-day games before the World Cup curtain-raiser , and it is the crammed schedule that Martin Crowe has outlined as a concern , as he assesses New Zealand 's chances in the tournament . Many top players , including Taylor , have effectively been playing without a substantial break since late October , beginning with the home ODI series against South Africa. They have also since been on a full tour of the UAE , and have just finished a two-match Test series against Sri Lanka . " It is a busy schedule , but every other nation is pretty busy as well , " Taylor said. " A lot of nations will be playing that amount of games if not more. " New Zealand have already begun to rotate their players in the approach to the World Cup. Tim Southee is with the team , but was given the first two matches off , while Taylor was also rested for the ODI in Christchurch. Taylor suggested players will be moving in and out of the XI in the weeks ahead . " Mike Hesson , Brendon McCullum and co. were wanting to rest players at different times to deal with that. I like playing. Any more than a week or so off , you just start getting a little bit rusty. I think the bowlers will be rotated the whole time and will be fresh. " Taylor said New Zealand had some way to go before they were World Cup-ready , but felt the necessary improvements needed only to come incrementally. One area of immediate concern is the top-order batting , which collapsed to 101 for 5 in the first ODI , leaving Corey Anderson and the lower-middle order with the responsibility of knocking off most of the 118 runs still required for victory . " We see our power as one of our strengths , but we need to keep wickets in hand so the power-hitters can come in and play their shots , " Taylor said. " It was good for Corey to play a bit more of a mature innings and get the team out of a sticky situation. But looking forward to the World Cup , if we can leave them to do their power hitting , then whether we 're chasing a score , or setting one , we can probably have a bit more of a dip than we did in Christchurch . " Hesson and Brendon have said that we know the style of play we want to play , so it 's just fine-tuning that more than playing with a different technique. We know how we want to play on New Zealand wickets , and what 's been successful over the last little while. If we can keep to that blueprint , the team will be confident and we 'll be able to put in some good performances as well. " Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
