New Zealand v Pakistan , 2nd ODI , Napier February 3 , 2015 Williamson , Taylor power New Zealand to massive win 284 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 284 New Zealand 369 for 5 ( Williamson 112 , Taylor 102 * , Guptill 76 ) beat Pakistan 250 ( Hafeez 86 , Shehzad 55 ) by 119 runs Play 02 : 12 'Williamson will be key at the World Cup ' - Dravid On a perfect batting strip at McLean Park , centuries from Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor powered New Zealand to 369 , a total that proved well out of Pakistan 's reach despite the platform laid by their openers. The asking rate kept climbing on Pakistan , and their middle and lower order fell away to give New Zealand a 115-run win with close to seven overs left to play . Ahmed Shehzad and Mohammad Hafeez put on 111 for the first wicket , and while their scoring rate was below the required rate , they set Pakistan up for an all-or-nothing effort in the last 20 overs. At the 30-over mark , they were two down and needed 203 with Hafeez still at the crease on 80 . Pakistan took the batting Powerplay at that point , and Hafeez swung the first ball from Grant Elliott over the square leg boundary. Looking for a repeat the next ball , however , he holed out off a slower ball. In came Shahid Afridi , promoted up the order , but he fell for 11 and Umar Akmal followed in the next over. There could only be one result thereafter . Batting first after winning the toss , Brendon McCullum provided the innings thrust at the start , and Martin Guptill and Williamson kept that momentum going with a 128-run second-wicket stand before Taylor added the final flourish. New Zealand scored 116 in their last 10 overs , during which time Taylor smashed 73 in 36 balls . After swinging in vain at a couple of slower full-tosses outside off from Bilawal Bhatti in the final over , Taylor was on 92 with two balls remaining. He sent the penultimate ball of the innings soaring into the crowd beyond deep extra cover , and finished with a thick outside edge to the third man boundary. Taylor 's unbeaten 102 was New Zealand 's 100th ODI century . While Taylor 's innings included plenty of his trademark clubs over the leg side , Williamson 's was full of nimble footwork and pretty strokes. For all that , it was no less brutal in its pace , and his century came up in 80 balls. Guptill looked on course for a hundred as well , and was distraught after getting himself out , launching a full-toss from the part-time legspinner Ahmed Shehzad straight into long-off 's hands . That fortuitous wicket apart , the bowlers who made up Pakistan 's fifth-bowler quota - a problem they are likely to grapple with right through the World Cup if Mohammad Hafeez does n't clear the tests on his bowling action - conceded 93 runs in 12 overs. That they bowled that many overs was down to the fact that two of their frontline seamers , Bilawal Bhatti and Ehsan Adil , gave away more than eight an over. With Junaid Khan out of the World Cup , neither Bhatti nor Adil made any sort of case for their inclusion as his replacement . Taking one of the two new balls , Bhatti went for 21 in his first two overs , bowling either too short or too full and conceding three fours and a six to McCullum. At the other end , Mohammad Irfan was bowling a tight line and generating plenty of bounce to keep the openers relatively quiet. Bhatti 's profligacy forced Pakistan to bring on Shahid Afridi as early as the sixth over , and he made the breakthrough in his second over , forcing McCullum to chop on while playing one cut shot too many. Afridi would have dismissed McCullum in his first over had Sarfraz Ahmed not muffed up a stumping . Later , in the 38th over of New Zealand 's innings , Sarfraz missed another stumping off Afridi , when Taylor was on 25 . In between , Williamson and Guptill had put on a century stand at comfortably over a run-a-ball , without needing to play any outlandish shots. Pakistan 's bowlers - Irfan and Afridi apart - were giving them plenty of freebies , and the ball was coming on so well that Guptill could merely take a step forward and play pick-up shots over the midwicket region and Williamson could skip down the track and chip the seamers over wide mid-off . At the 30-over mark , New Zealand were 181 for 2. Doubling this , by the old logic of 50-over cricket , would give them 360 , and this is precisely what they achieved . Williamson waltzed past his hundred and fell in the fourth over of the batting Powerplay , trying to scoop Irfan over short fine leg but not quite managing the adequate elevation. If Pakistan thought they could apply the brakes at that point , they were wrong. Grant Elliott and Taylor swatted Bhatti for sixes in the 43rd over , Taylor 's clearing the stadium roof. Bhatti went for 21 in his next over , the biggest of the innings , with Taylor smacking him for three fours and a six , two of those shots coming off full-tosses . Elliott holed out to Adil soon after , but Taylor carried on swinging , and dented Irfan 's figures with three successive fours at the start of his final over. Till that point , he had given away 37 runs in nine overs . Karthik Krishnaswamy is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
