Sri Lanka in New Zealand 2014-15 January 8 , 2015 Positives for SL amid inconsistent performances ESPNcricinfo rates the Sri Lanka performance from the Test series against New Zealand shares 8 This was the series in which Angelo Mathews ' average as captain finally fell from the stratosphere © AFP 7 Kumar Sangakkara ( 215 runs at 53.75 , 1 century ) Was swung twice cheaply by Trent Boult at Hagley Oval , but then he did what Sangakkara does. He went to the nets , took his game apart and came back with a strategy that produced an innings of outstanding value at the Basin Reserve , contributing 203 of the team 's 356. He was unhappy with the DRS decision that brought his overseas Test career to a close in the second innings. He was , at times , also poor in the field , particularly on the first day of the series , when he dropped New Zealand 's two top-scorers in quick succession . Dimuth Karunaratne ( 185 runs at 46.25 , 1 century ) His 152 at Hagley Oval , against an attack smelling blood and a pitch that still had plenty in it , was a knock that should give him immense confidence in his defensive technique. But in Wellington , he returned to a pattern of getting in , then getting out , hitting 16 and 17. He has batted himself into a World Cup spot with that century however , and should now get a long run in the Test side , too. He was the only opener , from either side , to make more than 50 in an innings . 6 Lahiru Thirimanne ( 111 runs at 37 , 1 fifty ) Made two starts in Christchurch , including a three-hour 25 that gave Karunaratne vital support , but he saved his best for the final innings of the series. His 62 not out gave some credibility to what was effectively a Sri Lanka collapse. He is now a key member of the ODI middle order , so perhaps that innings was a timely return to form with the matches that are to come. Bowled a few tidy overs of seam as well . Angelo Mathews ( 139 runs at 34.75 , 2 fifties ; 4 wickets at 24.25 ) This was the series in which Mathews ' average as captain finally fell from the stratosphere. He still averages 76.25 as leader , but will be disappointed at having not having played more impactful innings , particularly in Wellington. He used himself sparingly with the ball due to injury concerns , but his canny seamers were handy at times. The absence of lieutenant Mahela Jayawardene showed in this series. Mathews was a little slow to adjust at times and was guilty of easing off when Sri Lanka were close to a winning position at the Basin Reserve , but he still has plenty of time to learn . 5 Suranga Lakmal ( 6 wickets at 44.33 ) Menacing in the first innings of each match , but lacking threat when the ball grew old and the pitch got flatter , Lakmal perhaps was not as tight with his lines as he has been in the past as well. The Sri Lanka coaching staff see him as the spearhead of this pace attack , and will back him to own that title more than he has done in New Zealand . 4 Kaushal Silva ( 92 runs at 23 , 1 fifty ) Hit a fifty in the second innings in Wellington to salvage what was otherwise a poor tour. He got some outstanding balls in Christchurch , but although he is a manufactured opener ( he batted in the middle order for SSC ) , he ca n't use that excuse for long. Silva knows he needs to convert his half-centuries into big ones. Happily for him , the team trusts he will eventually begin to contribute big runs , just as he does in first-class cricket . Dhammika Prasad ( 4 wickets at 57.75 ) Bowled a few very good deliveries through the series , particularly to right-handers , who were tested by his indippers. Mathews said he was largely pleased with the seamers ' performance , but on helpful tracks , Sri Lanka needed more wickets from their hit-the-deck quick . 3 Prasanna Jayawardene ( 49 runs at 12.25 , 5 dismissals ) Once the best keeper in the world , Jayawardene 's glove work has slipped in recent years , and his miss off Kane Williamson on the fourth morning of the Wellington Test proved costly for Sri Lanka. With the bat , he was not capable of handling the moving ball as well as he has done in the past either . One Test Nuwan Pradeep ( 7 wickets at 25.71 ) Bowled beautifully to take four scalps in the first innings in Wellington , and it was in large part due to his penetration that Sri Lanka achieved a first-innings lead there. Pradeep bowled a fuller , more testing length than the other Sri Lanka quicks , and moved it enough to get rewards as well. However , he did drop a sitter off Kane Williamson , which probably cost Sri Lanka the match , and his batting could do with a little attention as well . 6 Dinesh Chandimal ( 80 runs at 40 , 1 fifty ) Hit an important 67 alongside Kumar Sangakkara in the first innings at Wellington , to help ensure Sri Lanka eclipsed New Zealand 's score. He appears to be batting more freely than he has in the past year , and has also worked out a better strategy against the bouncers that kept dismissing him in the middle of 2014 . 5 Tharindu Kaushal ( 2 wickets at 103.5 ) Kaushal had a traumatic first day of Test cricket , when he was walloped to all parts of Hagley Oval by Brendon McCullum , and yet , there was so much to like about the 21-year-old offspinner. He kept tossing the ball up , even under duress , and encouragingly , got plenty of dip and turn on both his stock ball and doosra. He needs to work on his control , but he is a fine prospect . 4 Shaminda Eranga ( 2 wickets at 51 ) His omission from the second Test was a surprise , given his past performances , but he had been off-colour in Christchurch , and did not bowl as tightly as he did in England. Was whacked off his length by a rampant McCullum , and recovered from that only in the second innings . 3 Rangana Herath ( 1 wicket at 161 ) Accurate as ever in Wellington , but lacking the bite he gets when he is at his best. Did not work the New Zealand batsmen out as well as he has in the past either , but perhaps they have just learned to play him better. The lack of significant turn in the Basin Reserve pitch did n't help , but then he was outperformed by Mark Craig . 1 Niroshan Dickwella ( 6 runs at 3 ) Dickwella 's first international Test went poorly , as Tim Southee and Trent Boult picked him up once each. He is being looked at as a long-term wicketkeeper batsman though , so will likely have more opportunities . Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
