New Zealand v Sri Lanka , 4th ODI , Nelson January 19 , 2015 Sunny Nelson awaits after rainy Auckland New Zealand , Sri Lanka look to gain advantage Match facts Start time 1100 local ( 2200 GMT , previous day ) Big Picture The Sri Lanka and New Zealand teams see so much rain between them , they could travel around the more arid regions of the world to provide drought relief. Auckland 's only rains in two weeks of glorious sunshine coincided with match-day , and apart from Martin Guptill , who hit a half-century , and Angelo Mathews , who claimed three scalps , the teams took only some wet uniforms away from the 28.5 overs in the field on Saturday . New Zealand will feel the top-order issues that troubled them in Christchurch and Hamilton were dealt with at Eden Park , but while Guptill 's 99-run stand with Tom Latham was promising , there were two mitigating factors. The pitch had not offered much in the way of seam or spin , and once the rain began to fall , Sri Lanka 's attack had to contend with a wet ball as well . Mathews squeezed out three wickets for Sri Lanka through his economy , but their seam attack still feels a little light on penetration. Lasith Malinga 's introduction will still take some time , and the visitors may rely heavily on their spinners for breakthroughs in the interim. With Sachithra Senanayake , Rangana Herath , Tillakaratne Dilshan and Jeevan Mendis all having contributed encouraging spells in the past 10 days , Sri Lanka will hope for a Nelson surface that offers something for the slow bowlers . Form guide ( last five matches , most recent first ) New Zealand LWWWL Sri Lanka WLWWL In the spotlight Brendon McCullum 's all-format ballistics have served him beautifully in the early summer months , but with a World Cup ahead , he must now sustain that form for another 10 weeks. Sri Lanka have attempted all manner of bowling plans to him , from peppering him with short stuff , to starving him of the strike , but he has bashed his way out of those gauntlets , and remains the series ' top run-scorer. He was out for 28 at Eden Park , and Sri Lanka will hope that innings marks McCullum 's descent from the stratosphere. McCullum , though , has arguably never batted more confidently , though his tossing leaves plenty to be desired . Lahiru Thirimanne has had a number of starts on tour , but as his only fifty-plus score came when Sri Lanka had virtually lost the second Test , he is yet to make a meaningful contribution to the side. He has expanded his ODI batting in the last 18 months , and has an unflappable temperament to boot , but he will be desperate to string a few strong innings together , to make his No.6 spot safe . Team news Grant Elliott is available for Tuesday 's game , meaning he will likely reclaim his No. 5 spot from Daniel Vettori. The team will make a call on Kane Williamson on match-day , and Kyle Mills may also be in the mix . New Zealand : ( probable ) 1 Martin Guptill , 2 Brendon McCullum ( capt ) , 3 Tom Latham/Kane Williamson , 4 Ross Taylor , 5 Grant Elliott , 6 Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , 7 Corey Anderson , 8 Nathan McCullum/ Daniel Vettori , 9 Tim Southee , 10 Mitchell McClenaghan , 11 Matt Henry/Trent Boult Sri Lanka will not hesitate to play four spinners ( including two allrounders ) if the conditions suit , but will more likely play an extra seamer. They have flown in leg-spinning allrounder Seekkuge Prasanna and quick Dushmantha Chameera as cover for Suranga Lakmal and Rangana Herath , who had been in doubt with a groin strain and muscle soreness respectively. But as both frontliners now appear to have recovered , neither of the new entrants are likely to play on Tuesday . Sri Lanka ( probable ) : 1 Dimuth Karunaratne , 2 Tillakaratne Dilshan , 3 Kumar Sangakkara ( wk ) , 4 Mahela Jayawardene , 5 Angelo Mathews ( capt ) , 6 Lahiru Thirimanne , 7 Thisara Perara , 8 Jeevan Mendis , 9 Nuwan Kulasekara , 10 Sachithra Senanayake , 11 Suranga Lakmal/Rangana Herath Pitch and conditions If there is one venue in the country that can be relied upon for a full match it is Nelson. The South-Island town has a reputation for blue skies and bright sunshine , and the forecast for Tuesday keeps true to that image. Only one ODI has been played at the venue , and as such , the nature of the surface is difficult to predict . Stats and trivia Martin Guptill 's unbeaten 66 on Saturday took him past 3000 ODI runs. He achieved the milestone in 90 innings - the quickest for a New Zealand batsman Tim Southee has not yet bowled in an ODI in 2015 , but his 2014 average of 38.90 is his worst since 2009 Kumar Sangakkara needs 17 more runs to become Sri Lanka 's most prolific ODI batsman. His tally of 13414 runs is just behind that of Sanath Jayasuriya , who presently sits third on the all-time list Quotes " You never like missing games , but with the workload these days you have to manage the body - not only of the bowlers , but the batters as well. There has been a lot of cricket , and there is a lot of cricket to come. It 's common sense. You ca n't physically play every game. You need to miss one or two here or there to prolong your period without injury. " New Zealand quick Tim Southee on being rested for the first two matches of the series Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
