New Zealand v Sri Lanka , 6th ODI , Dunedin January 24 , 2015 New Zealand 's chance to close out series Start time 1100 local ( 2200 GMT ) Play 00 : 54 Video preview - Can Sri Lanka keep the series alive ? Big Picture If it is true that you learn more in defeat than in victory , Sri Lanka must have now earned a doctorate in how not to win matches , in their time in New Zealand. The fielders have majored in shelling important catches. The bowlers have refined the science of making top-order breakthroughs , then allowing the lower-middle order to blow them away. And the batsmen have become adept at tumbling in a heap after Tillakaratne Dilshan , Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara have played good innings . There was real hope that Sri Lanka 's long-term middle-order malaise had been cured ahead of this World Cup , but so far in the series , the batting there has been as queasy as ever. None of Jeevan Mendis , Thisara Perera and Lahiru Thirimanne have had the stomach for a real fight. Angelo Mathews ' dip in productivity has made their failures starker . Sri Lanka 's opening woes seem a trifle in comparison to the muddle in the middle , but when Thirimanne went up the order on Friday , he became Dilshan 's sixth opening partner since mid-October. Thirimanne at least seems more suited to the role than several of his predecessors , having played genuinely match-winning innings from the top order in the past. But his promotion spawns a spate of new questions further down the order - the most obvious being : what to do with Dimuth Karunaratne , who is in the World Cup squad ? New Zealand are floating away from the opposition after a pair of spunky victories , with Luke Ronchi and Grant Elliott now in spiffing form , in addition to Kane Williamson and Brendon McCullum. Ross Taylor is visibly short of runs and confidence , but with a 3-1 lead with two matches to go , New Zealand can afford to give him time to get right. Their conveyor belt of excellent bowlers is shining up nicely too , and the fielding is so quick , agile and relentlessly immaculate , this team is surely on the verge of breaking through to a new era in human evolution . Form guide New Zealand : WWLWW ( last five matches , most recent first ) Sri Lanka : LLWLW In the spotlight Martin Guptill bristled at suggestions he was struggling for form , pointing to his Ford Trophy performances and the ODI half-century in Auckland. But after a golden duck on Friday , he needs good scores in the last two matches to emerge from this series with credit. He has seemed in good nick at times , even stroking a beautiful lofted off-drive that carried for six in Nelson , but has only passed 30 once in the series so far. His place is under little pressure , particularly as New Zealand are winning , but he will know he has not contributed much . Nuwan Kulasekara has been better in this series than he was in the latter half of 2014 , but now tasked with leading the attack , he is being somewhat exposed towards the end of the innings. Kulasekara threatens with his new-ball inswing , but as Sri Lanka rely on him to rein in the scoring rate towards the close , he will want to hit the yorker length more often too . Teams news Adam Milne remains unavailable due to a side strain , but the remainder of New Zealand 's squad is fit. Only one of Daniel Vettori and Nathan McCullum is likely to play , and team management may consider resting Mitchell McClenaghan , given his workload in the series . New Zealand : ( probable ) 1 Martin Guptill , 2 Brendon McCullum ( capt ) , 3 Kane Williamson , 4 Ross Taylor , 5 Grant Elliott , 6 Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , 7 Corey Anderson , 8 Nathan McCullum/Daniel Vettori , 9 Tim Southee , 10 Mitchell McClenaghan/Kyle Mills , 11 Trent Boult Angelo Mathews ' calf strain is not yet fully healed , which means Lahiru Thirimanne will likely lead the team again as well as open the batting. Sri Lanka are short a batsman in the squad , so Karunaratne may have to bat out of position at no. 5 or 6. The visitors may also play Dhammika Prasad in place of Suranga Lakmal , who conceded 93 runs from his 10 overs. Rangana Herath may also play in place of Sachithra Senanayake , who has gone wicketless in the last two games . Sri Lanka ( probable ) : 1 Lahiru Thirimanne , 2 Tillakaratne Dilshan , 3 Kumar Sangakkara ( wk ) , 4 Mahela Jayawardene , 5 Angelo Mathews ( capt ) /Dimuth Karunaratne , 6 Dinesh Chandimal , 7 Thisara Perara , 8 Jeevan Mendis , 9 Nuwan Kulasekara , 10 Sachithra Senanayake/Rangana Herath , 11 Dhammika Prasad Pitch and conditions The same strip that hosted Friday 's runfest is being used again on Sunday. Expect the toss-winner to bat first. The weather is expected to be sunny for the game 's duration . Stats and trivia Trent Boult 's 4 for 44 on Friday was his best figures in 13 ODIs so far Tillakaratne Dilshan and Mahela Jayawardene are the two top run-scorers in the series , with 295 and 255 runs respectively. The next five batsmen on the list are from the opposition . Sunday 's match is the fourth ODI to be played at the University Oval. Both these teams also play there during the World Cup . Quotes " If you look at the batting group , everyone has got a score. Ross is probably the only one who has n't , but we know what a quality batsman he is and when he comes good he wins you games. He 's been working hard and is not far off. " New Zealand batting coach Craig McMillan " We took Angelo for an MRI scan , and it did n't show any major damage. It 's just a bit tight and very sore at the moment. " Sri Lanka team manager Michael de Zoysa Andrew Fidel Fernando is ESPNcricinfo 's Sri Lanka correspondent. @ andrewffernando © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
