World Cup : Sachin Tendulkar 's Absence Gives Pakistan Hope Against India World Cup : Sachin Tendulkar 's Absence Gives Pakistan Hope Against India Pakistan have lost all their five World Cup meetings against India and Sachin Tendulkar , who featured in all of them , proved a stumbling block on at least four occasions . Last updated on Friday , 06 February , 2015 09 : 54 IST Total Shares Sachin Tendulkar has featured in four World Cup matches between India and Pakistan. His retirement means Pakistan can hope for a win against arch-rivals India in the 2015 edition of the tournament . New Delhi : India go into the World Cup without the reassuring presence of retired batting superstar Sachin Tendulkar for the first time since 1992 , which surely must bring relief to arch-rivals Pakistan. ( Also read : Does the Indian side have a core team ? ) Pakistan have lost all their five World Cup meetings against India and Tendulkar , who featured in all of them , proved a stumbling block on at least four occasions . India and Pakistan face each other in a high-voltage clash at the Adelaide Oval on February 15 to kickstart their campaigns in the 2015 edition of cricket 's showpiece event. ( Also read : Srinath says bowlers must perform if India are to defend title ) Tendulkar , who retired in 2013 as the world 's leading run-getter in both Test and one-day cricket , added colour to the World Cup , both literally and metaphorically . Coloured clothing was introduced to the World Cup when Tendulkar made his tournament debut in Australia and New Zealand in 1992 after the first four editions were played in whites . Over the next six editions , the prolific Mumbaikar scored more runs ( 2,278 ) and centuries ( six ) than any other batsman in the tournament , ending his World Cup career with a creditable average of 56.95 . Tendulkar often spoke of his dream of winning the World Cup for India , saying he was inspired as a 10-year-old by the country 's triumph in the 1983 editon when Kapil Dev 's men stunned favourites West Indies at Lord 's . He saw action from close quarters as a ball boy at Mumbai 's Wankhede stadium when India co-hosted the World Cup with Pakistan in 1987 , two years before he burst on the world scene as a 16-year-old . Tendulkar was the tournament 's leading scorer when India made the semi-finals in 1996 and the final in 2003 before he realised his dream when Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's side won back the title on a memorable night in Mumbai on April 2 , 2011 . The 41-year-old , whose six World Cups is a record matched only by Javed Miandad of Pakistan , has been apppointed as the brand ambassador for the upcoming tournament by the International Cricket Council . Tendulkar appeared to reserve his best at the World Cup for the high-profile matches against Pakistan , contests that were followed passionately by millions of fans on both sides of the border . In his first tournament in 1992 , Tendulkar top-scored with an unbeaten 54 in India 's 43-run win in Sydney. But Pakistan survived the morale-sapping defeat to win the title even as India crashed out in the first round . He made 31 in the 1996 quarter-final in Bangalore which India won by 39 runs and 45 in a second round match at Old Trafford four years later that helped fashion a 47-run victory . Tendulkar 's spectacular assault on Pakistani tearaway Shoaib Akhtar on way to a glorious 98 off 75 balls at Centurion in 2003 is part of World Cup folklore that enabled India to chase down a challenging 273-7 with six wickets to spare . " That innings must rank as one of the best I have played because of the immense pressure it was played under , " Tendulkar wrote in his recent autobiography 'Playing It My Way' . " The ground was buzzing hours before the match. It was sport at its best. This is why I played cricket , to be out in the middle for my team , on the world 's biggest cricketing stage , against India 's arch-rival. " In the 2011 semi-final in Mohali , Tendulkar hit a streaky , but match-winning 85 , after being dropped four times by Pakistani fielders and let off twice by the umpires ' review system . Tendulkar 's knock turned out to be the top score in the match which India won by 29 runs in front of a sell-out crowd that included the Prime Ministers of both nations . Story first published on : Friday , 06 February 2015 08 : 44 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
