Pakistan news January 16 , 2015 'Difficult to make combination without Ajmal ' - Mushtaq 23 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 23 Mushtaq Ahmed : 'We were used to Saeed Ajmal , he 's our legend and has been number one bowler , and it 's very difficult to make a combination without him ' © AFP Pakistan 's bowling line-up has been built around offspin since World Cup 2011 , with one man in particular , Saeed Ajmal , claiming a majority of their wickets. However , the illegal bowling action suspensions handed out to him and Mohammad Hafeez have meant Pakistan have had to rejig their plans with the ball , going into World Cup 2015. That , according to bowling consultant Mushtaq Ahmed , has made things " difficult " . " Unfortunately you all know what happened to Saeed Ajmal and Hafeez , we got stuck , " Mushtaq said in Lahore. " So when you do n't have a thing which you require , then you have to rely on other things. And you ca n't rely on a young offspinner in such a big event. I think whatever resources we have , we have to trust and believe in them . " We were used to Saeed Ajmal , he 's our legend and has been our number one bowler , and it 's very difficult to make a combination without him. But if you remember the scenario when Waqar Younis returned home due to injury before the 1992 World Cup … so this should n't be a problem. I will give credit to Saeed Ajmal , he always says teams do n't win because of individuals , teams win if we play as a united team. We will feel his absence but the new players have to play their role and if we play as a unit I am hopeful we can deliver. " Legspinner Mushtaq , who was part of Pakistan 's 1992 World Cup squad , said pitches in Australia are likely to help legspinners considerably and they will prove to be a wicket-taking option in the showpiece event. " If you look back , legspinners have been very successful in Australia. I have my personal experience ; I have toured five-six times to Australia and have a very successful ratio bowling over there. The way Yasir Shah and Shahid Afridi have been bowling , I think they will make a difference for Pakistan as we do get bounce on the wickets of Australia and when a legspinner gets bounce , he becomes a wicket-taking option. " He said that he , along with head coach Waqar , was trying to develop belief in the team. " We do n't have the ball in our hand , but we have lot of belief. If we believe that we can win , then our belief will be shifted onto the players. Waqar Younis is trying to develop this culture , whatever you have to do , you have to have belief. We are developing this culture. " With Ajmal 's absence and Hafeez unavailability as a bowler , middle-order batsman Haris Sohail could chip in with his left-arm spin , but Mushtaq said a lot could not be expected of him , despite his recent showing against New Zealand in the UAE , where he took six wickets in five ODIs . " We ca n't rely on Haris Sohail , if I talk honestly , but the temperament he showed against New Zealand … he bowled very well in 10 overs. Our regular spinners were giving 50 runs and he was giving 40 and taking three wickets against a team that was in form. He has improved a lot , I believe in him and as a spin-bowling coach I believe that he will do very well because he has very good temperament. " Pakistan have completed a five-day camp and are now set to leave for New Zealand , where they will play a series of ODIs in the lead up to the World Cup . Umar Farooq is ESPNcricinfo 's Pakistan correspondent. @ kalson © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
