Pakistan news February 2 , 2015 Amir 's return challenged in court 27 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 27 The petitioner , Faiz-ul-Haq Hasan , believed that Mohammad Amir is a convicted fixer and should n't be allowed back. © AFP A writ petition has been lodged in the Sindh High Court against Mohammad Amir 's return to cricket. The petition has been accepted and the first formal hearing will take place on February 16 . Apart from Amir , the court made the PCB a party in the constitutional petition. The court also issued notices to the deputy attorney general , ministry of inter-provincial coordination . Last week , the ICC had allowed Amir to return to domestic cricket under the auspices of the PCB with immediate effect. His five-year ban for his role in spot-fixing during Pakistan 's tour of England in 2010 was due to end on September 2 . The petitioner , Faiz-ul-Haq Hasan , who is a social worker , believed that Amir is a convicted fixer and should n't be allowed back. " Amir stained the image of the country , " Hasan told AFP. " He is a proven fixer and will do it again if he is allowed to play again. " As per the ICC 's new anti-corruption code , banned players could be allowed to return to domestic cricket before the end of their penalty if they meet certain criteria. In the last four years , Amir had completed an Anti Corruption and Security Unit education program with the PCB , showed a high degree of remorse , and disclosed relevant information to the PCB as well as the anti-corruption units . " PCB is the sole regulator of the game in Pakistan and has always assisted the honourable court whenever the legal question with regard to cricket has been raised , " PCB legal advisor Taffazul Rizvi told ESPNcricinfo. " In the petition I came to know that PCB is being directed and hence we will appear and submit the substance of material queries by the court. " Although the Sindh High Court accepted the petition , in the past cases related to cricket have been dismissed over jurisdiction of the court , including petitions against the PCB from former Pakistan legspinner Danish Kaneria and former captain Rashid Latif. The PCB headquarter is in Lahore and as per jurisdiction , all petitions need to be heard within that region . Umar Farooq is ESPNcricinfo 's Pakistan correspondent. @ kalson © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
