Pakistan news February 3 , 2015 Amir signs up to play grade-II cricket ESPNcricinfo staff 30 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 30 Nadeem Omar , chief of Omar Associates : " We have signed Amir to play for our team in Grade-II as we think that everybody deserves a second chance in life and career. " © AFP Pakistan fast bowler Mohammad Amir has signed a contract with Karachi-based Omar Associates to play grade-II cricket from March 9. He was recently allowed by the ICC to play domestic cricket under the auspices of the PCB though he continues to be banned from featuring in international cricket until September 2 . There were many teams around the circuit keen to hire Amir , with KESC and KPT the top names in the country , but he finally struck a deal with the private firm , which deals in construction and property. " We have signed Amir to play for our team in Grade-II as we think that everybody deserves a second chance in life and career , " said Nadeem Omar , chief of Omar Associates. " We have signed Amir because he has fulfilled everything which was required of him and the ICC and the Pakistan Cricket Board cleared him. " As per the revised anti-corruption code , banned players can be allowed to return to domestic cricket before the end of their penalty if they meet certain criteria. In the last four years , Amir has completed an Anti Corruption and Security Unit education program with the PCB , showed a high degree of remorse in public , and reportedly disclosed relevant information to the PCB as well as the anti-corruption units . With the Pakistan first-class and one-day domestic season about to finish , Amir 's only chance of competitive cricket before it starts again in October would be a possible return in the Super Eight T20 Cup , which takes place after the World Cup. He was left with no option for now but to play grade-II to regain his fitness and rhythm . Amir has been playing for various unregistered clubs and academies in Lahore and Rawalpindi since being banned from playing competitive cricket in 2010. His appearance for Omar Associates will be the first time he will feature in grade cricket in the last four-and-a-half years . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
