Pakistan News March 22 , 2015 Ramiz calls for Wahab as ODI captain Play 04 : 55 Ramiz : Wahab can take Pakistan in right direction Former Pakistan batsman Ramiz Raja has called on the national selectors to appoint fast bowler Wahab Riaz as the country 's next one-day captain . Speaking to ESPNcricinfo , Ramiz said that after watching Wahab bowl in the quarter-final defeat against Australia , he was convinced Wahab can make it " big as a leader " because of the " aggression , passion and emotion " he showed. Pakistan will need to find a replacement for Misbah-ul-Haq , who had announced his retirement from ODIs after the World Cup , and Ramiz urged the selectors to groom a youngster for the job . " It 's a difficult one because Pakistan have not yet trained a youngster , " Ramiz said. " What I saw of him ( Wahab ) against Australia convinces me that he 's got it in him to make it big as a leader because he showed aggression , passion and emotion and that is what is required right now to put Pakistan cricket back on track . " The team think tank have not really been able to give Pakistan that aggressive tag that its renowned for and I 've been very disappointed with the route that we have taken. Pakistan cricket is about emotion , about showing passion and to a certain degree about being unpredictable in a healthy way , which makes it so romantic. " Wahab was among the few standout performers for Pakistan at the World Cup , finishing as one of the tournament 's highest wicket-takers with 16 scalps at an average of 23.00 and an economy rate of 5.56. His spell to Shane Watson during Australia 's run-chase in the quarter-final in Adelaide was an unforgettable passage of play , and Ramiz believed the time was right for Pakistan to pitchfork Wahab at the helm on the back of that performance . " You can experiment with an out-of-box idea like this in one-day cricket. Australia is a great example , " he said. " George Bailey was plucked out of first class cricket straight into international cricket as a leader when he was made T20 captain. I 've seen the ingredients to give Wahab Riaz that pedestal and position. Let 's see how he operates but what I saw of him against Australia , he can take Pakistan cricket in the right direction. " Although Pakistan wo n't have the services of Misbah and Shahid Afridi , who too retired after the tournament , Ramiz believes that at least for the short-term , the selectors should consider " looking beyond " players like Ahmed Shehzad , whose best scores came against UAE and Ireland , and Umar Akmal , who produced underwhelming returns at the World Cup. While Shehzad made 227 runs at an average of 32.42 in his seven innings , Akmal could manage just 164 at 27.33 . " I would look beyond these youngsters because you have to get the nucleus right , " he said. " You can carry on for a bit with these guys but they need to learn quickly because people are getting frustrated , they must themselves be getting frustrated because they know that they have the talent and ability. I think Pakistan do not have even at this stage a batting culture , like for example India . Ramiz Raja - " What I saw of him against Australia convinces me that he 's got it in him to make it big as a leader " © Getty Images " When you are in and you have got 20 or 30 , those numbers then need to get converted to a 60 or a 70 which they fail consistently , not only the youngsters but also the senior players. They also disappointed in that area . " Pakistan 's batting is a throwback to the 1980s. We need to kick on and be a little progressive in our thoughts and a little fearless in our approach , and that seems to be missing. I do n't think they are far behind in the bowling area but batting needs a kick up the backside. They need to take a fearless approach and a new direction altogether with the bat. " While Pakistan 's batting was a letdown throughout their campaign , Ramiz was impressed with what he saw from the bowlers. Wahab stood out , but in Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan and Junaid Khan , who was ruled out of the squad due to injury , Pakistan have a strong core group of fast bowlers to call upon . Ramiz , who played under Imran Khan for a large part of his international career , believes Pakistan need to focus on creating " an aggressive environment " similar to that era for these bowlers to achieve their full potential. He said the country 's " great bowling culture " meant that these young fast bowlers did not need to be taught " how to bowl. " All they need , according to him , is the backing of the team 's leadership group and management . " I think we have been very conservative in our approach about when to introduce and unleash young bowling talent , " Ramiz said. " Our fast bowlers have been far too reserved and it stems from the fact that we have had a reserved captain. It needs to change completely after this World Cup fall and we need to think differently so that these younger players take Pakistan to a newer high. " Ramiz was also of the view that Pakistan needed to follow the example of India who have " moved on " from celebrating past feats , and focus on an " overhaul " of the domestic structure . " We still rejoice the 1992 World Cup whereas for example , India , our neighbour , has moved on , " he said. " They 've produced new superstars and Pakistan have lagged behind in that area. They ( Pakistan 's batsmen ) do n't seem to read the situation and that stems from the fact that Pakistan domestic cricket needs an overhaul . " You have to go through such situations at domestic level to make you a success story at international level. Then it does n't appear to be an alien art for you because I feel some of these younger guys just do not know how to operate in or react to a tense , crunch situation. " Pakistan 's next international assignment is a tour of Bangladesh involving two Tests , three ODIs and a T20I from the middle of April . Gaurav Kalra is a senior editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ gauravkalra75 © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
