Pakistan v Australia , 1st Test , Dubai , 1st day October 22 , 2014 Another crisis , another Younis masterclass Walking in at seven for two , Younis Khan soaked up stifling pressure from Australia 's bowlers and emerged with a record-equalling 25th Test hundred shares 32 Younis Khan exuded a sense of calm even when he had scored only one run from his first 34 balls © Getty Images Yet another failure from Pakistan 's openers , and yet another rescue-act hundred from Younis Khan . His 25th hundred not only drew him level with Inzamam-ul-Haq at the top of Pakistan 's list of century-makers but also made him Pakistan 's only batsman with hundreds against all Test teams . " It [ the record ] was n't in my mind , but as I started getting closer , like in the Sri Lanka series , at that time when I equalled [ Mohammad ] Yousuf it felt like if I keep playing more series , and with Australia coming , against whom I did n't have a century , it will be good if I keep scoring centuries and equal the great Inzamam. I feel very proud as the first Pakistani with centuries against all Test nations. It feels good to have equaled Inzy bhai. " When Younis does well , Pakistan 's chances of winning swell dramatically. A record-breaking performance is a telling statement and Younis once again highlighted his value to Pakistan. His career has been buffeted by storms since he was banned for an indefinite period in 2010 , and he was out for almost a year , missing 11 Test matches. He was recently dropped from the ODI side , leaving his place in Pakistan 's squad for the 2015 World Cup in serious doubt. But no one is better than him at defusing crises. His previous Test century , in Galle two months ago , came when he walked in at 19 for 2. Today he began his innings at 7 for 2 . " It was tough , for both me and Azhar [ Ali ] , " Younis said at the end of the day 's play. " Two down for nothing. We were just telling each other to be focused and stay on the pitch , because this is not going to be easy for us , especially with [ Michael ] Clarke , who thinks all the time. All the time he 's changing the field , changing the angles , and he keeps it fresh , their bowlers , they bowl three or four overs then suddenly they have a break of next 20-25 minutes and then come back . " It was not easy , but when you play with your heart and according to the situation then suddenly things are turning towards you and in the second session we scored some runs and then things turned towards me and in the end I made a hundred. It was tough and a good effort from Australian bowlers and good captaincy from Clarke as well. " Batting collapses have been a recurring theme for Pakistan in the post-Inzamam , post-Yousuf era. Younis , though , has carried on scoring as heavily as ever. In the last five years , Younis has scored 2456 runs at an average of 55.81 , with nine hundreds and seven half-centuries . " It was never ever easy for me , in my whole career , " Younis said. " All the time I just play for my country and for my team and whenever my team needs me so I try like that. I will go and play positive cricket , positive body language. " Scoring a century against Australia is always difficult , and Younis had n't managed one in six previous Tests against them. He was under stifling pressure at the start of his innings , with pretty much every delivery bowled at him right on the money. But even when he had scored only one run from the first 34 balls he had faced , there was a sense of calmness about Younis . " The way Mitchell Johnson bowled , [ Peter ] Siddle , Nathan Lyon - as a unit they bowled very well , there were no easy runs , " Younis said. " In this heat , the effort the Australian bowlers put in , it felt very good , that I was sweating a lot but slowly the situation was also changing. The way Clarke captained , there were no easy runs. It felt very good that in these tough conditions , there were bruises as well , and then the way the century came. " Younis ' calming influence clearly benefited Azhar at the other end . " I am happy the way Azhar played at the other end , " Younis said. " He was also under pressure , he had n't scored too many runs in his last series as well , but the way he made a fifty and the way we added a hundred runs , we started believing , and it feels very good to be part of a partnership with a young player . On 99 , Younis defended Lyon with a extra caution that exuded a sense a of nervousness but then came down the pitch and launched a six over long-on to reach the landmark . " Fielders were right up , and I was thinking I should n't get stuck , " Younis said , explaining his reasoning behind going over the top. " The pitch was better , the ball was also a bit old , and I felt there was a chance if I clear the circle I will get 2-3-4 runs , and exactly the same thing happened and I middled one and it went into the crowd. If the field was back I would have got there in singles but Clarke gave me a chance and I availed it. " Pakistan ended the day on 219 for 4 , and Younis said they would be in a strong position if they could extend their total beyond 400 . " I think 400-plus will be very nice but it will not be easy because Australian bowlers are very keen to not give you any easy runs , " he said. " The pitch is quite skiddy and there is little bit of break as well for the spinners so it will not be easy tomorrow morning. Especially the last 10-15 minutes when Nathan Lyon bowled it was huge break , the ball was breaking , spinning , so I think this will not be easy for batsmen tomorrow morning. " Umar Farooq is ESPNcricinfo 's Pakistan correspondent. @ kalson © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
