Pakistan v Australia , 2nd Test , Abu Dhabi , 1st day October 30 , 2014 Younis and Azhar dissect Australia Azhar Ali and Younis Khan both hit centuries as Pakistan bossed the first day © Getty Images Pakistan 304 for 2 ( Younis 111 * , Azhar 101 * ) v Australia Scorecard and ball-by-ball details Accumulation , acceleration and domination. Younis Khan and Azhar Ali shepherded Pakistan to a dominant 304 for 2 on day one of the second Test in Abu Dhabi , where a confounded Australia 's thirst for wickets went almost totally unquenched . In their quest for a first series victory over Australia in 20 years , Pakistan 's batsmen set down the most ideal platform possible , guided largely by the wonderfully correct and composed Younis , who became the first man to compile three consecutive centuries against Australia in 90 years . It had seemed difficult to imagine that Australia 's bowlers could look more ineffective than they had done in Dubai , yet the Abu Dhabi surface offered them still less to work with , and the search for skills of spin and reverse swing remained a fruitless one. After Nathan Lyon and Mitchell Johnson struck either side of lunch , Younis and Azhar added an unbeaten 208 . Michael Clarke tried every conceivable field setting , from an array of catchers in front of the wicket on either side of the batsmen , to the rare posting of a man at straight hit , prompting Pakistani queries about the legality of a fielder standing directly behind the bowler . But the bowlers and fielders alike were rendered mere extras by the orthodoxy of Younis. Azhar offered a half chance to David Warner at slip from the wrist spin of Steven Smith but even that was a worry for Australia - Smith 's turn and bounce is sure to perk up the interest of Yasir Shah. Clarke was reduced to bowling himself by the end , after the day had begun with news that the left-arm spin of Steve O'Keefe had been discarded . The tour selectors Darren Lehmann and Rod Marsh had made two highly aggressive changes to the team that lost by 221 runs in Dubai , dropping Alex Doolan and O'Keefe for Glenn Maxwell and Mitchell Starc . The daredevil Maxwell is expected to bat at No. 3 after Doolan 's timid effort in the first Test , while Starc was included alongside Mitchell Johnson in the same XI for the first time since January 2013 . A win or draw in Abu Dhabi would deliver Pakistan their first Test series victory over Australia since a 1-0 home result in 1994 , and the early exchanges suggested the second result may appear most likely. The pitch offered even less in the way of bounce or pace than Dubai 's had done , and there was no new ball swing for Mitchell Johnson to exploit . Mohammad Hafeez and Ahmed Shehzad were thus able to wander along without much urgency or anything in the way of alarms against Johnson , Starc or Peter Siddle , the ball seldom beating the bat and no appeals being raised by the slip cordon . It took the introduction of Lyon to draw the first significant false strokes of the morning when he was introduced after drinks. Shehzad propped forward to his second ball , which did not spin as expected and the thinnest of edges was missed by Brad Haddin as the batsmen took three . Missed chances have been an unfortunate recurring theme of Lyon 's Test career , but this one was to prove less costly than others. Shehzad favoured the back foot after his earlier edge , and was pinned on the crease by the last ball of Lyon 's third over for a clear lbw . Australian relief to have taken one wicket was to be their isolated moment of joy for the session , as Hafeez and Azhar pushed on dourly to lunch. The posting of short covers , mid-ons and mid-offs and even a rare man at straight hit by Clarke said as much about the pitch as the scoreboard . Hafeez was fluent and collected , and seemed set for a half-century when Johnson angled a delivery past him and extracted a thin edge through to Haddin. Azhar and Younis made very few errors during the balance of the afternoon , and by the interval had set down a fine platform for the day and the match . Having chosen an extra paceman in heat hovering around 36C all day , Australia 's over rate had been tardy , leaving 38 overs scheduled for a sapping final session. They would bowl only 36 before the umpires deemed the light to be fading , but in that time Younis and Azhar heaped 146 runs with only the slightest hints of trouble . Younis ' century was reached in a mere 128 balls , summing up the escalation of his technical and mental mastery over the bowlers following his dogged wrestle with them on the first day of the series. Azhar 's took a far more circumspect 223 with only six fours - how Australia must wish for that kind of perseverance in their young batsmen . Hours before at Cricket Australia 's AGM , the chief executive James Sutherland had confidently predicted an Australian turnaround in Abu Dhabi. It will need to happen quickly . Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
