'Daddy ' Dhoni Proud of Baby Daughter But Says World Cup Important 'Daddy ' Dhoni Proud of Baby Daughter But Says World Cup Important Wife Sakshi gave birth to a baby daughter at a Gurgaon hospital but MS Dhoni says although elated , he is focused on the upcoming World Cup and his national duty . Last updated on Saturday , 07 February , 2015 22 : 34 IST Total Shares MS Dhoni married childhood friend Sakshi in 2010 and is now a proud father. For now though , his primary focus is on the World Cup . © BCCI Mahendra Singh Dhoni became a proud father to a baby girl on Friday and said a day later that both mother and daughter were in good health. In Australia for the World Cup which begins February 14 , the Indian cricket captain however said he has no plans of flying back as he is all set to lead the defending champions in the coveted tournament. ( Complete coverage of the World Cup ) Wife Sakshi gave birth to a girl at a Gurgaon hospital on Friday evening even as Dhoni himself was busy preparing for the World Cup in Australia. Although proud to become a father for the first time , 33-year-old Dhoni said country and his team continue to be his main priority , at least for now. " Yes , I have been blessed with a baby daughter , " he told reporters on Saturday. " Both mom and child are fine. " When asked if he was returning home for a few days , Dhoni said there were no such plans. " No , I am on national duty. World Cup is important for me and I rather be here. " ( Also read : Dhoni says team well rested , ready for World Cup battle ) While Dhoni may be busy preparing for the World Cup , the family back home is elated with the good news. The baby weighs 3.7 kgs according to sources and Sakshi - who is known to travel on tours with her husband - is doing well after the delivery which happened through c-section . ( With PTI inputs ) Story first published on : Saturday , 07 February 2015 08 : 43 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
