Pakistan squads For first two ODIs Mohammad Hafeez , Ahmed Shehzad , Asad Shafiq , Bilawal Bhatti , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , Mohammad Irfan , Nasir Jamshed , Sarfraz Ahmed ( wk ) , Shahid Afridi , Sohail Tanvir , Umar Akmal , Umar Gul , Wahab Riaz , Younis Khan , Zulfiqar Babar Out : Sohaib Maqsood , Junaid Khan , Umar Amin , Sami Aslam , Fawad Alam , Raza Hasan , Anwar Ali In : Nasir Jamshed , Younis Khan , Umar Gul , Haris Sohail , Bilawal Bhatti T20 Squad Ahmed Shehzad , Anwar Ali , Mohammad Hafeez , Haris Sohail , Mohammad Irfan , Awais Zia , Raza Hasan , Saad Nasim , Sarfraz Ahmed ( wk ) , Shahid Afridi ( capt ) , Sohail Tanvir , Umar Akmal , Umar Gul , Wahab Riaz Out : Umar Amin , Sohaib Maqsood , Bilawal Bhatti In : Umar Gul , Haris Sohail , Sarfraz Ahmed It has been two months since Younis Khan lashed out at the national selectors for dropping him from the ODI side , two months in which he has ransacked 717 runs in five Tests. The selectors simply could n't ignore the weight of those runs , and have picked him in the ODI squad for the first two matches against New Zealand . Misbah-ul-Haq remains the ODI captain. Misbah , who had gone through a lean patch with the bat , had sat out of the third ODI against Australia , leaving Shahid Afridi to lead in his place. Following that , Misbah experienced a resurgence , both as captain and as batsman , in the Tests against Australia and New Zealand . Middle-order batsman Fawad Alam , who is Pakistan 's second-highest ODI run-getter in 2014 ( at an average of 77 ) , has been left out . Opening batsman Nasir Jamshed has also been recalled for the ODIs , while wicketkeeper-batsman Sarfraz Ahmed , who was prolific in the recent Tests , has made the Twenty20 squad. Jamshed last played an ODI for Pakistan a year ago in South Africa but has earned a call-up with 314 runs at 62.80 for Pakistan A against UAE . " In the ODI squad , Younis Khan has been recalled for the ODI squad due to his sparkling form , " Pakistan chief selector and manager Moin Khan said. " Similarly , Sarfraz Ahmed is featuring in a T20I for the first time. Young and promising Haris Sohail is also part of both squads , while Sohaib Maqsood was not considered on fitness grounds. Among our pace bowlers , Wahab Riaz and Umar Gul are making comebacks from injury to make the pace attack more potent. " Younis Khan returns after prolific Test series against Australia and New Zealand © Associated Press Maqsood , 27 , has been ruled out due to the wrist fracture he suffered during Pakistan A 's trip to the UAE last month . Fast bowlers Wahab and Gul have both recovered from their knee injuries and returned to both the T20 and the ODI squads. Haris Sohail , a left-hand batsman from Sialkot , has been in selectors ' plan since last year and has finally made the squad ahead of the 2015 World Cup . " I expect Team Pakistan to perform to its potential in both the T20Is and ODIs , " Moin said. " We have tried to induct all our fit players in contention for a slot and this is also pretty much the last opportunity for the players to perform and cement their places in the World Cup squad . " Both the squads are well-balanced , with a decent blend of in-form batsmen and good allrounders , with the bowling attack a potent mix of pace and spin combinations. Quite a few players have been included either after returning from injury or on the basis of current form. " Alam , 29 , who had a lean run in his previous series against Australia , was axed as Younis and another prospect Haris Sohail had been included for middle-order spots. Since the ODIs against Australia , Alam represented National Bank of Pakistan in the domestic circuit to scoring a double hundred and three fifties but that was n't enough to sway the selectors. His ODI debut came back in 2009 and he has a batting average of 45.14 , but he could n't hold down a permanent place. His latest recall in the ODI squad came into being after the span of five years in Asia Cup . Pakistan start their limited-overs campaign with two T20s in Dubai from December 4 followed by a series of five-ODIs starting from December 8 . Umar Farooq is ESPNcricinfo 's Pakistan correspondent. @ kalson © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
