shares 7 Karun Nair put on 239 runs with KL Rahul for an unbroken sixth-wicket partnership © PTI Dhawal Kulkarni. Abhimanyu Mithun. Suryakumar Yadav. All of them had exceptional maiden first-class seasons. All of them failed to replicate their success in the next. At the end of the Ranji Trophy semi-finals , Karun Nair had almost joined the list. Then came Monday . On the second day of the Ranji final , Karun showed his skills as a middle-order batsman. He was patient and persevered to remain unbeaten after batting for more than seven hours to emphasis Karnataka 's dominance . Naturally , Karun was relieved and elated with his effort. " I think this is the best and most special because it has come in a Ranji final and I had n't got any hundreds in this season. I was really looking forward to and hoping that I get one , so this is the most special , " he told reporters after his unbeaten 130 against Tamil Nadu . " I 've been working hard so I was looking forward to such an opportunity. I think I was getting a lot of 30s , and I was getting out on one wrong ball. " So what was hampering him this season ? Failing to cope with expectations ? Being found out by the opposition teams ? Trying too hard ? . " Not so long ago , he was trying to cement his place in the Karnataka team. Suddenly he scored those three centuries and he was picked for India A. For a guy who was trying to cement his place in the Ranji side , it was too much to handle the pressure on the young shoulders of suddenly being in the selectors ' contention , " J Arunkumar , Karnataka 's batting coach , told ESPNcricinfo . " At some stage , many youngsters start wondering whether they should do something different. But Karun is a confident cricketer. He was quite relaxed since he knew he was hitting the ball well. " Karun made his debut midway through the 2013-14 season and made headlines by scoring centuries in successive games against Delhi , Uttar Pradesh in the quarter-final and Punjab in the semi-final. That was followed by a successful stint with Rajasthan Royals in the IPL - 330 runs at an average of 33 and strike rate of 142.24 - and Karun was in Australia with the India A squad last July . Since then , however , his form has slumped. After only one fifty in the first seven games , Karnataka decided to rest him for the last league game against Mumbai. Karun was asked to play the CK Nayudu Under-23 Trophy quarter-final and the move paid off as he scored a century and regained confidence . It reflected in his performance in the Ranji semi-final against Mumbai. His unbeaten 49 in the first innings was crucial in Karnataka digging themselves out of a hole and he has followed it up with a remarkable innings in the final. He came to the crease at 16 for 3 last evening , saw off the day and built an innings that could end up being match-winning . If he continues in the same vein , Tamil Nadu will be forced to field for three days , just like they did in their last final appearance , against Rajasthan in 2011-12 . Amol Karhadkar is a correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
