Ranji Trophy 2014-15 , final March 11 , 2015 Rampant Karnataka close in on innings win 29 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 29 Tamil Nadu 134 and 113 for 3 ( Aparajith 36 * ) trail Karnataka 762 ( Nair 328 , Rahul 188 , Vinay 105 ) by 515 runs Play 04 : 22 Dravid : Karnataka leaving behind strong legacy Two days into the match , it was already clear Karnataka were going to defend their title. Karun Nair had already become the second batsman to score a triple-hundred in a Ranji final , and Karnataka had already piled up a 500-plus first-innings lead. The third day was always going to be about piling up more misery on Tamil Nadu and more records for the statisticians . They succeeded in doing both. Nair and Vinay Kumar erased various records and Karnataka posted a Brobdingnagian total of 762 to finish with a lead of 628 runs. Then the Karnataka bowlers unit gave Tamil Nadu another lesson and struck three vital blows before stumps , leaving an innings win a distinct possibility . Vinay emulates Hazare Karun Nair went past Gul Mohammed 's 319 to make the highest individual score in a Ranji Trophy final . Karun 's 328 was the 10th best score in the history of the Ranji Trophy . Vinay Kumar became the first captain to pick up a five-wicket haul and score a century in a Ranji final. He was only the second cricketer to achieve the feat. Vijay Hazare did it in the 1946-47 final. Vinay achieved the feat on the birth centenary of Hazare , who took 6 for 85 and scored 288 for Baroda against Holkar . Karnataka 's total of 762 was the second-highest in a Ranji final , behind Baroda 's 784 against Holkar in 1946-47 . The day began with Nair 10 short of erasing Gul Mohammed 's long-standing record for the highest individual score in a Ranji Trophy final , 319 for Baroda against Holkar 68 years ago. Tamil Nadu tried to prevent him from taking the record with , for the first time in their prolonged stint on the field , some innovative tactics. Both their seamers , L Balaji and Aswin Crist , bowled around the wicket with a packed leg-side field , with a conventional square leg and two fielders behind square . Nair still found ways to score runs in that area. He opened his account for the day with a pull off Crist that raced to fine-leg boundary , and four overs later flicked Balaji behind square for the single that took him past 319. The next landmark would be 338 , which would make him Karnataka 's highest individual scorer. But soon after he had gotten into the list of the top ten Ranji Trophy individual scores , he was left rooted to the crease by a fuller ball from Vijay Shankar. The ball rapped him on the pads and brought his marathon knock , lasting 872 minutes , to an end . That was only momentary response for Tamil Nadu , though. Vinay , who was on 48 when Nair returned to the pavilion to a standing ovation from his teammates and a handful of spectators , took charge along with S Aravind . Both batsmen are no mugs with the bat and it showed in their array of strokes . With the injured Prasanth Parameswaran off the field and the rest of the Tamil Nadu attack weary after more than 200 overs on the field , Vinay and Aravind batted with gusto. Vinay rotated the strike while Aravind found the boundary frequently with his drive particularly productive. Immediately after bringing up his maiden first-class fifty , Aravind flicked Crist to M Shahrukh Khan , the substitute fielder stationed at short leg . Vinay was unbeaten on 77 then. He required HS Sharath to hold on to an end if he was to achieve the rare distinction of a five-wicket haul and a hundred in the same match. The big shots started coming. He pulled Balaji for four and then sent him into the stands over long-off in the same over. Three overs later , he hoicked Vijay Shankar 's misfired yorker over cow corner and entered the nineties. With nine wickets down , Vinay was in a hurry to get to his century before lunch , but remained on 97 when the players walked off the field . Fifth ball after lunch , Vinay pulled Vijay Shankar to midwicket boundary and raised his arms in delight. He had become the first captain , and second player since Vijay Hazare , to have achieved the double in a Ranji final. He had done it on Hazare 's birth centenary . A couple of overs later , Sharath was stumped by B Indrajith , who was keeping in the absence of Dinesh Karthik , who was suffering from acidity. By then , Karnataka had posted the second-highest total in a Ranji final . After close to 17 and a half hours on the field , Tamil Nadu had to try and restore some pride. For that , they required either of their reliable openers to play a long haul. Neither Abhinav M nor M Vijay could achieve it. Abhinav attempted a reckless cut off Shreyas Gopal in the legspinner 's second over , missed it and saw the ball crash into middle stump. Vijay started on a good note , crunching a drive and a flick off successive balls from Sharath. But Vinay , who did n't take the new ball , got one to jag back in and found him plumb in front for the second time in the match. It was then up to the twins , B Aparajith and B Indrajith , to see the day out for Tamil Nadu. But Indrajith , having just struck a six and a four off the previous two balls , glided Shreyas straight into Vinay 's palms at slip . Amol Karhadkar is a correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
