'Fewer hookers in Soho on a Saturday night' What they said about precognition , KP , the doosra , team composition and more January 2 , 2015 MS Dhoni : head and shoulders the most quotable cricket personality of the year , with two entries in this article © Getty Images related links " The way they [ Venus and Serena Williams ] hit it , they 're more than welcome to bat at the top of the order. I might have to slide down a few spots. " T20 record holder Aaron Finch is impressed with the batting skills of the tennis champions " Whenever we have played with four fast bowlers , two things happen. One the captain gets banned , two we lose. " MS Dhoni has practical reasons for sticking with two spinners overseas " I wish I was Kane Williamson. " Australia fast bowler Kane William Richardson is in awe of his New Zealand namesake who scored five ODI fifties in a row " I even learned English by the end of that series. You know how much the Australians like to talk on the field. " Harbhajan Singh recalls the 2001 series in which he snapped up 32 Australians " In my playing days the ice was kept for the beers. " Michael Holding is n't a fan of such modern post-match fitness routines as the ice bath " I stood next to her because I thought height-wise we were pretty similar. " Sunil Gavaskar recalls meeting the Queen at Buckingham Palace during the 1975 World Cup " I am not Jesus Christ ! I do n't know what 's going on in his mind. " Not being divine , Darren Sammy can not tell what Chris Gayle is thinking at any given moment " Part of me would love to put my name into the mix , but I would want KP in the team and lose 10 support staff. " Shane Warne on being asked if he is interested in becoming the England coach " We will try the laundry. That 's good , will keep us clean. " MS Dhoni is at his facetious best when asked how the players will ensure a clean IPL this year " Contrary to popular belief I actually have a really good relationship with most of the guys in the [ England ] dressing room. " A shocking revelation from Kevin Pietersen " I 'm so nervous around water I check the bath for sharks. " Michael Clarke fesses up to one of his biggest fears , after agreeing to sail for charity " I have seen fewer hookers in Soho on a Saturday night. " Bob Willis is appalled after several English batsmen perish to a certain shot in their loss to India at Lord 's " I 've been trying to hit as straight as possible , so I 'm very happy with the shot. I 'm not going to apologise for it. " Mitchell Johnson is not sorry for breaking the glass in the commentators ' box at the Harare Sports Club " At least when Zimbabwe beat us in '83 we were drinking cans the night before. And lots of them. " After Australia 's loss to Zimbabwe , former fast bowler Rodney Hogg explains what may have gone wrong 31 years ago " I have enjoyed when a gorgeous cricket ball declines the advances of my well-manicured cricket bat. But loaded with the perseverance of a sincere lover , my bat wins. " Gautam Gambhir goes all Barbara Cartland in his newspaper column " I am happy they [ England ] gave us [ India ] the game of cricket , which they ca n't play very well , and the English language , which I ca n't speak very well. " Kapil Dev gets cheeky after receiving a lifetime achievement award at the House of Lords from the Indo-European Business Forum " Speak to my wife , we should have kept going ! " Geoff Marsh on the fact both his sons - Shaun and Mitchell - are now Australian Test cricketers " What will happen with the FTP is far above my pay grade. " Brendon McCullum would rather not talk about the ways of the ICC " A person is made of this earth , which has not been discovered completely yet. " Saqlain Mushtaq waxes philosophical when asked if there can be further innovation to the doosra © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
