ICC World Cup : Winless Tour Leaves Champs India Vulnerable ICC World Cup : Winless Tour Leaves Champs India Vulnerable India lost the Test series Down Under 2-0 while the side also failed to make it to the final of the tri-nation series which also featured Australia and England. With a win long due , pressure is on Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's men . Last updated on Saturday , 07 February , 2015 16 : 00 IST Total Shares File photo of the Indian cricket team which is desperate to get back to winning ways Down Under . © BCCI New Delhi : Loaded with free-stroking batsmen but missing match-winning bowlers , Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's India will look to chase down -- rather than defend -- the World Cup title they won four years ago. ( Complete coverage of the World Cup ) But a miserable bilateral tour of Australia where India lost the Test series 2-0 and failed to win a match in the tri-series that also featured England , leaves the defending champions on shaky ground. ( Also read : Dhoni is a proud father | Says World Cup important , wo n't go home ) Millions of fans will hope that Dhoni 's men turn their fortunes around -- as they have done in the past -- when they clash with arch-rivals Pakistan in their World Cup opener in Adelaide on February 15. ( Related : Ishant Sharma fails fitness test , may be out of World Cup ) India went into the 2003 World Cup after a bad tour of New Zealand and still reached the final. In 2011 , they won the tournament despite a lacklustre performance in South Africa. ( Also read : Kohli , Shastri enjoy yoga and massage ) In Rohit Sharma , the only batsman with two 200s in one-day internationals , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina and the explosive Dhoni , India possess destructive batting firepower . But the frail bowling attack remains a worry , as was evident during the recent Test series where the hosts piled up 500-plus totals in each of the four matches . The same seam attack comprising Ishant Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Umesh Yadav , will feature in the World Cup alongside three frontline spinners in off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin and left-armers Ravindra Jadeja and young Akshar Patel . " Big totals are needed to win , " India 's first World Cup-winning captain Kapil Dev told AFP. " We will be better off chasing targets rather than giving bowlers a target to defend. " India won the title under Dhoni in 2011 with an experienced squad that included seasoned campaigners like Sachin Tendulkar , Virender Sehwag , Gautam Gambhir , Yuvraj Singh Zaheer Khan and Harbhajan Singh . The present side has just four players -- Dhoni , Kohli , Raina and Ashwin -- who were part of that winning combination , leaving the team short of World Cup experience . The nucleus of the squad is the same which helped India win the Champions Trophy one-day tournament in England in 2013 , but a power-packed batting display is needed to succeed again . Rohit Sharma , who followed his one-day 209 against Australia in 2013 with a scintillating world record score of 264 against the West Indies last year , is expected to fire at the top of the order despite a poor Test series . Kohli , recently appointed Test captain after Dhoni quit the longer format , is one of the finest batsmen in the modern game with 21 one-day centuries in the last five years , a testimony of his hunger for big scores . Dhoni , the peg around whom India 's fortunes will revolve , is a leader and batsman tailor-made for limited-overs cricket whose improvised big-hitting has won many a battle for India . A win over Pakistan in their opening match -- India have never lost to their arch-rivals in the World Cup -- will be the tonic Dhoni needs to revitalise the side . Story first published on : Saturday , 07 February 2015 10 : 01 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
