Mobile Back in black Away Test wins , rescue acts , ODI series victories against top teams and a captain leading by example : New Zealand have reasons to feel bullish Andrew Alderson January 1 , 2015 Tweet Play New Zealand enjoyed unprecedented success in 2014. Five wins in nine Tests was a national record , including series victories over West Indies and India , and a drawn series with Pakistan. They were buttressed by one-day international series wins against India and Pakistan. The team laid the foundations for a legacy with Brendon McCullum 's leadership at its heart . Contrary to perception , his pivotal moment came when they responded to a second Test defeat against West Indies in Trinidad by taking the series in Barbados . " That was the most enjoyable moment of my career , though my own success was limited , " McCullum said after averaging 14.50 in six innings. " It encapsulated everything we want to be known for. " On they went to the United Arab Emirates , where , in part due to McCullum 's 202 , they levelled the series against Pakistan. He shared a record 297-run second-wicket partnership with Kane Williamson , as part of a New Zealand-best 690 in a Test shadowed by Phillip Hughes ' death . The same mettle was shown against India at the Basin Reserve , when McCullum 's 302 saved the second Test. His 195 against Sri Lanka on Boxing Day made him the first New Zealander to top 1000 Test runs in a calendar year , and he finished 2014 with 1164 at 72.75. His aggregate included New Zealand 's two fastest Test centuries : 78 balls ( Sharjah ) and 74 balls ( Christchurch ) . Heroes of the Basin : New Zealand 's remarkable comeback against India , led by Brendon McCullum 's 302 , saved them the series and fuelled the self-belief that sustained them through 2014 © Getty Images McCullum offered inspiration , yet his year was tinged by uncertainty , knowing his testimony will form a key part of the prosecution if a perjury charge against former team-mate Chris Cairns is proven . Aiding the New Zealand cause was the Test and one-day batting of the 3-4 punch , Williamson and Ross Taylor. At 24 , Williamson has more centuries ( eight ) in fewer Tests ( 38 ) than Glenn Turner ( seven in 41 ) , Andrew Jones ( seven in 39 ) , Geoff Howarth ( six in 47 ) and , dare it be whispered , Bert Sutcliffe ( five in 42 ) . His one-day record of eight 50-plus scores in his last 10 innings underlined his value , as did a record tally of 1933 runs across all formats by a New Zealander in a calendar year , overtaking Stephen Fleming 's 1658 in 2004 . Ross Taylor 's 2014 Test average ( 35.53 ) ignores the impact his self-belief had on the team with centuries in three consecutive Tests against West Indies at home last December. His ODI average of 66.20 , including a run of three consecutive hundreds , also resonated . New Zealand 's most successful opening bowling partnership of Trent Boult ( 34 Test wickets at 28.58 ) and Tim Southee ( 33 wickets at 26.03 ) played momentous roles. Their strike rates guaranteed a wicket every ten overs , and their ability to swing the new or old ball was a key weapon . Heading into the World Cup the selectors had to fit six quality pacemen into five spots. After Boult and Southee , the form of Matt Henry , aggression of Mitchell McClenaghan , experience of Kyle Mills and pace of Adam Milne presented a conundrum . The all-weather batsman : Kane Williamson enjoyed a record tally of 1933 runs across all formats © AFP Other successes included Tom Latham , who established himself as a Test opener. His maiden century , against Pakistan in Abu Dhabi , epitomised discipline. He repeated the dose in Dubai . Allrounders Corey Anderson ( with the world 's fastest ODI century in 36 balls on New Year 's Day ) and Jimmy Neesham ( the first New Zealander to score centuries in his first two Tests ) showed sufficient promise to earn IPL contracts . BJ Watling and Luke Ronchi continued their development as wicketkeepers in the Test and one-day formats respectively. Watling topped the international table for Test dismissals , with 40 , while Ronchi 's 418 runs at 41.80 and strike rate of 114 boded well for closing ODI innings . Underpinning the revolution was coach Mike Hesson tapping into a reservoir of sabermetric material. Call it a return to " Hadleeism " , but such scrupulous planning was welcome. His reward was a contract extension until 2017 . Administrators carried on preparing for a World Cup , reassured by strong team performances. Their best initiative came with the debut of Christchurch 's Hagley Oval as a Test venue after the earthquake-enforced hiatus . High point This was like asking , " Which of your children do you love the most ? " A catalyst to success came with the world-record sixth-wicket partnership of 352 between McCullum and Watling to save the Wellington Test against India. McCullum made New Zealand 's first Test triple-century , but that was a pleasant statistical by-product to the courage displayed when defeat beckoned . Happy New Year : Corey Anderson announced himself with a blazing century off 36 balls in Queenstown © AFP In McCullum 's words : " It showed we were prepared to fight bloody hard to make sure we did n't roll over. " Everything the team has done since has been tagged by that " 302 " watermark . Low point The match-fixing saga was a cancerous cell on a year of robust health. Former international Lou Vincent admitted match-fixing and received a life ban . Chris Cairns faces a perjury charge stemming from a 2012 High Court libel trial in London , when he won damages and costs against former IPL boss Lalit Modi. Cairns has always described match-fixing allegations against him as " despicable lies " . Jesse Ryder broke team protocol as he tried to reignite his international career. Recidivist behaviour in November resulted in exclusion from the wider World Cup squad . On the field , the only time the team failed to perform was at the World T20 in Bangladesh. Two wins and two losses could n't translate to a semi-final spot . New kid on the block Offspinner Mark Craig headed to the Caribbean with 43 wickets at 42.88 in 22 first-class matches , but his path to becoming first-choice Test spinner was swift. His Man-of-the-Match performance of 8 for 188 against West Indies in Kingston were the best figures by a New Zealander on debut . Craig repeated the dose in Sharjah with 10 for 203 and added 65 with the bat , all in the shadow of Daniel Vettori playing his record 112th - and likely last - Test for New Zealand in front of his family in the main stand . Still pinching himself : Mark Craig played crucial roles in two of New Zealand 's five Test wins , both away from home © Associated Press Craig played seven Tests , took 26 wickets at 43.03 and averaged 44.42 with the bat. " The feeling of belonging has settled in. It 's awesome. I wake up , put the kettle on each morning and have a wee smile , " he said after the Pakistan series . What 2015 holds New Zealand are threatening to shake up cricket 's world order across all formats. Scheduled Test series away against England , Sri Lanka and Australia will offer reliable benchmarks. One-day series wins over India and Pakistan suggest confidence and fortitude , and give reasons for optimism heading into the World Cup . In ten editions , New Zealand have reached the semi-finals six times but never progressed further. A tournament at home and the gelling of the current playing , coaching and support staff suggests this is their best chance to do so .
