In 2014 , South Africa knocked over a fortress but also said goodbye to two colossus players Firdose Moonda January 6 , 2015 Play 'The biggest transition period South Africa have faced in a decade' Remember when Juan Carlos was still the king of Spain , Cuba 's president , Raul Castro , was opposed to " neo-liberal and neocolonial " thinking , and Graeme Smith was captain of South Africa 's Test side ? All this was in the beginning of 2014. Somehow the trio managed to end a reign of 39 years , an impasse of 55 , and an era of ten quietly . Smith 's decision to retire shook South Africa when it was announced , not even three months into a year that started with a fun festival of 20-over cricket that replaced the traditional New Year 's Test , and which saw more people turn up to watch the national rugby side play cricket than did for franchise cricket matches . A month later things got serious when an Australian Test side high on Mitchell Johnson beat South Africa in Centurion by 281 runs. Then came the comeback , engineered by Dale Steyn , in Port Elizabeth . As if the impatient wait for the highly anticipated contest and then its ups and downs was n't enough drama , Smith stepped down after the third Test , which South Africa lost . South Africa were n't prepared for a captaincy succession at the start of the year , but they dealt well with it © Getty Images The series defeat was South Africa 's first since losing to Australia at home in 2009 , but it did not seem too much of a setback. They held on to the Test mace and any disappointment was eclipsed by the emotion of saying goodbye to Smith . His ten years of leadership and sudden departure meant South Africa had not planned the succession thoroughly. The speculation over a solution warmed the winter months , especially when it emerged that Hashim Amla had been convinced to get over his initial reluctance to take over the reins . Amla was unveiled mid-year and his first assignment was to visit the country where South Africa last lost a Test series - Sri Lanka , in 2006. They won the Test series 1-0 and the ODIs 2-1 , which served as some redress for the 1-4 loss there in 2013 . Hashim Amla kicked off his captaincy reign with a historic series win in Sri Lanka © AFP But with the gain came a massive loss. Jacques Kallis , who called time on his Test career in December 2013 with a view to playing in the World Cup , decided he was only prolonging the inevitable. He struggled for form and fitness in Sri Lanka and retired from all formats . With the Kallis question out of the way , South Africa could concentrate on forming a World Cup squad , and in Zimbabwe they found a formula that worked. They claimed a major scalp by beating Australia in the tri-series final in Harare but took steps backwards when they toured Australia for an ODI series as preparation for the World Cup . The rest of the year petered out in a similarly forgettable fashion. The only team they hosted in the summer was a depleted West Indian outfit. And the much-hyped domestic 20-over competition , which had Smith as the tournament director , attracted but a handful of big names . What will be remembered , though , is that 2014 was the year South Africa was reminded of their place in the political landscape of cricket : the outside. After initially being part of the group of countries who promised to resist the Big Three takeover of the ICC , Cricket South Africa was convinced to change its mind , partly through the promise of better bilateral series. After a lean year like 2014 , it is not difficult to see why the board would want more cricket against more competitive teams more often , and 2015 will be the first test of whether that actually happens . The high of beating Australia in the tri-series in Harare was quickly replaced by the worry of losing an ODI series down under just months before the World Cup © Associated Press High point Sri Lanka was considered the final frontier for the current crop. With a new captain , a new opener and a new No. 3 , they would have been forgiven if the frontier had stayed unconquered , but Amla 's tenure began with expectations exceeded. Victory in Galle , on a slow , low surface gave South Africa a lead they defended with determination and defiance in Colombo to kick off the new era in the best way possible . Low point An extended period of World Cup preparation was to culminate with victory over the old enemy , Australia , who had been defeated in a tri-series in Harare in August , but instead South Africa were drubbed 1-4. Their middle order and death bowling were woefully exposed to leave them with more questions than answers ahead of the tournament they will be well prepared for - in terms of numbers of matches played . New kid on the block South Africa handed out four new Test caps in 2014 - the most in four years - and all four players impressed on their first appearance. The standouts were Dane Piedt ( eight wickets on debut ) and Stiaan van Zyl ( century on debut ) . But it was a teenager who stole the show. Kagiso Rabada led the Under-19 team 's charge to the World Cup trophy in February , returned home to a franchise deal , and was swiftly included in the national squads. Allan Donald has likened him to a " thoroughbred " in physique and function , and has tipped him for a bright future . Fast bowler Kagiso Rabada : an exciting talent to watch out for in 2015 © ICC Fading star Robin Peterson and Imran Tahir were South Africa 's leading wicket-takers in the 2011 World Cup but their careers have waned since. Peterson is unlikely to travel to the 2015 tournament ; though Tahir ought to be part of the squad , it may be his swansong. Both have fallen out of favour in the longer format after periods of inconsistency . What 2015 holds Opportunity. South Africa have spent six months preparing for another shot at ICC silverware. After the World Cup , a lengthy winter break will be ended by a tour to Bangladesh , which will serve as warm-up to a four-Test tour of India and a four-Test home series against England .
