Morne Morkel " This is the best send-off ever. The guys can feel the fire , the enthusiasm , the energy. " Charl Langeveldt , who played at the 2007 World Cup and is now a consultant to the national team " This team is primed to do something special. I think they are ready to do it. It 's going to be a collective effort. " Robin Peterson , South Africa 's highest wicket-taker at the 2011 World Cup " We got it right. We will only be judged after the World Cup but we think we 've got it right. " Shafiek Abrahams , one of South Africa 's four selectors " We 're excited to get on that plane now. It 's a long tournament. A lot has to happen before we get to the knockout stages. All our focus is on the first game. We 're looking for some big fish while we 're over there. " Russell Domingo slips in a pun albeit unintentionally " You represent the soul of this nation. Sport is not a useless business. We call it the RDP of the soul - reconstruction and development program of the soul. Please win it for us. South Africans are accustomed to winning because we are the children of warriors. Nelson Mandela. Kepler Wessels . We do n't want you in the World Cup to add numbers and just become a bunch of losers. You are not going to be playing with robots , you are playing with people. You are the special ones. You are the chosen ones. It does not mean you are irreplaceable but all of you are capable of doing the duty for us . Forget about 1992. Forget about what happened in Bangladesh. When Allan Donald and Lance Klusener could not get us over the line [ sic ] . To AB and your bunch of winners : you are not playing against cows. You are not playing against donkeys. Do n't undermine any of them. Go and win it for us. Winning is a statement of courage. We are releasing you to go and win it for South Africa. Bliksem Moer Hulle ( Beat them/Smash them up ) . " Fikile Mbalula , South Africa 's sports minister , who was given the day off from a national lekgotla ( strategic government meeting ) in Pretoria to deliver president Jacob Zuma 's message to the team. Mbalula said the commander-in-chief 's order was a simple " March on , you skillful warriors. " No Pressure . Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
