Injured Ishant Sharma Fails Fitness Test , Ruled Out of World Cup Injured Ishant Sharma Fails Fitness Test , Ruled Out of World Cup While Mohit Sharma will replace Ishant Sharma , Rohit and Bhuvneshwar Kumar appeared fit after nursing their own respective injuries . Last updated on Sunday , 08 February , 2015 11 : 37 IST Total Shares File photo of Ishant Sharma . © AFP Ishant Sharma will not feature in the 2015 edition of the World Cup. The lanky fast bowler cut a sorry figure during India 's practice session in Adelaide on Saturday , where he did n't bowl a single delivery. ( Complete coverage of the World Cup ) Sources have told NDTV that Ishant failed to prove his match fitness to the team management and will most probably be replaced by Mohit Sharma in the 15-member World Cup squad. ( Also read : Dhoni is a proud father | Says World Cup important , wo n't go home ) Mohit along with Dhawal Kulkarni , both of whom were expected to head back to India after the tri-series , were seen bowling full throttle during Saturday 's practice . Meanwhile , India seems to have put its other injury worries behind. Rohit Sharma who was sidelined after the first ODI of the tri-series on 16th of Jan because of an hamstring injury , batted in the nets for long hours. The Mumbai batsman had this to say about his injury : " I am good to go. I had issues with my hamstring , but I was working on it in the last few days with the team 's support staff. I will be playing against Australia tomorrow in the warm up game. It will be my first World Cup experience and I 'm excited. " Bhuvneshwar Kumar too was suffering from an ankle injury that saw him miss out on both the Tests and the ODIs in Australia. But the highest ranked Indian bowler in ODI cricket was spotted bowling in the nets without any obvious discomfort . " I have fully recovered now. Yes there was a niggle in the One days and did n't play the tests too. But now I have recovered. Last 3-4 days were really good for me and I 'm looking forward to playing the World Cup " , said the medium pacer . Story first published on : Saturday , 07 February 2015 13 : 48 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
