South Africa v West Indies , 3rd Test , Cape Town January 1 , 2015 South Africa 's quest for a spin solution South Africa have moved on from major retirements with remarkable ease in the batting department , but finding a long-term solution to the spin position continues to prove much harder shares 5 Once again , after just one Test back in the team , question marks surround Imran Tahir 's Test future © AFP Whether or not Imran Tahir plays at Newlands , he will have major questions at the back of his mind . If he is included in the starting XI , he will know it could be his last chance to stake a claim for a Test future after his inability to contain was exposed at St George 's Park. If he is not , his Test career is likely over. And then there is another problem looming. He is facing a possible ban following an outburst in a domestic game which could affect his participation in the limited-overs matches later this month . The date for Tahir 's hearing will be set on January 2 , after it was delayed because the judicial officer was out of the country. Tahir was charged with a Level Two offense after a incident in the four-day fixture between the Dolphins and Warriors late last year. Tahir was allegedly upset after being removed from the attack for running on the pitch and confronted the umpires . Two days after the first-class match ended , Tahir was called up as a replacement for Robin Peterson , who injured his finger in training , with Dane Piedt , the offspinner viewed as another long-term option , just beginning his comeback from injury. South Africa 's team manager Mohammed Moosajee confirmed Tahir remains available for selection for the third Test , even though the date for his hearing will be known on the first day . That means if offspinner Simon Harmer is picked in Tahir 's place it will be a performance-related selection. It would also ensure South Africa 's transitory phase is given another significant marker it what has been notable period of change . The last Newlands Test shook up South Africa 's set-up. Graeme Smith joined Jacques Kallis in retirement to end an era. Smith 's ten-year tenure had made him Test cricket 's longest-serving captain and South Africa , but with longevity came with it the issue of succession in a number of roles. The new skipper had to be searched for , along with a new opening batsman and a new No.3 and those were only changes that had to be made . In the months that followed South Africa also found themselves turning to a different spinner , blooding new middle-order batsmen - mainly because of an injury - and new bowlers , with a view to filling the reserve seamer role. In all of that , they managed not to lose any of the five matches they played . Under Hashim Amla , South Africa won the series in Sri Lanka , beat Zimbabwe then recently took the lead against West Indies with a series victory for the taking at Newlands . For Vernon Philander , who debuted under Smith four years ago , it is a sign of how well the team as a whole has responded to change. " Graeme had been a big part of the side for a long period of time but the games moves on , Hashim has settled in very well. We want to move forward , " Philander said . And now the final step in that process may be taken. Spin has never been seen as a significant part of a South African attack with the role of the slower bowler often limited to containing. Paul Adams was one exception , Tahir the other. Although both operated alongside potent pace packs , Adams had the advantage of a couple of early tours to the subcontinent where his role was more important whereas Tahir has not had that chance . Adams ' first away tour , which he embarked on after appearing in just two Tests , was to India. He was South Africa 's most successful bowler on the trip . Tahir had to wait 12 Tests and almost two years before playing in spinner-friendly conditions in the UAE. By then , he had already been dropped once and recalled. He claimed his first Test five-for in Dubai but could not sustain that on similarly helpful surfaces in Sri Lanka and was dropped again . After teams worked Adams out he become too expensive a novelty to keep around. Tahir has become the same. A combination of bad luck and a burning desire to make an impression - as his irrepressible need for variation and exuberant celebrations indicate - could see his international promise go unfulfilled. In making that decision it would be another new face in a team building a new era , and which has embraced changed with remarkable ease , but the spin position is one that seems likely to vex South Africa for some time to come . Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
