Play 02 : 23 'It 's a ridiculous selection ' - Gayle After hammering a match-winning 90 that helped West Indies win the Twenty20 series against South Africa , Chris Gayle launched a scathing attack on the West Indies Cricket Board and the Clive Lloyd-led selection panel for dropping the senior pair of Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard from the ODI series and the World Cup. Repeatedly labelling the move as " ridiculous " , Gayle felt it was a case of " victimisation " against the two Trinidadian allrounders . " How can those two guys not be in the team ? " Gayle , who is the first current player to raise his voice against the omissions , said during the post-match media conference at Wanderers. " To me it got to be like victimisation when you look at it towards those two guys. Come on , guys. It is just ridiculous. Come on. Ridiculous. Really hurt. Ridiculous. Honestly , it throw me off. We can only talk. We can express our feelings , which I 'm doing at this point in time. The squad already is announced. It is just sad . " It is a big batting line-up when you look at our team. But it 's just disappointing when you look at the 50-over format - we wo n't be at our strongest , " Gayle said. " We do n't have our strongest team without Pollard , nor Bravo. So that is actually sad for us. It is a really big blow for us to actually lose two key players , two key allrounders as well , very good in the outfield. I do n't know what 's the history behind it , but it is a ridiculous selection from my point of view. " On Saturday , the WICB announced the 15-man World Cup squad to be led by Jason Holder with Marlon Samuels as vice-captain. There was no mention about Bravo and Pollard , who had been earlier been ignored for the ODI series against South Africa. Gayle , whose blazing starts were instrumental to West Indies chasing big totals in successive matches , including the highest successful Twenty20 chase on Sunday , said he was glad he could dedicate the series victory to Bravo and Pollard . " I do n't know where our cricket is actually going to … where we are heading with this sort of situation. But it is really sad. Actually we won the [ Twenty20 ] series with our best team and now there will be changes , with two of our biggest players in ODI cricket not involved in the 50-over format and the World Cup. It really hurts but I 'm really , really glad that we won the series for Pollard and Bravo. " Gayle 's blunt attack came a day after the WICB released a list of 12 players granted central contracts. That list did not include Gayle , who said he could only express disillusionment over the the omissions at this stage , but smelt Bravo and Pollard paying a price. Although Gayle did not mention it directly , he was referring to the India tour last October when Bravo , as ODI captain , led the boycott against the WICB and the West Indies Players ' Association over a contracts dispute and pulled out of the tour . What astonished Gayle further , he revealed , was when Bravo told him that the selectors ' vision was focused on re-building the team. " Bravo said to me , to be honest with you , the team they selected for the World Cup is actually to re-build for the next World Cup , which I ca n't understand. Basically what they are telling us : we are not going to win the World Cup [ but ] build for the next World Cup which is really ridiculous. " Nagraj Gollapudi is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
