West Indies in South Africa 2014-15 January 22 , 2015 De Kock could recover to face West Indies shares 23 Quinton de Kock already has six ODI hundreds © Getty Images South Africa may be able to celebrate their series win over West Indies with something more important than a trophy. Quinton de Kock , on whose shoulders , or rather ankle , much of South Africa 's World Cup hopes rest , could be fit in time for the final match at Centurion next Wednesday. If that is the case , he would have recovered from a ligament tear a month earlier than initially forecast and South Africa will be at full strength from the first match of the tournament . De Kock , who already has six ODI hundreds , rolled over his ankle on December 19 , the third morning of the first Test against West Indies and was ruled out of the entire series the next day. Although he did not undergo surgery , he was thought to require up to three months of rehabilitation time and was expected to be out of South Africa 's first two World Cup matches. But de Kock was running weeks after the injury , will rejoin the South African squad ahead of the fourth ODI in Port Elizabeth on Sunday and could take the field by Wednesday . Russell Domingo revealed the news at the same time as he declared it " highly unlikely , " that AB de Villiers would keep wicket in the next two games. De Villiers took over from de Kock in the Tests but Domingo said he would prefer for de Villiers not to keep wicket in ODIs , because he also captains in that format . De Villiers was rested for the three T20s but returned to do duty behind the stumps for the first three 50-over games and did not appear overburdened by the task. Not only did he oversee South Africa 's series win but he broke the world record for the fastest century in the format , off just 31 balls , at the Wanderers and has earned a bit of a break , as has Dale Steyn , who has been rested for the remainder of the series . " Morne van Wyk will keep in the next game and Quinton de Kock is a possibility for us in the last game , depending on the medical committee , " Domingo said. Van Wyk is not part of South Africa 's World Cup squad but will provide relief for two of South Africa 's most-worked players. While de Villiers will get a break from the gloves and be rested for the fifth match , Hashim Amla will sit out the fourth ODI , with van Wyk expected to open with Rilee Rossouw . De Kock 's return to fitness means Rossouw is unlikely to be needed at the top of the order at the World Cup but he could use the next two matches to show consistency after scoring his maiden century in Johannesburg. He will likely be deployed in the middle order during the tournament itself , and will be one of the few batsmen in that area with recent crease time , one of the consequences of South Africa 's dominance in the ongoing series . Both Farhaan Behardien and JP Duminy have only batted once in the three matches so far while David Miller 's did not face a ball in the second of the two innings he played , although he did make a significant contribution in the first. His 70 in Durban came after he was pushed up the order to No.5 and Duminy , who has also just returned from a two-month injury-enforced break , will earn a similar promotion to achieve a similar end. " He will have an opportunity to bat higher on Sunday , " Domingo confirmed . Behardien may not benefit from the same but Domingo does not consider him lacking in match practice ahead of the World Cup because he played in the T20s and all five of South Africa 's ODIs in Australia last November . " I would n't say his form is a concern. He got a 60 in his last innings in Australia and he batted well ; he has been the leading run scorer in domestic cricket before too , " Domingo said. " I always thought Farhaan is a big match temperament player - under pressure he performs very well. I 've got no concerns at the moment. " The other untested area of South Africa 's game is their death bowling. West Indies ' penchant for collapses has eliminated the need to enforce a squeeze and they may not get the chance to do that. The front-liners could be rested for the remaining matches as South Africa look to " use these next two games for some of the fringe players to stake a claim. " Wayne Parnell , Kyle Abbott and Aaron Phangiso could all get a run before South Africa leave for the World Cup . Whatever the outcome of the next two matches against West Indies , South Africa have reason to head to the tournament brimming with confidence , albeit with victory against a side who look like they would rather be anywhere else but the field. " You can never take series wins for granted. We are pretty happy with where we are at the moment , " Domingo said. " Form is important. You 'd rather go there having won than having lost. " Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo 's South Africa correspondent © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
