ICC World Cup : Wounded Pakistan Hard Pressed to Repeat 1992 Triumph ICC World Cup : Wounded Pakistan Hard Pressed to Repeat 1992 Triumph Pakistan is known for having talented players but their unpredictable character means making any convincing prediction nearly impossible . Last updated on Sunday , 08 February , 2015 11 : 26 IST Total Shares Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq at a press conference in Australia . © AFP Karachi : If there is one team among the top eight at the World Cup which could either crash out embarrassingly in the first round or romp to the title , it 's Pakistan. ( Complete coverage of the World Cup ) The talented yet unpredictable side are haunted by injuries to their fast bowlers , the suspension of match-winning spinner Saeed Ajmal and a tussle for the captaincy between Misbah-ul Haq and Shahid Afridi . Frontline paceman Umar Gul was not selceted in the 15-man squad after failing to recover from a knee injury while another new-ball bowler Junaid Khan had to withdraw . Twin defeats in the warm-up matches to second string sides followed by two one-day internationals routs by New Zealand multiplied the enormity of the task for Misbah 's men to match Imran Khan 's World Cup triumph -- Pakistan 's only win -- in Australia some 23 years ago . " Desite the problems this team has the spirit of cornered tigers , " said chief selector and former captain Moin Khan , a key member of 1992 winning team . " If they play to their potential this team can surprise the world. " Captain Misbah , who has recovered from a hamstring injury , is also confident of the best results . " The format of this World Cup is such that teams have a lot of opportunities , " said Misbah , who will retire from one-day cricket after the World Cup . " It would be the icing on the cake if I end my one-day career with the trophy. " But Misbah knows his bowling will miss Ajmal , who has single-handedly won matches for Pakistan before being suspended for an illegal bowling action last September . Spinning all-rounder Mohammad Hafeez -- suspended in November last year also over an illegal bowling action -- needs to clear a reassessment test to allow the right combination to Misbah . " It will be important that Hafeez clears the test because he is two-in-one and his bowling gives us the right combination , " said the captain . Lanky paceman Mohammad Irfan -- the tallest man to ever play international cricket at 7 feet , one inch -- is expected to be the X-factor in an otherwise inexperienced pace attack . " To me the X-factor in our team is Irfan. With his height I think he can be dangerous , " said coach Waqar Younis , who missed Pakistan 's World Cup win in 1992 with a back problem . In Ajmal 's absence , leg-spinner Yasir Shah , along with all-rounder Afridi , will handle the spin department . Afridi , who will also quit one-day cricket after the World Cup , will be important too as a batsman in the slog overs as will be Umar Akmal , Misbah and Sohaib Maqsood . Pakistan 's top-order problem persists as Hafeez opening the innings with Ahmed Shehzad does n't always guarantee a trouble-free start . They will hope experienced the Younis Khan and Misbah provide stability to the batting , for which the main problem lies in playing too many dot balls . Pakistan has the worst run-rate among the top ten teams in playing dot balls from over 11 to 40 . Pakistan must win one of their first two matches -- against arch-rivals India and the West Indies -- in order to have an easier passage into the last eight . If not , their qualification will rely on their last group B match against a dangerous Ireland team , the same opponents who ousted them in the first round of the 2007 World Cup in the Caribbean . Story first published on : Sunday , 08 February 2015 10 : 04 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
