Comments have now been closed for this article March 26 , 2015 , 12 : 05 GMT By -umer No wahab should,nt penalised because it was Mitt starc who first pass negative comments on wahab so in return he also did the same with watson March 25 , 2015 , 8 : 06 GMT By Got_It Yes , particularly Wahab ! how dare he mocks a batsman , the favorite of ICC and the media worldwide. It is the sixer which thrills the spectators , not the bouncer or the flying bails. So batsmen should be gifted with heavier bats , shorter boundaries , field restrictions and all moral/verbal protection form the bowling onslaught . April 7 , 2015 , 7 : 32 GMT By wapuser Its the temperment of world cup . March 26 , 2015 , 23 : 30 GMT By Cricket is a game of gentlemen ! This proverb is under test. Winning is not everything. In my opinion winning is , with grace. Falling shorter , leaves a bad taste. When a cricketer plays the game he ought to have some idea of the Game 's history and tradition. It is a British Sport in origin and therefore has a tradition. With the passage of time it has evolved and is still a gentlerman 's game. I think if Sir W.G. Grace could have seen it now he would praise it , What else ? Seeing B.Macculum with a bat which he uses like a Wand , so magical , Maxwelll going on with his business as usual , Chris Gayle showing us his effortless shots and making the ball seem a Tennis ball and last but not least the Fury of Wahab Riaz acknowledged promptly by no other than The Great Aussies. Admonishment is better than a punishment. Penalizing is Punishment. If it comes to penalizing then a new Pandora 's box might open. Wahab 's graceful remark at the end suffices. A point to ponder by The Cricket Fraternity . March 25 , 2015 , 10 : 02 GMT By MOHingora I do n't think that Wahab was the only one at fault..it was just his reaction to what Australians , especially Starc did. It is unfair to exempt Starc and just penalise Wahab. It was anyway a beautiful and real attractive part of the WC and Cricket in general. Have seen such a competition after a long time ! March 25 , 2015 , 9 : 16 GMT By No why should wahab be penalised for giving us a memorable spell. When Australian bowlers sledge the batsmen no one cares i.e strac having a go at wahab for not playing the ball. It was all fun and part of the game. When ever fast bowling is going to be discussed , wahab 's name will be mentioned. Icc should be ashamed of this act. Like Brian Lara said it was just part of the game and he did n't see anything that was unsportsmanlike. God bless wahab for that incredible performance. Only regret. He did n't get the reward he deserved. He should have won the game for PAKIsTAN . March 25 , 2015 , 6 : 13 GMT By pakricketer That all is a part of the game....Best of Luck for the Finalists....well played Pakistan March 25 , 2015 , 4 : 25 GMT By FarazFaridi hahahha... penalty for what. just for playing pure cricket ? . you see if we remove this spell from that match i thing nothing has done in ground at that moment . March 24 , 2015 , 22 : 07 GMT By bohurupi Wahab was unduly penalized when the whole episode was started by Watson. Wahab , as every one will agree , has done the right thing by taking the sweet revenge ! March 24 , 2015 , 7 : 47 GMT By Malik_Murad Faulkner has commented today ( before the semifinal against IND ) that the aggression in the semifinal match is 'inevitable'. This means that 'sledging ' is the weapon Aussies play with , so why this hue and cry about the same thing when conducted by other teams ? If Starc showed is hand to the batsman Wahab Riaz saying if he could even see the ball swinging left and right was fine then whats an issue if Wahab did something similar to Watson ? Why there is a biased approach between big teams and the others ? Related Links
