World Cup 2015 : Veterans Set for Key Role in Australia and New Zealand World Cup 2015 : Veterans Set for Key Role in Australia and New Zealand Sri Lanka 's Mahela Jayawardene , Pakistan 's Shahid Afridi and New Zealand 's Daniel Vettori are the most experienced players as each of the trio will be featuring in their fifth World Cup . Last updated on Monday , 09 February , 2015 11 : 40 IST Total Shares Afridi would be one of the most experienced cricketers in the World Cup © AFP Sydney : The belief that " old is gold " will once again be put to the test in this World Cup , with several players bolstering teams with their experience and guile. ( Full World Cup Coverage ) Sri Lanka 's Mahela Jayawardene , Pakistan 's Shahid Afridi and New Zealand 's Daniel Vettori are the most experienced players as each of the trio will be featuring in their fifth World Cup . Jayawardene , 37 , retired from Test cricket last year after a glittering career and he will hang up his one-day international kit after the World Cup. ( Pollard , Bravo Omission Huge Loss : Holder ) With a 33-match tally in the tournament , Jayawardene will be the most experienced player when it comes to World Cups. ( Dhoni Keen on Identifying Playing XI ) After a miserable first round exit as defending champions in 1999 the next three editions were memorable , with Sri Lanka the losing semi-finalists in 2003 and runners-up in the next two World Cups . He led the team from the front with a scintillating century in the 2007 semi-final against New Zealand and then notched another ton in the final of 2011 World Cup , albeit in a losing cause as hosts India won in Mumbai. ( Has the Break Revitalised India Before World Cup ? ) Jayawardene still holds a key position in Sri Lanka 's batting order , along with Kumar Sangakkara who will be featuring in his fourth World Cup . Sangakkara has played 30 World Cup matches and just like old wine has embellished his batting , with the left-hander the highest run-getter in one-day internationals last year . - Afridi finale - Afridi was a relative newcomer when Pakistan finished runners-up to Australia in the 1999 World Cup but the next two World Cups were n't memorable for the aggressive all-rounder . Pakistan crashed out in the first round in 2003 and 2007. Afridi played just one game in the 2007 event after being suspended for the first two . He was Pakistan 's captain in the 2011 World Cup and led them to the semi-finals , where they were beaten by India . Pakistan will rely heavily on Afridi 's late-over slogs to give their innings much-needed impetus . Moreover , Afridi , also a handy leg-spinner , will want to shine at this World Cup after announcing he will quit one-day cricket following the tournament . Matching Afridi in the spin department will be New Zealand 's Daniel Vettori , with the 36-year-old left-armer having featured in the 1999 , 2003 , 2007 and 2011 editions of the World Cup . Daniel Vettori will play in his 5th World Cup . © AFP A skilled spinner , Vettori still holds the trump card when it comes to slow bowling , being able to put a brake on batsmen 's run-scoring besides taking wickets at crucial stages . Vettori 's captain , Brendon McCullum , will also be featuring in his fourth World Cup . McCullum will be the key to co-hosts New Zealand 's hopes of posting big totals in the World Cup . His blistering form in all three formats of the game augurs well for the Black Caps , who for the first time are amongst the top three favourites . Like McCullum , Chris Gayle is a danger for bowlers . Gayle can hit any bowler on his day , hitting big shots at will and has performed well for the West Indies in the 2003 , 2007 and 2011 World Cups. ( Wo n't Write India Off , Says Kirsten ) Trading his best swing bowling against the best batsmen of the world will be England 's James Anderson , playing his fourth World Cup . Besides Steven Finn and Stuart Broad , Anderson will form a solid pace attack for England , who can be the dark horses of the event . Also playing in his fourth World Cup will be Pakistan 's Younis Khan. At 37 , Younis will be the second-oldest Pakistani in the World Cup behind 40-year-old captain Misbah-ul Haq . Despite his age , it will be only a second World Cup for Misbah , who featured in the 2011 edition . Story first published on : Monday , 09 February 2015 10 : 28 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
