West Indies were struggling at 99 for 4 in the 1979 final when their last front-line batsman came in and set the roof on fire shares Play 04 : 17 Ninety minutes into the 1979 World Cup final against England , West Indies were struggling. They had slipped to 99 for 4 when Collis King , the last of the frontline batsmen , came out to join Viv Richards . What followed was a breathtaking partnership , but surprisingly , Richards was mostly a spectator as King slaughtered the England attack at the other end . As he reached the middle , Richards offered King some advice with lunch on the horizon. " Hey man , take it easy. We have plenty of time. " King , though , was having none of it. " Smokey , " he replied , " I ai n't gon na let Geoffrey [ Boycott ] get this , man. In the league there would be no mercy , so why should this be any different ? " King cut his first ball from Ian Botham for four and then set about attacking the part-time bowlers. " There was a silly little smirk on his face as he ran in to bowl , " Richards recalled of Botham. " It soon vanished as the ball kept disappearing round the ground. " After a couple more attempts to calm King down , Richards just stepped back and let him get on with it. " I let him tear into the bowling rather than the two of us going berserk. I worked around him while the fire raged. " At lunch , West Indies were 125 for 4 , with King on 19. But it was after the break when King really got going , twice smashing Wayne Larkins for six in an over and then clipping Boycott off his toes for another big hit. Mike Brearley , England 's inspirational captain , admitted that he felt helpless. " I knew there was nothing more we could do. " Brearley attracted some criticism for using his fill-in bowlers at this stage , but as Clive Lloyd later noted : " I do n't think any bowler would have bothered King , the mood he was in that day. By the time has was out , I knew the match was ours. " King 's blitz was ended when he smacked Phil Edmonds to Derek Randall on the square-leg boundary , but the match had turned. Richards had reached the nineties when King was still short of his own 50 , and he was still in the nineties when King departed. King had blasted 86 from 66 balls , and had played only one mistimed shot - a top-edged hook off Botham. The pair had added 139 in 77 minutes of carnage. The remaining batsmen only contributed five of the last 48 runs , as Richards unleashed his own barrage at the death . " I scored 138 , " Richards said , " but it was Collis who came in and took charge. " © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
