World Cup Warm-Up , Highlights : India Defeat Afghanistan in One-Sided Tie World Cup Warm-Up , Highlights : India Defeat Afghanistan in One-Sided Tie India have finally registered their first win in Australia after a span of almost three months. They brushed aside the Afghan challenged and recorded a comprehensive win Last updated on Tuesday , 10 February , 2015 18 : 01 IST Total Shares India take on minnows Afghanistan in their final warm-up game of the World Cup. Catch all the highlights of the match here ( Scorecard | Full World Cup Coverage | As it Happened ) * India win their 2nd warm-up tie against Afghanistan by 153 runs. After a credible batting performance from Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane and Suresh Raina , the Indian bowlers restricted Afghanistan to a total of 211/8. Nawroz Mangal was the only batsman who stood up to the Indian bowling and provided for some fight. This was India 's first win in Australia since the start of their Test tour of Australia . * WICKET ! Afghanistan suffers another blow in a terrible mix-up. Shenwari sent back to the pavilion. Afghanistan 199/7 after 45.2 overs * Both teams going through the motions now. India is all set to open their account in Australia win a win against Afghanistan * WICKET ! Jadeja knocks the Afghan captain Nabi over as he looks to hoick him over covers. Afghanistan slide further to 169/6 in 39.4 overs * WICKET ! Mohit Sharma again ! Nawroz Mangal tries to dab the ball past third-man only to edge into Dhoni 's gloves. Afghanistan 160/5 after 36.3 overs * WICKET ! Ashwin gets into the act and gets Zadran stumped ! Afghanistan 158/4 after 35.4 overs * WICKET ! Mohit Sharma gets rid of Stanikzai. Afghanistan 153/3 after 35 overs Nawroz Mangal standing tall against India © AFP * Fifty for Nawroz Mangal , Afghanistan has fallen too far back in this chase now. While in Sydney Ireland collapses to hand Scotland a 179-run win * At Sydney , Ireland slumps to 102/8 in 22 overs chasing 297 against Scotland . * WICKET ! Ghani falls to a relay catch. Went for the big shot , did n't time it. The ball swirls in the air as Shikhar Dhawan makes a splendid diving effort , catches the ball but it pops out as his elbow hits the ground. Umesh Yadav running in from the deep grabs at the ball to complete a bizarre catch ! * Indian bowlers toiling hard for wickets as Afghanistan continue to defy them. Afghanistan 87/1 after 18 overs * SIX ! Nowroz Mangal takes on Mohit Sharma and hammers him over mid-wicket * Ghani and Mangal setting up a good partnership. Afghanistan 76/1 after 15 overs * After a wayward start , the Indian bowlers have pulled back the scoring rate. Afghanistan 49/1 after 10 overs * In Sydney , Ireland off to a brisk start , 40/0 off 8 overs in reply to Scotland 's 296 * WICKET ! Umesh Yadav delivers the first blow to Afghanistan. Afghanistan 30/1 after 4.4 overs * Afghanistan start their chase. Wayward start from Indian bowlers. Afghanistan 18/0 after 2 overs * India post a massive 364/5 against Afghanistan thanks to fantastic knock from Rohit Sharma. Ajinkya Rahane , who has been in sensational form , played yet another brilliant hand while Suresh Raina played a crucial knock to get back into form. Will Afghanistan get closer to the Indian total ? Can the Indian bowlers get their plans right today ? * At Sydney , Scotland has reached 287/6 in 49 overs riding on Matt Machan 's hundred * Ajinkya Rahane in top gear. 17 runs off the 48th over. India cruising towards 350 * WICKET ! Dhoni falls. The Indian skipper was struggling with his timing and this time top edges one from Shapoor Zardan to end his scratchy innings. India 323/5 after 46.3 overs * Into the last four overs. MS Dhoni is struggling with his timing , hitting the ball too hard. Rahane though , is in his zone and looks very fluent . * Now Rahane gets to his fifty. Back to back fifties for the right-hander. India 308/4 after 45 overs * Afghanistan bowlers have lost their radar completely. India making making merry of some very erratic bowling . Rohit Sharma smashed a massive hundred © AFP * WICKET ! Rohit Sharma departs after a fantastic knock of 150. India 269/4 after 39.5 overs * 250 up for India after 38 overs. Will MS Dhoni come into bat ? Or will India let Rohit Sharma continue with his rampage ? * Another respite for Rahane. Gets an edge but did the keeper take it cleanly ? Benefit of the doubt goes to the batsman. India 239/3 after 36.4 overs * SIX ! Colossal hit from Rohit Sharma. The man from Mumbai is putting on a show today. India 231/3 after 35.3 overs * Respite for Rahane. Massive confusion between Rohit and Rahane. The wicket-keeper whipped the bails off but forgot to collect the ball. India 213/3 after 34 overs * In the other warm-up tie at Sydney , Scotland has reached 160/3 after 34 overs vs Ireland * Dropped and then SIX ! Rohit Sharma flexing his muscles now. India motoring along past 200 in just 32 overs * 100 for Rohit Sharma off just 94 balls and what a way to get it , hooked for a SIX ! India 192/3 after 30.2 overs * 30 overs gone , India 178/3. Rohit Sharma looking set for a hundred as Rahane joins him in the middle * WICKET ! Suresh Raina departs for 75. Run-out again ! Brilliant piece of fielding from the Afghanistan captain Nabi. India 174/3 after 28.3 overs * Raina goes over cover , gets a boundary and brings up the 150-run partnership. Afghanistan need a wicket and need it now . * 50 for Suresh Raina. Big innings for the left-hander. The team needed him to get back into form before the World Cup began . * Meanwhile Scotland 104/3 ( 22.0 overs ) vs Ireland in their warm-up match in Sydney * Rohit Sharma- Suresh Raina bring up 100-run partnership as India gain momentum to reach 127/2 after 23 overs * 100 up for India in the 18th over. Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina now in complete command of the Indian innings Rohit Sharma helps steady India © AFP * Fifty for Rohit Sharma as India recover to 93/2 in 16.2 overs. Suresh Raina , who has been struggling for runs , looking confident in the middle as the duo stitches a substantial partnership Dhawan was bowled by Hasan in the third over of the innings © AFP * Rohit Sharma on the counter-attack as India go past 50 after the 9th over. Suresh Raina giving him able company in the middle . * WICKET ! India in further trouble as Kohli edges one off Dawlat Zardan. Lovely low catch by the wicket-keeper. India slide further to 16/2 * WICKET ! Dhawan 's stay in the middle is over. He was bowled by Hamid Hasan in the third over of the innings as India slipped to 7/1 after electing to bat. Kohli has come out to join Rohit in the middle * Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma have come out to open. It will be a big test for the latter , who is coming back on the field after recovering from a hamstring injury. Rohit had scored a hundred in India 's tri-series opener vs Australia and then had to pass a fitness test to remain a part of the World Cup side * Mahendra Singh Dhoni won the toss and decided to bat vs Afghanistan in their final warm-up game. Dhoni said while it was nice to get to chase against Australia on Sunday , he was happy to get an opportunity to bat first today. As is the norm with all practice games , all 15 players for both sides will play India 's bowling has been a major concern . © AFP Still looking to get their playing combination in order , an under-fire India will be looking for resurrection against first-timers Afghanistan in their final warm-up game before the cricket World Cup , here on Tuesday . India 's preparations for the World Cup suffered a jolt on Sunday as Australia thrashed the defending champions by 106 runs at the Adelaide Oval . The Indian bowling has come under intense criticism after its below-par showing in the 0-2 defeat in the four-match Test series and its failure to win a single ODI in the tri-series . Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's own form is also a cause for concern for the Men in Blue after he scored a duck in the first practice match . A spate of injuries to Ishant Sharma , who failed a fitness Test and has been replaced by Mohit Sharma , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Rohit Sharma and the top-order 's patchy batting form has made things difficult for India . Putting up a brave face after the loss against Australia , Dhoni still tried to take out some positives from the game but the team 's on-field performances surely is a cause for concern for the 2011 champions . Afghanistan , on the other hand , are a side hungry to make an impact in their maiden 50-over World Cup outing . Story first published on : Monday , 09 February 2015 22 : 59 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
