His belligerent innings left India hapless in the 2003 final shares Play 03 : 28 Australia went into the 2003 World Cup final against India unbeaten in the tournament , and by the end of the match he proved how well they had reinvented themselves , despite the absence of key players . Against India , it came down to the brilliance of one man , Ricky Ponting , who left his mark on his first World Cup as captain with a scintillating hundred that gave the side a clear advantage even before India had batted . It helped that Adam Gilchrist and Matthew Hayden had given Australia the perfect start , adding 105 in 14 overs. It helped Ponting play himself in and he did so duly with Damien Martyn for company . Martyn set the tone for the partnership , with some gorgeous strokes through the covers en route to 50 from just 46 balls. Ponting , in contrast , needed 74 balls for his half-century , hitting just one four along the way. Something in his batting changed once he crossed 50 , though , and what came next can only be described as carnage . Harbhajan was taken for two sixes over midwicket , and there was an outrageous one-handed swipe off Ashish Nehra that sailed over the square-leg fence. India 's bowling was ripped to pieces. The century partnership had taken 109 balls , but only 64 were needed for the next 100 as the run rate soared. Ponting took just 29 deliveries to get from 50 to 100 , finishing with a stunning 140 from 121 balls. He thumped eight sixes , all in the arc between long-on and square leg , and the stunning acceleration deflected attention from Martyn 's gem - an 84-ball 88 made with a broken finger . All but 24 of Ponting 's runs came on the leg side , illustrating just how wayward India 's bowlers were in both line and length. Australia amassed a mammoth 359 for 2 , a World Cup record they bettered in the 2007 edition when their top order flayed South Africa to score 377 for 6 in Basseterre. India mustered only 234 , as Australia got their hands on the World Cup for the second successive time . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
