By the time the Australian opener was finished in the 2007 title match , there was little doubt about the place of his knock in the pantheon of innings played in World Cup finals shares Play 03 : 45 Batting with a squash ball in your glove can be an uncomfortable experience , but not for Adam Gilchrist . The result was perhaps the best performance in a World Cup final . This was his third scene-stealer in consecutive World Cup finals. Against Pakistan at Lord 's in 1999 , Gilchrist cracked 54 from 36 balls ; four years later against India in Johannesburg , he made 57 from 48. But nothing quite compared to this . Once the sun had come out and Gilchrist had gauged the pace and bounce of a rock-hard and true surface , there was no reining him - or Australia - in. He set the tone by clubbing Chaminda Vaas for four and six in the third over and never looked back . The sixes were all on the leg side , or down the ground. With flashing hands and fast feet , Tillakaratne Dilshan was deposited along the same straight line twice in one over , one longer than the next. Muttiah Muralitharan was slog-swept and Sanath Jayasuriya was pulled. Dilhara Fernando put down a return chance when Gilchrist was on 31 , and the next three deliveries were clubbed for four , four and six , the last of which very nearly took out the fire engine next to the 3Ws stand at long-on . Gilchrist brought up his 15th ODI hundred from just 72 balls with a drilled four over long-off , and thereafter heaved through the line with impunity , trusting his eye , the surface and the fact that the fight had gone out of his opponents . Eight sixes was achievement enough , but just as eye-catching were the number of fours he hit in the air , swivelling and sashaying with his familiar high-gripped flagellations. There was a touch of the super-heroic about it. The ground is for normal men , he seemed to be saying. By the time Gilchrist was finished , there was little doubt about the place of his innings in the pantheon of innings played in World Cup finals , and that list included masterpieces by Clive Lloyd , Viv Richards , Aravinda de Silva and Ricky Ponting . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
