My First World Cup January 26 , 2015 '1979 was the closest we got to a World Cup final' John Wright remembers playing his first world tournament in an era when it was little more than an interruption to the county season shares John Wright : wished he could bat like Viv © PA Photos In 1979 , it was more like enjoying ourselves. No build-up as far as I can recall. We just played as well as we could. It was great to be a part of an idea of a world event . We knew each other pretty well back then. Most of the players from all the teams were playing in county cricket in England. I joined the team from Derbyshire. We would have trained with the national teams maybe for a fortnight at the most before playing what was a short tournament. No space on the county calendar for players to train together , preparation camps , or anything of the sort. Everyone was playing county cricket before joining their teams for the World Cup , and then returned to their respective counties once their national team was done with its World Cup commitments . The tournament was played over less than a month , everyone in whites , 60 overs during the day. No hype. It was much more gentle . New Zealand lost the semi-final to England by a very low margin - nine runs , at Old Trafford. Now that I look back at that game , it was perhaps the closest we ever got to the final . I got run out. My god , what a nightmare it was ! I do n't like to remember that. I think I was looking for two and was sent back. I 'd got a decent score ( 69 ) and if I had stayed there , maybe we would have got past. We played the full 60 overs and nine runs was not much . We had a good team. We beat Sri Lanka and ran West Indies quite close on a really flat wicket at Trent Bridge . I had heard about this Michael Holding and had once watched him play , but it 's an entirely different thing to bat against him. It was the first time I ever faced him and I could not believe how quick he was. It was a flat , flat wicket , with no bounce as such , yet I could n't believe how fast he was off the hands. I may have got out during a Garner over , but Holding probably got the wicket . I watched the final on television after I 'd gone back to Derby , as Viv Richards and Collis King smashed the England batsmen. I remember thinking about how it should have been us in the final and then wishing that I could bat like Viv . West Indies had an amazing side and you 've got to imagine a game between the best Australian team - the one that had McGrath and Warne - and that West Indies team. How great would that be ? As told to Amol Karhadkar , a correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
