OLDEST diptoc on February 7 , 2015 , 15 : 23 GMT Agree with the point about the spin attack when Dhoni came in. However , I think there could be another important factor. Does anyone recall confusion in running-between-wickets between Gambhir and Yuvraj in the QF against Australia. That might also have played a part in Dhoni coming in ahead of Yuvraj with Gambhir at the other end - my 2 cents ! on February 7 , 2015 , 2 : 45 GMT Anyone who watched the match would have seen that Sri Lanka gave the match to India. Look at what happened in the match , Dilshan and Tharanga did not go after bowling of Zareer Khan when they could have done so. Then Lanka dropped the best bowler of the tournament Ajantha and picked a plyer who had not played in a single match before for spin. Malinga started really bowling well but all of a sudden decided to change that. Those who know know what really happened in 2011. I can not see similar thing happen in 2015 . on February 6 , 2015 , 21 : 41 GMT Obvious ! Last 2011 ICC world cup was due to the persence of mind of captain cool MSD especially in the finals againt Srilankan.This time All Indians r expecting last world cup MSD performance with each & every team India player to get through finals by winning all the matches. Wish u best of luck team India . soundtracks on February 6 , 2015 , 18 : 05 GMT after many years i could finally cheer myself to the victory of more than one team , : ) India or afghanistan. SO even if afghanistan is out of worldcup still hope will be alive for indian ! ! on February 6 , 2015 , 15 : 13 GMT If it wasnt for Sachin prolific match winning scores in the quarter and semi-finals they would have never won it.... So you cant really give Dhoni all the credit... Sachin had already done 90 % of the work... Dhoni was just an opportunist with some degree of luck in that finals... The real hero was Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar.... . VAGangal on February 6 , 2015 , 12 : 31 GMT India should go back to old days of " Pinch Hitter " , just like we used to send Javagal Srinath. Some serious and surprising change in batting order is required , else opposition will be more comfortable in planning against Indian batting . ragu_lara on February 6 , 2015 , 8 : 45 GMT Dhoni have to do some magical thing this time around to retain the world cup. Like how jayasuriya have been promoted India should promote ashwin up the order. Unlike jayasuriya who is a parttime bowler ashwin is a full time bowler. Also ashwin batted decently in the recently concluded test series ( Giving due respect to dhawan I think he batted better than shikar dhawan ) . Hence send ashwin and rohit to open. Bring back yuvi back to the squad in the middle order with raina and dhoni then india will almost be unbeatable in this world cup . Sultan2007 on February 6 , 2015 , 7 : 51 GMT One of india 's great challenges this time around is that dhoni is not firing. It is a different situation on the Australian pitches. At pace and bounce outside the off stump , dhoni 's strong bottom handed grip will struggle. He has tried to negate this by walking across the stumps to play on the on side but pace has done him in and he has been lbw on several occasions. He 's not going to get pitched up deliveries here. First challenge coming up is Irfan on February 6 , 2015 , 7 : 04 GMT As MS as a captain you do n't Know Whats Coming Up.. He Can Shoke You By A Masterstroke.Just Like He Did In T20 World Cup Final By Giving The Last Over To Joginder Sharma. Same Case Was In World Cup '11 Final.He Knew He Had In Form Yuvi In The Line But Came Up The Order And The Rest Is History TATTUs on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 51 GMT Oh ! Cmon ! It was not some 'masterstroke ' but a straight forward decision considering two off spinners bowling. Everybody knows Yuvraj is not that good against spinners , especially off spinners. And you had the best off spinner in the world bowling there. Dhoni had always done well against spinners and Murali. So it was pretty much a straight forward decision. Most of us expected it. I remember I even typed it out that 'Dhoni should come next ' in Orkut [ nostalgic Lol for Orkut ] . diptoc on February 7 , 2015 , 15 : 23 GMT Agree with the point about the spin attack when Dhoni came in. However , I think there could be another important factor. Does anyone recall confusion in running-between-wickets between Gambhir and Yuvraj in the QF against Australia. That might also have played a part in Dhoni coming in ahead of Yuvraj with Gambhir at the other end - my 2 cents ! on February 7 , 2015 , 2 : 45 GMT Anyone who watched the match would have seen that Sri Lanka gave the match to India. Look at what happened in the match , Dilshan and Tharanga did not go after bowling of Zareer Khan when they could have done so. Then Lanka dropped the best bowler of the tournament Ajantha and picked a plyer who had not played in a single match before for spin. Malinga started really bowling well but all of a sudden decided to change that. Those who know know what really happened in 2011. I can not see similar thing happen in 2015 . on February 6 , 2015 , 21 : 41 GMT Obvious ! Last 2011 ICC world cup was due to the persence of mind of captain cool MSD especially in the finals againt Srilankan.This time All Indians r expecting last world cup MSD performance with each & every team India player to get through finals by winning all the matches. Wish u best of luck team India . soundtracks on February 6 , 2015 , 18 : 05 GMT after many years i could finally cheer myself to the victory of more than one team , : ) India or afghanistan. SO even if afghanistan is out of worldcup still hope will be alive for indian ! ! on February 6 , 2015 , 15 : 13 GMT If it wasnt for Sachin prolific match winning scores in the quarter and semi-finals they would have never won it.... So you cant really give Dhoni all the credit... Sachin had already done 90 % of the work... Dhoni was just an opportunist with some degree of luck in that finals... The real hero was Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar.... . VAGangal on February 6 , 2015 , 12 : 31 GMT India should go back to old days of " Pinch Hitter " , just like we used to send Javagal Srinath. Some serious and surprising change in batting order is required , else opposition will be more comfortable in planning against Indian batting . ragu_lara on February 6 , 2015 , 8 : 45 GMT Dhoni have to do some magical thing this time around to retain the world cup. Like how jayasuriya have been promoted India should promote ashwin up the order. Unlike jayasuriya who is a parttime bowler ashwin is a full time bowler. Also ashwin batted decently in the recently concluded test series ( Giving due respect to dhawan I think he batted better than shikar dhawan ) . Hence send ashwin and rohit to open. Bring back yuvi back to the squad in the middle order with raina and dhoni then india will almost be unbeatable in this world cup . Sultan2007 on February 6 , 2015 , 7 : 51 GMT One of india 's great challenges this time around is that dhoni is not firing. It is a different situation on the Australian pitches. At pace and bounce outside the off stump , dhoni 's strong bottom handed grip will struggle. He has tried to negate this by walking across the stumps to play on the on side but pace has done him in and he has been lbw on several occasions. He 's not going to get pitched up deliveries here. First challenge coming up is Irfan on February 6 , 2015 , 7 : 04 GMT As MS as a captain you do n't Know Whats Coming Up.. He Can Shoke You By A Masterstroke.Just Like He Did In T20 World Cup Final By Giving The Last Over To Joginder Sharma. Same Case Was In World Cup '11 Final.He Knew He Had In Form Yuvi In The Line But Came Up The Order And The Rest Is History TATTUs on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 51 GMT Oh ! Cmon ! It was not some 'masterstroke ' but a straight forward decision considering two off spinners bowling. Everybody knows Yuvraj is not that good against spinners , especially off spinners. And you had the best off spinner in the world bowling there. Dhoni had always done well against spinners and Murali. So it was pretty much a straight forward decision. Most of us expected it. I remember I even typed it out that 'Dhoni should come next ' in Orkut [ nostalgic Lol for Orkut ] . wolf777 on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 39 GMT @ Manu...the truth is Dhoni was not in much form during the World Cup.. . aneeshpashraf on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 25 GMT it was a tactical master stroke..dhoni negated the threat of muralidharan and randiv very effectively which would have been hard for yuvraj being an left hander...and played a gem of an innings on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 14 GMT Agree with @ Manu Selot. The reason why people called that tactic as Genius , truth be told , is solely based on the outcome of the match. I 'm sure that if India had lost the final , he would be labelled as selfish and stupid. It was purely a brave Gamble that paid off........ . on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 01 GMT You may call it a tactical master stroke but its not a great thing to do. An inform batsman has the best chance to score knowing there are wickets in hand. No complaints since we won... . No featured comments at the moment . on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 01 GMT You may call it a tactical master stroke but its not a great thing to do. An inform batsman has the best chance to score knowing there are wickets in hand. No complaints since we won... . on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 14 GMT Agree with @ Manu Selot. The reason why people called that tactic as Genius , truth be told , is solely based on the outcome of the match. I 'm sure that if India had lost the final , he would be labelled as selfish and stupid. It was purely a brave Gamble that paid off........ . aneeshpashraf on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 25 GMT it was a tactical master stroke..dhoni negated the threat of muralidharan and randiv very effectively which would have been hard for yuvraj being an left hander...and played a gem of an innings wolf777 on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 39 GMT @ Manu...the truth is Dhoni was not in much form during the World Cup.. . TATTUs on February 6 , 2015 , 6 : 51 GMT Oh ! Cmon ! It was not some 'masterstroke ' but a straight forward decision considering two off spinners bowling. Everybody knows Yuvraj is not that good against spinners , especially off spinners. And you had the best off spinner in the world bowling there. Dhoni had always done well against spinners and Murali. So it was pretty much a straight forward decision. Most of us expected it. I remember I even typed it out that 'Dhoni should come next ' in Orkut [ nostalgic Lol for Orkut ] . on February 6 , 2015 , 7 : 04 GMT As MS as a captain you do n't Know Whats Coming Up.. He Can Shoke You By A Masterstroke.Just Like He Did In T20 World Cup Final By Giving The Last Over To Joginder Sharma. Same Case Was In World Cup '11 Final.He Knew He Had In Form Yuvi In The Line But Came Up The Order And The Rest Is History Sultan2007 on February 6 , 2015 , 7 : 51 GMT One of india 's great challenges this time around is that dhoni is not firing. It is a different situation on the Australian pitches. At pace and bounce outside the off stump , dhoni 's strong bottom handed grip will struggle. He has tried to negate this by walking across the stumps to play on the on side but pace has done him in and he has been lbw on several occasions. He 's not going to get pitched up deliveries here. First challenge coming up is Irfan ragu_lara on February 6 , 2015 , 8 : 45 GMT Dhoni have to do some magical thing this time around to retain the world cup. Like how jayasuriya have been promoted India should promote ashwin up the order. Unlike jayasuriya who is a parttime bowler ashwin is a full time bowler. Also ashwin batted decently in the recently concluded test series ( Giving due respect to dhawan I think he batted better than shikar dhawan ) . Hence send ashwin and rohit to open. Bring back yuvi back to the squad in the middle order with raina and dhoni then india will almost be unbeatable in this world cup . VAGangal on February 6 , 2015 , 12 : 31 GMT India should go back to old days of " Pinch Hitter " , just like we used to send Javagal Srinath. Some serious and surprising change in batting order is required , else opposition will be more comfortable in planning against Indian batting . on February 6 , 2015 , 15 : 13 GMT If it wasnt for Sachin prolific match winning scores in the quarter and semi-finals they would have never won it.... So you cant really give Dhoni all the credit... Sachin had already done 90 % of the work... Dhoni was just an opportunist with some degree of luck in that finals... The real hero was Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar.... .
