'How the bloody hell did we win that ? ' Kanishkaa Balachandran West Indies had the 1996 semi-final against Australia in the bag. Then they found a way to throw it away shares West Indies slipped to 194 for 8 when Ian Bishop was trapped lbw for 3 © Getty Images The word " choke " invariably trails South Africa in World Cups , and in their second appearance , in 1996 , they wilted in their first knockout game after sweeping the league stages. But the biggest choke of that Cup was reserved for the team that had , ironically , knocked South Africa out of the tournament - West Indies . In the semi-final against Australia in Mohali , West Indies were in control , chasing a modest target of 208 , but a brain freeze that took hold of all their batsmen , save for captain Richie Richardson , botched their chance to appear in their fourth World Cup final . Earlier in the tournament , West Indies ' defeat to Kenya in Pune was a rude reminder of what could happen if you take your eye off the ball , even against a minnow. They also had to contend with the criticism of pulling out of the Sri Lanka leg of the tournament - along with the Australians - due to security concerns. They headed into the knockouts against the backdrop of these turbulent events and , led by Brian Lara , knocked South Africa out in the quarters . Heading into the semi-final , West Indies also carried forward the confidence of having beaten Australia in the group stages. Australia 's batsmen looked in sublime touch following a high-scoring quarter-final in Chennai , but on a Mohali pitch known to assist pace , they opted to bat first . Then they ran into Curtly Ambrose and Ian Bishop . " We looked at it as a great opportunity to put behind what had happened before , in terms of the defeat to Kenya , " Bishop recalls of the general mood in the camp. " We thought we were in with as good a chance as any team getting through to the final. " That determination to wash away the humiliation of Pune was evident by the way Ambrose and Bishop reduced Australia to 15 for 4. Bishop clean-bowled Mark Taylor and Steve Waugh in his fiery opening spell , and from there on , West Indies had everything to lose . Australia were able to rebuild through a crucial fifth-wicket stand of 138 between Michael Bevan and Stuart Law. In the middle of it came a moment that Bishop looks back on with regret . Warne takes a catch to dismiss opener Courtney Browne for 10 © Getty Images " I had Stuart Law caught off a no-ball. I think he flicked one to midwicket. On reflection , that would have been a significant breakthrough. Even now , it 's very disappointing on my part that I could n't keep my foot behind the line , given the situation Australia were in at the time . " Bevan and Law were two quality players , and though Law was n't [ very ] experienced as an international player , we were still not too unhappy with the way things were going despite the no-ball. " West Indies did n't know it then , but it was the first in a series of incidents in which Australia fed off West Indies ' benevolence. Despite Bishop 's let-off , Australia 's eventual 207 hardly appeared secure , given the ODI batting standards at the time and the strong likelihood of dew making scoring easier under lights . The start provided by the West Indies top order was in stark contrast to Australia 's. Shivnarine Chanderpaul added a quick 68 with Brian Lara and 72 with Richardson. The dew played into West Indies ' hands : the legspinners Shane Warne and Law threw up full-tosses. Bishop recalls the dew was n't " terrible " but good enough for the ball to slide on to the bat nicely . Then came a bizarre incident. In the 27th over , a full-blooded sweep by Richardson off Warne struck the square-leg umpire , BC Cooray , on the side of the head. What could have been a boundary ended up being two. The two runs inadvertently " saved " by Cooray were recalled when Australia won by five runs , though , at the time , Bishop says , the incident barely registered because West Indies were cruising at 99 for 2 . It all appeared a formality in the 42nd over with West Indies at 165 for 2. But then Chanderpaul was caught at mid-on trying to heave over the infield. Bishop remembers the first signs of twitchiness in the dressing room were felt when the batting order was mysteriously shuffled , with Roger Harper and Ottis Gibson promoted over Jimmy Adams and Keith Arthurton . " I think it [ the panic ] came from my side when the batting order was changed. I can only speak for myself. I know my ability with the bat. All I had to do was play it a little straighter and work it around. As soon as it got down to a few wickets left , we started realising we were messing this up. " The last nail : Walsh is bowled off Fleming to send Australia into the World Cup final © Getty Images Richardson watched it unravel from the non-striker 's end. Roger Harper shuffled too far across to Glenn McGrath , Arthurton 's favoured midwicket slog found the edge , Adams was trapped lbw on the sweep , and Gibson was caught behind trying to cut Warne. At 187 for 7 , the tide had turned Australia 's way and they were now throwing themselves at everything. A sweetly timed drive by Bishop sped towards the cover boundary but Ricky Ponting 's valiant dive saved Australia a run. Bishop then had no answer to a Warne flipper and he walked back for 3 , leaving West Indies eight down with 14 to get . Richardson held the fort at one end , smashing boundaries to the leg side to help his side inch ahead , but the attrition rate at the other reduced his farewell tournament to a nightmare. With ten needed off the final over , bowled by Damien Fleming , Richardson fetched a boundary off the first ball but chose to pinch a single off the second , resulting in Ambrose being run-out . Next in line to face the music was West Indies ' famed No. 11 rabbit. " It was a nerve-wracking time in the dressing room , given Courtney 's [ Walsh ] reputation with the bat. We were just hoping he would stay at the other end and bat time. He 's always nervous when he has a bat in his hand , " Bishop remembers with a laugh . But Walsh was to last just one ball : Fleming clipped the off stump , sparking off delirious celebrations . " Andy Roberts [ coach ] probably showed a little more emotion. Richie has always been level-headed and calm and it 's always difficult to gauge his emotions , " Bishop says. " He was n't animated in any way. The other guys , including myself , were very sad because we threw away something that was there to be taken. We were so grief-stricken and embarrassed that I do n't even remember if the Australians came to see us after the game ! " The Australians could scarcely believe what had happened. In his biography , Mark Waugh recalled : " How the bloody hell did we win that ? " Kanishkaa Balachandran is a senior sub-editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
