West Indies news January 28 , 2015 WICB seeks mediation with BCCI 8 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 8 WICB president Dave Cameron ( left ) has said that the BCCI can not press for legal proceedings as Indian courts lacked jurisdiction in the matter © WICB Media Photo/Randy Brooks Dave Cameron , the president of the West Indies Cricket Board , has told the BCCI that the WICB can not be dragged into the Indian courts for damages related to West Indies ' pullout from the India tour midway into the series in October last year. Cameron urged the BCCI to sort the issue through a bilateral discussion or a third-party mediation over the next two months. The WICB also said that it had sought the intervention of the ICC in the matter . Cameron sent this proposal through an e-mail to BCCI secretary Sanjay Patel on Tuesday , the last day of the week-long deadline set by BCCI in its ultimatum to the WICB sent on January 20. In that letter , which was also addressed to inter-governmental community ( CARICOM ) secretary-general Irwin LaRocque , Patel had said the BCCI would press legal proceedings in the Indian courts if the WICB failed to propose how it would pay the $ 41.97 million claimed as damages . " We reiterate our position that Indian courts lack jurisdiction in this matter given the parties ' agreement to submit disputes of this nature to binding arbitration , " Cameron told Patel in the e-mailed letter , a copy of which was made available to ESPNcricinfo . Cameron also expressed surprise about Patel insisting , in his letter on January 20 , that the BCCI had received no constructive response from the WICB. Patel had pointed out that the BCCI had been lenient and even allowed a 40-day grace period at the request of CARICOM , and stated that there had been no progress in finding a solution acceptable to the BCCI . Cameron , however , did not agree and cited various " informal discussions " between the boards. " We are surprised that your letter makes no reference to our letter dated 7 November 2014 or the matters to which it refers , including our formal written proposal for progressing matters. Your letter also makes no reference to the numerous earnest but informal discussions , which have taken place between our respective Boards exploring possible solutions , including various 'cricketing solutions ' that are practical and fair to the BCCI and all stakeholders , " he said . Outlining the proposal set in the November 7 letter once again , Cameron said the WICB was happy to sit with the BCCI to find an appropriate solution . " Our position in law remains as set out in our letter dated 7 November 2014 , " Cameron said. " Without admitting any liability to the BCCI , we reiterate our willingness to participate in bi-lateral or multi-lateral discussions , or in mediation or such other suitable form of ADR as may be appropriate , as the alternatives would be of no benefit to either Board or the larger cricketing community . " We would like to propose that we ( WICB and BCCI ) meet at the earliest available opportunity but in any event within the next 60 days , as we remain of the view that the issues between us may best be resolved through dialogue , facilitated or otherwise , with the aim of jointly coming up with appropriate 'cricketing solutions ' that will meet the legitimate interests of all stakeholders including the BCCI. " Cameron 's response to an annoyed and indignant BCCI could come as a surprise for many as India has cancelled all bilateral tours pending a resolution to the matter. Yet Cameron and WICB remain positive. In a separate media release , WICB said that Cameron had met " some of the directors of ICC " in Dubai this week and sought their intervention. The release also said the WICB was " hopeful of finding a workable solution and to this end will send a delegation to meet with the BCCI in the coming weeks. " Nagraj Gollapudi is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
