Sachin Tendulkar Voted as Top Opener by Britons in Greatest ODI XI Sachin Tendulkar Voted as Top Opener by Britons in Greatest ODI XI West Indies opening batsman Chris Gayle was elected to partner Sachin Tendulkar at the top of the order. Virat Kohli and Sourav Ganguly did not make the cut Last updated on Tuesday , 10 February , 2015 13 : 16 IST Total Shares A file photo of Sachin Tendulkar . © AFP Indian cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar received the highest votes from the British public to open the innings in the greatest ODI XI. ( Full World Cup Coverage ) West Indies opening batsman Chris Gayle was elected to partner India 's little master at the top of the order , according to cricket.com.au . Tendulkar received 29 percent of the opening batsman vote , ahead of second-placed Gayle on 25 percent , Gilchrist ( 20 percent ) , Hashim Amla ( 12 percent ) and Sanath Jayasuriya ( 8 percent ) . ( Athletes Need More Encouragement : Tendulkar ) South Africa 's current ODI skipper AB de Villiers occupies the coveted No.3 position and is followed in the order by two West Indian legends in Brian Lara and Viv Richards . Four Australians have been selected in the team. ( Rohit Sharma Among ICC 's Top 10 Debutants ) Australia 's three highest one-day international wicket-takers - Glenn McGrath , Brett Lee and Shane Warne - were included in the star-studded final XI , alongside game-changing wicketkeeper-batsman Adam Gilchrist . It was a clear cut verdict for Gilchrist as keeper , the Australian earning 54 percent of the vote and named to bat at No.6 ahead of Proteas all-rounder Jacques Kallis . Swing king and 1992 World Cup winner Wasim Akram joins the Australian triumvirate of bowlers to form an attack that boasts more than 1,000 matches and 1,556 wickets . Over the past week , readers of Sportsday Live on the BBC website have selected the 50-over format 's best outfit from a shortlist of the very best one-day players . The team was unveiled on the 'Tuffers and Vaughan Show ' , with former England skipper Michael Vaughan , Lancashire coach Ashley Giles and Australia legend Jason Gillespie also nominating their best one-day outfits . Greatest ODI XI : Sachin Tendulkar , Chris Gayle , AB de Villiers , Brian Lara , Viv Richards , Adam Gilchrist , Jacques Kallis , Wasim Akram , Brett Lee , Shane Warne , Glenn McGrath . Story first published on : Tuesday , 10 February 2015 12 : 08 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
