West Indies news January 31 , 2015 Dwayne Bravo quits Tests shares 66 Dwayne Bravo was replaced as ODI captain and then axed from the one-day side © Associated Press Dwayne Bravo , the West Indies allrounder , has announced his retirement from Test cricket , but wants to continue representing the side in limited-overs games. Bravo had not played Tests since December 2010 , and his decision comes after he lost the ODI captaincy to Jason Holder and was then axed from the one-day side for the tour of South Africa and also the World Cup . West Indies had pulled out from their tour of India last year under Bravo 's leadership over a payment dispute with their board and players association. His subsequent removal from the squad had led to allegations of victimization from his lawyer , but chairman of selectors Clive Lloyd had said there was no axe to grind . Bravo was picked for the T20 internationals against South Africa and was also given a central contract by the board . In the statement announcing his retirement , Bravo said it was a " difficult time " for West Indies cricket and those associated with it , but added that he still wanted to " serve " the fraternity with " the pride of being a West Indian. " " Today I am announcing my retirement from Test cricket , " Bravo said. " I have already informed the WICB of this decision and also indicated my desire to continue to represent the West Indies in the shorter formats of the game . " Over the years , with the greatest enthusiasm , I have done my best with the deep awareness that I am ultimately representing the people of the game . " I recognise that this is a difficult time for all of us. Our people of the region have seen and enjoyed great cricketing days but we will not return to glory until we agree to go forward with our love for the game and the respect of the administrators , players and the public . " I have experienced the exhilarating joy of victory and the devastating pain of defeat. The joyous memories will remind me of what we are capable of achieving. I want to be part of that mission . " I thank the cricketing fraternity for their support and look forward to serving you with determination and the pride of being a West Indian. " Bravo scored 2200 runs in 40 Tests at an average of 31.42 with three centuries and picked up 86 wickets at 39.83 with two five-fors . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
