England news January 23 , 2015 England Lions wrong-footed by Australia 7 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment shares 7 The England Lions team will not have fixtures in the coming season for the first time in almost a decade © Gallo Images There will be no Lions cricket in England this year for the first time since 2006 after Cricket Australia revealed they had no plans for an 'A ' tour of the UK during the Ashes . While the 2013 summer saw Australia send something approaching a shadow squad to Scotland , Ireland and the UK in the lead-up to the Test series , CA have now confirmed they will not be sending a second team this year . CA 's team performance manager Pat Howard said this was largely due to the fact that , where in 2013 the Ashes was preceded by the 50-over Champions Trophy , this time a large Australian Test squad will be together in the West Indies for two Tests immediately prior to arriving in England. There is an Australia A tour planned , but it will be to India in late July and August as part of a three-year agreement with the BCCI and Cricket South Africa . " The lead-in to the last Ashes series was white-ball cricket with the Champions Trophy , so there was n't a red ball lead-in , so what we needed to create , particularly for red-ball specialists , was the Australia A tour to Scotland , Ireland and Gloucestershire , " Howard told ESPNcricinfo. " This time we 've got a red ball lead-in with the West Indies series and with an extended squad we can make sure we get the preparation right for those players , so we 've got a strong squad in red-ball preparation leading into the Ashes . " What we did is move some one-day games against West Indies into 2015-16 , where we have a tri-series [ in the Caribbean ] . So we 've got a consistent red ball lead-in. Underneath that , we do have games against India A in July and August while the third and fourth Tests are on. We will also have players in county cricket who can be called on if and when required , and we know who those players are as well . " We 've made sure there 's a fair gap between the last Test in Jamaica [ ends June 17 ] and the first game in Kent [ starts June 25 ] and we also worked closely with the West Indies board to make sure the second destination had direct flights into England , so that any of those times and adjustments are mediated. There are two four-day games against Kent and Essex in the lead-in , so making sure we have enough time has been a priority. " Howard was adamant the lack of a direct " shadow " tour for the Ashes had not been a cost-saving measure. " The driver here is the West Indies lead-in - you make sure you prioritise the Ashes when you 're doing your budgets , " he said. " We believe having guys around the West Indies group , having guys around the England group , county cricket and Australia A experience for the 2017 India Test tour all have multi-functional roles in terms of getting experience - and getting experience in the subcontinent is important too. " Though such matches had not been scheduled into the fixture list , the ECB admitted they had expected Australia to send a side and that they have been unable to confirm alternative touring teams in their place. " I ca n't speak for England , " Howard said. " They may have assumed that after 2013 , we 'd do the same thing in 2015 , but we 've been working backwards from the schedule and made sure we made amendments to the West Indies tour to make it a better fit and cleaner lead-in to the Ashes . " When we toured with Australia A in 2013 it was n't a bilateral , there was no owing , and we just went over and paid for our own ability to do that , organised games with Scotland and Ireland because of the county season then worked with the ECB for the Gloucestershire game. " Whatever the reasons , CA 's decision leaves England without Lions fixtures in the coming season for the first time in almost a decade. That news will come as a relief to county coaches who risk seeing their squads diluted during the domestic campaign , but it will be a blow to the England set-up who place great store in the development benefits of the Lions programme . The ECB hope touring 'A ' sides will return in 2016 , with their preferred option being a tri-series between the Lions and two overseas teams . Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @ danbrettig George Dobell is a senior correspondent at ESPNcricinfo © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
