Teams : Sri Lanka Every sportsman has his equivalent of the bucket list - or for cricketers , perhaps , a coffin list. In 2014 Kumar Sangakkara ticked off the most important items remaining on his. It was his year of fulfilment ; one which ensured , in sporting terms , he could die happy . By far the most important task was winning a major trophy with Sri Lanka ,which he personally took care of with a fine unbeaten 52 in the World Twenty20 final against India , when destiny was clay in his hands. There was also a triple-century , a first Test hundred at Lord 's , and proof - to himself as well as others - that he could succeed in English conditions , as well as help Sri Lanka win series there. He was like a man getting his affairs in order before he goes . In a sense , so were we : you do n't know what you 've got until it 's about to go , and this was the year in which Sangakkara was finally recognised as one of the all-time greats. For a decade and a half he had stealthily compiled an unanswerable body of evidence. Sangakkara has n't had salad days : he 's had salad years. And 2014 was the best of the lot. He scored 2,868 international runs , breaking Ricky Ponting 's record for a calendar year ; 971 of them came against England , whose bowlers grew sick of the sight of him . Lovers of the game did not necessarily share their view. Sangakkara 's cover-drive - often down on one knee - is so harmonious it could help facilitate world peace. He provides the best of all worlds : were there a Venn diagram of style and substance , Sangakkara would be right in the middle. Barring a spectacular downturn in form , he will pull off the rare trick of leaving the audience wanting more , despite being around for 15 years. He has never been better , neither more statesmanlike off the field , nor more lordly on it . Few cricketers have put their myriad experiences to such good use. Sangakkara , though blessed with talent , is a force of nurture , who has filed away the 40,000-plus deliveries he has faced in international cricket in a mental dossier. He knows his game like the back of his bat. It is almost watertight - but that is not enough. Sangakkara still strives for improvement , whether that means playing two Championship games for Durham to acclimatise to English conditions , or spending three days in the nets recalibrating his game , as he did after a double failure against New Zealand 's Trent Boult at the end of 2014. The result was an innings of 203 , in a total of 356 , in the first Test of the New Year , at Wellington . The word is usually associated with bowlers , but Sangakkara 's batting in 2014 was all about control. His hundreds are generally indistinguishable to the point of cliche : the certainty that numbs bowlers , the Fairy Liquid hands , the imperceptible gear changes. His management of risk , particularly in limited-overs cricket , is a thing of wonder : he turns run-chases into run-strolls , and to watch him pace an innings is to realise that all the computer data in the world will never trump the human brain . Sangakkara challenges the notion that one-day cricket is a young man 's game. By rights he should be a cricketing Luddite. Yet he has embraced the new world - of Twenty20 , of scoring 300-plus in 50-over games - without compromising the old. In one-day internationals last year 68 players hit more than his four sixes , but nobody made more runs. He is the grandad who can dance at the disco without embarrassing anyone , and from whom the youngsters could learn a few moves . They could learn plenty about the dying art of batting time as well. Sangakkara 's 221 against Pakistan at Galle - in which he continued his mastery of Saeed Ajmal - spanned 698 minutes. His 147 at Lord 's lasted 449 , and he was at the crease for 551 when he pummelled 319 against Bangladesh ( he also scored a hundred in the second innings , to emulate Graham Gooch against India at Lord 's in 1990 ) . There is an occasional tendency to dismiss Sangakkara because of his voracity against Bangladesh and Zimbabwe , even though his statistics are superb without those matches. It feels a little unfair , the product of casual western discrimination against Asian batsmen. Nobody marks Ponting down because he averaged 26 in India . Overall , Sangakkara 's Test average of 58.66 is the highest among those with 20 or more innings since Graeme Pollock ( 60.97 ) played his last Test in 1969-70 , and in 82 Tests as a specialist batsman he averages 69. In January 2015 , he was still throwing himself around behind the stumps at the age of 37 , beating Adam Gilchrist 's record of 472 dismissals in one-day internationals. These are eye-popping numbers , and we are all guilty of taking them for granted . After his achievements in 2014 , Sangakkara 's CV is among the most complete in the history of the game ( he becomes the second player , after Virender Sehwag , to win this award twice ) . Yet some of his most precious moments of the year will not be found there : stumping James Tredwell off his close friend Mahela Jayawardene to end their final one-day international on home soil , the kind of indulgence that gives schmaltz a good name ; and the loving reception during his final match at Pallekele . The chants of " Sanga ! Sanga ! " filled the air before , during and long after his brilliant century. Those chants were the soundtrack to the post-match press conference , during which even the inscrutable Sangakkara broke into a smile. Such moments are too organic and unplannable to put on a coffin list , yet they will keep him warm during his retirement . © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
