For the full fixtures list please visit the official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 site . Information on all the participating teams can be found here . Tickets There 's only one place to be in 2015 - the ICC Cricket World Cup . Do n't miss out on the opportunity to secure seats for you and your family to watch the world 's best players battle it out for cricket 's biggest international prize . Tickets are subject to availability so book early . Hospitality & Entertainment Packages Create the perfect World Cup experience for your guests. A broad range of hospitality products have been designed to give you the flexibility to entertain your guests in the way that you want and at a budget that suits . All packages are located within the match venue and include a ticket in a prime location , all-day catering with premium food and beverages , the ultimate in customer service , and up to eight entertaining hours of action a day . Do n't miss this opportunity to impress your guests and important business contacts at this once-in-a-generation event . Further information can be found here . Event programme Back the BLACKCAPS in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Final ! The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Fanzone at Victoria Square will open for the final on Sunday 29 March. Coverage begins at 2 : 30pm with the match due to start at 4 : 30pm . Opening event When : 6.30-10.30pm , Thursday 12 February , 2015 . Where : North Hagley Park , Christchurch . Don ’ t miss the FREE show that starts it all ! The incredible ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Opening Ceremony is on for everyone ! There will be top entertainment and one of the biggest fireworks displays ever seen in Christchurch ! Big backyard match - local teams , great Kiwi players and entertainers The Welcome - Light and music spectacular to welcome teams and fans The Christchurch Story - amazing display of our rebuild , with Hayley Westenra + choir Come and play in my backyard - a Kiwi kid ’ s dreams of cricket fame , feat. Kiwi legends Grand opening - Featuring officials and team members Party and fireworks - Top NZ music acts feat. Ginny Blackmore , Sol3Mio and one of the biggest fireworks display Christchurch has ever seen !
