42 Days to Go 03/01/15 42 Derek Randall ’ s flourish at the death in '79 Graham Gooch and Mike Brearley laid the platform for England in its semi-final vs New Zealand the 1979 World Cup , but it was Derek Randall , who provided the late impetus in England ’ s innings. His unbeaten 42 proved to be crucial in a narrow nine-run win . Greatest CWC Moment - 42 Days to Go Background England had come through the group stage of the tournament with three wins from three matches , to qualify for the semi-finals. There were two straightforward wins , and the only game England faced a challenge in was in the final Group A game against Pakistan , emerging triumphant by 14 runs. By virtue of topping its group , England faced New Zealand – the team that finished second in Group B – in the semi-final . The Moment England ’ s batsmen had been contained by a very capable New Zealand attack – led by Richard Hadlee – after Mark Burgess , the New Zealand captain , had chosen to make first use of the Old Trafford pitch. Brearley and Gooch both hit half-centuries , but New Zealand ’ s bowlers took wickets in clusters , never allowing England to break away . Brearley had made a patient 53 at the top of the order , but only Gooch was still standing when England slipped to 145 for 5. That was when Randall walked out to join Gooch. The duo put on 32 runs before Gooch fell after making an important 71 , but with the top six gone , it was up to Randall to push England to a competitive score , and he did just that . Joining hands with Bob Taylor , who made just 12 but hung around , Randall added an invaluable 41 runs for the ninth wicket – which made the difference between England collapsing for a sub-200 total and ending with the 221 for 8 it eventually managed . “ While Graham Gooch top-scored with 71 at No. 4 , it was Derek Randall ’ s unbeaten 42 in 50 balls that brought some respectability to the English total. ” The Telegraph India Randall remained unbeaten on 42 off 50 balls. He hit only one four and one six , illustrating how well he had rotated the strike. Randall ’ s late-order nous would prove to be the tipping point – with England getting just enough to stay out of New Zealand ’ s reach . What happened next England was outclassed by a West Indian side at the peak of its abilities in the final , but the side did put up a fight. At one point , the Caribbean side was 99 for 4 , but Viv Richards was joined by Collis King in a match-altering , whirlwind stand that put the game beyond the England side . The West Indies piled up 286 for 9 , and in reply England was 194 all out , giving Clive Lloyd ’ s men a second successive World Cup triumph . Share this article
