41 Days to Go 04/01/15 41 Gatting 's infamous reverse-sweep costs England in '87 The 1987 World Cup final , in Calcutta , Australia made 253 for 5. England captain Mike Gatting was looking good on 41 when he attempted to reverse sweep Allan Border off his first ball in a moment that changed the course of the 1987 final . Greatest CWC Moment - 41 Days to Go Background England and Australia were both surprise qualifiers for the 1987 World Cup final , the teams they beat in the semi-finals , India and Pakistan respectively , the favourites to play the big match in what was a home tournament for them. In the final , Neil Foster , Eddie Hemmings and John Emburey combined to keep Australia down to 253 for 5 despite David Boon ’ s 75 and a late cameo from Mike Veletta , who scored 45 in 31 balls. The England reply was going along swimmingly , with Gooch and Athey providing a steady start after Tim Robinson ’ s dismissal , and Mike Gatting walking in to step up the scoring rate. Together , Athey and Gatting put together 69 runs before Gatting attempted the same stroke he had gotten out to in the semi-final – the exciting new innovation : the reverse sweep . The Moment In the semi-final against India , Gooch has scored a wonderful 115 to help England reach a match-winning 254/6. Gatting , in great form , had contributed 56 in 62 balls to the total before throwing his wicket away attempting a reverse sweep. Maninder Singh , the left-arm spinner , had pitched on leg-stump , and Gatting had reverse swept the ball on to his stumps. In the final , Gatting wanted one more shot at getting it right – this time , with England on the verge of reaching a winning position , Gatting top-edged the delivery off Border , also a left-arm spinner , on to his shoulder and then to the waiting hands of Greg Dyer behind the stumps . “ England , 135 for two after 31 overs , and with Australia beginning to show signs of disarray in the field , were then almost on target. But in a moment too crass to contemplate , Gatting handed back the initiative. To Border 's first ball , bowled on the line of his leg stump , the England captain attempted to play a reverse sweep. Having in the semi-final swept the ball on to his leg stump , he now contrived to hit it on to his shoulder , whence it looped into Dyer 's gloves. The Australians ' joy was unconcealed. ” Wisden Cricketers ’ Almanack . The captain , gone for 41 off 45 balls. A shot , as Wisden called it then , “ too crass to contemplate ” , and with Allan Lamb the only frontline batsman left , the initiative had been handed to Australia .
