39 Days to Go 06/01/15 39 Ponting blazes Australia to World Cup glory Ricky Ponting scored an unbeaten 140 off just 121 balls vs India in the final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2003. He paced his knock superbly , and in the 39th over , bowled by Harbhajan Singh , Ponting smashed two sixes to kick-start a relentless attack . Greatest CWC Moment - 39 Days to Go Background The 2003 World Cup final was a clash of two teams high on form and confidence. Australia , the defending champion , was the favourite , but India was charged up , having made the final for the first time since its victorious 1983 campaign. Australia had won all of its 10 matches prior to the final , while India had won nine of its 10 matches . India ’ s only loss en route to the final came against Australia in a league game in Centurion , but it had put the loss behind and won its next eight matches before coming up against Australia once again . The Moment Sourav Ganguly won the toss and chose to bowl first , but Adam Gilchrist and Matthew Hayden got Australia off to a flier , with 105 for the opening wicket in just 14 overs. Harbhajan dismissed both openers in a span of five overs to pull things back slightly , but Ponting and Damien Martyn ensured that India had no further reasons to celebrate. The pair put on an unbeaten 234-run partnership for the third wicket in just 181 balls to propel Australia to a massive 359 for 2 – Australia ’ s highest score then . It was Martyn who dominated the partnership initially , racing to a 46-ball half-century as Ponting settled in. The captain took as many as 74 balls for his 50 and scored only one boundary along the way. However , things changed dramatically in the 39th over , immediately after he reached his half-century. Ponting hit two consecutive sixes off Harbhajan over deep midwicket and shifted gears rapidly after that to unleash carnage on India ’ s bowlers . “ Ponting played magnificently. He is only a little guy but has a reputation of hitting the golf ball a long way. Anybody who saw him bat at the Wanderers that day will understand why. Once he started going , he let loose and hit some huge sixes. Virtually , by the end of the first 50 overs , the World Cup final was over. ” Ian Chappell to ESPNcricinfo . In the last 10 overs , Ponting almost hit sixes at will. He took just 47 deliveries to go from 50 to 140 , the highest score by a captain in a World Cup final. He scored twice as many sixes ( 8 ) as fours and switched roles with Martyn , who ended unbeaten on 88 off 84 balls. The partnership and Australia ’ s total were the highest ever in a World Cup final . What happened next Ponting ’ s majestic knock made the match a largely one-sided affair. Virender Sehwag made a fighting 81-ball 82 but the target of 360 proved too much and India was bowled out for 234 in 39.2 overs , and Australia had defended its title without losing a single match . “ The speciality of Ricky Ponting is his ability to win matches. It is not just about scoring runs. He had the capacity to maneuver the team and take them along. ” Javagal Srinath to ESPNcricinfo . Ponting , Australia ’ s highest run-scorer in the tournament with 415 runs , was the obvious choice for the Man of the Match award as he led the dominant Aussies to become the first team ever to win three World Cups .
