37 Days to Go 08/01/15 37 Australia snatch victory from jaws of defeat in 1996 Semi-Final 1996 Semi-Final & Australia looked headed for an exit , and the Windies set to join Sri Lanka in the final. However , the Australians ’ fighting spirit shone , and they grabbed eight West Indian wickets for only 37 runs , to squeeze home by five runs . Greatest CWC Moment - 37 Days to Go Background Both teams had taken contrasting routes to qualify for the semi-finals. While Australia had a relatively easy route , the West Indies faced an unexpectedly early elimination after a shock defeat to Kenya , but revived its campaign with a four-wicket win against the Australians . The West Indians followed that win with a superb all-round effort against South Africa in the quarter-final , to enter the last four with a spring in their step. Australia wasn ’ t short on momentum either , having chased down a steep New Zealand target in its own quarter-final . The Moment Australia was in trouble early at 15 for 4 with Ian Bishop and Curtly Ambrose running through the top order. However , Stuart Law and Michael Bevan hit timely half-centuries to add 138 runs for the fifth wicket. That stand was the basis for Australia reaching 207 for 8 – not a formidable total , but one it could compete with . The West Indies started off strongly with opener Shivnarine Chanderpaul leading the way with a sturdy half-century , followed by Brian Lara 's run-a-ball 45. In the 41st over , the chase was securely placed at 165 for 2 when Chanderpaul , who was troubled by cramps , exited for 80 , with the team still requiring 43 from the last nine overs . Chanderpaul ’ s wicket brought about a collapse , with eight wickets falling in 50 minutes as the Australians first fought back , then brought the match on an even keel , and finally squeezed home victors . Shane Warne was the key protagonist in Australia ’ s fightback once again , taking 3 for 6 in three overs while accounting for Ottis Gibson , Jimmy Adams and Ian Bishop , finally ending with 4 for 36 . Richie Richardson alone held fort , but wickets kept falling at the other end , and it came down to six needed off five balls , with two wickets left. Ambrose was run out , and Courtney Walsh was bowled first-ball , leaving Richardson high and dry on 49 not out and Australia victors by five runs . What happened next Australia faced a well-oiled Sri Lankan unit in the final , but after two consecutive high-intensity matches didn ’ t have enough left to counter Aravinda de Silva ’ s brilliance. De Silva took three wickets and then hit an unbeaten 107 to be the hero of Sri Lanka ’ s first ever World Cup triumph . Share this article
