36 Days to Go 09/01/15 36 Gibbs goes the Maximum Route in 2007 Herschelle Gibbs grabbed the spotlight in St Kitts at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 , hitting Daan van Bunge ’ s legspin for six sixes in an over for a perfect 36 runs during a group match against the Netherlands . Greatest CWC Moment - 36 Days to Go Background : It was the first match of the tournament for both teams , and Luuk van Troost , the Netherlands captain , chose to field after the contest was reduced to 40-overs per side due to overnight showers. Two balls into the match , the Netherlands supporters were overjoyed to see AB de Villiers depart for a duck , caught behind off the bowling of Billy Stelling . But that was to be their only moment of joy. Graeme Smith and Kallis began the dismantling , adding 114 runs at better than a run-a-ball. Once Smith departed , Gibbs , batting at No. 4 , joined Kallis to carry on the onslaught , taking South Africa to 178 for 2 in 29 overs . CWC Greatest Moments , 36 days to go Van Bunge was set to bowl the 30th over – his fourth – and Gibbs , who was on strike , had scored 32 off 30 balls till then , with Kallis having done the bulk of the scoring in the partnership . But as soon as van Burge bowled the first delivery at a full-length , Gibbs charged down the wicket to smash it over long-on. The next ball , pitched on the leg-stump , was given the same treatment. The third ball too disappeared over long-off , bringing up a half-century for Gibbs in just 33 balls . The crowd was already on its feet as the bowler ran in to bowl the next ball , and not surprisingly , the low full toss was dispatched over the deep mid-wicket boundary . Van Burge resorted to a flatter trajectory for his fifth delivery. But Gibbs , showing his nous , was already waiting on the back foot and smashed the fifth six of the over. History was in the making and everyone knew it – the batsman , the audience , and perhaps even the bowler . Gibbs had become unstoppable , and just as expected , he clubbed the final ball of the over across the deep midwicket boundary to complete his record-shattering assault , greeted by raucous cheers . “ After the fourth one , I thought it could be on. I thought about using my feet and coming down the pitch , but then I changed my mind and decided to stay in the crease. The idea was for me to have another two goes at it [ the record ] and luckily I did n't miscue any of them , so it was quite nice. " Gibbs at the post-match press conference . What happened next : Gibbs was dismissed in the next over after scoring 72 off 40 balls , and walked back amid loud cheers and applause from the crowd and his teammates. There was no let-up for the Netherlands bowlers though , with Boucher and Kallis continuing to hit out as South Africa posted 353 for 3 in 40 overs . The Netherlands wasn ’ t a match for the might of the Proteas , and mustered only 132 for 9 in reply . “ I am sure whatever he does , he wouldn ’ t be able to hit me again for 36 runs in an over. It will be a great chance for me to play against Herschelle. And if I can take revenge , then it would be a perfect icing on the cake. It goes without saying that whenever I get an opportunity to play against him , I will target him as my prime wicket. ” Daan van Burge in an interview with ICC . Apart from Gibbs 's feat , several records were rewritten on this day. South Africa became the first team to script three century partnerships in an innings. There were 18 sixes hit in that innings - the most in a World Cup match. Boucher , who scored 75 off 31 balls , reached his half century off just 21 balls , thereby registering the quickest fifty in World Cup history . Share this article
