35 Days to Go 10/01/15 35 Kallicharan slays Lillee in ten ball Burst in '75 West Indies v Australia in 1975 was all about Alvin Kallicharran ’ s brutal assault on Dennis Lillee. It was the first World Cup and ‘ Kalli ’ smashed 35 runs off the last ten balls he faced from Lillee , hitting seven fours and a six during the blitz . Greatest CWC Moment - 35 Days to Go Background West Indies and Australia , the best teams in Group B at the 1975 Cricket World Cup , had both beaten Pakistan and Sri Lanka , the other teams in the group. That meant spots in the semi-finals had already been sealed , and this match , the penultimate of the group , would only decide the order of the semi-finalists . Batting first after being put in at The Oval on June 14 , Australia had lost its top five batsmen with just 61 on the board and the West Indians could start getting ready to celebrate. Ross Edwards and Rodney Marsh then got together and did their bit to get Australia out of the woods. Edwards scored 58 from 74 balls before being bowled by Viv Richards ’ s part-time off-spin. Marsh , however , stuck it out and ended with an unbeaten 52 from 84 balls . Against a line-up boasting Gordon Greenidge , Roy Fredericks , Alvin Kallicharran , Viv Richards , Rohan Kanhai and Clive Lloyd , there was little chance of 192 being enough. And it wasn ’ t. Especially after Fredericks decided to go after Lillee and Jeff Thomson , playing his trademark hooks and cuts with ferocity. Then Kallicharran ’ s late fireworks , it was all but over , the West Indies eventually triumphant by seven wickets . The Moment Chasing down 192 in 60 overs wasn ’ t a tall ask , even during the initial days of one-day cricket. It especially wasn ’ t so for the West Indies , far and away the best cricket team in the world , during the ICC Cricket World Cup 1975 . The match was West Indies ’ to lose , but as long as Lillee and Thomson had overs to spare , no one could be sure that it was all over. So it was that when Lillee returned for his second spell , Kallicharran , almost a foot shorter , stood facing him from 22 yards away. Lillee bowled fast , Kallicharran swung. Outside off , cut. On the body , pull . The faster Lillee bowled , the further Kallicharran sent him. The last ten balls Lillee bowled at him , Kallicharran got himself 4 , 4 , 4 , 4 , 4 , 1 , 4 , 6 , 0 and 4. That dot ball , and the fact that Kallicharran eventually mistimed a pull off him to walk back for an 83-ball 78 , was of little solace to the Australian paceman . “ Kallicharran , who stands a mere 5 ft. 4 ins. , hit a 6 and thirteen 4s in his 78 , an innings which had an amazing climax. He was Man of the Match. He scored 35 off his last ten balls from Lillee in the following sequence of superbly timed hooks , pulls and drives – 4 , 4 , 4 , 4 , 4 , 1 , 4 , 6 , 0 , 4 – before he was caught off a mistimed pull to give Lillee some balm for wounded pride. ” Wisden Cricketers ’ Almanack What happened next When Kallicharran fell , after hitting 14 fours and a six ( the one off Lillee during that sequence ) , West Indies was 153 for 2 , just 40 runs away from winning the most anticipated game of the group stages of the World Cup. Roy Fredericks was still around , having quietened down after his initial burst , and was later dismissed by Ashley Mallett after a 105-ball 58 . But Viv Richards and Rohan Kanhai took West Indies over the line without much fuss , with seven wickets in hand and 14 overs to spare. Kallicharran was , expectedly , named Man of the Match . In the semi-finals , Australia won a thriller against England , bowling out the opposition for 93 in a four-wicket win , while West Indies beat New Zealand by five wickets. That set up a repeat of that group-stage match , and though it was a lot closer than the earlier encounter , the winner was the same : the West Indies. Share this article
