34 Days to Go 11/01/15 34 The End of an Era in 2011 Over 12 years , 15 teams came up against a succession of Australian players without coming off victorious. It was an incredible streak in which the Australians were unbeaten for 34 matches , won three successive World Cup trophies and dominated world cricket Greatest CWC Moment - 34 Days to Go Background Australia had lost to Pakistan on May 23 , 1999 in Headingley by 10 runs. After that defeat , there was no stopping the side. The only match it didn ’ t win was the tied semi-final in 1999 , but try as they might – no team could defeat the Australians. Steve Waugh led the side to the 1999 title , and Ricky Ponting followed it up with wins in 2003 and 2007 , where every opposition was swept aside . Ponting was still the leader when Australia arrived for the 2011 event , being held in India , Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. For the first time in many years though , it looked like Australia could be beaten. Its preparation didn ’ t begin on an auspicious note , with losses in the warm-up matches against India and South Africa. However , in the main event , the team was gathering momentum with wins against Zimbabwe , New Zealand , Kenya and Canada , and a washout with the match intriguingly poised against Sri Lanka. Australia ’ s last league match was against Pakistan , with the quarter-finals looming . The Moment Ponting was the only one in the Australian side who had been part of the team that lost to Pakistan. He won the toss on a sunny day and chose to take first strike on a pitch he described as a “ good one to bat on ” . However , an inspired Pakistan attack induced a collapse , as Australia went from 75 for 1 in the 19th over to 176 all out in the 47th. Umar Gul took 3 for 30 while Abdul Razzaq , the only man in the Pakistan XI who had played in that 1999 match , had 2 for 8 in four overs . " I know for a fact the guys have n't been thinking about the winning streak at all. I think the fact that we 've played a good Pakistan team and we 've come up short will get all the guys thinking just exactly what they need to be thinking about and the way they need to play to win World Cup games. " Ricky Ponting after the match . Pakistan might have expected a straightforward chase , but Brett Lee had other ideas. Steaming in hard , bowling with pace and fire , Lee troubled the batsmen with speed and swing. He took four of the top five wickets to fall but Pakistan found its saviours in Asad Shafiq , who hit a resilient 81-ball 46 , and Umar Akmal , who made an unbeaten 44 off 59 , to seal a four-wicket win , bringing an end to the streak . What happened next Australia finished third in Group B , meaning it had to face India – the second-placed team in Group A – in the quarter-final , with the match played in Ahmedabad. The match was a classic encounter , pitting two teams who strained to the utmost against each other , but despite a heroic century from Ponting , India rode on the brilliance of Yuvraj Singh , complemented by a team effort , to chase down Australia ’ s 260 for 6 for a pulsating five-wicket win , knocking Australia out of the World Cup for the first time since 1996 . " Not even Muhammad Ali boasted an unbeaten streak this great. It has taken 34 matches , but Australia have finally been defeated in a World Cup game for the first time since 1999. Nobody really expected it to last this long , and now that it has ended , Australia can go back to being just any other team in the tournament. " Brydon Coverdale in ESPNcricinfo t was the first time since 1992 that Australia wasn ’ t going to feature in the final . India also beat Pakistan , who had come through its quarter-final against West Indies with ease , in the semi-final , before defeating Sri Lanka in Mumbai to lift the trophy .
