32 Days to Go 13/01/15 32 Sri Lanka pull off record chase in '92 With help from a young Sanath Jayasuriya who smashed the ball everywhere in a blazing cameo and a century oozing class from Arjuna Ranatunga , Sri Lanka broke records a plenty in chasing down 300 + against Zimbabwe in 1992 . Greatest CWC Moment - 32 Days to Go Background The third match of the 1992 World Cup wasn ’ t expected to be anything out of the ordinary. This was the first game of the tournament for both sides , and Sri Lanka was the clear favourite. However , an unbeaten 115 by Andy Flower and Andy Waller ’ s unconquered 83 helped Zimbabwe pile on 312 runs. No team had scaled down a 300-plus score until then , but Sri Lanka ’ s batsmen put those stats behind them and matched their counterparts . Zimbabwe found its way back into the game by scalping four wickets for a mere 39 runs. The momentum was on its side and at 167 for 4 , Sri Lanka needed a solid partnership , when Jayasuriya walked out to join Ranatunga . The Moment Jayasuriya already had a reputation for being amongst the hardest hitters of the cricket ball , but this scenario needed him to provide some stability to the innings as well as his quick scoring. Ranatunga , who was looking in fine fettle , was the ideal partner to have. Jayasuriya went after the Zimbabwe bowling attack from the start , with Kevin Duers at the receiving end . Jayasuriya flicked Duers for a six and then backed it up the following over by smacking the biggest six of the game from outside the offstump towards the midwicket region. Runs came thick and fast and the duo built a 45-run stand in quick time. Both batsmen looked set , and capable of completing the chase on their own , but a mistimed sweep from Jayasuriya off Dave Houghton , the offspinner , brought an end to a crucial partnership and a sparkling innings . Once they got up to 300 , it was always going to be difficult for us. Fortunately , we got off to a good start. Actually , we had a problem with our batting before we arrived here. Now I could see that the batsmen are booming with confidence. Heartening to see them bat this well today . Aravinda de Silva , the then Sri Lankan captain Ranatunga remained unperturbed , building further stands with Hashan Tillakaratne and Ruwan Kalpage. Jayasuriya had fallen with Sri Lanka 212 for 5 , still 101 runs away from victory. The next two partnerships carried Sri Lanka close , and towards the end , both sides were within striking distance of what would have been a memorable win. In the end , it was Ranatunga ’ s unfazed calm that took Sri Lanka home , with the batsman unbeaten on 88 off 61 , and Sri Lanka winning with four balls and three wickets to spare . What happened next Despite famous wins later on in the tournament for both sides , as Zimbabwe shocked England and Sri Lanka scored a 3 wicket-win over South Africa , neither side would make the semi-finals and in the 9 team World Cup the two sides ended up finishing bottom of the table in 8th and 9th overall . Share this article
