31 Days to Go 14/01/15 31 Yuvraj at his all-round brilliant best against Ireland in 2011 Ireland were well set on 118 for 2 against India in 2011 when Yuvraj was introduced , the allrounder bowled ten overs straight to take 5 for 31. Ireland fought hard to defend its 207 , but Yuvraj starred again , guiding India home with 50 not out . Greatest CWC Moment - 31 Days to Go Background India started its campaign by beating Bangladesh by 87 runs in the tournament opener. A classic against England in Bangalore followed that ended in a tie . Ireland too , had played two matches and against the same opponents , but with vastly different results. Bangladesh won by 27 runs in a low-scoring affair , but Ireland stunned England to chase down a colossal 328-run target , and came into the match against India brimming with confidence . The Moment After two early wickets by Zaheer Khan , Ireland had rebuilt well with William Porterfield and Niall O ’ Brien going along nicely , before O ’ Brien was run-out in the 27th over. Yuvraj , who had just come into the attack in the previous over , then tied the remaining batsmen down in knots . He struck in his third , fifth , seventh , ninth and tenth overs – never allowing Ireland to build partnerships with the last eight wickets falling for 85 runs. Yuvraj ’ s wickets included the big scalps of Porterfield , the Ireland captain , who top-scored with 75 and Kevin O ’ Brien , the hero of Ireland ’ s upset win over England and owner of the fastest-ever World Cup century , off just 50 balls . Alex Cusack ’ s scalp in his final over gave Yuvraj his first-ever five-wicket haul , but he wasn ’ t done yet . India had slipped to 87 for 3 after Ireland ’ s innings ended at 207 , when Yuvraj walked in. That soon became 100 for 4 , with the top order gone. Yuvraj , however , stood firm , adding 67 with MS Dhoni for the fifth wicket , and then combining with Yusuf Pathan to carry India over the line in 46 overs . " And that 's his fifty. He becomes the first cricketer to get five wickets and a fifty in the same match of a World Cup. " Sanjay Manjrekar on commentary. Yuvraj stayed unbeaten on 50 off 75 balls , playing the situation and rotating the strike well to earn vital points for India. He also entered the record books , becoming the first man to score a half-century and take a five-wicket haul in a World Cup match . " That he took his time , that he actually saw it through for the team. He had the responsibility to do it and he came through. Sometimes you see Yuvraj , I think , be a little impetuous and maybe play the big shots when it gets tough and get himself out. But I thought the way he carried it through today , particularly when he lost a couple of mates , I thought that was really responsible. " Simon Doull on the post-match show on what he liked the most about Yuvraj 's innings. What happened next Yuvraj went from strength to strength in the tournament , earning as many as four Man of the Match Awards as India lifted the title with a stirring win over Sri Lanka in the final . Yuvraj was the unquestioned Man of the Tournament , with 362 runs at 90.50 to go along with 15 wickets at 25.13. India ’ s victory marked its first win in 28 years , following a maiden triumph in 1983 . Share this article
