30 Days to Go 15/01/15 30 Birthday boy Taylor punishes Pakistan in 2011 2011 Pakistan v New Zealand and birthday boy Ross Taylor , who rode his luck to good effect and smashed a whirlwind century including helping an incredible 92 runs coming off the final four overs . Greatest CWC Moment - 30 Days to Go Background New Zealand had beaten Kenya and Zimbabwe , but lost by seven wickets against Australia. New Zealand needed a win against tough competition with the quarterfinal stage approaching , as it took on an in-form Pakistan side who had won all its three matches until this encounter. The conditions in Pallekele were also expected to suit Pakistan better than New Zealand . The Moment New Zealand made a sedate start after opting to bat first , reaching 99 for 2 in 25 overs. Brendon McCullum had fallen to Shoaib Akhtar in the opening over , while Jamie How fell lbw to Umar Gul after a brief rebuilding stand with Martin Guptill . Ross Taylor walked in at 55 for 2 in the 13th over , and Shahid Afridi , the Pakistan captain , gave the ball to Akhtar once again to rattle the new man. However , providence was with Taylor , as he survived two chances in three balls. An edge flew between Kamran Akmal , the wicketkeeper , and first slip to the boundary , while Kamran dropped a sitter off the second edge . " The drops were a big turning point , without a doubt. To give chances to somebody like Ross Taylor , who 's a top player in their side , two chances in three balls really cost us. ” Waqar Younis at the post-match press conference. Taylor put those early chances behind him to steer New Zealand ’ s innings , but Pakistan ’ s bowlers had kept things tight , while also striking regularly. New Zealand was 180 for 5 in 43 overs when Taylor began opening out , with Nathan McCullum also upping the tempo to hit three sixes in the Batting Powerplay . The true carnage began three overs later. New Zealand was 210 for 6 , having lost Nathan McCullum , when Taylor faced up to Akhtar with four overs left in the innings. Two fours and three sixes later , Taylor had not only raised his century , but also New Zealand ’ s morale taking Akhtar for 28 runs . Abdur Rehman conceded 15 off the next over , but that seemed economical compared to the assault on Abdul Razzaq , who went for 30 – a tournament record – in the penultimate over. A further 19 runs came off the final over bowled by Rehman , as New Zealand jumped from 210 to 302 in four overs , Taylor marking his 27th birthday with a career-best 131 not out , studded with seven sixes and eight fours . What happened next An excellent opening burst from the seam duo of Tim Southee and Kyle Mills reduced Pakistan to 23 for 4 in its reply , and though Razzaq made a fighting 62 , there weren ’ t enough contributions from the rest as Pakistan was all out for 192 . " I had a bit of luck early on. My first 50 , 60 or 70 balls I felt like I struggled and just tried to guts my way through , and probably caught up in those last 25 or 30 balls , which made my score look a lot better and made my day a lot better as well. ” Ross Taylor said at the post-match press conference . The win smoothed New Zealand ’ s passage into the quarter-finals , while Pakistan also progressed. Both sides then registered wins – New Zealand beating South Africa and Pakistan brushing aside the West Indies – but fell at the semi-final hurdle , beaten by Sri Lanka and India respectively . Share this article
