27 Days to Go 18/01/15 27 Six-star Roach stuns the Netherlands Kemar Roach claimed 6 for 27 against the Netherlands in a Group B game in a fiery spell of fast bowling that also included a late hat-trick. Roach 's performance on that night in New Delhi were the best individual bowling figures in 2011 . Greatest CWC Moment - 27 Days to Go Background The West Indies , after a seven-wicket defeat in the hands of South Africa in its opening match , was desperate to resurrect its World Cup campaign. And the Netherlands bore the brunt of the backlash at Feroz Shah Kotla in New Delhi , the same venue where the West Indies had been humiliated by South Africa four days earlier . Sent in to bat by Peter Borren , the Netherlands captain , West Indies got off to a great start courtesy a hundred-run opening partnership between Dwayne Smith and Chris Gayle ( 80 ) . Once Smith ( 53 ) departed in the 17th over , Dwayne Bravo ( 30 ) , Ramnaresh Sarwan ( 49 ) and Kieron Pollard ( 60 ) all chipped in with quick-fire knocks to help the West Indies post 330 for 8 in its 50 overs . The Moment Sulieman Benn , the left-arm spinner , started proceedings in the Dutch innings with a tidy first over , giving away just a run. But the drama started to unfold in the over that followed . Roach found his first victim in Wesley Barresi , who edged the fourth delivery of the over – a length ball – to first slip , where Gayle lunged to his right to complete a brilliant catch . Eight overs later , Roach went past Bas Zuiderent 's defence with a seriously quick delivery pitched on good length. Sandwiched between this and Roach 's first scalp were two wickets by Benn , and the Netherlands found itself tottering at 35 for 4 . Then , once Benn and Darren Sammy removed two more Dutch batsmen , the tail was exposed . Sammy , with the intention of finishing the match as quickly as possible , tossed the ball to Roach , and he responded by bowling Mudassar Bukhari , the No. 8 batsman , in the 30th over . Then , in the 32nd over of the innings , Roach was irrepressible. He trapped Pieter Seelaar lbw first ball and then sent Bernard Loots back the same way. This brought Berand Westdijk to the crease , and he was surrounded by fielders waiting to pounce on any possible chance that could make Roach become the sixth to grab a hat-trick in World Cup history. But Roach did it without anybody 's help , splattering the batsman 's stumps to register the first hat-trick in the 2011 edition . “ I am very proud of myself , the hat-trick is most memorable. When I took my fifth wicket , the captain ( Darren Sammy ) told me that I have a chance to take a hat-trick. I just concentrated on the job. Dwayne Bravo inspired me in the morning with his talk. He told me to enjoy myself and be confident of what you do. I am picked for a job and I am not under any pressure. My goal is bowl fast. ” – Roach at the post-match press conference What happened next Roach was named Man of the Match for his heroics , and West Indies went on to beat Bangladesh and Ireland in its next two matches to manage a berth in the quarterfinal . “ It was not a fast pitch but Kemar bowled really well. He is a quick bowler and he wiped out the tail in no time. ” Peter Borren at the post-match press conference But a ten-wicket clobbering at the hands of Pakistan in the first knockout match at Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium in Dhaka put an end to its World Cup campaign .
