26 Days to Go 19/01/15 26 Amazing Aravinda sizzles in Kandy in '96 Aravinda de Silva was in the form of his life. An inexperienced Kenya attack only fuelled his appetite for runs as he made a 115-ball 145 in Sri Lanka 's crushing win at the Asgiriya Stadium on its way to the ICC Cricket World Cup title in 1996 . Greatest CWC Moment - 26 Days to Go Background Kenya was on an unprecedented high having beaten the West Indies in its previous game in Patna. Fresh off its maiden World Cup win , the side landed in Kandy to take on a rampaging Sri Lanka , who had already secured a berth in the quarter-final . Having won the toss , Maurice Odumbe put Sri Lanka in to bat. Openers Sanath Jayasuriya and Romesh Kaluwitharana maximised their opportunities during the field restrictions in the first 15 overs , but two quick wickets to Tito Odumbe had lifted Kenyan hopes slightly. That ’ s when de Silva walked in . The Moment Coming in at 88 for 2 with a good foundation set , de Silva had the luxury of biding his time. Yet , he took off like a bullet train , striking at over a run-a-ball , as Asakna Gurusinha played the sheet anchor 's role to perfection. His silken touch was further aided by some poor fielding by the Kenyans , and he brought up his century off 92 balls . " The 1996 World Cup changed the fortunes of Sri Lanka Cricket. For us to be a part of the team was fantastic as we made a change for the benefit for the future cricketers in the international arena " Aravinda looks back at Sri Lanka tournament The partnership between the two was worth 184 , the highest for Sri Lanka in ODIs for any wicket at the time. De Silva finally fell for 145 to finish with an incredible strike rate of 126 , as Sri Lanka missed the 400-run mark by a kitten 's whisker. He had hit 14 fours and five sixes , and crossed the 5000-run mark in ODIs along the way . What happened next ? Sri Lanka ’ s 398 for 5 was the highest World Cup total for 11 years till India eclipsed that record by posting 413 against Bermuda in Port of Spain in 2007. Kenya came out swinging , but could n't sustain the momentum . " Aravinda was a terrific player , but he proved in the 1996 World Cup that he was much better than a terrific player. " Ian Chappell Steve Tikolo made a valiant 96 , but Sri Lanka picked up a wicket everytime a partnership flourished. In the end , Kenya ’ s total of 254 for 7 in 50 overs was a respectable one , but it still meant a 144-run defeat in its last league game. For Sri Lanka , the eventual champions , it was merely a warm-up for bigger feats ahead .
