25 Days to Go 20/01/15 25 Hadlee leads rout of Sri Lanka in 1983 New Zealand were slightly ahead of Sri Lanka in the semi-finals race in 1983 , but once Richard Hadlee was done with his 10.1 overs at Bristol , in which he returned career-best ODI figures of 5 for 25 , New Zealand were set . Greatest CWC Moment - 25 Days to Go Background New Zealand had lost to England and beaten Pakistan in their first leg of matches in the 1983 World Cup , while Sri Lanka had lost to both Pakistan and England. England was at the top of the group table , and it was important for New Zealand and Sri Lanka , who played the game in Bristol on June 13 , to get a move on if they wanted to be in the final four . Batting first after losing the toss , Sri Lanka lost Sidath Wettimuny to Hadlee early on. Ewen Chatfield then made it worse for Sri Lanka with the wickets of Brendon Kuruppu and Roy Dias , but Duleep Mendis and Ranjan Madugalle were rebuilding and rebuilding well , getting the scoreboard to tick over and making it look like Sri Lanka would reach a strong total . CWC Greatest Moments , 25 days to go From 144 for 3 , Sri Lanka slipped to 144 for 5 as Hadlee hit Mendis ’ s stumps first and then sent a young Arjuna Ranatunga back lbw for a duck. Jeremy Coney then joined the fun with the wickets of Somachandra de Silva and Madugalle , who top-scored with 60 , before Hadlee returned to pick up the wickets of Ashantha de Mel ( caught and bowled ) and Rumesh Ratnayake ( bowled ) . “ After being put in , Sri Lanka lost an early wicket to Hadlee , but during a fourth-wicket stand of 71 in twenty overs between Mendis and Madugalle they still looked capable of making a fair score. However , Hadlee returned to break the stand and later prevented any flourish by the tailenders. ” Wisden Cricketers ’ Almanack Ratnayake was the last wicket to fall , off the first ball of Hadlee ’ s 11th over , as Sri Lanka finished on 206. Hadlee never bettered his 5 for 25 , though he did have four other five-wicket hauls in his 115-game ODI career . What happened next Chasing 207 for its second win in the tournament , New Zealand took off with Glenn Turner ( 50 in 60 balls ) and John Wright ( 45 in 52 balls ) giving New Zealand an 89-run stand for the first wicket. Once they were gone , Geoff Howarth , the captain , took charge of the innings with 76 from 79 balls , and New Zealand went over the line with ease in just 39.2 overs ( in a 60-over game ) . The five-wicket win did give New Zealand some breathing space in Group A , but the 11-run loss to Pakistan in its last group game pushed it out of the running for the final four .
