24 Days to Go 21/01/15 24 Collins Obuya dream spell leads Kenyan magic in '03 Sanath Jayasuriya ’ s worst nightmare came true on February 24 , 2003 , when a spirited performance from Collins Obuya , who took 5 for 24 , helped Kenya pull off a memorable win against Sri Lanka in a group match of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2003 . Greatest CWC Moment - 24 Days to Go Background After losing its first match to South Africa , Kenya bounced back to win the next match against Canada by four wickets. Then , New Zealand refused to play in Nairobi citing security fears and four points were awarded to Kenya , which meant it moved to the second position in Pool B. The last match of the group stage for Kenya was against Sri Lanka , who had won all its three matches till then against New Zealand , Bangladesh and Canada . “ This was very excellent. I think Obuya bowled the spell of his life. ” Steve Tikolo after the match. On a sunny day in Nairobi , Jayasuriya chose to field. The move looked a wise one as Sri Lanka restricted Kenya to 210 for 9 , with Kennedy Otieno scoring 60. Muttiah Muralitharan had 4 for 28 , and was well supported by Chaminda Vaas , with 3 for 41 . The Moment Though the pitch was slow and difficult to bat on , Sri Lanka had the batting line-up to chase down the modest total. But , in front of a partisan crowd , Martin Suji dismissed Jayasuriya for just 3 in the fifth over. After a brief stay , Marvan Atapattu was bowled by Thomas Odoyo. With the scorecard reading 39 for 2 , the alarm bells hadn ’ t started ringing yet. But on a day on which Obuya could do no wrong , even the combined might of Aravinda de Silva , Mahela Jayawardena and Kumar Sangakkara failed to carry Sri Lanka to a win. 24 days to # cwc15 & Collins Obuya ’ s 5-24 in 2003 caused one of the biggest CWC upsets # YouBuya http : //t.co/Frt73YfoaA pic.twitter.com/uzuFFZ4kXn — ICC ( @ ICC ) January 21 , 2015 Introduced in the 16th over , Obuya dismantled the Sri Lanka middle order with his accurate leg-spin , accounting for Hashan Tillakaratne , de Silva , Jayawardena , Sangakkara and Vaas. His 5 for 24 brought Sri Lanka from 71 for 2 to 119 for 7 before it was all over in 45 overs for 157. Kenya had registered a 53-run win . What happened next Kenya finished second in Pool B just behind Sri Lanka with 16 points and later finished third in the Super Sixes table before losing the semi-final against India by 91 runs to end a superb campaign . “ Ali Bacher 's dream of a pan-African World Cup was born anew yesterday when Kenya overcame a stilted Sri Lanka to announce themselves as serious contenders for the Super Six phase. In the tournament 's biggest surprise to date , the Sri Lankans were scattered by the gentle leg-breaks of Collins Obuya , who eclipsed Muttiah Muralitharan 's familiar razzle-dazzle. ” Simon Briggs in The Telegraph . Sri Lanka too reached the semi-final , where it lost to Australia , the eventual winners , by 48 runs ( Duckworth-Lewis method ) .
