23 Days to Go 22/01/15 23 Bond 's Best nearly topples Champions in '03 New Zealand v Australia Super Sixes 2003 , Shane Bond made the record books on two counts : He took what was then his best ODI bowling figures ; his record 6 for 23 would also be the second-best figures ever for a bowler on the losing side in an ODI . Greatest CWC Moment - 23 Days to Go Background Bond , Shane Bond , New Zealand ’ s policeman-turned-fast bowler , had become Australia ’ s nemesis soon after his Test debut against it in 2001. His appeared to save his best for the neighbour and had tormented the side in the 2001-02 VB series , also featuring South Africa . So , when the two teams faced off in the Super Sixes stage of World Cup 2003 , an intriguing clash was expected. Australia had a great run in tournament , not dropping a match , while New Zealand , too , had pulled through some tough clashes . The Moment Having put Australia in , New Zealand struck early , courtesy Bond. He had Matthew Hayden out caught behind in the third over before trapping Adam Gilchrist lbw soon after. Ricky Ponting , the captain , followed them back before he could get to double digits , caught at slip , to leave Australia in trouble at 31 for 3. All this time , Bond was bowling fast and accurately , consistently breaching 145kph and deftly achieving swing . “ I can ’ t imagine a more bittersweet feeling than that day. It started with a run-in with the skipper. The pitch had a funny look about it , a bit dry. We were going to bat first if we won the toss … [ Stephen Fleming , the captain ] came in and told us we were bowling … I was well pissed off and carried the feeling on to the field. I bowled poop in my first over , leg stump rubbish , and was drop-kicked a couple of times to the boundary. Man , I was grumpy , swearing all the way down to fine leg , telling Flem , ‘ We should be bloody batting on this. ’ Next over I dismissed Matty Hayden and life was sweet again , Flem was forgiven and I started to pull my head in and get on with the business of bowling. ” Shane Bond in his biography , Looking Back . Reintroduced in the 23rd over for his second spell , he immediately made a difference , adding the wickets of Damien Martyn and Brad Hogg in consecutive deliveries , and then Ian Harvey to his tally . Australia were 31/3 against @ BLACKCAPS , thanks to the brilliance of # BondShaneBond http : //t.co/TqmHdQcawP pic.twitter.com/p7RDrpla4d By the 27th over , with Australia tottering at 84 for 7 , New Zealand was well ahead. Two overs later , Bond was bowled out , ending with 6 for 23 . What happened next With Bond out of the way , Australia added an invaluable 97 runs for the eighth wicket to finish at a modest 208. But , soon into the New Zealand chase , the target looked like an insurmountable mountain. Glenn McGrath and Brett Lee ripped through the opposition line-up , Lee ( 5 for 42 ) especially fearsome as he picked up all those wickets in just 15 deliveries . “ On a personal level , it was a landmark game for me. My bowling performance was viewed positively by a lot of fans and commentators , but at that time , it was about the most hollow , gut-wrenching feeling I could imagine. ” Shane Bond in his biography , Looking Back . Bond was the last wicket to fall , at 112 , as his team lost by 96 runs. Australia would go on to win the World Cup. Bond , between the injuries that marred his career , would continue to be a thorn in Australia ’ s side : 44 of his 147 ODI wickets came against Australia at an average of 15.79 .
