21 Days to Go 24/01/15 21 Afridi goes boom-boom with the ball in 2011 Shahid Afridi , picked to lead the Pakistan side in 2011 , was expected to shine with the bat. Instead , he led from the front with the ball : In eight matches , Afridi picked up 21 wickets to be tied with Zaheer Khan for the most wickets in the tournament . Greatest CWC Moment - 21 Days to Go Background Pakistan headed into the 2011 World Cup without the most ideal of preparations , with Wasim Akram , Waqar Younis and even Afridi raising concerns. Afridi ’ s captaincy itself had come under question . Yet , underlining the unpredictability of Pakistan cricket , the team did better than expected , putting behind it several crises of 2010 , to become a force to reckon with in the tournament. Its dominance in the group stage gave the side confidence and birthed the dream of lifting the trophy. The Moment Afridi ’ s 5 for 16 in Pakistan ’ s tournament opener against Kenya led it to a massive 205-run victory. That was not only Afridi ’ s first five-wicket haul of the tournament , but also the best figures for a Pakistan bowler in World Cups . " The way we practised , we were very focussed and positive and what we do there , we deliver in the games as well. Definitely it emphasises that we are a dangerous team. It 's a good start but we should n't be 100 % satisfied because there is a lot of work ahead of us still. " Shahid Afridi , after the tournament opener against Kenya where he returned 5 for 16 . It would also be a stepping stone to something bigger. In Pakistan ’ s second game against Sri Lanka , Afridi picked up a four-wicket haul – en route to his 300th ODI wicket. Coming at crucial junctures , the wickets ensured Pakistan scraped through to a 11-run win and gave him his first Man of the Match award of the season. But Afridi wasn ’ t finished yet. After nine wickets in two games , in his third , he notched up his second five-wicket haul against Canada , thus becoming the first player in World Cup history to take four or more wickets in three consecutive games . " I have been continuously talking to Afridi and that is what makes me feel so close to the team. Afridi looks keen and even the boys are eager to perform. " Wasim Akram He picked up one wicket each in the remaining three group stage games , helping Pakistan finish at the top of Group A , followed by Sri Lanka , Australia and New Zealand . His “ lean streak ” , if you could call it that , came to end when it mattered the most. He delivered another four-wicket haul in the quarter-final against the West Indies to hand Pakistan a semi-final berth , where it would face India and have a crack at the final . What happened next Although Afridi had a lean season with the bat , his performance with the ball played a large part in carrying Pakistan through to the semi-final. However , in the clash against India , he went wicketless and scored 19 runs as the eventual champions beat Pakistan by 29 runs . Afridi , with his 21 wickets , jointly topped the bowling charts with India 's Zaheer Khan , but it was Afridi 's average of 12.85 that saw him on top , and with an economy rate of 3.62 to boot – the least among the top ten bowlers of the World Cup .
