20 Days to Go 25/01/15 20 McCullum smashes fastest World Cup fifty in 2007 Brendon McCullum , then just 24 , created history and havoc at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 , bludgeoning his way to the fastest-ever World Cup half-century off just 20 balls against Canada in St Lucia . Greatest CWC Moment - 20 Days to Go Background The match between New Zealand and Canada was essentially a dead rubber , with New Zealand having already secured a berth in the Super Eights and Canada eliminated from the tournament. New Zealand was asked to bat and the first ten overs yielded 41. So far , so good for Canada. But , without warning , New Zealand shifted gears and began a calculated onslaught , much to the delight of the spectators , who were mostly schoolchildren . Stephen Fleming hit 66 , Peter Fulton chipped in with a run-a-ball 47 , and Lou Vincent was the fulcrum of the effort , with 101 off 117 balls. When Vincent departed , New Zealand was 278 for 5 with seven overs remaining , and Canada might have felt that the worst was over . The Moment McCullum joined Jacob Oram in the middle , and the pair continued in smash-all-you-see fashion. In the process , New Zealand surpassed its previous highest World Cup total of 331 — set two days earlier against Kenya — in the 48th over . Three gigantic sixes and a four later , McCullum was on strike for the last over , batting on 37 from 17 balls. Mark Boucher had set the record for fastest World Cup half-century off 21 balls just a week ago against The Netherlands , and McCullum had a chance to equal or better it. McCullum chose the latter , and hit 6 , 2 , 6 to bring up the milestone in 20 balls. It was also the fastest half-century by a New Zealand batsman in ODIs at the time . What happened next New Zealand finished at a staggering 363 for 5 , but Canada was no pushover. For the first 9.4 overs , the New Zealand bowling attack — without the services of Shane Bone and James Franklin , who were rested — was given a dose of its own medicine as John Davison blasted 52 off 31 balls , reaching his fifty in 23 balls – the joint third-fastest in World Cup history. But it ran out of steam thereafter and was bowled out for 249 , handing New Zealand a 114-run win . " McCullum 's fearlessness humbled an already miserable Canadian attack as he feasted on bowling which lacked direction , discipline and courage. " ESPNCricinfo In the Super Eights , New Zealand won four games and lost two before losing to Sri Lanka in the semi-final. Meanwhile , McCullum become known for his ability to reduce bowling attacks to pulp . Currently , he shares the New Zealand record for fastest half-century in ODIs ( off 19 balls ) with Ross Taylor. His brutal hitting is n't limited to ODIs alone , as he has shown he can kick it up a notch in Twenty20 Internationals as well as in Tests . Share this article
