19 Days to Go 26/01/15 19 Olonga stuns India in final-over heist in '99 It was his World Cup debut , and India needed only nine runs from two overs in the end and appeared to be on course for its first win of the tournament , but Olonga got three wickets in five balls to seal a remarkable victory . Greatest CWC Moment - 19 Days to Go Background The Group A clash in Leicester was the second match of the tournament for both India and Zimbabwe. The two sides came into the match with contrasting results in their first matches ; India had lost its tournament opener against South Africa and Zimbabwe had defeated Kenya. in a league match of the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 India was without Sachin Tendulkar , who had gone to Mumbai to attend his father 's funeral , but was still the clear favourite given it had never lost to Zimbabwe in six previous World Cup encounters. The Moment After being put in to bat , Zimbabwe posted a competitive 252 for 9 , largely thanks to the Flower brothers – Andy ( 68 not out ) and Grant ( 45 ) – and the mammoth 51 extras conceded by India 's bowlers. India 's reply was an up-and-down affair. It was docked four overs due to a slow over-rate and suffered early jolts as Heath Streak and Neil Johnson reduced it to 56 for 3. Sadagopan Ramesh , who top scored for India with 55 , and Ajay Jadeja ( 43 ) , revived the innings with a 99-run stand for the fourth wicket but the two fell in quick succession in the middle overs. The stutter in the middle meant that India was at a precarious 175 for 6 after 34 overs , but Robin Singh ( 35 ) and Nayan Mongia ( 28 ) made key contributions and batted positively to take it closer. Javagal Srinath then struck two sixes to put India within sniffing distance of victory and the equation came down to nine runs from the final two overs. With a well-set Singh and an aggressive Srinath in the middle , India 's World Cup record against Zimbabwe looked set to continue. However , Alistair Campbell , the Zimbabwe captain , turned to Olonga for the crucial penultimate over , although Streak , who had figures of 3 for 36 , still had an over remaining. Olonga had not had the best of days until then. He was wayward in his first spell and conceded 17 runs , including six wides , from his three overs. The first ball of the 45th over went for a couple of runs and India was a hit away from equalling Zimbabwe 's score , but that is when the match took a dramatic turn. Singh fell in the next ball , driving Olonga to Campbell at extra cover , to open the door for Zimbabwe . “ I do n't know ! Sometimes in cricket , there are no cricketing reasons behind some decisions. It 's just the gut feeling. He did n't have a great day till then , but I was hoping he would do something special and win us the game , which he did , ” Alistair Campbell , on his decision to bowl Olonga in the 45th over . Anil Kumble and Srinath managed three runs from the next two balls , but Olonga got through Srinath 's attempted heave and bowled him off the fifth ball to set up a thrilling finish. India needed its No. 10 and No. 11 – Kumble and Venkatesh Prasad – to score four runs from seven balls , but Olonga got the better of Prasad , trapping him lbw off the last ball , to complete a sensational over and a victory. Olonga 's 3 for 22 was the best figures by a Zimbabwean in World Cups against India. So Olonga made his Cricket World Cup debut one to remember by bagging all three remaining Indian wickets in the penultimate over to grab victory for Zimbabwe from the jaws of defeat . What happened next The result made it two victories for Zimbabwe and two losses for India from as many games. India 's World Cup campaign had suffered an early setback , but it bounced back with three consecutive victories to qualify for the Super Six stage. “ We had the match in the bag , but the last over by Olonga put us back , ” Mohammad Azharuddin , the Indian captain , in the post-match press conference . Zimbabwe too qualified for the Super Sixes after defeating South Africa in its last Group match. Both sides , however , failed to qualify for the semi-finals after losing two of their three matches in the Super Six stage .
