18 Days to Go 27/01/15 18 India claim sensational triumph in 1983 final India had lost 28 of its previous 40 One-Day Internationals under six different captains prior to the ICC Cricket World Cup1983 , and the team entered the tournaments as 66 to 1 outsiders. But Kapil Dev 's men trumped the odds to make history . Greatest CWC Moment - 18 Days to Go Background A Minor Counties Select XI – a team consisting of engineers , farmers , salesman and solicitors – had defeated India just five days before the start of the 1983 World Cup , but Kapil ’ s young team set those memories aside and registered a 34-run win against the West Indies in it ’ s opening encounter in Manchester . Having beaten the world champions for the second time in two months – the first win having come in Albion in a bilateral series – India carried the momentum forward and prevailed over Australia once , Zimbabwe twice , and then England in the semi-final , before breaking the World Cup hegemony of the West Indies in the final on June 25 , 1983 – an event that would change the landscape of Indian cricket forever . The Moment India remains the only team to have hit as few as 18 boundaries while batting first to win a World Cup final , and the first one came from the blade of Krishnamachari Srikkanth . Srikkanth flashed at a bouncing delivery from Joel Garner , which was too close to the body to cut , to the third-man boundary and made his aggressive intent clear. Srikkanth ’ s attacking ploy and Mohinder Amarnath ’ s sturdy approach allowed India to tackle the pace-quartet of Andy Roberts , Garner , Malcolm Marshall and Michael Holding on a seaming track with relative conviction , as the pair looked for runs even while ensuring that there was no collapse at the top of the order . The duo ’ s three fours off the backfoot on either side of the square boundary and Srikkanth ’ s pulled six off Roberts stood out in the second-wicket stand of 57 runs – the best partnership of the match . Equally effective off the front foot , Srikkanth slapped one straight back past Holding to the long-off fence – a shot he would rate as the best of his innings. Srikkanth ’ s 38 – the highest individual score in the game – including eight boundaries boosted the Indian dressing room ’ s confidence , as every batsman who followed thereafter , except for Kirti Azad , Roger Binny and Syed Kirmani , hit at least a four or a six . Though Holding bowled Amarnath for 26 and Gomes sent Yashpal back soon after , Sandeep Patil hit a six and Kapil collected three fours on either side of the lunch interval to keep the charge on . Falling wickets meant India was reduced to 161 for 9 in 43.3 overs , but Kirmani and Balwinder Singh Sandhu batted out 11.1 overs for vital 22 runs for the last wicket. During the course of the partnership , Sandhu powerfully cover drove Holding to take the tally of boundaries in the innings to 18 before Marshall hit him on his helmet with a bouncer and Holding bowled Kirmani off the fourth ball of the 55th over . The tally of boundaries might seem low , but India was bowled out for just 183 , meaning that 42.62 % of its runs came through hits that reached the fence or sailed over. With nothing to lose , the team came out to bowl at the West Indies full of spirit. “ The ball was moving so much that day that I literally didn ’ t know what was happening. Once I got off the mark , I decided to go for it. Those kind of world-class fast bowlers give very little away , so it was important for me to make use of every opportunity that came my way , ” Krishnamachari Srikkanth on his 38 that included seven fours and a six , the most by any batsman in the final . Sandhu provided the breakthrough with a sharp inswinger that uprooted Gordon Greenidge ’ s stumps and Madan Lal , who had hit a six himself , picked up three wickets including that of Viv Richards for 33 to a spectacular running catch by Kapil at mid-wicket. Binny scalped Lloyd to finish as the tournament ’ s highest wicket-taker , and Amarnath gave the finishing touches by accounting for three of the last four victims , as West Indies , who hit 11 boundaries in its innings , was dismissed for 140 in 52 overs , giving India victory by 43 runs . Man of the Match for the second consecutive game , Amarnath once again pocketed a cash award of £ UK 600 , and Kapil lifted the Prudential Trophy and received the prize money of £ UK 20,000 in front of 24,609 people . What happened next ? NKP Salve , the Board of Control for Cricket in India president , announced a cash prize of Rs 100,000/- for each member of the winning Indian team. The fund was raised through a concert by popular Indian singer Lata Mangeshkar. “ None backed us in 1983. Actually it suited us because it meant no pressure at all. The boys just wanted to enjoy the experience of playing in a World Cup , ” ? Kapil Dev , India ’ s captain . High on confidence after the World Cup victory , India won two multi-nation tournaments in Australia and Sharjah within the next two years . The 1983 win also ensured cricket ’ s place as the No.1 sport in the hearts of all Indians grew and solidified , leading to what is today the single largest fan-base of any country in the sport . “ The World Cup was a great success and India ’ s victory a splendid surprise. They brought warmth and excitement in the place of dampness and depression , ” John Woodcock , the editor of 1984 Wisden Cricketers ’ Almanack .
