17 Days to Go 28/01/15 17 An Irish St Patrick ’ s Day party in 2007 For Ireland , qualification to the '07 World Cup was in itself a huge achievement. Pakistan were expected to win easily but it was the Irish who emerged victors. The date : March 17 – St Patrick ’ s Day , and Irish cricket had arrived on the World Stage . Greatest CWC Moment - 17 Days to Go Background It was still early days in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 , but Pakistan was already on the back foot following a 54-run loss in the opening game of the tournament against the West Indies , while Ireland had already achieved a good result , a thrilling tie , against Zimbabwe . Then , on St Patrick ’ s Day at Sabina Park in Kingston , the two teams faced each other – Pakistan looking to get on the points table and Ireland hoping to get what it could against the 1992 Champion . The Moment Ireland , led by the magnificent Trent Johnston , won the toss and opted to field with the pitch ironically sporting an Irish shade of green for the side celebrating their national holiday. It was a good call , as Dave Langford-Smith sent back Mohammad Hafeez early and Boyd Rankin had the measure of Younis Khan. A partnership of sorts – of 41 runs – between Imran Nazir and Mohammad Yousuf gave Pakistan hope for a while , but with Rankin returning 3 for 32 and Andre Botha , who sent back Nazir and Inzamam-ul-Haq during a spell that read 8-4-5-2 , tying the Pakistan batsmen in knots , all Ireland needed to chase down was 133 . It didn ’ t start well for Ireland , with Mohammad Sami sending back Jeremy Bray and Eoin Morgan , who will be the England captain for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , as the scoreboard read 15 for 2. But Niall O ’ Brien chose the day to make a name for himself . The Day Ireland shocked the World with a St. Patrick 's Day victory v Pakistan http : //t.co/5u8eBT2HBA # BlarneyArmy pic.twitter.com/5L7jDoDaJ5 — ICC ( @ ICC ) January 28 , 2015 William Porterfield scored a 50-ball 13 in the first part of Niall O ’ Brien ’ s innings , and Kevin O ’ Brien scored an unbeaten 16 from 52 balls later on , but it was Niall O ’ Brien , who ended with 72 from 107 balls with six fours and a six , conducted the show. He swept and used his feet and dazzled against the ever-threatening Pakistan attack . When Niall O ’ Brien fell , looking for another big six after just hitting one off Shoaib Malik he missed and was stumped ; the total was on 108 for 5 , it should have been a walk in the park but Irish nerves and more penetrating bowling from the Pakistan quicks added to the tension. “ Niall O'Brien , the batting hero with a cultured 72 in a tense chase , reduced it to the basics when he spoke of how " they had the ball and I had the bat " , but there was absolutely nothing perfunctory about this Irish win. Even after they skittled out Pakistan for 132 on a well-grassed pitch , they still had to withstand a ferocious spell from Mohammad Sami , and a late burst from Rao Iftikhar to seal victory. ” Dileep Premachandran , Cricinfo It was just one over later when Iftikhar Anjum struck with two wickets in two balls and all of a sudden Ireland still needed 15 more runs to win with just three wickets in hand. The light was dark and the mood was tense amongst the thonging crowd of Irish 'Blarney Army ' supporters who had roared on every run with great passion . So it was left to the Irish captain , Trent Johnston alongside the at the time novice , Kevin O'Brien to try and seal Ireland 's place in history , a spot in the Super Eights and another four weeks of cricket in the Caribbean to continue the fairy tale debut . It was still tricky , but as every run was counted down , Kevin O'Brien level the scores with a risky single to leave Trent Johnston on strike. The man who grew up in Wollongong in New South Wales , and had opened the bowling with Brett Lee on his first-class debut has the chance to lead his adopted country to historic first World Cup win. Azhar Mahmood ran in , it was a slower ball which Johnston saw early and he swung the ball high and handsome over the square leg boundary to spark some of the most remarkable scenes of celebration ever seen at the ICC Cricket World Cup . “ Apart from my two kids being born , [ it was ] the greatest day of my life. To be out there and to change the fortune of a sport in a country where it ’ s very much a minority sport and put it on the front pages and put it on every radio station and every media outlet around the world that Ireland had beaten Pakistan , it was great to be there. It was a very special moment. ” Trent Johnston , speaking to The Slog Sweep With more than 3,000 Irish fans in the ground all celebrating St. Patrick 's Day , there were tears of joy to go with the celebratory Irish jigs in the crowd , and the Irish squad celebrated with a very long lap of honour . What happened next Pakistan beat Zimbabwe in its final game , but it wasn ’ t enough to make the Super Eights even though Ireland lost its last game against the West Indies as well – that tie against Zimbabwe went a long way in scripting the Irish dream. “ When you 're in the middle , you do n't think too much. But to beat a team like Pakistan is a fantastic achievement. ” Niall O ’ Brien in the post-match press conference Ireland 's almost wholly amateur side managed to get the extra month off from their day jobs as they went on to play across the Caribbean giving England a close run for their money but also losing heavily to Australia and Sri Lanka. But outoging coach Adrian Birrell did mastermind another victory – against Bangladesh – and though it wasn ’ t enough to challenge for a semi-final spot , Ireland ’ s cricketers had ensured it left its first ever ICC Cricket World Cup with a massive mark and shown the world that Irish cricket was around for the long-term .
