16 Days to Go 29/01/15 16 I.V.A. Richards 181 , Sri Lanka 169 1987 World Cup , Karachi , Viv Richards showed just how devastating a force he could be , hitting an incredible 125-ball 181 , with 7 sixes & 16 fours. That took the West Indies to 360 for 4 the highest total in ODIs then , and set up a massive 191-run win . Greatest CWC Moment - 16 Days to Go Background The West Indies had been the dominant force in world cricket in the past decade , but the air of invincibility was beginning to fade somewhat. The team had reached the title round of all three previous World Cups , but after the shock loss to India in the previous final in 1983 , was looking to get back in the saddle . And Richards was the man everyone looked to. The last-over , last-gasp defeat against England to kick off the 1987 tournament put the Caribbean side under pressure , and as its next opponent , Sri Lanka faced the backlash . Viv Richards , who made only 27 in that game , seemed to come out with a point to prove in the team ’ s next outing , and the unfortunate victim was Sri Lanka . CWC Greatest Moments , 16 Days To Go Asked to bat by Sri Lanka , the West Indies got off to a good start thanks to Desmond Haynes and Carlisle Best , but Ravi Ratnanayake snared Best and Richie Richardson off consecutive deliveries . That brought Richards to the crease , and he began settling in quickly. Quick singles and even quicker doubles took up most of his initial stay at the crease. There was the occasional drive for a boundary but nothing to suggest the explosion that would follow , with 50 raised from 62 deliveries . After that , Richards blasted off. The next half-century took only 35 balls in coming , and Sri Lanka ’ s bowlers were put to the sword. Richards then hit an even higher gear , and from 100 off 97 balls , his final 81 runs came in a mere 28 deliveries more . ? “ The 181 I scored off just 125 balls against Sri Lanka in the ICC Cricket World Cup 1987 was a great knock. However , I wanted to achieve more , on a collective basis , by winning that ICC Cricket World Cup 1987. That to me would have been a bigger statement. ” Viv Richards , in an interview with ICC . No bowler who bowled then came away unscathed , and Richards looked set to eclipse his own record for the highest individual ODI score - the 189 not out he had scored against England three years earlier. But he fell just short , mis-timing a heave off Asantha de Mel to be caught by Roshan Mahanama . Richards ’ s innings put a fine century by Haynes in the shade , with the opener complementing his senior partner well with 105 , and sharing a rollicking 182-run stand off just 177 balls that set the base for the West Indies ’ 360 for 4 . Sri Lanka had been outplayed by the ‘ King ’ . What happened next ? The West Indies lost a thriller against Pakistan by one wicket , when Courtney Walsh opted not to run-out Saleem Jaffar , who had backed up too far. The side defeated Sri Lanka again , but a loss to England in the next game meant for the first time ever , the West Indies hadn ’ t qualified for the semi-finals of the ICC Cricket World Cup . “ I was in Karachi that day , and West Indies , on that day were angry because they had lost to England earlier. More than anyone else Viv Richards was angry with his team , the way they were playing and the way he was playing and somebody had to bear the brunt. It was a brutal knock. The memory that stands out for me is bowlers like Asantha de Mel were afraid to run in and bowl at him after he got to his century. They started bowling wide of off stump and Viv was chasing the balls down. The one shot I remember was when the bowler bowled the ball really wide and he literally ran after it and smashed it through covers with one hand. ” Ayaz Memon to Cricinfo . Richards ’ s score remained the highest individual score in a World Cup until Gary Kirsten went past it with an unbeaten 188 against United Arab Emirates in the ICC Cricket World Cup 1996. Sourav Ganguly also crossed Richards ’ s mark with a fine 183 against Sri Lanka at Taunton in the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999.
