14 Days to Go 31/01/15 14 Gilmour ’ s epic effort at Headingley On a typically overcast day at Headingley , Gary Gilmour produced a wondrous spell of swing bowling to take 6 for 14 from 12 overs , including six maidens , to skittle England out for 93 in the semifinal of the ICC Cricket World Cup 1975 . Greatest CWC Moment - 14 Days to Go Gilmour wasn ’ t done yet , and when Australia was reduced to 39 for 6 , he took charge with the bat , top-scoring with 28 not out for a four-wicket win . Background : Gary Gilmour ’ s One-Day International career was a brief one , played at a time when the 50-over format was still nascent. He played two ODIs in March 1974 , not batting in either. He was part of Australia ’ s squad for the 1975 World Cup , but didn ’ t make the final XI for the league matches. However , when he did make his way in , he had an unforgettable day . England had entered the semi-final on a high , with three wins in as many matches. Australia , meanwhile , beat Pakistan and Sri Lanka but lost to the West Indies in the league stages , when Gilmour was drafted in for the knockout match . The Moment : Australia had no hesitation about putting England in to bat , and opening the attack with Dennis Lillee , Gilmour extracted prodigious movement , both in the air and off the moist surface , to reduce England to 36 for 6. It was not every day that Lillee was pushed into the background , but it was simply going to be Gilmour ’ s day . Bringing the ball back after pitching on the offstump he had Dennis Amiss , Keith Fletcher , Frank Hayes and Alan Knott lbw. He bowled Barry Wood with a perfect yorker and had Tony Greig caught by Rod Marsh. In 12 overs , all bowled in a single spell , Gilmour took the first six England wickets to fall , and never gave the batsmen any leeway to alleviate pressure by way of runs . “ The ball seamed all day and the bounce was a bit uneven. It was difficult to get on to the front foot against bowlers of the pace playing in this game and when you got one that kept low — well that explains the lbws. Perhaps it ’ s a good thing that batsmen do not have it all their own way all the time. ” Ian Chappell , the Australian captain , after the match . England went in to lunch at 52 for 8. Mike Denness ( 27 ) and Geoff Arnold ( 18 ) , the only players to reach double figures , took the score to 93. Gilmour finished with figures of 12-6-14-6 — then the best in ODIs — a record that stood for eight years . “ Alan Davidson would have been proud of a spell like this ” On air television commentator. England didn ’ t find success until the eighth over , then John Snow and Chris Old ran through the Australian lineup as dramatically as Gilmour had. But Gilmour ’ s job was far from over. He walked out to bat with Australia precariously placed at 39 for 6 -- still requiring 55 to win -- to join Doug Walters. Walters , who scored a 43-ball 20 , held one end up , as Gilmour scored briskly. The duo stayed unseparated , bringing up a four-wicket win in 28.4 overs , with Gilmour unbeaten on a run-a-ball 28 . The match ended with Gilmour having the highest individual score , the best strike-rate , the best bowling figures and the best economy rate in the match. Truly dominating , all-round . What happened next : To prove his feat was no fluke , Gilmour followed it up with 5 for 48 against the West Indies in the final at Lord ’ s , becoming the first bowler to take consecutive five-wicket hauls in ODIs . He claimed the prized scalps of Alvin Kallicharran , Rohan Kanhai , Clive Lloyd and Viv Richards , but the overall might of the Caribbean side proved too much , as Australia lost by 17 runs. Gilmour finished the tournament with figures of astonishing figures of 11 for 62 , from just two matches . He played just one more ODI after the World Cup , against West Indies in Adelaide.
