13 Days to Go 01/02/15 13 Hometown hero , Brave battler , Terrific tie in 2011 England made 13 runs in the final over , as a humdinger against India at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore ended in a tie in 2011. Both Sachin Tendulkar and Andrew Strauss made centuries during the course of a gripping match , a World Cup classic . Greatest CWC Moment - 13 Days to Go Background Virender Sehwag gave India a bright start , before Tendulkar took the reins and put on 134 for the second wicket along with a determined Gautam Gambhir ( 51 ) . Tendulkar displayed a wide range of shots – the flick off the pads , the straight drives and the sweeps – in what was a standout performance even by his lofty standards . There were consecutive sixes against Graeme Swann , and in all , Tendulkar had five sixes to go with ten fours during his 115-ball 120. By the time he was dismissed by James Anderson in the 39th over , India had amassed 236 for 3. Thereafter , England did well to restrain India , who lost its last seven wickets in 25 balls to be bowled out for 338 – an imposing total despite Bresnan ’ s 5 for 48. CWC Greatest Moment , 13 Days to Go England was undaunted in its chase. Kevin Pietersen did what Sehwag had done for India , playing a quickfire 22-ball 31 to get it off to a fiery start before Munaf Patel stuck his hand out for a reflex caught and bowled. Strauss then took over , putting on 43 with Jonathan Trott for the second wicket and a decisive 170 with Ian Bell for the third. Strauss matched Tendulkar for strokes , and motored along to reach his century in 99 balls . If anything , he was even more uninhibited thereafter as he took his total past 150. At 281 for 2 in 43 overs , England was on course for an easy victory. However , the decision to take the batting Power Play turned the tables. Zaheer Khan , in a masterful spell of reverse swing , had both Bell ( 69 ) and Strauss ( 158 ) dismissed in the same over , and it prompted a collapse – Paul Collingwood , Matt Prior and Michael Yardy all fell in quick succession . Sixes from Bresnan and Swann took England closer to the total , and with one over to go , it needed 14 to win , with Swann and Ajmal Shahzad in the middle. What followed was nerve-wracking. Swann took a double and a single to give Shahzad the strike , who creamed a massive six over head of Munaf , the bowler . The next ball was resulted in a bye. Swann then claimed two off the penultimate ball to leave England needing two more to win off the final delivery. Munaf kept it tight though , and Swann hit it straight to mid-off while the batsmen scampered a single , with both teams finishing dead even after nearly 100 overs of scintillating cricket . “ It was a great game of cricket. Great advert for the 50-over format. In some ways we ’ re happy , in some ways we ’ re distraught. But great game of cricket. Privileged to play in a game like that. ” Andrew Strauss post match It was the fourth tie in World Cup history. The Bangalore crowd had cried itself hoarse – first cheering Tendulkar to the skies , and then egging the Indian team on , and at the end were rewarded with a match filled with twists and turns , two standout centuries and a full range of emotions . “ He ’ s a different bowler if you look to work around his bowling. But if you look to get after him , he comes up with brilliant spells and gets the batmsen out. ” MS Dhoni on Zaheer Khan and his spell of reverse swing that pulled England back . What Happened Next England ’ s tournament continued to be balanced on a knife ’ s edge , with nearly every match the country played in being decided in the dying moments. It lost to Ireland by three wickets in its next match in another classic encounter , but bounced back with a six-run win over South Africa . A loss to Bangladesh followed , but a win against the West Indies put England through to the quarterfinal. However , Sri Lanka proved too strong an opponent , winning by ten wickets in Colombo . “ They ( England ) chased a fantastic total. Batting second after nearly three-and-a-half hours in the field was a special , special effort. They were running away with the game till the Power Play , but they did fantastically to get there. ” Sourav Ganguly , on air after the match . India ’ s campaign in the league stages didn ’ t hit full throttle , but the team sailed into the quarterfinals easily enough. From there , it was unstoppable , with victories against Australia , Pakistan and Sri Lanka delivering a second World Cup Trophy .
