12 Days to Go 02/02/15 12 Hendrick swings it England 's way in '79 It was a bowling day at Headingley in Leeds. England and Pakistan had already sealed a berth in the semi-finals of the ICC Cricket World Cup 1979 but England 's Mike Hendrick had a day to remember to make World Cup history . Greatest CWC Moment - 12 Days to Go Background Hendrick had played only 14 One-Day Internationals since making his debut in 1973 , but had gained quite a reputation as a reliable swing bowler in the longer format. He picked up 14 wickets in three Tests during England 's 3-0 Ashes series triumph in 1977-78 at home. That meant expectations were high on Hendrick to deliver during the 1979 World Cup . After a decent outing against Australia , where he went wicket-less , Hendrick returned astounding figures of 8-4-5-1 against Canada . The Moment Going into the final group fixture , England would have believed it had the edge , owing to the home advantage. Pakistan won a vital toss and inserted England in , and disciplined bowling meant that the home side could muster only 165 for 9 in its 60 overs , which didn ’ t seem nearly enough. It was an inspired Pakistan side that fought well , restricting a strong batting line-up brilliantly. At the break , Pakistan would have believed it had a strong opportunity to win. But Hendrick had other ideas . England ’ s strategy for victory would have depended on getting 10 Pakistan wickets , given the modest chase. In conditions that suited the faster men , England had the attack for the occasion , with Hendrick , Bob Willis , Ian Botham and Chris Old forming a four-pronged pace outfit. However , Pakistan began confidently , and the openers had put on 27 runs before Hendrick worked his magic . What happened next was a remarkable spell of swing bowling by Mike Hendrick , who bowled his quota of 12 overs for returns of 4 for 15 , as England won by 14 runs to go into the semi-finals with an all-win record . Majid Khan was the first to go , snapped up by Botham at second slip. Two balls later , Mudassar Nazar was trapped lbw by a leg-cutter as Pakistan slipped to 27 for 2. Off the first ball of Hendrick ’ s next over , Sadiq Mohammad was bowled. Botham prised out Zaheer Abbas and Javed Miandad , and when Hendricks struck again soon after , getting Haroon Rasheed to nick one to Mike Brearley at first slip , Pakistan had slipped to 34 for 6 . Asif Iqbal , batting at No.7 , tried to rebuild with a fighting half-century , and both Wasim Raja and Imran Khan stuck around to give him company. Pakistan had inched closer to the target when Hendrick stepped in again. This time , it wasn ’ t a wicket but an outstanding catch at mid-off to dismiss last man Sikander Bakht , as England clinched a thrilling 14-run win . " Mike Hendrick was always a mechanical , mean bowler. He could bowl the perfect length around the off stump and give you nothing. With the semi-attacking , semi-defensive fields , he just bowled every ball in the same spot. He bowled absolutely out of his skin for 12 overs and nobody could play him. The ball was jagging all over the place. " Geoffrey Boycott . At the time , it was the lowest successfully defended score in World Cup history . What happened next ? Henrick continued his good run of form in the semi-final against New Zealand where he picked up three wickets in England 's thrilling nine-run win . " Hendrick made the ball do ‘ disappearing acts ’ in the gloom. " Rantlee Kieza in his book Fast and Furious : A Celebration of Cricket ’ s Pace Bowlers . But England ’ s dream run was ended when they ran into the trio of Viv Richards , Collis King and Joel Garner in the final , as the West Indies triumphed by 92 runs to successfully defend the crown they won in 1975 .
