11 Days to Go 03/02/15 11 Pietersen denies Lara winning farewell in 2007 In Brian Lara ’ s final game as an international player , Kevin Pietersen stole the show , hitting 11 boundaries on the way to making exactly 100 at the Kensington Oval. Pietersen ’ s knock took England past the line in a high-scoring thriller . Greatest CWC Moment - 11 Days to Go Background England and the West Indies were facing off in the final Super Eights fixture of the 2007 World Cup. Australia , New Zealand , South Africa and Sri Lanka had already qualified for the semifinals , so although the game ’ s outcome wouldn ’ t affect the knockout stages , it was a landmark moment since Lara had announced he would retire after the World Cup and this was his last game. Incidentally , it was also Duncan Fletcher ’ s last game as coach of the England team . A packed Kensington Oval hoped for a special farewell for their Prince and although , the home side was defeated , the crowd were witness to a thrilling match. Chris Gayle started things with a quickfire 58-ball 79 , and once he fell , Lara made his entry , with the England players forming a guard of honour. Lara looked fluent in striking 18 off 17 balls , but his innings was unfortunately cut short when a mix-up with Marlon Samuels led to a run-out , with Pietersen the fielder . The West Indies batsmen all chipped in with contributions though , as the side racked up 300 all out in 49.5 overs , giving England a tough chase . CWC Greatest Moments , 11 days to go England wobbled early on losing Andrew Strauss in the third over , but Michael Vaughan and Ravi Bopara brought the chase back on track with a second-wicket stand worth 90 runs. In the 16th over , an agile bit of fielding from Dwayne Bravo accounted for Bopara , bringing Pietersen to the crease . Vaughan went on to make a crucial 79 but once he was run out – Bravo doing the job again – England lost three wickets in quick succession and Pietersen was left with the task of chasing 112 in 14 overs along with wicketkeeper Paul Nixon . “ For its riveting fluctuations , its capacity attendance , its atmosphere and its sense of occasion as the emotional farewell to international cricket of the incomparable Lara , England 's victory over West Indies at Kensington Oval was the best match... ” Tony Cozier in the Wisden Cricketers ' Almanack . As is his wont , Pietersen unleashed his strokes with characteristic flamboyance. A splendid six over mid-wicket off Jerome Taylor brought Pietersen his second World Cup ton . He fell next ball , trying to recreate the same shot , leaving for 100 off 91 balls with 10 fours and the solitary six. When he fell , England needed 32 runs in 22 balls , with three wickets standing and the chase still tense . What happened next After England lost Liam Plunkett in the same over , Nixon took it upon himself to complete the task , hitting three fours in the 48th over. He too was dismissed with the finish line in sight , falling off the second ball of the 50th over , but Stuart Broad hit the winning runs to take England over the finish line . The man who had cut short Lara ’ s stay in the field , also ensured there would be no winning farewell with the bat , starring in an exciting one-wicket win with just one ball left . “ Did I entertain you ? ” Brian Lara asked of the crowd during the post-match presentation to rapturous applause from the crowd . It was Lara 's final ever match for the West Indies and the man known as 'The Prince ' bowed out with defeat thanks to Pietersen .
