10 Days to Go 04/02/15 10 Hurricane Donald blows England away in '99 South Africa 's Allan Donald produced a superb spell of fast bowling to blow England away at The Oval in 1999. Donald 's figures of 4 for 17 in 8 overs - his best in World Cups - helped South Africa defend 225 for 7 as England was bowled out for just 103 . Greatest CWC Moment - 10 Days to Go Background The first three matches of South Africa 's campaign in the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 were its toughest in the group stage. South Africa had already picked up important wins against India and Sri Lanka in its first two matches , by four wickets , and 89 runs , respectively . England was the home team and its campaign , until then , had panned out in a similar fashion. It started off in blazing fashion , thanks to an eight-wicket win against Sri Lanka in the tournament opener at Lord 's. That was followed by a nine-wicket win over Kenya and both teams faced off , high on confidence. England had won the toss and put South Africa in. South Africa started off well , Gary Kirsten ( 45 ) and Herschelle Gibbs ( 60 ) putting on 111 for the opening wicket , before there was a stutter in the middle overs. A late surge from Lance Klusener ( 48 not out off 40 balls ) then got the total up to 225 for 7. The Moment Given that England had chased down targets of a little over 200 against both Sri Lanka and Kenya with ease , South Africa 's total didn ’ t look beyond reach. But Jacques Kallis removed both the openers , Nasser Hussain and captain Alec Stewart , early. Kallis 's strikes gave South Africa the upper hand , with England 6 for 2. A partnership of sorts seemed to be building after that , between Graeme Hick and Graham Thorpe. The duo had put on 33 for the third wicket when Allan Donald claimed his first victim , Thorpe trapped leg before for 14. " Donald trapped Thorpe in his first over , and removed Flintoff for a duck in his third. In between , the battle of Zimbabwe 's expatriates was won by Elworthy , who had Hick caught at mid-wicket. An inspired parry and grab by Rhodes at point accounted for Croft , and England just limped into three figures. " Wisden Cricketers ' Almanack report Donald then bowled with great pace to severely dent the England middle order. His regular strikes ensured that England was given no opportunity of stringing together a partnership and shut the doors on a fightback . Donald had Andrew Flintoff , Mark Ealham , and Neil Fairbrother caught for scores of 0 , 5 , and 21 , respectively. The wrecker-in-chief and finished with figures of 8-1-17-4 , which remained his best in World Cups. Donald would go on to have a good tournament overall , finishing with 16 scalps from nine games at 20.31 . What happened next When Donald had accounted for Fairbrother , his last victim , South Africa was just one wicket away from a win. It took a little over three overs for Shaun Pollock to seal a 122-run win , having Angus Fraser caught by Gary Kirsten for the final wicket. South Africa was in red-hot form in the 1999 World Cup , and though it suffered an unexpected 48-run loss to Zimbabwe in its last group stage match , it qualified for the Super Six easily. Its final Super Six match was the classic encounter against Australia that turned when Herschelle Gibbs dropped Steve Waugh – and when the two sides met again in the semi-finals , they played out the greatest ODI seen , with a heart-stopping tie. Australia went through to the final , having finished higher in the Super Six stage due to a superior net run-rate , and ended up lifting the trophy . England , on the other hand , did not make it to the Super Six and the hosts campaign ended with a whimper. It won by seven wickets against Zimbabwe before its campaign ended after a 63-run defeat to India.
