9 Days to Go 05/02/15 9 Kapil ’ s daredevilry saves India from 9 for 4 in '75 India v Zimbabwe in 1983 Kapil Dev , the Indian captain , had walked at a remarkable score of 9 for 4 , that soon became 17 for 5. Kapil then simply unleashed to crush 175 not out off just 138 balls & one of the great innings in cricket history was played . Greatest CWC Moment - 9 Days to Go Background India had started the 1983 World Cup well with wins over West Indies and Zimbabwe , before losing to Australia and then , in the return leg , to West Indies. Zimbabwe , which had beaten Australia in the first leg before losing the rest of its matches , was up next , and India had to beat the rookie side to have a chance of progressing to the final four . It was June 18 , and little Nevill Ground in Tunbridge Wells , where the key clash was held , and India opted to bat after winning the toss. So far so good , but in no time , Sunil Gavaskar , Krishnamachari Srikkanth , Mohinder Amarnath and Sandeep Patil were back in the hut and the scoreboard read 9 for 4. And that ’ s when Kapil Dev walked out to join Yashpal Sharma . The Moment 9 for 4 became 17 for 5 as Yashpal became the fifth Indian to return to the hut , and Kapil had only allrounders Roger Binny , Ravi Shastri and Madan Lal , alongwith wicketkeeper Syed Kirmani , to look to for support. Binny stuck around , scoring a 48-ball 22 , and after Shastri fell for just 1 , Madan Lal scored 17 in 39 balls . “ A remarkable match contained one of the most spectacular innings played in this form of cricket. [ … ] With Binny and Madan Lal , Kapil Dev took the score to 140 for eight and by then was in full flow. Kirmani provided sensible support in an unbroken ninth-wicket stand of 126 in sixteen overs while Kapil Dev , with six 6s and sixteen 4s in all , reached 175 , beating the previous highest for the tournament , Glenn Turner 's 170 for New Zealand against East Africa at Edgbaston in 1975. ” Wisden Cricketers ’ Almanack report Kapil had teed off already by then , and was in a zone all his own , hitting away for the entertainment of a handful of people – there was no coverage on TV because of a BBC strike. The big support came from Kirmani , who walked in at No. 10 and hung around with Kapil till the end , scoring 24 from 56 balls . But the day was only about Kapil , as he blasted 175 unbeaten runs from 138 balls , with 16 fours and six sixes , to take India to a competitive 266 for 8. It was , and remains , one of the greatest innings of all time , across formats . What happened next ? Once India had lifted itself from 17 for 5 to 266 for 8 , Zimbabwe was on the back foot. Its start wasn ’ t bad , but wickets started to fall once Madan Lal and Binny got in on the act , and it was only a 93-ball 73 from Kevin Curran , who had earlier returned 3 for 65 , that took Zimbabwe close. The innings ended in the 57th over , 31 runs short of India ’ s total . “ I would say that that day was meant to be my day. I just couldn ’ t do anything wrong. I think that was the best day of my cricket life – in fact , the best day in my life. We went on to win the tournament of course , but in that match , I pulled my team out of the dumps and set it on the winning path with that innings of 175 [ not out ] . That gave all of us the confidence that we could win from any situation ; no matter who comes our way , we could win. ” Kapil Dev to Wisden India The win took India closer to qualification for the semi-final , which it later sealed by beating Australia in the final group game , while Zimbabwe , despite promising so much , fell away. India went on to win the semi-final against England and then beat the West Indies in a historic final at Lord ’ s on June 25 , with Kapil lifting the World Cup Trophy .
