8 Days to Go 06/02/15 8 Warne works his Magic to take title in '99 Shane Warne showed just why he was a big match performer in the final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 , spinning out Pakistan with a mesmerising spell of 4 for 33 to guide a dominant eight wicket win that gave Australia its second World Cup title . Greatest CWC Moment - 8 Days to Go Background The 1999 World Cup final was a battle of two teams high on form and confidence. Pakistan had been consistent through the tournament , winning seven of its nine games in the lead-up to the final , including a nine-wicket triumph against New Zealand in the semi-final. It had also defeated Australia in the group stages . However , after that defeat , Australia hadn ’ t lost a single match , and had come through to the final having survived two epic clashes against South Africa , including a tied semi-final . The tournament was beautifully set up for a fitting finale , but Warne , who had starred with a four-wicket haul in the semi-final , lifted his game once again. Having got his side through the semi-final , he ensured Australia would lift the World Cup too . The Moment Pakistan won the toss but little else went its way after Wasim Akram opted to bat. Australia 's pacers removed the openers within the first six overs , and by the 20th over , Pakistan was precariously placed at 68 for 3. Sensing a chance to drive home the advantage , Steve Waugh , the Australian captain , called on Warne in the 22nd over. The leg-spinner made an immediate impact , picking up two wickets in his first 20 balls. He first dismissed Ijaz Ahmed , who had battled doggedly for his 22 , with an astounding delivery in his second over - the ball pitched outside leg and quickly turned past Ijaz 's attempted forward defence to hit the top of off-stump . " I wanted to make amends for the last World Cup final. In the last couple of matches , the ball was doing something. There were a couple of times I tried things and it worked for me , " Shane Warne The delivery set the tone for the remainder of Warne 's spell , and within the next two overs , he had Moin Khan caught behind while attempting a drive. Pakistan was 91 for 5 and that soon became 104 for 6 when Inzamam-ul-Haq edged Paul Reiffel to the ‘ keeper in the 31st over. A lot depended on Shahid Afridi , who had started briskly with two boundaries off Warne , but the spinner deceived him with a quicker one and trapped him in front of the stumps in the very next over. " He kept us alive with a mesmerising show against South Africa and then totally blew Pakistan apart in the final. I had the best seat in the world to watch him bowl and he was terrific , " Adam Gilchrist to ESPNcricinfo. Akram tried to counterattack and even managed to loft Warne over long on for a six , but Warne had the final say , tossing a ball up and inviting a mis-hit to mid-wicket. Warne bowled his nine overs on the trot as his ran through the heart of Pakistan 's batting line-up in the middle overs to end with his second consecutive four-for , while Pakistan was bowled out for just 132. What happened next Adam Gilchrist smashed a 36-ball 54 to ensure that there was no way back for Pakistan. Both Gilchrist and Ricky Ponting fell , but Mark Waugh and Darren Lehmann then coasted to victory in just 20.1 overs . " Warne is a big game player. He loves to perform when the pressure is on and he was a big part of our 1999 World Cup win , " Glenn McGrath to ESPNcricinfo . Warne emulated Mohinder Amarnath and Aravinda de Silva in being Man of the Match in both semi-final and final , and ended the tournament as the joint highest wicket-taker with 20 wickets from 10 matches.
