7 Days to Go 06/02/15 7 Australia finds its Garden of Eden in '87 Australia and England squared off on the biggest stage , this time in the 1987 World Cup in the final on a sunny day in Kolkata. Australia prevailed in what remains the closest World Cup final to date , winning by seven runs to clinch its first World Cup . Greatest CWC Moment - 7 Days to Go Background : The fourth edition of the ICC Cricket World Cup was the first time it was held outside England. India ’ s win at Lord ’ s in 1983 had paved the way for India and Pakistan to jointly host the next edition. The tournament was also made into the now standard 50-overs format , where it had been 60 in the preceding World Cups . Both India and Pakistan looked the strongest sides , and were expected to meet in an epic final. Both duly made the semi-finals , but could progress no further , and the final pitted another traditional cricketing rivalry against each other. Almost 90,000 spectators trooped into the Eden Gardens to witness England and Australia fight for the crown. It was a game worthy of a final in every sense as Allan Border 's Australia was crowned World Champions . The Moment Allan Border won the toss and prudently chose to bat first in a big final. Geoff Marsh and David Boon , both in good form in the tournament , gave Australia a good foundation with a 75-run stand. Boon and Dean Jones then added another 76 runs , setting the platform for a late boost . Boon top scored with 75 , his fifth 50-plus score in six innings , but his dismissal pegged Australia back as it lost three wickets in the space of 17 runs. The innings was revived by Border who chipped in with 31 , but it was Mike Veletta 's unbeaten 31-ball 45 cameo that took Australia to 253 for 5 in 50 overs . At the time , it was a more than competitive total , but England had had a pretty good run , winning four of its six group games before outplaying India in the semi-final. England ’ s chase was on track , having recovered from the early loss of Tim Robinson through partnerships between Bill Athey and Graham Gooch , followed by Athey associating with Mike Gatting , the captain , in another good stand . With England 135 for 2 , Border brought himself on to bowl , and the match turned dramatically. Gatting played an ill-advised , and what has since become infamous , reverse sweep off the first ball Border bowled , which only took an edge and was caught by Greg Dyer , the wicketkeeper. The momentum shifted dramatically . Allan Lamb ’ s brisk 45 kept England afloat , but he fell with 34 still needed and time running out. In the end , it came down to 17 runs required from the final over , but that was too much of a stretch , as Australia kept things tight to pull off a seven-run win . What happened next ? Eight members of the victorious squad – Geoff Marsh , Dean Jones , David Boon , Allan Border , Tom Moody , Craig McDermott , Steve Waugh and Bruce Reid - would establish their presence in a power-packed Australian ODI side for the 1992 ICC Cricket World Cup . " I remember landing in Mumbai and during the drive from the airport to the team hotel , Simon O'Donnell looked out the window and pointed to an advertising banner that said : 'To lose patience is to lose the battle. ' None of us forget that and we used that as a rallying charge throughout the tournament. Whenever things got tough , we told each other to remember that banner. It was our motivation throughout the World Cup. " Geoff Marsh to the Times of India . Among them , Steve Waugh , who played a pivotal role with the ball and on the field , would go on to establish a legacy as one of the best Australian captains by adding another feather in his cap in 1999 , where Australia would lift its second ICC Cricket World Cup crown. For England , a shot at another world title would come in 1992 , but it would end second best once again , undone by an inspired Pakistan side .
