6 Days to Go 07/02/15 6 Karim lives the dream in 2003 After being persuaded to come out of retirement at the age of 39 , Aasif Karim bowled the spell of the tournament. He found enough turn and bounce to trouble the unbeatable Australians , bowling six maidens and taking three wickets in an 8.2-over spell . Greatest CWC Moment - 6 Days to Go Background Karim had retired after the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 , and he had not played a game since his retirement. But his wealth of experience had prompted calls for a return a month before the 2003 event. In the tournament , he reserved his best against the side that eventually triumphed without losing a single game . In a match that had Brett Lee picking up a hat-trick , Adam Gilchrist smashing 67 off 43 , and Australia winning with 18.4 overs to spare , it was the unassuming Karim who shone brightest and was the deserved winner of the Man of the Match award . The Moment Kenya finished second on the Group B table after picking up victories against Canada , Sri Lanka , Bangladesh , while garnering two points after New Zealand conceded a walkover , to advance to the Super Sixes stage. Kenya subsequently lost its first Super Six match to India , but won against Zimbabwe convincingly. It was up against Australia , the defending world champion , next . Brett Lee gave his side a dream start , reducing Kenya to 3 for 3 in the fourth over , accounting for Kennedy Otieno , Brijal Patel and David Obuya to pick up his first ODI hat-trick. Thereafter , captain Steve Tikolo and Ravindu Shah came together in a rebuilding stand that put Kenya on slightly firmer footing , and it eventually ended on 174 for 8 . Australia began aggressively , with Gilchrist smashing a quickfire half-century , and the side was flying along to be 109 for 2 in 15 overs , which is when Karim was introduced . He had Ricky Ponting leg before with an arm ball in his first over , and in his next he got both Darren Lehmann and Brad Hogg and suddenly Australia found itself 117 for 5. The first run Karim conceded was off the first ball of his third over , a single to Andrew Symonds. Ian Harvey took another single off the first ball of Karim ’ s fourth over , but the wily veteran followed that with three consecutive maidens . " I think any cricketer would dream of my performance against Australia. It came from nowhere. That is something that I treasure every day , including today. Whenever it comes up there is a smile. " Karim to ESPN Cricinfo . The runs had dried up from Karim ’ s end , but the batsmen were picking off the other bowlers. However , what had begun as a charge to victory slowed down considerably , with Karim playing the one-man resistance piece . He had figures of 8-6-2-3 , but Australia finally found a way to get more than a single off his bowling , with Symonds taking a single to tie the scores and Harvey smashing a boundary off the next ball to seal the win. Australia had been victorious all right , but thanks to Karim , it had to fight hard for every inch after he came on . " It was the top of the tops. Having club-cricket bowling figures against the world champions , and then getting the Man-of-the-Match award despite Brett Lee getting a hat-trick. " Karim to ESPN Cricinfo Umpire Steve Bucknor went as far as shaking Karim ’ s hand at the end of the eighth over , while the bowler accepted a standing ovation from the crowd . What happened next A spirited Kenya ’ s fairytale came to an end in the semi-final of the tournament , with India riding on big scores by Sachin Tendulkar and Sourav Ganguly to coast to a 91-run win . “ Another Kenyan match , another fantasy. This was the night they imagined they might beat the world 's most powerful cricketing nation thanks to the exploits of a middle-aged spinner who had retired after the last World Cup but now made a Brett Lee hat-trick seem insignificant. ” Wisden Cricketers Almanack . However , Kenya had shown its cricketing chops by advancing to the final four , when many had thought it wouldn ’ t even make it to the Super Sixes .
