5 Days to Go 09/02/15 5 Bangladesh ’ s giant slaying 2007 feat Bangladesh stunned India by five wickets in the group stages in 2007. The bowlers first restricted India 's formidable batsmen to a mere 191 all out in 49.3 overs , before three of the batsmen hit half-centuries to overhaul the target in 48.3 overs . Greatest CWC Moment - 5 Days to Go Background Bangladesh had secured two wins in its warm-up matches , beating Scotland and also overcoming New Zealand , and was quietly confident. India had gone one better in the warm-ups , with comprehensive wins over the Netherlands and the West Indies in which both batsmen and bowlers came good . India had amongst the most pedigreed batting line-ups in the competition , and was thought of as a potential semi-finalist at least. In what was the first game of the 2007 World Cup for both teams , Rahul Dravid won the toss and chose to bat first . The Moment It would soon become apparent that the toss was the only thing that would go in India ’ s favour. Pacer Mashrafe Mortaza led the way , dismissing Virender Sehwag ( 2 ) and Robin Uthappa ( 9 ) inside the first seven overs. Both Sourav Ganguly and Sachin Tendulkar were stifled , adding only 19 runs in 8.2 overs , and from then India was on the back foot . The spin duo of Abdur Razzak and Mohammad Rafique then broke open the middle order , accounting for Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid , Yuvraj Singh , Ganguly and MS Dhoni between them. All the while , run-scoring had been choked , so even as wickets fell , India ’ s position continued to weaken . A final-wicket stand of 32 between Munaf Patel and Zaheer Khan pushed the total to 191 , before Mortaza ended things with his fourth wicket . Mortaza took 4 for 38 , Razzak finished with 3 for 38 and Rafique claimed 3 for 35. Just like the bowlers had done , a troika of batsmen then ensured the second half of the game would also go Bangladesh ’ s way . " It was a good toss to lose. When I saw the wicket , it looked a good batting track but our new bowlers did very well. Then our spinners did a fantastic job. There was n't a lot of turn but they put the ball in the right place. " Habibul Bashar , the Bangladesh captain . Tamim Iqbal only 17 years and five ODIs old at the time , gave his side a blistering start with a robust 53-ball 51 that included two sixes and seven fours. Shakib Al Hasan , also a young up-and-coming allrounder of 19 , made a composed 53 off 86 while Mushfiqur Rahim , also a teenager then , clocking in at 18-years-old , stayed till the end with 56 not out off 107 balls . Mushfiqur and Shakib came together with the score a tricky 79 for 3 in 16 overs , but both batted with a maturity that belied their years. An 84-run stand followed which brought Bangladesh to the doorstep of victory , before Mushfiqur sealed it in the penultimate over. All three teenagers were on World Cup debut , making the performance even more noteworthy . " Yes ! Hands in the air ! It 's gone through. What an innings. What a day for Bangladeshi cricket. Is it their biggest moment yet ? Only time will tell. But it is certainly a wonderful way to start their World Cup campaign. " Ian Bishop commentating on air during the match . What happened next ? Defeat for India eventually heralded its exit from the first round , an ignominy it hadn ’ t suffered since 1979. Bangladesh , with wins against India and Bermuda , qualified for the Super Eights and went on to beat another Test playing nation , winning against South Africa although they did lose to Ireland in a match that was slated to be India v Pakistan . Although it couldn ’ t progress beyond that stage , Bangladesh had won the hearts of all cricket fans with its incredible and unexpected performance in the group stages .
