4 Days to Go 10/02/15 4 Malinga ’ s magic nearly does the impossible In a heart-stopping Super Eight clash in 2007 , Lasith Malinga ’ s brilliance almost snatched victory from the jaws of defeat for Sri Lanka. South Africa needed four runs to win with five wickets intact but Malinga picked up four wickets in as many balls . Greatest CWC Moment - 4 Days to Go Background : After securing comprehensive wins over Bermuda and Bangladesh , Sri Lanka outplayed India to get into the Super Eights undefeated. South Africa too , started its campaign on a high , with emphatic wins over the Netherlands and Scotland , but succumbed to an 83-run loss against Australia . In South Africa ’ s first Super Eights match , at Providence in Guyana , Charl Langeveldt took 5 for 39 to restrict Sri Lanka to a modest 209 after half-centuries from Tillakaratne Dilshan and Russell Arnold. South Africa started steadily despite losing AB de Villiers early. Jacques Kallis , who scored 86 off 110 balls , put on 94 with Graeme Smith , 65 with Herschelle Gibbs , and was still at the crease when South Africa was cruising along at 206 for 5 , with more than five overs remaining . The Moment After attempting four yorkers , Malinga ’ s slow and straight delivery sent Shaun Pollock 's legstump flying in the air in the penultimate ball of the 45th over. Off the next ball , Andrew Hall dug out a yorker , straight into the hands of Upul Tharanga in the covers . Only one run came off the 46th over , but Kallis was still in , and there was no real reason for South Africa to panic. The first ball of Malinga ’ s next over – the 47th of the innings – produced the hat-trick , the fifth in World Cups , as Kallis edged an intended square drive to the wicketkeeper. " What was great about Malinga 's performance was - there is no doubt in his talent - that in an age where technical analysis of the game is so important , he has come along with pace and an unusual action. " Daryll Cullinan to ESPNcricinfo . Makhaya Ntini could n't put any wood behind a yorker that zoomed past him to make it an incredible four wickets in four balls for Malinga. It was the first time in international cricket that a player had taken four wickets in four deliveries , and all of a sudden the impossible seemed possible . What happened next : Langeveldt negotiated nine nervy deliveries before Robin Peterson , who survived another beauty from Malinga that missed his offstump by a whisker , edged the winning runs off Chaminda Vaas to bring relief to the South African camp. Thanks to Malinga , what seemed to be a one-sided affair turned into a thriller that nobody will forget in a hurry . " I am feeling bad that we lost the game but I am happy that I took a hat-trick. The old ball was going to reverse and I got the wickets. I tried to get five in a row but unfortunately did n't get it. ” Lasith Malinga after the match . South Africa was up and down in its next five Super Eight matches , beating Ireland , the West Indies and England , but losing to Bangladesh and New Zealand , but it still made the semi-final. But up against an Australian side at the zenith of its game , it couldn ’ t go beyond the semi-final . Sri Lanka won four of its five Super Eight matches and beat New Zealand in its semi-final to march into the final , but an Adam Gilchrist special in the title clash ensured Australia was triumphant for the third successive time in the World Cup.
