2 Days to Go 12/02/15 2 Kirsten goes past Sir Viv to sit on top of the World Cup heap in '96 In only the second match of the ICC Cricket World Cup 1996 , South Africa 's Gary Kirsten carved 188 off 159 balls against United Arab Emirates - which remains the highest individual score in a World Cup to this day . Greatest CWC Moment - 2 Days to Go Background In the year building up to the 1996 Cricket World Cup , Kirsten scored 392 runs in 11 One-Day Internationals. Everything about Kirsten – be it his batting style or his temperament – suggested to observers that he was a batsman more suited for the longer format. But here he was , making his World Cup debut . South Africa , who had bowed out in the semi-final in the previous edition of the World Cup , was expected to defeat UAE , who was playing in its first Cricket World Cup. But a match that was expected to have a straightforward result turned out to be not so low-key after all . The Moment UAE won the toss and put South Africa in to bat in Rawalpindi , hoping the pitch would offer something for the bowlers. It was n't long before captain Sultan Zarawani began to regret that decision . Kirsten opened the batting with Andrew Hudson , and the duo put on a 60-run stand before Hudson fell for 27. Kirsten then forged a partnership with captain Hansie Cronje. Yet it was Kirsten who was leading the way , creaming six fours and one six to bring up a century – the first South Africa player to do so in a World Cup game. It was Kirsten 's third ODI hundred , and it came off just 105 balls . Kirsten had effortlessly switched gears , and was motoring along , making batting look simply effortless. His batting partners scored briskly , but all their efforts paled in comparison to the Kirsten show. Cronje made 57 , but his effort only included one four and one six. After 49 overs , Kirsten was batting on 179 and needed 11 runs to surpass Viv Richards ' 189 not out and claim the record of the highest individual score in ODIs at the time. Richards ’ World Cup record of 181 was within easier reach , and with the crowd cheering him on , Kirsten crossed that landmark soon enough. The equation for the world record came down to four needed off the last ball. But despite a fumble on the field , the batsmen could only run two , as Kirsten finished unbeaten on 188 , smacking 13 fours and four sixes. He hadn ’ t got the world record , but he had created a new World Cup record , with Richards ’ mark against Sri Lanka in Karachi in 1987 surpassed. Kirsten ’ s effort powered South Africa to 321 for 2 – a total that was almost impossible to chase in 1996 . What happened next The target proved to be well beyond UAE 's reach as Allan Donald and Brian McMillan grabbed three wickets apiece , restricting the side to 152 for 8. South Africa won the game by a handsome 169-run margin to start its World Cup campaign with a bang. It continued to progress unimpeded through the group stages , before running into a red-hot Brian Lara in the quarter-finals . Kirsten finished the tournament as the fourth-highest run-getter with 391 runs , despite South Africa not progressing beyond the quarter-final. He never did manage to win a World Cup with South Africa. However , there was some consolation for him in 2011 when he got his hands on cricket 's most coveted trophy as coach of India . Quotes " Once I got past 100 , it was just a free-for-all. I just thought 'enjoy it and play aggressively as you can ' - which is unusual for me , being regarded as an accumulator of runs. But I had some fun , played nice and aggressively , and things just kept working out. " - Gary Kirsten to a television channel . Share this article
