1 Day to Go 13/02/15 1 The unbelievable climax in 1999 It had all come down to South Africa needing one run to win with nine wickets down & three balls left in the match. Lance Klusener , in blistering form through the tournament , was on strike , the rest is history as Australia squeezed through to the final . Greatest CWC Moment - 1 Day to Go Background Australia had to win five consecutive matches to reach the semi-final , but South Africa won six of its eight matches comfortably to book its berth. One of Australia ’ s wins was over South Africa , a thrilling affair on the last day of the Super Sixes stage , and a result that ensured both teams faced off again four days later. Those who had watched Steve Waugh ’ s century and Australia ’ s come-from-behind triumph , were hoping for a repeat of a classic encounter. Instead they got an epic . Australia and South Africa have played out many classic matches over the years , but none have come close to the incredible semi-final between the two sides in the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999. There was , in actual fact , nothing to separate the two teams , with the match ending in a dead-heat tie. ? The match began with the incisive combination of Shaun Pollock and Allan Donald blowing away Australia ’ s top order , only for a Steve Waugh-Michael Bevan rescue act to push Australia to 213 all out in the final over. Pollock and Donald had accounted for nine of the wickets , and South Africa began its chase comfortably . “ We ran around like prison escapees , not knowing who to grab , totally overcome with excitement … The only thing I was sure of was that we ’ d escaped , and then I heard Bevo yelling , ‘ We ’ re in ! We ’ re in ! ’ ” Steve Waugh , in his autobiography , describing the immediate aftermath of the match . That was when Shane Warne stamped his class on the proceedings , grabbing three wickets in eight balls as the chase was derailed. Jacques Kallis fought gamely on , before becoming Warne ’ s final victim , and when Klusener took guard , South Africa needed 39 runs off 31 balls . The Moment Klusener ’ s average in the tournament was 125 , and he had been dismissed just twice. Given his sparkling form , he was expected to finish the job for South Africa , and he went about his task in an unfazed manner , even as wickets kept falling. When the final over began , South Africa needed nine runs and were down to the last-pair of Klusener and Donald. ? Damien Fleming fired two deliveries on the offside , and both duly dispatched to the cover fence . One needed off four balls and Klusener pulled a short ball to Lehmann at mid-on , whose under-arm throw missed the stumps at the non-striker ’ s end even though an uncertain Donald was short of his crease . One needed off three balls and Klusener hit Fleming down the ground and set off for the victory run. Mark Waugh , alert enough to the situation , covered good ground to his left from mid-off , collected the ball on the bounce and threw it to Fleming , who quickly rolled it over to Gilchrist at the other end . Donald , after the near run-out off the previous ball , was late to react. He dropped his bat , and was short of his crease in the confusion that ensued. Klusener was not out on 31 off 16 balls , the game was tied , but it was the Australians who took off on celebratory runs while South Africa – even though it hadn ’ t lost the match – had to watch its campaign come to a shuddering halt . What happened next ? Bob Woolmer ’ s rein as South Africa ’ s coach , during which it won more than 70 percent of matches , ended . “ From a personal point of view , I obviously hit the ball really well , but I suppose I would rather have not done that and won the trophy. ” Lance Klusener to Wisden India . Australia beat Pakistan in the 1999 World Cup final and went on to extend its domination in world cricket for more than a decade. Australia successfully defended the title in 2003 and 2007 World Cups , and did not lose a single game in the tournament till Pakistan broke the winning streak in the 2011 World Cup . “ It ’ s one of the biggest mishaps in the game , and I must say I learned a lot as a person from that. ” Allan Donald to Wisden India .
