100 Days to Go 06/11/14 100 Shoaib Akhtar , the 100mph thunderbolt He had done it unofficially in New Zealand the year before , but when Shoaib Akhtar hurled one at 100.23mph at England ’ s Nick Knight during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2003 , it was as official as it could get and the legend of 'Da Fastest Bowler ' was born ! GREATEST CWC MOMENT - 100 DAYS TO GO Background The 2003 ICC Cricket World Cup , among other things , was also a fight between Shoaib Akhtar and Brett Lee for the title of World ’ s Fastest Bowler. Lee , had said that he would rather pick up wickets than try to hit 100mph , and to many , Akhtar put it beyond doubt anyway when he delivered a 100.04 thunderbolt while on tour in New Zealand. But that wasn ’ t accepted as official , as one of the guns in use had broken down. As far as Akhtar was concerned , he wanted to do it on the biggest stage , and put the matter beyond doubt – once and for all . The Moment Shoaib Akhtar began his second over like many other of his opening spells in World Cups , bowling at raw pace. However , in the Pool A match against England on February 22 , 2003 in Cape Town , something very special was about to happen. Akhtar , who always bowls at express pace , was really ticking and as the over progressed it seemed as though every ball got faster. His second ball was clocked at 98.4mph , his fifth at 99.1mph and with this express pace was also great control as England 's Nick Knight played out five dot balls . And so came the last ball of Shoaib Akhtar ’ s over , the fourth of the England innings. Knight was still on strike when Akhtar delivered another brutishly quick delivery , the left-hander was clearly hurried for pace but managed to drop it into the leg side for no run , the end of the over came a maiden for Akhtar and it appeared as though that was simply that . “ It ’ s a sharp intake of breath from me ! And I ’ m not stood 22 yards away from him ! ” David ‘ Bumble ’ Lloyd on commentary after the record is broken But as Knight walked towards Marcus Trescothick , his partner , a cheer rose from the crowd – on the giant screen flashed 161.3 k/ph or over 100.2 miles per hour and history was made . There wasn ’ t a huge response from the players – Knight turned around to check what the cheer was about , and Akhtar went off towards the boundary , having finished his over. Then as he saw the big-screen and the World Cup Record was broken and cheers rang around the ground , Shoaib Akhtar celebrated like he had taken a wicket and flashed a victory sign in the general direction of the dressing room as he walked . Was it to signal his achievement or to indicate that it was the second time he had done it ? Either way he knew that he had won the war of who was the fastest and his legend in Cricket World Cup history was assured . I wanted to do it and I said that before the match to the coach and the manager I wanted to do it in the second over. When I get my arm back there I gain more power. It 's a different action and then I just bowl quicker in the air. When I 'd done 158kph then I said , this is the time , I just cross the barrier and finish it for the rest of my life . Shoaib Akhtar on the 100mph record What happened next That Akhtar delivery became nothing more than a footnote as England put up 246 and bowled Pakistan out for 134 to win what was a crucial group match in the tournament. Knight scored 15 before Waqar Younis had his number and Akhtar returned figures of 1 for 63 from nine overs , his only wicket that of Michael Vaughan . Interestingly , neither team went on to make the Super Six stage and Lee , though he ended up slower than Akhtar , got his hands on the World Cup trophy when Australia beat India by 125 runs in the final on March 23 in Johannesburg .
