98 Days to Go 08/11/14 98 Sachin 's World Cup Best World Cup match-ups don ’ t come any bigger than India v Pakistan and with over a Billion people watching in 2003 Sachin Tendulkar played a truly brilliant World Cup innings at Centurion ; one that he himself would rank as one of his very best . Greatest CWC Moment 98 Days to Go Background Both India and Pakistan needed to win this Pool A match. Victory for India would ensure a smooth passage into the Super Six phase , while defeat for Pakistan would mean it would be out of the running. The match-up between the traditional rivals was towards the back end of the league stage , and it was expected to be crucial even before the tournament began. Tendulkar later confessed that the match had been building in his mind for over a year , and when the occasion arrived , he was ready to let the pent up energy and emotions loose . The Moment The scene was set in Shoaib Akhtar ’ s opening over , the second of India ’ s chase , Akhtar was fresh from bowling the fastest delivery in World Cup history earlier in the tournament against England and it was a fearsome Pakistan attack featuring Wasim Akram , Waqar Younis and Akhtar that Tendulkar had to face. He hit the fourth ball of the over for a six over point – a stroke that was audacious in its conception and execution. The ball might have been called a wide , but Tendulkar slashed it over the ropes. The next two balls were cut and driven for fours , with 18 runs coming off that over all with the most glorious and impeccable timing . It was only one over , and Pakistan had racked up a substantial 273 for 7 , driven by a Saeed Anwar century , but that one over signalled a definitive momentum shift . Today ’ s Greatest World Cup Moment is a special from @ sachin_rt ! WATCH http : //t.co/s4lI1e5l1d & vote with # ST98 pic.twitter.com/xism6fOZfZ — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 8 , 2014 Tendulkar had come out with intent , and though he lost Virender Sehwag early and Sourav Ganguly fell first ball , India ’ s Little Master was in the zone , with nothing seemingly affecting his concentration. Every run came with precision and grace , it was an innings of outstanding beauty as he caressed the ball around the ground ; the only impediment he faced was from leg cramps towards the end of his innings . There was already a carnival atmosphere at Centurion , with Indian and Pakistani fans filling the stadium to the brim , and Tendulkar treated those who had come to one of the greatest innings in World Cup history . “ I have never seen such a concisely expressed cricket stroke. He simply met the ball and the entire execution began there and finished there. And by now the crowd , the most vividly alive of the tournament , had gone quite wild. Visually it was like a cinematic special effect : everything moved in a blur - flags , roars , horns , waves , the ball , Shoaib - and amid it Sachin and his pure stroke appeared magically frozen. ” Rahul Bhattacharya , noted cricket writer and award-winning novelist . Akhtar , who had been taken off the attack after that first over , eventually returned and dismissed Tendulkar with a well-directed short ball , but by then the Indian had blasted 98 off 75 balls and changed the game for India with an innings to match the occasion of the world 's biggest stage . What happened next Tendulkar was dismissed in the 28th over , with India 177 for 4. The side needed only 97 more to win in 22.2 overs , and the composed duo of Rahul Dravid and Yuvraj Singh ensured there would be no roadblocks while completing a six-wicket win in just 45.4 overs . Victory also meant that India maintained its unbeaten record against Pakistan in ICC Cricket World Cups , a record which stands to this day. Tendulkar was awarded the man of the match award for his game changing innings and India went on to finish as runners-up to Australia . 'The game against Pakistan was the biggest of my life. The buzz over this match had started in 2002....I remember a few innings and important among them is the innings against Pakistan in the 2003 World Cup.' Sachin Tendulkar , quoted in 2009
