96 Days to Go 10/11/14 96 Mark Waugh goes Back-to-Back in '96 Mark Waugh ’ s elegant strokeplay was the feature of his batting and his prowess was on show at the 1996 Cricket World Cup , where he racked up runs and became the first man in World Cup history to hit back-to-back centuries . Greatest CWC Moment - 96 Days to Go Background Australia and the West Indies refused to send their teams to Colombo for their group stage matches against Sri Lanka , citing security concerns due to the Central Bank bombing a month before the start of the World Cup. That meant both sides forfeited two points each for not taking part in the match . Australia knew it needed to make up for the two lost points with stellar performances in the remaining games , and with Mark Waugh opening at the top of the innings for Australia his performances were going to be crucial . The Moment Australia opened its campaign against Kenya , whose frontline bowlers made early inroads accounting for the wickets of Mark Taylor and Ricky Ponting inside the first eight overs. As Richie Benaud said on commentary 'Now there 's a problem for Australia ' as the score fell to 26 for 2. But the Waugh twins was just the men for a crisis and the runs started to flow as the brothers added 207 runs in 32 overs - which was the first double-century partnership in World Cup history . Mark went on to notch his first century of the tournament and ended with a graceful 130 from 128 balls , at the time it was the highest score for Australia in a Cricket World Cup and drove Australia to a 97 run win . Australia ’ s following game against India was the first ever floodlit international in Mumbai , the match attracted a huge crowd with a very lively atmosphere and it was Australia who batted first having won the toss . 96 Days to # cwc15 sees Mark Waugh # MakingHisMark at the ‘ 96 CWC. Vote now at http : //t.co/KXAwT4lGOD pic.twitter.com/VpYqKoeDfq — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 10 , 2014 Mark Waugh and Mark Taylor batted beautifully and it was Waugh who played second fiddle to his captain at first , as they put 103 in quick time with before captain Taylor was dismissed for 59 . India 's spinners curbed the Australian batsmen , but they couldn ’ t get past Waugh who held the innings together despite running his brother out with a firmly hit straight drive that was deflected onto the stumps by Raju. Waugh then dominated a partnership of 75 with Stuart Law and in the process became the first man to score back-to-back World Cup centuries. He went on to get more and ended with 126 off 135 balls , including three sixes and eight fours. To almost advertise the greatness of the innings , Australia then went on to lose its last seven wickets for 26 runs , and leave Australia with a total of 258 All Out . He wasn ’ t done yet though , and it was his off-breaks that set the seal on victory in a tight game , cleverly outfoxing a rampaging Sachin Tendulkar who was in the process of taking the game away from Australia. Waugh had spotted Tendulkar stepping down the track early , and bowled it wide for Ian Healy to complete a great stumping. Tendulkar was out for 90 and Australia won by 16 runs and silenced the Wankhede Stadium. Waugh had his second Man of the Match in two games and a very special Cricket World Cup record . What happened next Australia followed the win against India with an eight-wicket win against Zimbabwe , but lost against the West Indies in its final group stage game. In the quarterfinal , however , Waugh showcased his brilliance once again , hitting his third hundred of the tournament – equalling the record for the most tons in one event – to help Australia win a tight match against New Zealand . Australia marched through to the semi-finals where they won a thriller in the semifinal against the West Indies by five runs , but they came up against inspired underdogs in Sri Lanka , who shocked the world and took their first World Cup title. Waugh finished the tournament with a total of 484 runs and was the only man to score three centuries in the tournament ; his number of runs were second to only Sachin Tendulkar in the tournament . Share this article
