95 Days to Go 11/11/14 95 AB de Villiers announces his arrival on World Stage AB de Villiers battled poor form and a hamstring injury to score 146 to take South Africa to a massive total of 356 and a crucial Super 8 's win. He was at the crease for all but 95 of South Africa ’ s runs as his maiden ODI century came in magnificent style . Greatest CWC Moment - 95 Days to Go Background South Africa made a good start to the Super Eight stage by defeating Sri Lanka and Ireland , but a shock defeat at the hands of Bangladesh in its next match threatened to derail its tournament. South Africa needed a win and was up against the host , who had lost all of its three matches in the Super Eights and was motivated to do well. De Villiers , however , ensured that there were no further hiccups for South Africa with a stunning knock , giving an early glimpse of what he would go on to achieve in international cricket . The Moment The World Cup 2007 was a bit of an up-and-down tournament for de Villiers. He had smashed a 70-ball 92 against Australia in the Group stages , but lost all momentum going into the Super Eights , where he had scores of 0 , 0 and 15 from three matches. In an almost make-or-break scenario for South Africa after its shock 67-run defeat against Bangladesh and they needed to beat the hosts to keep up their semi-final hopes . South Africa lost the toss and lost captain Graeme Smith for just seven runs in the seventh over. However , the West Indies was given no further reasons to celebrate as de Villiers , in the company of Jacques Kallis , thrashed the home side ’ s attack all over the park for the next three hours. De Villiers initially took his time to settle down but unleashed some relentless hitting later on , as the duo shared a 170-run stand at run-a-ball . De Villiers reached his century after Kallis fell for 81 and shifted to top-gear after that , his last 46 runs coming off just 16 deliveries. He finally fell for 146 -- a knock which had 12 fours and five sixes -- with the score on 261 for 3 in the 44th over , playing a major part in South Africa getting to 356. Just as he would go on to do in his career in the future , AB De Villiers upped his game when it mattered , and produced a masterclass while opening the batting on the biggest stage. " I was actually trying to get out , but that did n't work , so I had to play through the cramps ! I stayed there for much longer than I thought I would , but when I got to a hundred I knew I had to go for it and play my shots " AB de Villiers , after the match . It was hard to imagine that the knock was de Villiers ' maiden century in One-Day International cricket , but it proved to be the start of a glorious career. It remains his highest score in the format , and what made the effort even more extraordinary was that he was battling a hamstring injury , cramps and dehydration – apart from the West Indies bowlers. What happened next The 357-run target proved too high for the West Indies despite Ramnaresh Sarwan 's fighting 75-ball 92. South Africa received another scare as it lost its next match to New Zealand , but recovered in the last Super Eight match against England with a thumping nine-wicket win which sealed its spot in the last four. The Semi-Finals would prove to be South Africa 's nemesis again though , it was a re-match of the famous and unforgettable ICC Cricket World Cup 1999. South Africa met Australia , but once again , failed to cross the semi-final hurdle. While the match in 1999 was a nail-biting thriller , the 2007 semi-final turned out to be a one-sided affair as Australia thrashed South Africa on its way to the final . Still , South Africa produced many memorable moments in the 2007 World Cup , with de Villiers ' knock topping the list . " No sooner had he jumped up and punched the air than his right leg locked up on him. From then on , he moved with all the fluidity of the Tin Man. The extraordinary thing was that he proceeded to spank another 46 runs from just 16 balls " The Telegraph , April 11 , 2007 .
