94 Days to Go 12/11/14 94 Lightning Lara leaves South Africa reeling Unbeaten South Africa were huge favorites to beat struggling West Indies in the 1996 World Cup but Brian Lara had other ideas , he unleashed his full brilliance caressing a glorious 111 off just 94 balls to drive West Indies into the semi-finals . Greatest CWC Moment - 94 Days to Go Background The West Indies had picked up just one win from their first four games in Group A of the 1996 Cricket World Cup and the two-time champions were facing a first round exit for the first time . They had been humbled in a shock loss to Kenya where they were bowled out for just 93 and were faced with a must win game against Australia to stay in the tournament. Captain Richie Richardson ’ s innings of 93 not out cancelled out Ponting ’ s century and with 60 from Brian Lara the West Indies stayed alive with a 4 wicket win in Jaipur . It meant West Indies had scraped through to the quarterfinal as the fourth and last team in Group A , and consequently would have to face South Africa , the Group B topper that seemed in the zone and were unbeaten with 5 wins from 5 in Group B The Moment But in the knockouts , Lara brought the full range of his brilliance to the fore. South Africa had decided to leave out Allan Donald for this match to bring in the extra spinner in Paul Adams , in hindsight it proved to be an ill-advised move . West Indies won the toss and decided to bat first , Lara batting at 3 came to the wicket with the score at 42 for 1 and instantly set about showing off his full repertoire of expansive strokes all around the wicket. As Lara found his range , South Africa didn ’ t have the explosive power of Donald to try and dismiss the left-hander , and Lara feasted on the other bowlers . " Lara ’ s in such good nick , you can ’ t stop the flow of runs. " Geoffrey Boycott , on air on commentary . He looked particularly strong against the spinners , Pat Symcox and Paul Adams , who were hit to all parts of Karachi ; Lara with Shivnarine Chanderpaul put on a partnership of 138 for the 2nd wicket , a West Indies World Cup record. At one point Lara took Symcox for 22 runs from an over of his spin including five boundaries as his innings accelerated rapidly . Lara went on to raise his century in just 83 balls , and the feature of the innings was how in control Lara seemed. He hit only 16 boundaries , but manipulated the ball so effortlessly and well that he was never tied down by the bowlers for any length of time and ended up scoring at well over a run-a-ball . It was Lara ’ s first World Cup century and what a time to produce it , it drove the West Indies total of 264 for 8 and it proved too much for South Africa , whose effort ended at 245 all out in 49.3 overs . " He badly wanted to do well today after all the pressure he 's been under and I felt very tense for him ; " But when he hit his first four , I knew he was definitely going to score his 100. " West Indies Captain Richie Richardson What happened next The stirring win put the West Indies in the semifinal , where it was up against Australia again. Curtly Ambrose and Ian Bishop ensured Australia was kept to just 207 for 8 and West Indies was cruising towards victory with the top order coming good. Shivnarine Chanderpaul ’ s 80 at the top was complemented by Lara ’ s run-a-ball 45 , but a spectacular collapse from 165 for 2 left Richardson stranded on 49 not out and West Indies short by 5 runs . It would be Richardson ’ s last match for his country and Lara would never go further in a Cricket World Cup than that solitary semi-final appearance in 1996 . . @ BrianLara ’ s first World Cup century was a thing of beauty , WATCH at http : //t.co/DqO0TKqyMT & vote # LegendaryLara pic.twitter.com/IEieoDRIt1
