93 Days to Go 13/11/14 93 Sidhu Stars in Pakistan Showdown It was arguably the biggest showdown of the 1996 World Cup. India v Pakistan in Bangalore , quarter final of the World Cup. And it was Navjot Singh Sidhu who took centre-stage as he hit an invaluable 93 , in an innings full of grit and determination . Greatest CWC Moment - 93 Days to Go Background India had a turbulent ride into the quarterfinal at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium and needed a tense win over Zimbabwe in their final Group A game to qualify for the knock-out stages. India had the form batsman in the tournament in Sachin Tendulkar , who had scored an unbelievable 427 runs in the five group games and was in the form of his life . Pakistan had had a more successful group stages winning four of their five matches , and losing only to South Africa , their opener Saeed Anwar was in magnificent touch and Pakistan began the match with a disadvantage , as Wasim Akram was ruled out on the morning of the match due to an injury . CWC Greatest Moment , 93 Days to Go The high voltage atmosphere of an India-Pakistan clash can either spur cricketers on , or make them nervous. For Navjot Singh Sidhu , it served as motivation as he revelled in the pressure of a must-win encounter. India won the toss and chose to bat first. Sidhu and Tendulkar opened up for India and got the home side off to a good start with a partnership of 90 . Tendulkar was unusually subdued in the opening stand , but Sidhu ensured India didn ’ t lack momentum and played the role of the aggressor as India made the most of the early exchanges. He then made hay when the slow bowlers came on , using his feet to good effect and held the innings together after the losses of Tendulkar and Manjrekar . It was his aggression that proved to be his downfall though , as just one ball after hitting Mushtaq Ahmed for glorious four over extra cover Sidhu tried to force a quicker delivery across the line and was bowled for 93. His innings came off 115 balls and included 11 fours . " I can never forget the tension. The whole of India wanted us to win. You ca n't get away from this pressure of winning against Pakistan at all costs. We played like a team and won. It was one of the finest moments of my life. My wife told me that no less than 5,000 people celebrated outside my house in Patiala after the victory. " Navjot Singh Sidhu . The platform had been set by Sidhu and India was provided an incredible finishing kick courtesy of Ajay Jadeja , who smashed 45 off 25 balls , taking on Waqar Younis including smashing 22 runs off just one over as India ended with an imposing 287 for 8 . 93 days to go until CWC 15 - the number of runs # SixerSidhu hit v Pakistan in the 1996 QF : http : //t.co/DATg8qcQPk pic.twitter.com/ievZYAUzHE — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 13 , 2014 What happened next The Pakistan openers began in explosive fashion , threatening to chase down the target easily , but Saeed Anwar fell with 84 on the board in 10 overs , and Aamir Sohail followed soon after completing his fifty. Sohail was involved in a war of words with Venkatesh Prasad , the local boy , but lost his wicket to the bowler to a rash shot , turning the tide back in India ’ s favour . The mounting required rate meant Pakistan kept losing wickets , eventually ending at 248 for 9. It was the last the cricket world would see of the legendary Javed Miandad , who had played in all six ICC Cricket World Cups from 1975 up to 1996 . For the Indian fans , it was time to celebrate a stirring win , with Sidhu and Jadeja the batting heroes and Prasad the bowling star. The Man of the Match , Navjot Singh Sidhu . However , India couldn ’ t sustain the momentum of its win , and lost against Sri Lanka in the semifinal at Eden Gardens in Kolkata . Share this article
