92 Days to Go 14/11/14 92 Cricket in Colour - The 1992 World Cup The 1992 World Cup was the first event to have matches played under floodlights , white balls and coloured jerseys with their names on the back. Only two players were allowed to field outside the ring in the first 15 overs and 'Crictainment ' was born . Greatest CWC Moment - 92 Days to Go Background Middlesex and Arsenal had played a benefit cricket match under lights at the Highbury Stadium in North London in August 1952 , and Kerry Packer had popularised the idea with World Series Cricket in the 1970s , but the ICC gave the concept a big push when Australia and New Zealand co-hosted the most spectacular World Cup till then in 1992. For the first time , nine teams – eight Test nations and Zimbabwe – participated in the 33-day tournament and played against each other once before Pakistan , England , New Zealand and South Africa qualified for the semi-finals . The Moment A new format , 39 matches – the most in the competition ’ s history at that point , coloured jerseys , white ball ( one from each end ) , field restriction rules and floodlight games had created a festive atmosphere before the start of the tournament , and New Zealand skipper Martin Crowe heightened the anticipation in the inaugural match against Australia , the defending champion . 92 Days to Go , was 1992 ’ s # CricketInColour the greatest CWC moment ? Vote NOW at http : //t.co/XPl3Xa4fT7 pic.twitter.com/xqmmVnvVm6 — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 14 , 2014 Crowe first made a classy unbeaten 100 in front of the home crowd , and then surprised the opponent by opening the bowling attack with off-spinner Dipak Patel. New Zealand ’ s barrage of slow-medium pacers , who dried the flow of runs , also ably assisted Crowe , and later on in the tournament he introduced Mark Greatbatch as a pinch-hitter. All these inspired New Zealand ’ s seven wins in eight league games and set the side up for a home semi-final against Pakistan , where a 22-year old Inzamam-ul-Haq launched his career . Chasing 263 , Pakistan needed 123 in the last 15 overs when Inzamam ’ s blistering 37-ball 60 and his quickfire 87-run stand for the fifth wicket with Javed Miandad ended New Zealand ’ s dream run. In its first ever World Cup final , Pakistan was led from the front by captain Imran Khan , who had been coaxed out of retirement after the ICC Cricket World Cup in 1987 by President Zia ul-Haq. Imran made a steady 72 , Miandad chipped in with 58 and Inzamam and Wasim Akram played cameos as England was set a target of 250 . The English batsmen , however , had no answer to the craft of Akram and Mushtaq Ahmed , and Imran picked up the last wicket to hand his team a 22-run win on the 18th day of Ramadan and receive the £ 7,500 Waterford crystal trophy from ICC chairman Sir Colin Cowdrey. In front of a then Australian limited-overs record crowd of 87,182 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , an emotional Imran dedicated the win to his larger goal of building Pakistan ’ s first cancer hospital in memory of his mother . “ For a month , the World Cup not only generated large profits but stirred many hearts and touched countless nerve-ends around the cricket world. ” The Wisden Cricketers ’ Almanack. That Pakistan went on to lift the trophy after having won just one out of its first five matches was largely because of Imran ’ s never-say-die spirit that enthused a young unit , alongwith other results going Pakistan ’ s way. On the other hand , South Africa , returning after the end of apartheid , was unlucky to miss out on a final berth. It needed 22 off 13 balls in the semi-final against England when rain stopped play. The rain rule used in the tournament then , left it with an impossible target of 21 off just one delivery when the game resumed after a 12-minute break . But the tournament will be remembered for so much more than just the thrilling final and the business stages of the tournament with many other great moments going down in the annals of cricket history. Jonty Rhodes ‘ Superman ’ Run-Out , Zimbabwe ’ s Eddo Brandes inspired victory against England , Australia ’ s last ball thriller against India and much more come to mind as the tournament that coined the phrase ‘ Crictainment ’ brought the sport into the modern era . What happened next Imran retired after winning the World Cup and went on to build the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre in Lahore , before venturing into politics. Crowe played for three more years and retired just before the 1996 World Cup . “ This World Cup win will go a long way towards the completion of one of my greatest obsessions in life , which is to build a cancer hospital. ” Pakistan captain Imran Khan after receiving the World Cup trophy from ICC chairman Sir Colin Cowdrey. South Africa , who had captured everyone ’ s imagination with its flair led by Jonty Rhodes ’ s athleticism , upped the fielding standards in international cricket and Inzamam ended his career as Pakistan ’ s second-highest run-getter in Tests and highest in one-dayers. The demand for day and night limited-over matches peaked , and by 2000 , ODIs in whites had become a thing of past. Share this article
