90 Days to Go 16/11/14 90 Dean Jones stars in one-run thriller Dean Jones was a very special limited-overs batsman , among the best in the world of his era , and reserved his best World Cup knock for India during the 1992 World Cup , when his 90 helped Australia win the Brisbane game by just 1 run . Greatest CWC Moment - 90 Days to Go Background The 1992 World Cup is remembered for India ’ s poor performance , but when it met Australia on March 1 in Brisbane , India actually had a point from a washed-out game against Sri Lanka , to go with a loss to England , while Australia had suffered losses to New Zealand and South Africa. This match was a crucial one for the future of both teams in the tournament , and they both put their best foot forward for it . The Moment When Dean Jones walked in to bat , Australia was on the back foot , having lost Mark Taylor and Geoff Marsh without much on the board. The scoreboard read 31 for 2 and Kapil Dev , Manoj Prabhakar and Javagal Srinath were exploiting the conditions brilliantly. The stand with David Boon , who got 43 , helped Jones settle down , but he truly blossomed after that , controlling the middle overs of the innings. Steve Waugh and Tom Moody helped with cameos , and on a tricky pitch , Jones batted on till late into the script before being sent back by Prabhakar for a 108-ball 90 , studded with six fours and two sixes. It wasn ’ t Jones ’ s most memorable innings , but quite a lesson in handling a spirited attack in a crucial game on a bowler-friendly pitch . Australia went on to reach a modest 237 for 9 from 50 overs , and the value of Jones ’ s knock became apparent as the match went on. Just 16.2 overs into the Indian innings , rain came down and took away enough time from the game for the target to be revised to 236 from 47 overs – two runs taken away along with three overs. India , which was 45 for 1 at the time of the interruption , fought gamely with Mohammad Azharuddin , who scored 93 , and Sanjay Manjrekar , who scored an uncharacteristically quick 42-ball 47 , with Tom Moody leading the attack with 3 for 56 for the Aussies . . @ ProfDeano ’ s dazzling 90 at the Gabba marks 90 Days to @ cricketworldcup WATCH http : //t.co/SUjvkW31xu # JustJones pic.twitter.com/eQJKlMHJVa — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 16 , 2014 It all came down to a frenetic last over , 13 runs were required from it , and Kiran More struck the first two to the boundary. A wicket followed and it all came down to the last ball. Javagal Srinath swung hard and connected well , Steve Waugh dropped the ball just inside the boundary , but immediately picked it up and threw it in to the wicket-keeper , Boon and Raju was beaten returning for the third run which would have levelled the scores . So India fell one short in the end , four of its wickets including the last two , run outs as the pressure told on the batsmen. Jones was named the Man of the Match for his performance and a World Cup thriller was sealed . What Happened Next India continued to struggle throughout the rest of the 1992 World Cup and ended up finishing a hugely disappointing seventh winning just two games in the entire tournament. For Australia , the win did n't quite provide the springboard that was needed and despite winning three more matches , it was a crucial loss to eventual champions Pakistan that left the co-hosts just 1 point short of a semi-final spot and a fifth place exit .
