89 Days to Go 17/11/14 89 India stun 'unbeatable ' West indies The invincible West Indies was out to win its third World Cup in a row , and India was not expected to give them a fight. But Yashpal Sharma ’ s 89 made sure that India started the 1983 World Cup on a high and showed the world the West Indies could be beaten . Greatest CWC Moment - 89 Days to Go Background In two previous editions of the World Cup , both of which West Indies had won , India had a grand ‘ 1 ’ next to the victories ’ column , that too achieved against unfancied East Africa. As a result , when the fourth game of the 1983 edition started at Old Trafford in Manchester , no one gave the Indians a ghost of a chance . Not just for this game , but for most of the games the Indians were scheduled to play in what promised to be a short stay for them in. The West Indians however were overwhelming favorites for a treble of World Cup titles. They had never been beaten in a Cricket World Cup match having gone through the 1975 and 1979 campaigns without a loss . The Moment Michael Holding , Andy Roberts , Joel Garner and Malcolm Marshall headlined the all-star West Indian bowling attack , and they combined to send Krishnamachari Srikkanth , Sunil Gavaskar and Mohinder Amarnath back without too many on the board . Yashpal Sharma , gutsy and patient , was thought of as a man for a crisis in Indian cricket circles and he proved just why on the day. He started slowly in difficult conditions at Old Trafford seeing off the fast bowlers and progressing the score slowly at first . It was the spinners – Larry Gomes and Viv Richards – that he targeted for the runs , the partnerships with Sandeep Patil ( 49 for the fourth wicket ) and Roger Binny ( 73 for the sixth wicket ) adding meat to the Indian total , while the pacemen too were targeted late in his innings. In over two hours at the crease , Yashpal hit nine fours in his 120-ball knock before Holding found a way through to his stumps . 89 Days to Go to # cwc15 it ’ s time for some Yashpal Sharma # ManchesterMagic Vote now at http : //t.co/7NcIpWqXpk pic.twitter.com/ggsLUhgfkd — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 17 , 2014 India ’ s 262 for 8 was big by its standards , but not too big for the all-conquering West Indians. Or so everyone thought. Desmond Haynes was run out and Balwinder Sandhu , only for the first time , bowled Gordon Greenidge out. Binny , who ended the tournament as its highest wicket-taker , had a great day , sending back Richards , Clive Lloyd and Jeff Dujon , while Ravi Shastri pitched in with three lower-order wickets in a super 5.1-over spell. And West Indies was bowled out in 54.1 overs ( of the 60-over game ) 34 runs short of India ’ s total. Yashpal was the unanimous pick for the Man of the Match . “ The tone for India 's startling 34-run win was set by Yashpal Sharma , his sterling 89 pronouncing him as Man of the Match against the torrid pace of Michael Holding ( 12-3-32-2 ) , Andy Roberts , Malcolm Marshall ( 12-1-48-2 ) and Joel Garner. ” Raju Bharatan , writing in Sportstar in November 2002 . What happened next India buoyed by their success in Manchester went on to score two wins against Zimbabwe and crucially a telling 118 run win against Australia at Chelmsford that sealed their semi-final place. West Indies had their revenge over India at the Oval to top the group but both sides went through from Group B . India would go back to Old Trafford to score a famous semi-final win over the fancied hosts , England with Yashpal Sharma starring again with 61 before an all-round performance on a famous June day in Lord 's would deliver a first ever World Cup triumph for India with a second win over the West Indies. A win that never would have been possible with the magic in the first game in the tournament in Manchester . Share this article
