88 Days to Go 18/11/14 88 Gavaskar ’ s last blitz Just when India needed a big win to secure a home semi-final , the great Sunil Gavaskar came to score his first , and only , ODI hundred – 103 not out from 88 balls against New Zealand – that too when batting with high fever . Greatest World Cup Moment - 88 Days to Go Background The 1987 World Cup moved out of the traditional base of England to the Indian subcontinent , and the matches were played in the 50-over format for the first time , reducing from 60 overs . Australia had won five matches out of six and India had four wins from its first five matches. Both teams had already assured themselves of a place in the semi-finals , but India needed to beat New Zealand in Nagpur by a big margin to push its net run-rate beyond Australia 's and avoid meeting Pakistan in the semi-final in Lahore. Instead , India would get to play England at home , a potentially less threatening opposition in a more familiar environment . As far as Gavaskar was concerned , it was not just the fever that was troubling him. In the previous game , against Zimbabwe , he had scored 50 from 114 balls. India won , but he was blamed for India ’ s net run-rate dipping . The Moment Despite a not-so-good start to the World Cup and an ordinary ODI record , Gavaskar had two half-centuries to his name before facing New Zealand. With New Zealand scoring 221 , India needed to win within 42.2 overs to top the group . Krishnamachari Srikkanth and Gavaskar quickly got into the act , taking 18 from the first two overs and then racing to 50 from 7.1 overs , Gavaskar ( 30 ) outscoring Srikkanth ( 17 ) along the way. Gavaskar targeted Ewan Chatfield specifically , hitting two straight sixes and two fours off the first four balls of the third over . Sunil Gavaskar produced a # SunnyDay at CWC '87 , hitting a scintillating 88 ball 100. Vote : http : //t.co/c9VkKrN0NN pic.twitter.com/j3h49fTCeD — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 18 , 2014 India raced to 100 in just 14 overs , and though Srikkanth fell after a stroke-filled 75 from just 58 balls , Gavaskar didn ’ t let up. Taking charge , he hit another six and eight more boundaries as his century came off just 85 balls and India romped home in 32.1 overs. It was the second fastest World Cup hundred at that point after Clive Lloyd ’ s 82-ball century in the 1975 final . “ In Srikkanth they had the ideal opener ; the surprise was Gavaskar , who had been said to be unwell prior to the match. He matched Srikkanth stroke for stroke in the bravura of his batting. ” Wisden Cricketers ’ Almanack What happened next Chetan Sharma and Gavaskar shared the Man of the match award and India met England in the semi-final as hoped for. But a week later , Graham Gooch ’ s magnificent century swept India out of the competition as England beat the host by 35 runs to make it to the final. In the last ODI of his career , Gavaskar scored just 4 in front of his home crowd in Mumbai . Share this article
