87 Days to Go 19/11/14 87 Gooch sweeps England to '87 Final In a re-match of the 1983 World Cup semi-final , England needed to find a way to counter India 's spin attack. Graham Gooch simply swept the spinners away with a 115 to see England turn the tables over the hosts , and progress to a second World Cup final . Greatest CWC Moment - 87 Days to Go Background India lost its first match in the 1987 World Cup by just one run to Australia , but was on a roll since , winning the next five matches convincingly and was a big favourite reach back-to-back finals. Standing in its way was England , who they ’ d beaten in 1983 . It was a packed stadium in the Wankhede in Bombay , with fervent support backing the home side to take consecutive World Cup crowns after their success in 1983. The Moment England had a well known vulnerability against spin bowling , but one man , Graham Gooch , the burly opening batsman , was the exception. It looked like Gooch had come into the match with a set plan to negotiate India ’ s left-arm spinners – Maninder Singh and Ravi Shastri : sweep everything without discrimination . Gooch started using the sweep against almost everything the Indian spinners sent his way. England did lose Tim Robinson and Bill Athey early , but Gooch , who had practiced the shot for hours against left-arm spin before the match , was determined to take England to a score that would challenge the strong Indian batting line-up . VIDEO : Must watch of Graham Gooch sweeping England towards the ’ 87 World Cup Final http : //t.co/dAwEqGMfx1 # SweptAway pic.twitter.com/GEroRDKsFz — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 19 , 2014 Gooch and Mike Gatting ( 56 ) put on 117 for the third wicket , and some late fireworks from Allan Lamb ensured England reached 254 for 6 – Gooch ’ s 115 from 136 balls was studded by 11 fours , and his innings is rightly considered one of the best in World Cup history . India was without Dilip Vengsarkar , and once Sunil Gavaskar was dismissed by Phil DeFreitas early , India was on its way to missing out on a place in the final. England never let India take the initiative and India , despite reaching 204 for 5 at one stag,e fell away and was eventually bowled out for 219 . What happened next Not surprisingly , Gooch was named the Man of the Match and England was delirious to reach a second World Cup final , this time at Eden Gardens against old rivals Australia . The final proved to be an absolute thriller but England was denied a first ever Cricket World Cup crown with a very tight 9-run loss to the Allan Border-led Australians who claimed its first title. Gooch was left with the consolation of being the highest run-scorer in the tournament with 471 runs . Share this article
