86 Days to Go 20/11/14 86 Symonds saves Australia with Stunning Knock in '03 Against Pakistan in Australia ’ s opening game of the 2003 World Cup , Symonds walked in at 86 for 4 and changed the game with a scintillating , unbeaten 125-ball 143 . Greatest CWC Moment - 86 Days to Go Background No Shane Warne , no Darren Lehmann , no Michael Bevan , the reigning champions preparation for the 2003 World Cup in South Africa was far from ideal. And as the first game got going , even the toss went Pakistan 's way at the Wanderers that day . The fearsome Pakistan bowling attack then struck , Wasim Akram knocked over three of Australia 's big names and Waqar Younis chipped with one more wicket. But in strode Symonds , the unlikeliest of saviours for Australia . The Moment The welcome Symonds received – a bouncer from Younis – was far from ideal and he almost played on to a Shoaib Akhtar delivery when on 23. But Symonds survived , adding 60 for the fifth wicket with Ponting. When Akhtar dislodged Ponting for 53 , the scoreboard read 146 for 5 with 20 overs to go and Australia would have been happy to get up to something close to 250 , what happened in the next hour or so was gripping cricket of the highest quality. Symonds , who had only two fifties to his name in 54 One-Day Internationals prior to this game , went quite simply ballistic. No bowler escaped his fury as he reached his maiden ODI century off just 92 balls. He paused momentarily to lift his helmet and punch the bat in the air , but he was n't done there , he continued his assault right to the end of the Australian innings . Symonds entered at 86 for four and , after jogging in Ponting 's slipstream , revealed the range of muscular strokes he previously reserved for county cricket . Wisden Cricketer 's Almanack The audacious strokeplay sent Younis over the edge in the penultimate over of Australia 's innings. The first ball slipped out his hand and was a high full toss , and Symonds accepted the apology. The second ball went for a six. The fourth ball was a beamer again , forcing the batsman to dive , and there was no apology this time around. Following a heated exchange between Symonds and Younis , the umpire had no choice but to take the Pakistan captain out of the attack . By the time Symonds was done , he had hit 18 fours and two sixes , taking Australia to a lofty 310 for 8 – the highest-ever score in a 50-over Cricket World Cup game at the time and the Aussies looked certain of opening their title defence with a win . What Happened Next Having bled 21 runs in no balls and wides , Pakistan was docked one over for a slow over rate. Australia returned to the field with a spring in its step and picked up wickets regularly with Pakistan never getting up with the run-rate or looking like they were going to be able to chase the mammoth total . " Everyone 's seen today what kind of talent he 's got. I 've known that for a long time , and it was about time it started coming out. It certainly came out in a big way today. " Ricky Ponting during the post-match presentation . The sucker-punch Symonds delivered with his innings left Pakistan demoralised as it folded for 228 in 44.3 overs. Australia never looked back after that , eventually winning the tournament for the third time. Share this article
