85 Days to Go 21/11/14 85 Lloyd leads Windies to capture inaugural World Cup in '75 Clive Lloyd ’ s stunning 102 from 85 balls wasn ’ t only his first ODI century , that too in the final of the first World Cup , it was bludgeoning at its best . Greatest CWC Moment - 85 Days to Go Background It was the first World Cup and the one-day format was at its infancy but fans in England had embraced it with gusto. The two strongest teams – West Indies and Australia – had made it to the final. Apart from a stutter against Pakistan , West Indies had proved formidable , and went into the final as the favourite despite having lost Garry Sobers to an injury. It also had the advantage of having comprehensively beaten Australia by seven wickets at The Oval in the group stage . So on that sunny Lord ’ s day , Ian Chappell put West Indies in to bat and the Australia attack had its opponents struggling at 50 for 3. That ’ s when Clive Lloyd walked , or lumbered , in . CWC greatest moment 85 days to go Lloyd clipped Dennis Lillee through mid-wicket for four early on , and sent the bouncer that followed over into the Tavern Stand in a statement of intent , if ever there was one. Then , for the next hour and 48 minutes , it was an exhibition of explosive hitting. He was given a life at 26 when Ross Edwards failed to hold on to a catch off Lillee , and Australia was made to rue that slip all through those 102 runs he ended up with. Lloyd ’ s 50-run stand with Rohan Kanhai came off 49 balls , Kanhai 's contribution all of six runs. Supercat ’ s century , his only one in ODI cricket and a typically belligerent knock , came in 100 minutes off 82 balls. It included 12 fours and two sixes . What happened next Keith Boyce and Bernard Julien took off after Australia had been set 292 to get. Chappell ’ s men began earnestly , but frequent run outs – there were five , three in which Viv Richards played a part – meant the target was an increasingly uphill climb for Australia. Nobody told the last-wicket pair of Jeff Thompson and Lillee that it was a lost cause though , and they got as close as 18 runs from the target. The crowd once prematurely swelled on to the field to celebrate , not having heard the no-ball call on a catch – the match was not yet lost then , but umpire Dickie Bird did lose his hat to an enthusiastic spectator . Lloyd ’ s side would go on to dominate world cricket for a few more years , winning the World Cup in 1979 too . Share this article
