84 Days to Go 22/11/14 84 Classy Coney causes huge upset in '83 New Zealand lost the opener of the World Cup in 1983 to England. Six days later , the two teams clashed again and it history looked set to repeat itself. But Jeremy Coney ’ s 66 took New Zealand to an unlikely win , its first over England in a World Cup . Greatest CWC Moment - 84 Days to Go Background New Zealand had made a poor start in the tournament opener where it found the host , England , too hot to handle. New Zealand , however , didn ’ t allow the reversal to bog it down , and the team rebounded with comprehensive wins – by 52 runs and five wickets – against Pakistan and Sri Lanka respectively. New Zealand needed to win this one , again England again , to retain some crucial momentum ahead of two more big matches – against Pakistan and Sri Lanka . The Moment The 1983 World Cup was played between eight teams , with two groups of four teams each. The format was such that each team played the others in its group twice and the top two from each group advanced to the semi-final. New Zealand belonged to the group that also had England , Sri Lanka and Pakistan . New Zealand had ended the first round of the group matches on a high , but with three more matches against tough opponents coming up , it was critical for New Zealand to be at its best. Coney himself had had a decent run , but was yet to make a big impact. He had notched up scores of 23 , 33 , and 2 not out leading into the match and with the ball , he had been economical and taken seven wickets . The bowlers , led by Richard Hadlee and Lance Cairns , had done their part , and restricted England to a reasonable 234 . But with the inconsistent bounce on offer at Edgbaston , it was going to be tricky. Bob Willis sent the openers back in quick time. With the Crowe brothers – Jeff and Martin – too gone , New Zealand , at 75 for 4 , had its back against the wall . Enter Coney. He added 71 with Geoff Howarth , the captain , for the fifth wicket to get the chase back on track. Coney then added 70 valuable runs for the seventh wicket with Hadlee that took New Zealand within sniffing distance of a win. But with Hadlee and Cairns departing in quick succession , there seemed to be another twist in the tale. But Coney held his nerve and helped himself to an unbeaten 66 off 97 balls , his highest One-Day International score , to seal a nervy finish for New Zealand , which won by two wickets with one ball to spare. “ England 's score seemed adequate when Willis removed Turner and Edgar with only 3 runs scored , and at 75 for four New Zealand were still fighting an uphill battle. But while Coney held one end , his partners , especially Hadlee , gave him support which kept New Zealand close to the required scoring-rate. ” Wisden Cricketers ’ Almanack What happened next A three-wicket defeat in the hand of Sri Lanka followed , which derailed New Zealand ’ s campaign and it couldn ’ t recover thereafter. New Zealand bowed out of the tournament after a narrow 11-run defeat against Pakistan . As for Coney , he had a mediocre outing against Sri Lanka , making 22 off 50 before returning 0 for 22 off four overs. In the final match , against Pakistan , he was the best bowler for New Zealand , picking up 2 for 42 off 12 overs , before top scoring with 51 to end his own tournament on a high . Share this article
