83 Days to Go 23/11/14 83 Sehwag & Kohli begin World Cup with a bang in '11 Virender Sehwag began & Virat Kohli finished the onslaught in India ’ s opening match against Bangladesh in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011. Sehwag hit 175 at the top of the order , but Kohli made an 83-ball century . Greatest CWC Moment - 83 Days to Go Background Bangladesh had come into the tournament brimming with confidence , having proved it was more than able to hold its own in home conditions , and with the memory of its 2007 ICC Cricket World Cup win against India revived ahead of the opening encounter. In its warm-up fixtures , Bangladesh had beaten Canada convincingly but lost to Pakistan by 89 runs. Meanwhile , India was coming into the tournament as a massive favourite , and had struck form in the warm-up matches , winning both encounters against Australia and New Zealand . The Moment Bangladesh opted to field at the Shere-e-Bangla National Stadium in Mirpur. The decision was prompted by the fact that the previous 12 day-night matches at the venue were won by the team batting second. But then , history counts for little when a firepower-laden batting line-up gets going. Sehwag looked at ease , and though both Sachin Tendulkar and Gautam Gambhir fell when looking set , Kohli justified the faith the Indian selectors and team management had shown in him by joining Sehwag for a double-century stand for the third wicket that put the match out of Bangladesh ’ s reach . India was powered to a formidable 370 for 4 , the bedrock of which was the 203-run stand that Kohli and Sehwag put on in just 145 balls. Sehwag farmed the strike initially , allowing Kohli to settle , but once the younger man found his bearing , he matched his senior partner shot for shot . While Sehwag fell in the 48th over , Kohli had to wait till the penultimate ball to get to his century , taking a mere 83 balls to do so. In the process he cemented his spot in the line-up for the tournament and also got his World Cup career off to a rollicking start . I still remember against Pakistan in the Champions Trophy [ in Centurion , in 2009 ] , he ( Virat Kohli ) was playing well , but he played a shot straight to long-off. After that he has scored six hundreds. Sometimes a little nudge is enough for some people . Virender Sehwag Bangladesh did reasonably well with the bat , Tamim Iqbal and Shakib Al Hasan leading the way with half-centuries , but India ’ s total was a bridge too far , and the batsmen couldn ’ t keep up with the asking rate , eventually falling short by 87 runs . What happened next Bangladesh won three of its next five matches – the highlight being an upset win against England by two wickets in a thrilling match – but failed to make it to the quarterfinals . India stumbled initially , tieing a high-scoring game against England and losing to South Africa , before gathering steam and marching to the title in a campaign that grew ever impressive as the tournament progressed .
