Cricket World Cup : Pakistan Ponder Options Ahead of India Clash Cricket World Cup : Pakistan Ponder Options Ahead of India Clash Victories over Bangladesh and England this week have given 1992 world champions Pakistan a real surge of confidence going into Sunday 's match in Adelaide against India , a team they have never beaten at the Cricket World Cup . Last updated on Thursday , 12 February , 2015 12 : 29 IST Total Shares Pakistan have never defeated India in World Cups © AFP Sydney : Pakistan have found some momentum ahead of the World Cup but have not settled on their best line-up for their tournament opener against champions India this weekend , coach Waqar Younis said . Victories over Bangladesh and England this week have given the 1992 champions a real surge of confidence going into Sunday 's match in Adelaide against a team they have never beaten at the World Cup. ( Tendulkar Says Winning World Cup 2011 Was Priceless ) " We needed momentum , we did n't really play any really good cricket in the recent past , " Waqar told reporters after the four-wicket victory over England . " So the momentum and the confidence we got from these last two games will definitely help. ( 'India Remain Favourites to Win World Cup ' ) " India has always been a tough opponent so we 're not going to take it easy. We 're going to make sure we wake up on that morning in a positive frame of mind and look to win this time. " Pakistan lost several players to injury and suspension for the tournament but Waqar said his main problem in finding the right balance was their lack of all-rounders , barring 34-year-oldShahid Afridi . " It 's difficult to have the right combination , you want to have seven batters , sometimes you want to have five bowlers so sometimes something has got to give , " he said . " I think we are going to sit down in the next three days and see what 's going to give. We do n't really have that 'X-factor ' of all-rounder , maybe a batsman who can bowl fast . " But we 've got Afridi , we 've got to really trust him , he 's in good nick and batting well , so still three more days to find the best team to play the Indians. " While Pakistan 's fielding was occasionally sloppy against England , Ehsan Adil and fellow seamerSohail Khan showed enough to suggest the inexperienced pace attack will have some bite . " They bowled really disciplined which is the key , the pitches here in Australia are a little conducive for the faster bowlers so hopefully these boys will learn a lot from this tournament , " said Waqar , one of the finest pace bowlers to have played. " They will hopefully deliver as well. " Leg-spinner Yasir Shah , who took three for 45 , also confirmed he could be as much of a threat in the 50-over format as he has been in tests . The unpredictable side rarely go into a tournament as favourites , although they did win the World Cup the last time it was held in Australia and New Zealand . " The beauty of cricket is what happened in '92 could happen again , " Waqar said. " Some are good form , some are just getting into the groove , but it could be anyone 's World Cup. " Story first published on : Thursday , 12 February 2015 07 : 26 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
