82 Days to Go 24/11/14 82 Nehra 's Six Star Show in 2003 England v India at Durban in the 2003 World Cup and it was the left arm speedster Ashish Nehra 's day as he served up match-winning six-wicket haul – his best One-Day International figures – to give India a comprehensive win over England . Greatest CWC Moment - 82 Days to Go Background India had lost only to Australia before having to take on England and Pakistan in its last two group stage games and , against England , put up a moderate 250 for 9 after opting to bat on a seamer-friendly pitch where England fielded six pacers – fast and medium – but no spinners . It wasn ’ t a big target , but a run out and a Zaheer Khan wicket pegged England back early on before Nasser Hussain and Michael Vaughan started to rebuild . The Moment Nehra , who came into the game with a swollen ankle , bowled his ten overs straight after Javagal Srinath and Zaheer Khan had restricted England early on to 28 for 2 after 12 overs. This was when Ashish Nehra was introduced. Over the next 10 overs which he bowled straight was a stunning display of perfect left arm seam bowling 10 overs straight through to end with the dream figures of 6 for 23 , which are still the best analysis by an Indian in World Cup history . His victims were almost all picked up behind the wicket as England 's batsman could n't cope with the angle of the ball coming across them from Nehra 's left-arm over the wicket angle . 82 DAYS UNTIL # cwc15 , the number of runs @ BCCI beat England by in '03 thanks to # NimbleNehra http : //t.co/LnpemxczFH pic.twitter.com/mwNd0hHoNw — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 24 , 2014 His victims : Hussain , Alec Stewart , Vaughan , Paul Collingwood , Craig White and Ronnie Irani. Of them , Hussain and Stewart had been sent back off consecutive deliveries with Stewart falling first ball. Andrew Flintoff delayed the inevitable , but he too eventually fell for 64 “ Pitter-pattering in Akram-like from Kingsmead ’ s Umgeni End , Nehra found pace and , most crucially , movement that , for the most part , had eluded England ’ s bowlers before the daylight went and the pitch greened up in the evening air. ” The Guardian , 2003 What happened next India followed up that win with a convincing win in its final group stage match against Pakistan to finish second in the group , behind Australia , and advance into the Super Sixes . " He 's had a swollen ankle for two days and it was sheer determination that made him play. He bowled a fantastic line. It 's one of the best performances in a one-day international that I have seen since I started playing for India. " Sourav Ganguly , post match It was smooth sailing for India in the Super Sixes as it cruised past Kenya , Sri Lanka and New Zealand before beating Kenya easily in the semi-finals. In the final , however , Australia put up a mammoth 359 for 2 before India was bowled out for 234 to leave India as runners-up .
