81 Days to Go 25/11/14 81 Wessels comes back to haunt Australia in 1992 South Africa 's debut at the World Cup came in 1992 & it was a man who 'd played for Australia who captained the re-admitted Proteas. Kepler Wessels stole the show in the first World Cup game to be played under lights with an unbeaten 81 . Greatest CWC Moment - 81 Days to Go Background There were plenty of questions raised about whether Kepler Wessels was the right man to lead South Africa in its first ICC Cricket World Cup match after re-admission in 1991. And in a move that evoked widespread outcry in South Africa , the selectors picked Wessels as captain for the 1992 ICC Cricket World Cup ahead of fan favourites Clive Rice and Jimmy Cook ( neither of whom made the squad ) . Although Wessels had considerable experience , having played for Australia in 24 Tests , the South African public was quite disappointed with the decision , even launching a petition condemning the decisions. There was little doubt in anyone 's mind that Australia was the clear favourite. But in the 49-overs-a-side match , Allan Donald sizzled with 3 for 34 to restrict Australia to 170 for 9 and South Africa was suddenly on the brink of something special . The Moment Against his former team , Wessels laid the foundation for South Africa with Andrew Hudson , forging a 74-run opening stand. In the 16th over , after having driven Mike Whitney for four to midwicket , Wessels feebly edged the ball to the wicketkeeper. Fortunately for him , Australia 's regular wicketkeeper Ian Healy had pulled a hamstring while batting and stand-in wicketkeeper David Boon dropped the sharp chance . The error proved to be costly for Australia. Hudson fell for 28 , but Wessels was in no mood to budge. Strong on the offside , he cut the ball to the boundary off Steve Waugh just a few overs later , and drove Allan Border through the covers in the 33rd over. Wessels continued to pierce the gaps , reaching his fifty in the 35th over. Australia had thrown everything but the kitchen sink , using seven bowlers , at him but Wessels was always one step ahead of the game. South Africa reached the target in 46.5 overs , with Wessels pushing the ball to thirdman to score the winning run , Peter Kirsten alongside him unbeaten on 49. What happened next As soon as Wessels reached the non-striker ’ s end for the winning run , his former teammate and opposite number Border shook his hand and hugged him. Wessels received plenty of praise for his knock and the way he handled his bowlers. When the South Africa players got back to their dressing room , messages of congratulations from then president FW de Klerk and Nelson Mandela awaited them . South Africa eventually bowed out in the semi-final against England , but its exceptional performance against the tournament 's defending champion made everyone realise it was going to be a force to reckon with soon. Share this article
