80 Days to Go 26/11/14 80 Terrific Twose lands Trans-Tasman Thriller in '99 Roger Twose guided New Zealand to an unlikely looking win as he rescued the Kiwis from 49 for 4 while chasing 214 in Cardiff in 1999. The win was a huge one for the kiwis en route to a semi-final spot . Greatest CWC Moment - 80 Days to Go Background : New Zealand made a good start to the 1999 World Cup with a comfortable win against Bangladesh , but a much stiffer challenge in the form of Australia awaited in its next match. Apart from the natural trans-Tasman rivalry , there was also the matter of Australia knocking New Zealand out of the previous World Cup in 1996 at the quarterfinal stage in a high-scoring thriller in Chennai. The Australians seemed on course for another win in Cardiff , but Twose stood firm. His unbeaten 80 in a low-scoring match was invaluable , and ensured victory for his side . The Moment It was the first One-Day International match at the Sophia Gardens in Cardiff and the capacity crowd was treated to a special performance from Twose. Australia opted to bat first after winning the toss , but a four-wicket haul by Geoff Allott meant that it was restricted to 213 for 8 from 50 overs. The target was modest , but Australia 's potent bowling attack had ensured on several past occasions that no team could afford to relax , no matter how small the chase . Twose walked in with the score on 47 for 3 in the 15th over , and in the very next over , lost his partner Craig McMillan , who had scored 29 of those runs. With two new batsmen -- Twose and Chris Cairns -- in the middle , it seemed like an uphill task for New Zealand , with Australia having the upper hand. Twose , however , had other ideas. Along with Cairns , he ensured that Australia was given no further reason to celebrate as the duo milked the bowling for the next 27 overs with a partnership of 148 runs for the fifth wicket . Cairns wasn ’ t afraid to take the adventurous route , hitting three sixes and five fours in his 60 , while Twose was the perfect man to build a chase around , capable of digging in and accelerating with equal ease. He was also helped by a dose of luck , caught off a no-ball by Damien Fleming with Glenn McGrath the unlucky bowler when his score was just 14 . That slice of luck apart , Twose 's knock was a demonstration of a perfect chase. He paced his knock wonderfully and first steered New Zealand to safety before finishing with a flurry. He lost Cairns in the 44th over , but saw the chase through till the end. Fittingly , he hit the winnings runs with a boundary off Fleming -- his tenth four of the innings. " Twose was the kind of guy who got under the Australians ' skins the way he went about things. He did it very well and on that day , took the game away from us " Glenn McGrath in an interview with ESPN . What happened next As expected , Twose was awarded the Player of the Match for his performance. Twose went on to play a major role in New Zealand ’ s campaign and was the batting star for the side with 318 runs in nine innings at 79.50 , complementing New Zealand ’ s other good performer – Allot – who had a good outing with the ball in that World Cup . New Zealand had a successful tournament on the whole , reaching the semifinals before losing to Pakistan and Twose ’ s performance was one of the highlights . Share this article
