74 Days to Go 02/12/14 74 Yuvraj , Raina and the end of an Aussie era Raina joined Yuvraj with India on a precarious 187 for 5 in the 2011 quarter-final clash with Australia. Both men took their batting another gear , adding the 74 required for victory in just 61 balls , to end Australia ’ s 12-year reign as World Champions . Greatest CWC Moment - 74 Days to Go Background The last time both teams had met in an ICC World Cup was almost exactly eight years ago to the day. On March 23 , 2003 , Australia had completed a second successive World Cup triumph , comfortably beating India. On March 24 , 2011 , the two faced off in another knockout match – the quarter-final of the 2011 edition. As had happened in Johannesburg in 2003 , in Ahmedabad in 2011 too , Ricky Ponting hit a century , leading Australia from the front . The Moment However , the rest of the side wasn ’ t as dominant , and Australia ended up with 260 for 6 – competitive , but not threatening , with Ponting compiling a heroic 104 . The pitch wasn ’ t the easiest to bat on , but India was expected to chase the target down , given its batting firepower , even though Australia had packed the bowling with equal artillery – Brett Lee , Shaun Tait and Mitchell Johnson sending down 150 kph screamers . Virender Sehwag fell early , but India was on track thanks to twin fifties from Sachin Tendulkar and Gautam Gambhir. However , a mid-innings collapse claimed Virat Kohli , Gambhir and MS Dhoni , leaving Yuvraj standing alone. Raina had played in only one match in the tournament when he walked out with 74 needed 75 balls , and the Australians charged up . A packed house at Motera had grown quiet with the clatter of wickets , and all those watching and on the field knew that this was the last recognised batting pair India had . However , the breakthrough Australia needed never came through. Yuvraj , who couldn ’ t put a foot wrong in the tournament , was in the zone. Raina exhibited no sign of nerves at all in the face of some of the fastest bowling seen in coloured clothing , connecting cleanly from the start . The scorecard will show Yuvraj made 57 not out and Raina hit 34 not out – but each of those runs was worth its weight in gold , made under extreme pressure , against high-quality bowling , with a country ’ s dream hanging in the balance . What happened next India completed victory in just 47.4 overs , setting up a semifinal clash with Pakistan in Mohali – a match dubbed the ‘ final before the final ’ . India hadn ’ t been at its best in the group stages , but this win showcased the team at its best – and the belief and momentum generated took the side all the way to the title . Share this article
