72 Days to Go 04/12/14 72 Gilchrist ’ s blitz claims three-peat in '07 Adam Gilchrist 's century in the 2007 final came from just 72 deliveries as Australia three-peated with a glorious win over Sri Lanka in the final in Barbados Greatest CWC Moment - 72 Days to Go Synopsis It was the 2007 World Cup final , a repeat of the 1996 edition , where Sri Lanka had got the better of Australia. This time , Australia was the standout favourite. And once Adam Gilchrist played one of the great World Cup knocks in a rain-curtailed game , there was no doubt about the outcome of the this one . Not always has an ICC Cricket World Cup been won without a hiccup. But Australia has done it twice – in 2003 and in 2007 , it won the trophy without losing a single match. In 2007 , on a rather gloomy April day in Barbados , Australia started the final against Sri Lanka in a bid to win its third successive trophy. Ricky Ponting won the toss and opted to bat and Adam Gilchrist and Matthew Hayden started things off . The Moment The match had been reduced to 38 overs per side following rain , and Australia was banking on Gilchrist and Hayden for a solid start , and they didn ’ t disappoint. In fact , not only did they not disappoint , they took hold of the Sri Lankan bowlers by the scruff of their necks and didn ’ t let go , Gilchrist , in particular , playing an innings to remember – 149 in 104 balls. Together they put on 172 runs in under 23 overs , Gilchrist reaching his century in just 72 balls. He was given a life at 31 when Dilhara Fernando failed to hold on to a caught and bowled chance. And there was no turning back for Gilchrist after that . An interesting sidelight to Gilchrist ’ s innings was that he had packed a squash ball inside his left batting glove for the innings to improve his grip. It created a controversy , but Gilchrist was cleared of law breaking later . Australia scored 281 for 4 but the target was revised for Sri Lanka to 269 from 36 overs after another rain interruption , and while Kumar Sangakkara and Sanath Jayasuriya were batting together in a 116-run stand , Sri Lanka was in the game. But it all fell apart once the two of them were gone. And by the time the overs had run out , Sri Lanka had reached only 215 for 8 , giving Australia a 53-run ( D/L method ) win . “ As far as I am concerned , he has n't played a better one. To go out and do that in a World Cup final and play 149 off 104 balls and hardly miss the middle of the bat … it 's an unbelievable innings. It 's one of the best innings I have ever seen. Matty Hayden has probably been the batsman of the tournament , but he was at the other end looking scratchy and shaky and pretty ordinary when this bloke was up and going. There was one difference in both teams , in the outcome of the game and that was Gilly 's innings. To take the game away from the opposition as Gilly did was pretty special stuff and to happen in the final says a lot about the bloke. ” Ricky Ponting What happened next Australia had won the trophy for the third time in a row and the fourth time overall and Sri Lanka had , as it turned out later , lost the first of two consecutive World Cup finals . Gilchrist played ODI cricket for almost a year more , and when he quit in March 2008 , he had 9619 runs with 16 centuries from 287 matches and a reputation of being the greatest wicketkeeper-batsman the game had ever seen. That century in Barbados , though , remains his crowning glory . Share this article
