71 Days to Go 05/12/14 71 Debut Day Drama for Ireland in '07 2007 , this was Ireland ’ s first World Cup appearance and right from the beginning a special game against Zimbabwe took shape. The game ebbed and flowed repeatedly before Andrew White bowled an over to remember in a to end the match in a tie . Greatest CWC Moment - 71 Days to Go Background Ireland made it to the 2007 World Cup courtesy a second-place finish in the 2005 ICC Trophy , which acted as the qualifier for the tournament. With little or no international experience , little was expected of the Irishmen. Of the opponents , Zimbabwe was expected to be the one Ireland had a chance in , but even then , Zimbabwe was the favourite , having been in the mix since 1983. It was the first match of the tournament for both the teams . Main article Zimbabwe had restricted Ireland to 221 despite a resolute century from Jeremy Bray , who stood tall against Chris Mpofu , Elton Chigumbura and Gary Brent even as the rest of batting fell without contributing much. Chasing a seemingly comfortable target , Zimbabwe , on 92 for 2 , was well on its way. But that ’ s when the wheels came off . Kyle McCallan , the offspinner , played a key role in the turnaround , sending back Sean Williams and Elton Chigumbura , and struggling at 133 for 5 , Zimbabwe was in a spot , and yet it managed to get to a point where it needed 15 runs from six overs with four wickets in hand . 71 days to # cwc15 & there were # DramaticScenes as Ireland & Zimbabwe tied a thriller in 2007 http : //t.co/rwBlu7jIi5 pic.twitter.com/C9Ic6tD52w It looked as though a fairly straightforward victory was in the offing for Zimbabwe but the Irishmen were hardly short on spirit as they brought it down to nine runs to win off the last over. Andrew White , the other offspinner , who had bowled two overs and given away 11 runs , was brought in with Stuart Matsikenyeri batting on 73 and Ed Rainsford , the new man in. Matsikenyeri managed five runs off the first three balls before Rainsford grabbed a single off the fourth ball. Three to win from two , which became one off one after Matsikenyeri got two . Either White or Matsikenyeri had to break at that stage with the scores tied . It was the Zimbabwean , who failed to connect with the last ball. They tried to scramble a single but Rainsford was run out , and the match ended in a tie – only the third in a World Cup game. It was Ireland who celebrated like they had won as their debut World Cup match turned into a classic tie never to be forgotton . “ I think we were a bit tense in this situation , and I think it is a lack of experience on our part. If we had been in that situation a few times before we would have known how to pull through , but we panicked at the end. ” Prosper Utseya , Zimbabwe skipper . What happened next Ireland ’ s dream run continued as it edged out Pakistan in the following Group D game to make it to the Super 8 Stage along with West Indies. Ireland struggled at times but also had their moments against the big names in England , South Africa , New Zealand , Australia or Sri Lanka but it did manage a comprehensive 74-run win over Bangladesh to round off a largely successful campaign. Share this article
