70 Days to Go 06/12/14 70 Bichel 's Brilliance sends England crashing out in '03 Australia won its first five matches by huge margins in 2003 , in their final match they faced England who had to win to stay in the competition. England dominated much of the match , but Andy Bichel 's career best all-round effort sent England home . Greatest CWC Moment - 70 Days to Go Background It was the crunch final round of the group stages of the 2003 ICC Cricket World Cup , Australia and England playing in Port Elizabeth with an added edge. Australia wanting to win to keep up their unbeaten record and progress at the top of the group , England needing to win to stay in the tournament and advance to the Super Six stage . The '99 Champions Australia had been unbeaten through the group stages and impressed across all areas of their game , whilst England had been in mixed form but were encouraged by the performances of Andrew Flintoff and the 20 year old James Anderson The Moment England decided to bat first and was going well , with the openers having put on 66 runs at better than a run-a-ball. The introduction of Bichel into the attack caused a dramatic shift however , with wickets falling in a heap. Bichel ’ s 7 for 20 would have been the best World Cup bowling figures ever , except that teammate Glenn McGrath had taken 7 for 15 against Namibia three days earlier . England were restricted to 204 for 8 , but even that seemed a tall order when Australia lost its top four batsmen with only 48 on the board , Andy Caddick wrecking havoc with all four wickets. Australia was soon reduced to 135 for 8 by the end of 38th over when Bichel walked in , with Michael Bevan still there and Australia 70 runs away and needing to score at near a run-a-ball . " Two days before the game I was not sure if I would be playing the game. But Gillespie 's injury did not heal and the performance against England was something special. " Andy Bichel Australia was in dire need of a partnership , and on the day Bichel could do no wrong. He decided on a counter-attacking approach , easing the pressure with a constant flow of boundaries. Bevan , the master of a tense chase , remained unflustered – milking singles all the while and putting the ball away to the fence when it was in his spot . The duo had added 59 runs and the equation came down to 14 needed off the last two overs , with Nasser Hussain , the England captain , handing the ball to James Anderson for the 49th over of the innings . Bevan took a single off the first ball. Anderson bowled a slower ball next up , and Bichel smashed it over the mid-wicket boundary for a maximum , following it up with a creamed cover drive for four. With just two needed of the last over , Bichel struck another boundary off the fourth ball , completing one of the great all-round feats in history , and carrying Australia to a two-wicket win , which had looked improbable for large parts of the chase . “ Andy Bichel put on a show today with the ball and bat , so it was a great effort. Michael Bevan did his usual , very safe self there , through the middle of the innings. ” Ricky Ponting in the match presentation . What Happened Next England had forfeited its match against Zimbabwe , and though it beat Namibia , the Netherlands and Pakistan , it lost to India by 82 runs and bowed out before the Super Six stage . Australia continued its unbeaten run , and won every match on the way to retaining the trophy , capping a fine tournament with a 125-run win in the final against India. Bichel ended the tournament with 16 wickets and 117 runs from eight matches. Share this article
