69 Days to Go 07/12/14 69 Fletcher leads Zimbabwe to stunning upset in '83 Zimbabwe and Australia at the 1983 World Cup will not just be remembered for Zimbabwe 's first win in an ODI. It will also be remembered for the genius of captain Duncan Fletcher , the man that scripted it , hitting 69 not out and then taking 4 for 42 . Greatest CWC Moment - 69 Days to Go Background Zimbabwe sealed its spot in the ICC Cricket World Cup 1983 after winning the ICC Trophy a year before. The country ’ s first ODI match in history was against a well-established Australian side , with no player having had previous experience of one-day cricket at the highest level. Apart from John Traicos , who played for South Africa in three Tests against Australia in 1969-70 , nobody had played international cricket either. Coming into the match , Zimbabwe was very much the underdog , and no one expected the side to win . The Moment Zimbabwe was asked to bat after losing the toss , and after a steady , but cautious start , it lost both openers to Dennis Lillee off successive balls. When Fletcher walked in , the score was 86 for 4 , and Zimbabwe needed to rebuild . That soon became 94 for 5 , but Fletcher led the recovery with panache , adding 70 in 15 overs with Kevin Curran and then an unbroken 75 in 13 overs with Iain Butchart. Zimbabwe posted a competitive 239 for 6 in its 60 overs , Fletcher ’ s 69 not out off 84 balls the only half-century of the innings . He had only half-done the job though , and there was more to come when Australia batted . " Duncan was able to read the game so well and as a batsman he could change it. He liked to play shots. He could go over the top and he ran well. " John Traicos . Graeme Wood and Kepler Wessels gave the team an adequate start , but Australia eventually slipped behind the required rate. Fletcher dismissed Wood and captain Kim Hughes in quick succession in his first spell to bring Zimbabwe back into the game. He then returned to nip out two more batsmen - David Hookes and Graham Yallop - accounting for the majority of Australia 's middle order. He finished with 4 for 42 in 11 overs. With ten overs left , Australia needed 81. Allan Border 's dismissal with 168 on the board added to the pressure. In the end , the game was done and dusted before the last over , Zimbabwe creating history with a huge upset , winners by 13 runs . What happened next Zimbabwe lost its other games in the tournament , but gave India a scare , reducing the eventual champion to 17 for 5 at one point , before Kapil Dev hit 175 not out for an outstanding rescue act . " It says something that a game in which you got a golden duck and did n't take a catch still rates as one of your favourite days of cricket. That 's how special it was. " Dave Houghton . Australia , on the other hand , managed only two victories in six games in the double round-robin league. It notched one win each against India and Zimbabwe , finishing third in the Group B table , just above Zimbabwe and exiting before the knockouts stage . Share this article
