68 Days to Go 08/12/14 68 Lamb steals unlikeliest of wins in '87 Allan Lamb , who had walked in at No.5 , saw England slip to 162 for 7 , but across a 68-ball stay , he shepherded the chase expertly to lead his side to an improbable two-wicket win over the West Indies . Greatest CWC Moment - 68 Days to Go Background This was the first time the ICC Cricket World Cup was being staged outside England and also the first time the tournament would be a 50-over affair , and the subcontinent was buzzing with excitement. The tournament opener , between Pakistan and Sri Lanka , was a thriller , with Pakistan overcoming a few hiccups but triumphant by 15 runs . hat whet appetites nicely for the second game , which promised to be a blockbuster clash , with an intimidating West Indies outfit taking on England. West Indies was on its way to a comprehensive win until Allan Lamb 's extraordinary hitting changed the course of the entire match as the crowd of upwards of 30,000 spectators at Gujranwala were given a match to remember to start 1987 World Cup with a blast . The Moment The West Indies had made 243 for 7 , and the target wasn ’ t an easy one for England , given the impressive pace battery that the Caribbean side had. Sure enough , England soon found itself in trouble , being six down for 131 and then 162 for 7. Lamb had only the tailenders with him and the target was 82 runs away. Most would have thought the chase a lost cause , but Lamb had other ideas . Nine months earlier , Lamb had pulled off a similar heist against Australia in Sydney , with a last-over win. This time too , he didn ’ t disappoint. He put together vital partnerships with John Emburey and Philip DeFreitas for the seventh and eight wickets , and finally an unconquered one with Neil Foster for the ninth wicket that took the side home . With 35 needed off three overs , Lamb hit Courtney Walsh for 15 runs in an over that went for 16 , and then took a heavy toll of the same bowler in the final over too , sealing victory with three balls to spare. It was Lamb 's extraordinary hitting that gave him 67 not out , and helped England squeeze home in fading light. " But he had this swagger. He loved to hook and cut , and he was a short man , which is why he scored runs against West Indies. And he had this nerveless , tireless way about him. " Lawrence Booth in the 2005 edition of Wisden Asia Cricket . What happened next ? Soon after the match , an inconsolable Walsh , whose final over sealed the deal for England , was walking off even as Richie Richardson tried to pacify him. That the result was achieved with a huge crowd who were thrilled by the unpredictable nature of the match which added to the charm of 50-over cricket ’ s growing popularity . West Indies failed to qualify for the semifinals of the World Cup for the first time , while England went all the way to the final , losing the title clash in a close match against Australia . Share this article
