67 Days to Go 09/12/14 67 John Davison makes history for Canada in '03 West Indies v Canada in 2003 ; fireworks expected from Lara , Gayle and Hooper. Instead , one of the great knocks in World Cup history came from Canadian opener John Davison reaching a century off just 67 balls – then the quickest ever in World Cup cricket . Greatest CWC Moment - 67 Days to Go Background : Canada , one of the Associate nations that qualified for the 2003 World Cup , started its campaign well , beating Bangladesh by 60 runs. However , things went downhill from there with losses against Kenya and Sri Lanka , the latter particularly galling since the Canadians were bundled out for 36 all out . Consequently , fans for its encounter against the West Indies might have been expecting a one sided affair , but with the match was on a Sunday the game still attracted a 10,000 + crowd . None of them would have bargained for what they saw , with Davison – a 33-year-old allrounder born in Vancouver Island who played for Victoria and South Australia before linking up with the Canadian national squad some time before the World Cup – making it an evening to remember . CWC Greatest Moments , 67 days to go : Davison , and Ishwar Maraj , Canada ’ s openers , started cautiously after being asked to bat. But Davison wasn ’ t to be kept quiet for long , taking the attack to Pedro Collins and Mervyn Dillon. Hooper , the West Indies captain , rang in bowling changes as Davison began to shift gears , but Davison continued to make merry , as Canada piled on 93 in the first 11 overs , Davison contributing 71 off those from 41 balls . In only the 19th over , Davison reached his century with a six off Dillon , taking only 67 balls to get there . In the end , it needed an outstanding catch to send Davison back , Vasbert Drakes leaping high to take the ball one-handed while off-balance. It was so good , the commentator thought the ball had actually gone over his head but Drakes clung on to a screamer . Davison ended with 111 off 76 balls in an innings where the next highest score was just 19. He hit 8 fours and six huge maximums . What happened next : Canada collapsed after Davison ’ s departure. On 156 for 2 in 22 overs before he left , the side folded for 202 all out , with Drakes taking a five-wicket haul. As if inspired by Davison , the West Indies batsmen also went on a rampage. Wavell Hinds reached fifty off 24 balls , also the fastest in World Cup history. But Hinds held the record for only five minutes. In the next over Brian Lara two fours and three sixes off Barry Seebaran to better the mark , getting to a half-century in only 23 balls . The West Indies won by seven wickets , reaching the target in just 20.3 overs , but Davison ’ s was the performance that warmed hearts and memories. Fittingly Davison was awarded Man of the Match . Later on in the tournament , he would go on to smash the New Zealand bowlers too , making the third fastest World Cup half-century in the process . Share this article
