Cricket World Cup : Wasim Akram Backs AB de Villiers , David Warner to Shine Cricket World Cup : Wasim Akram Backs AB de Villiers , David Warner to Shine South African batting star AB de Villiers hit the fastest one-day hundred off just 31 balls against the West Indies , barely a month out from the Cricket World Cup and will be key to South Africa landing their first title . Last updated on Thursday , 12 February , 2015 09 : 11 IST Total Shares AB de Villiers has the fastest ODI ton his name © AFP Sydney : Legendary Pakistan paceman Wasim Akram believes dashing batsmen AB de Villiers , Glenn Maxwell and David Warner will dominate the Cricket World Cup during its marathon six weeks. ( Full Coverage ) " I am sure Maxwell , Warner and de Villiers will ignite this World Cup , " Wasim told AFP . " These three players have the firepower to take the game away in a blaze and it would be hugely exciting for the crowds to watch them. " ( Pakistan Ponder Options Ahead of India Clash ) De Villiers hit the fastest one-day hundred off just 31 balls against the West Indies , barely a month out from the World Cup and will be key to South Africa landing their first title . Australians Maxwell and Warner hit belligerent hundreds in the warm-up game against India at Adelaide on Monday to signal what they have in store for the opponents . Wasim said any bowler would dread bowling at these batsmen. ( Winning 2011 World Cup was Priceless : Tendulkar ) " It will be a big challenge for the bowlers , " said Wasim . " I would always go for taking their wickets rather than trying to contain them because if they stay longer they will pose trouble for you. " " Pitch the ball , let it get swing and get them out is my advice. " Wasim said on current form Australia , New Zealand and South Africa are the teams to beat . " For me Australia , New Zealand and South Africa are the top favourites as they have been playing consistent cricket for the last few months and the co-hosts have the advantage of playing in their familiar conditions which for me is a big advantage. " Wasim said the format of the World Cup will allow teams to recover . " I think results of the warm-up games will count for nothing , " said Wasim . " The format of this World Cup is so good that it allows a team to stage a come back even if they lose the first one or two games and from the quarter-finals onwards it will depend on how you play on the day. " Story first published on : Thursday , 12 February 2015 08 : 02 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
