66 Days to Go 10/12/14 66 Hayden goes Huge to claim the record in '07 Matthew Hayden brought St. Kitts to life as he smashed a brutal century against South Africa in 2007 , breaking the record for the quickest hundred in World Cup history by getting there in just 66 balls . Greatest CWC Moment - 66 Days to Go Background South Africa v Australia - the No. 1 ranked side against the No. 2 ranked side - was the biggest and most awaited clash of the tournament. The last time these two sides met in a One-Day International , they played an epic match at the Wanderers stadium in Johannesburg where South Africa chased down Australia 's mammoth 434. The last time they met in a World Cup was in the classic 1999 tied semifinal . In the 2007 edition , both sides had made good starts , defeating Scotland and Netherlands - the other Group A teams - by big margins. In recent head-to-head clashes , each side had won five of the last ten games . The stage was set for yet another close fight , but Matthew Hayden had other ideas . The Moment South Africa opted to field and was very quickly made to regret the decision. Hayden made his intentions clear off the very first ball he faced , driving Shaun Pollock for a boundary down the ground and setting the tone for things to come. Australia got off to a blazing start as Hayden and Adam Gilchrist unleashed carnage from both ends on a flat , dry wicket. The Australian openers split the job between themselves admirably well ; while Hayden targeted Pollock , scoring at more than two runs a ball , Gilchrist went after Makhaya Ntini in a relentless attack on the bowlers . Hayden brought up his half-century off just 36 balls and the openers raced to a century partnership in less than 14 overs. Gilchrist fell for a run-a-ball 42 in the 15th over with Australia on 106 , but the wicket did not stop Hayden from continuing his violent , brutal assault. Fours and sixes continued to rain from his bat , and he reached his century in style with a straight six off Graeme Smith in just the 23rd over. He looked set for a lot more , but fell to Jacques Kallis in the next over , having scored 101 out of Australia 's 167 runs. " This is one of the most wonderful hundreds you 'll see.....Matthew Hayden has played a blinder ! " Mark Nicholas on commentary The highlight of Hayden 's knock were his powerful drives down the ground. Hayden ’ s hundred lowered the World Cup 's fastest century mark set by Canada ’ s John Davison , who got there in 67 balls in the previous World Cup in 2003. If South Africa thought it could breathe a bit easy after Hayden 's dismissal , it was mistaken. Ricky Ponting and Michael Clarke made 91 and 92 respectively as Australia brought up the third highest total in World Cup history as Australia amassed 377 for 6. In their reply Graeme Smith ( 74 ) and AB de Villiers ( 92 ) gave South Africa a chance with a 160-run opening stand , but it fell apart in the middle overs and was all out for 294 in 48 overs giving Australia a comfortable win by 83 runs , as they dominated their group to cruise through to the Super Eights. " We had the right conditions here for a big total , it 's a small ground and a very good wicket. It was sort of premeditated to some degree , but you still have to weigh up the conditions. " Matthew Hayden , on his attacking approach . What happened next Matthew Hayden was granted honorary St Kitts citizenship and a life membership of the Royal St Kitts Golf Club after the match. The two sides met again in the semi-final in St. Lucia , where Australia once again thrashed South Africa. Australia then defeated Sri Lanka in the final to win its fourth World Cup trophy and third on the trot. Hayden finished the tournament as its highest run-scorer , with 659 runs from 10 innings at 73.22 .
