65 Days to Go 11/12/14 65 Khan leads from the front to give Pakistan glory in '92 Pakistan had got off to a poor start in the 1992 World Cup , but turned its fortunes around remarkably. The final was against a well-oiled England side and it was Imran Khan who promoted himself up the order to score 72 as he led Pakistan to the title . Greatest CWC Moment - 65 Days to Go Background Pakistan entered the tournament having already suffered a huge blow , with Waqar Younis , the fastest bowler in the world then , ruled out with a stress fracture. As the tournament got underway , Pakistan won just one of five matches , and was bowled out for 74 by England , with only rain saving the day and giving the side one vital point because of abandonment . With the team down , Imran delivered his famous pep that still reverberates , urging his team to act like “ cornered tigers ” and leading to a complete turnaround in fortunes. Pakistan won its next four matches on the trot – against Australia , Sri Lanka and twice against New Zealand including a semifinal – to seal a date with England in the final . CWC Greatest Moment , 65 days to go Having won the toss , Imran opted to bat , with there being potential for rain and a history that suggested chasing teams didn ’ t fare well in World Cup finals. At the outset , it seemed the wrong choice when Derek Pringle snuffed out Aamer Sohail and Rameez Raja to reduce Pakistan to 24 for 2. It brought the veterans – Javed Miandad and Imran – together. What followed was a textbook reaction to riding the storm. There was no gung-ho attempt to hammer through the tough period. Instead , Imran and Miandad played with restraint to nullify the effects of the new ball. Progress was sedate , and Imran had some luck going his way when he was dropped on nine by Graham Gooch who fumbled an attempt at a running catch . But led by its captain , Pakistan steadied the boat. They had put on 139 for the third wicket when Miandad fell to Richard Illingworth for 58. But Imran stuck around , scoring a 110-ball 72 that laid a crucial foundation. It allowed Inzamam-ul-Haq and Wasim Akram to add 52 in six overs thereafter , boosting Pakistan ’ s total to a healthy 249 for 6. The highlight of Imran ’ s knock was a huge six off Richard Illingworth that landed far back into the stands . “ There was only one guy who was 100 % sure , every time we won or lost any game , that we would win this World Cup. That was our captain. After a while , we thought it wasn ’ t possible because we had to rely on another team losing to qualify for the semifinals. And it happened that way ! It was a dream come true , it was a great moment. ” Rameez Raja What happened next England was reduced to 69 for 4 in its chase , with Mushtaq Ahmed , Aaqib Javed and Wasim Akram accounting for the top four wickets. But England got a much-needed partnership going with Allan Lamb and Neil Fairbrother adding 72 for the fifth wicket. Imran brought back Akram , and it proved to be a masterstroke , with the left-armer delivering one of the great spells in World Cup history. He dismissed Lamb for 31 and had Chris Lewis next ball , swinging the match decisively. Fittingly , Imran claimed the final wicket of Illingworth to seal Pakistan ’ s most famous win. Imran promised that his winnings would go into the creation of a hospital for cancer , in memory of his mother. He then called time on his career , legendary status stamped and sealed. Share this article
