64 Days to Go 12/12/14 64 Last wicket stand pulls off the unbelievable in '75 Andy Roberts & Deryck Murray scripted a brilliant comeback in 1975. The West Indies was down and out at 203 for 9 , still a long way off Pakistan 's 266 for 7. However , a gutsy last-wicket stand scored the 64 runs needed for victory in a remarkable effort . Greatest CWC Moment - 64 Days to Go Background It was the inaugural World Cup and the West Indies was quickly rising as a force to reckon with. In the opening clash against Sri Lanka , the side cantered to a nine-wicket win. The clash against Pakistan , who was without Asif Iqbal , the regular captain sitting out due to an illness , was touted to be one of the high-profile games of the tournament with the sides evenly matches in skill and unpredictability . Pakistan won the toss and decided to bat , putting up a healthy 266 for 7 in 60 overs. All of Majid Khan , Mushtaq Mohammad and Wasim Raja made half-centuries. West Indies didn ’ t get off to a great start , losing both Gordon Greenidge and Roy Fredericks , the openers , cheaply alongwith Alvin Kallicharran , and sound found itself 36 for 3. Clive Lloyd held firm at one end with 53 , but wickets continued to fall around him . The Moment Murray had walked in at 145 for 6 to partner Lloyd , but soon lost his captain with only six runs added to the score. Keith Boyce fell soon after , and Murray found his first ally in Vanburn Holder. The duo added a vital 37 runs for the eighth wicket , taking the West Indies over the 200-run mark before Holder fell for 16 , which marked the entry of Andy Roberts , the last man in . Any hope of victory looked bleak at best , but what unfolded was quite spectacular. With even their teammates resigned to defeat , Murray and Roberts kept chipping away at the target , run by hard-earned run . Pakistan strove hard for the one wicket that would seal the game , but both batsmen batted intelligently , picking out the singles and doubles when available and guarding their wickets . Majid Khan bowled out Sarfraz Nawaz , the most successful bowler of the day who ended with 4 for 44 , in the hope of breaking the stubborn stand , with the result that by the time the match came down to the last over , there were five needed to win and the Pakistan skipper had to turn to Wasim Raja to bowl . A couple of singles were taken off the first two balls , and the third brought two runs towards midwicket. A scurried single off the fourth ball completed the stunning heist , and the World Cup ’ s first truly thrilling finish . What happened next Tom Graveney , the adjudicator of the Man of the Match award , had left early – after the eighth wicket fell – and thus missed seeing the most important part of the match. He consequently gave the award to Sarfraz Nawaz , having thought that Pakistan would complete an easy win . ''We were struggling but at no stage did I think we would lose. I always believed that as long as we were still in the match , whether batting or bowling , we could win. ” Andy Roberts. After that nail-biter though , West Indies didn ’ t leave any more room for close encounters , winning easily on the way to the final , where it beat Australia by 17 runs in a well-fought game , but one in which the Caribbean side was always ahead. In the end , no other game in that World Cup would come close to such a cliffhanger of a finish as the eighth match did , which saw Roberts and Murray become heroes.
