63 Days to Go 13/12/14 63 Styris , the lone ranger , steals the show in '03 In Bloemfontein in 2003 , NZ won the toss and inserted Sri Lanka who put up a dominant 272 for 7. The chase was going to be a stiff one , but it ended up being all about one man as Scott Styris contributed 63 % to his team 's total with a 125-ball 141 . Greatest CWC Moment - 63 Days to Go Background Both teams had had strikingly different runs in the weeks leading up to the event. New Zealand was coming off a seven-match ODI series at home against India that it had completely dominated , to win 5-2 . After missing the first three ODIs , Styris returned in the fourth ODI in Queenstown , and promptly had a splendid week and a half with the ball , though the returns with the bat weren ’ t comparable . Sri Lanka , on the contrary , struggled in the triangular series in Australia that also involved England. It won two games and lost six , and came into the World Cup without the confidence of a winning habit . CWC Greatest Moment 63 Days to Go It was the opening encounter in the World Cup for both teams. Stephen Fleming had won the toss and inserted the opposition on what was thought to be a slow and stodgy pitch at the Goodyear Park in Bloemfontein. Shane Bond struck early for New Zealand and removed Marvan Attapattu for 6. The script completely changed afterwards , however , as Sanath Jayasuriya smashed a 125-ball 120 - the 16th ODI century of his career. His 170-run second wicket stand with Hashan Tillakaratne was the basis of an imposing total of 272 for 7 . New Zealand was dealt a major blow when Nathan Astle was run out in the very first over and at 15 for 3 , the match seemed to be heading in only one direction. But from that point , the New Zealand chase was a one-man show. Styris smashed three boundaries and six sixes , single-handedly steering the course of the match , even as New Zealand kept losing wickets around him. That Chris Cairns 's 32 was the next highest score tells its own story. Styris batted for almost three hours , and was the eventually the last man dismissed , with New Zealand all out for 225 in 45.3 overs , short by 47 runs. That the margin wasn ’ t into three figures was all down to the heroic solo by Styris . " On a pudding of a pitch , New Zealand quickly made a meal of their reply. But from 15 for three , Styris responded in style , crashing 141 in 125 balls , including six sixes , three courtesy of Popeye-forearm slog-sweeps off Muralitharan. " Wisden Cricketers ' Almanack 2004 What happened next New Zealand went on to have a reasonable campaign , winning five games and losing three. Its refusal to tour Nairobi for the fixture against Kenya amidst security concerns gave Kenya the win by walkover. That match probably sealed New Zealand 's fate as despite winning five out of the other seven , it did not make it to the final four . " It 's a hollow feeling , to score runs in a game which is lost. " Styris , refecting on his knock Sri Lanka went a step further and made it to the semi-finals. Kenya caused a famous upset in the Group stage to hand Sri Lanka its first defeat in the tournament. But the 1996 World Cup champion pulled itself together to recover from the loss before Australia brought an end to its campaign with a 48-run win via the Duckworth-Lewis method in the semi-final. Styris had a good run with the bat and finished behind Fleming as New Zealand 's highest run-getter in the tournament , with 268 runs at 53.60. Share this article
