62 Days to Go 14/12/14 62 Bangladesh score first Big Win in '99 In 1999 , Bangladesh , previously winless against a major Test playing nation , stunned Pakistan , who were undefeated in the tournament , by 62 runs at Northampton. The match was a huge occasion for Bangladesh , with the win helping attain Test status . Greatest CWC Moment - 62 Days to Go Background : It its maiden World Cup appearance , Bangladesh had been quickly eliminated in the race to a spot in the Super Sixes stage after losing three of its four league stage matches. Its only victory came against an inexperienced and unfancied Scotland . On the other hand , Pakistan had won all its matches and already stormed into the Super Sixes with a quite brilliant bowling attack shining throughout the tournament and threatening every side with it 's variety and pace . CWC Greatest Moments , 62 days to go Bangladesh had yet to post a total in excess of 200 in its previous four games in the tournament. Put in , Shahriar Hossain and Mehrab Hossain , the Bangladesh openers , confidently raised 69 runs. Akram Khan gave the innings the required impetus , stitching a 50-run partnership with Aminul Isam , the captain. When Akram fell for 42 , Bangladesh quickly lost two other wickets , and the innings seemed to be unravelling after a decent start. However , Khaled Mahmud then struck 27 off 34 balls to prevent a late order collapse , as Bangladesh eventually ended on 223 for 9. A target of 224 shouldn ’ t ordinarily have posed any problem for Pakistan , but Bangladesh found inspiration in Mahmud. He sent back Shahid Afridi , Inzamam-ul-Haq and Saleem Malik as Pakistan stuttered to 42 for 5 in the 13th over . “ It was definitely my greatest day as a cricketer. Facing all those fast bowlers like Shoaib Akhtar , Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis , making runs and then picking up those wickets. If I had performed and we had lost , I would not have been that happy , but winning made it great. ” Khaled Mahmud to Wisden India . Azhar Mahmood and Wasim Akram began the recovery though and pushed Pakistan towards three figures , but when both departed in quick succession , it was all over for Pakistan , and it was soon bowled out for 161 in 44.3 overs. Mahmud was adjudged the Man of the match for his all-round show. What happened next : Bangladesh ’ s first victory against a major Test playing nation triggered massive celebrations , with jubilant fans swarming the outfield. Back home , the streets were lined with festivities and the team were welcomed back like heroes . " It gave us confidence that we can beat Test teams. After the win , we thought , ‘ Yes , we are one step ahead. ’ The confidence of the team went up and the confidence of the entire nation went up. When we won , the country celebrated. Each and every corner across the entire land of Bangladesh started believing that we could win. ” Aminul Islam to Wisden India. The win made a strong case for giving Bangladesh Test status , which it achieved next year , in 2000 . As for Pakistan , it shrugged off the loss to one bad day in office , and though it lost two of its Super Six matches , it had done enough to gain a semifinal spot , where a convincing nine-wicket victory against New Zealand put the side in the final. There , however , it was undone by an even more inspired Australia to succumb by eight wickets in a one-sided title clash .
