61 Days to go 15/12/14 61 Ryan ten Doeschate shows the World his quality in 2011 Despite the Netherlands being very competitive in many games , they failed to win any matches in 2011 , but Ryan Doeschate was luminous , averaging 61 from six matches with two centuries – including one against England – and a fifty . Greatest CWC Moment - 61 Days to Go Background : The Netherlands gained entry into the tournament by virtue of finishing third in the ICC World Cup Qualifiers , but was drawn in Group B – the tougher group for the less-established teams , with both Bangladesh and Ireland also sporting strong outfits , whereas in Group A , the three weaker teams were Zimbabwe , Canada and Kenya. Its opening match was against England , and for a while , it seemed as if the oldest cricket country in the world would come off as the second best in Europe on the day . The Moment Batting first , the Netherlands openers went on the attack from the outset , and even though a couple of wickets fell inside the first 15 overs , the run-rate was healthy. Doeschate , walking in at No.4 , then stepped it up a notch. He arrived in the 12th over and stayed till the 49th , carving out 119 off 110 balls against an attack that boasted James Anderson , Stuart Broad , Tim Bresnan and Graeme Swann . “ Ten Doeschate has made his own luck in this innings. It ’ s been quite a magnificent knock. ” Ian Botham , on air during the century against England . There was no bullying of the Dutch batsmen that day , with the supposed minnow piling on 292 for 6 , and England only squeezing through with eight balls to spare. Doeschate played a part with the ball too , returning 2 for 47 , with the wickets of Ian Bell and Jonathan Trott . The Netherlands may have lost , but Doeschate made a strong statement of just how good the Associate teams could also be in the first week of the tournament . “ The hundred at the World Cup 2011 was pretty special. There ’ s so many tough times in between the good times in cricket and you can get really down on yourself and it can be a lonely sport. That ’ s one thing I ’ ve learnt over the last 4-5 years , when I do well , to really soak the moment in and enjoy it. ” Ryan ten Doeschate to Wisden India Doeschate couldn ’ t sustain his good form against West Indies , South Africa and India , but ended the tournament with a flourish. He stood tall with an unbeaten 53 against Bangladesh , where only four other Dutchmen made it to double figures and none crossed 30 , and ended as he had begun – with a fine century , this time against Ireland. It wasn ’ t enough to prevent another narrow defeat , but Doeschate had certainly made people take notice of his prowess with the bat – not to speak of handy skills with the ball too . What happened next The ODI against Ireland remains the last match Doeschate had played for his country , branching out into many of the World 's finest Twenty20 leagues. He plies his trade across countries and formats , and is a much valued and well-liked figure in dressing rooms from England and South Africa to India , down to Australia and New Zealand . His performances in the 2011 World Cup also helped him win the ICC Associate and Affiliate Player of the Year award for a record third time in 2011 , but there haven ’ t been any international highs since , because he hasn ’ t played international cricket . Share this article
