60 Days to Go 16/12/14 60 Inzamam , the Invincible sees Pakistan to First Final New Zealand hosted Pakistan in the 1992 Semi-Final and were on a roll. The posted 262 but Inzamam Ul-Haq smashed 60 off just 37 balls – described by many as the knock of a lifetime – to steal victory and put Pakistan in the final . Greatest CWC Moment - 60 Days to Go Background : A raw Inzamam-ul-Haq had impressed with his twin centuries in the five-match One-Day International Series against Sri Lanka at home , but the conditions in Australia and New Zealand during the 1992 World Cup had been tough on him. He made only 123 runs in eight league games , but Imran Khan ’ s faith in the match-winning abilities of the boy from Multan remained unshakable , even as Pakistan won only one of its first five matches and qualified for the semi-final with crucial victories towards the end of the league stage. Taken ill , Inzamam pleaded with Imran to drop him from the team for the semi-final , but Imran stood firm . CWC Greatest Moments , 60 days to go Martin Crowe ’ s fine form continued with a quite brilliant 91 , whilst Ken Rutherford made his fourth fifty of the tournament to guide New Zealand to 262 for 7 on a slow surface at the Eden Park in Auckland in the first semi-final of the 1992 World Cup , but a hamstring injury ruled Crowe out of the second half of the game . Under John Wright ’ s captaincy New Zealand looked all right till the 35th over as Pakistan was reduced to 140 for 4 , needing 123 runs in 90 balls – a near-impossible asking rate then. That is when Inzamam-ul-Haq decided to carve a space for himself in history by smashing 60 runs in just 37 balls. His flair ,and Javed Miandad ’ s street-smart approach , formed the fulcrum on which Pakistan scripted the highest-ever successful chase in a World Cup semi-final with an over to spare . Inzamam walked down the track and flicked Gavin Larsen to the fence to open his account , and never looked back after that. His inside-out lofted six above the extra cover fielder brought the 32,439 who had packed the stands to their feet , and when Dipak Patel , the off-spinner who had been miserly in the tournament , was brought back for his last two overs , Inzamam swept him twice to the boundary and shifted the momentum entirely in Pakistan ’ s favour. While Inzamam played his strokes with panache , hitting a total of seven fours and one six , his game awareness was immaculate . “ The spark was provided by Inzi , who played the innings of a lifetime , and Javed was the calming partner in that match-winning partnership , ” Ramiz Raja , who made 44 in the 1992 World Cup semi-final . He shuffled regularly to create odd angles , and he and Miandad ran sharp singles , as the fielders in the 30-yard circle remained busy throughout the fifth-wicket partnership of 87 runs that came in just 10 overs. Miandad , who hadn ’ t been convinced that Inzamam deserved a spot , was so impressed with the 22-year old ’ s cricketing intelligence that he kept patting him on his back till Inzamam was eventually run out , trying one quick run far too many. Miandad and Moin Khan provided the finishing touches to the four-wicket win . That Inzamam played was because of captain Imran Khan , whose motivational discourses in the dressing room had kept a largely young unit charged throughout the competition. Inzamam ’ s decision to take sleeping pills to calm nerves on the eve of the first knockout game of his life backfired. A sleepless night with regular visits to the washroom left him ill and he announced himself unfit on the morning of the match. But Imran , first by himself and then through Aaqib Javed and Mushtaq Ahmed , convinced Inzamam to take the field and bat even if he had to do it in a “ wheelchair ” . “ A lot ’ s been said about the tactics in the field , but I don ’ t go along with that. No one could have foreseen the impact Inzamam would have , ” Ken Rutherford , who made 50 Inzamam obeyed his captain ’ s orders , delivered under pressure and became a household name overnight . What happened next : High on confidence after a career-defining performance in a knockout game , four days later , Inzamam made a 35-ball 42 against England in the final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground that Pakistan won by 22 runs. Imran Khan announced his retirement immediately after that , but his inspiration had heralded a new era in the country ’ s cricket , in which Inzamam played a pivotal role . Inzamam led Pakistan in 31 Tests , 87 ODIs and in their inaugural Twenty20 International. He played in another four World Cups , before retiring in 2007. Share this article
