58 Days to Go 18/12/14 58 Mahela , the Magician in '07 Semi-Final Sri Lanka faced New Zealand in the 2007 World Cup Semi-Final. The occasion provided Mahela Jayawardena , the captain , with the perfect canvas to paint one of his best innings in a World Cup . Greatest CWC Moment - 58 Days to Go Background : Sri Lanka entered the Super Eights with three comprehensive wins in Group B. The ones against Bermuda and Bangladesh were on expected lines , but a heavy 69-run victory against India would have further boosted spirits. However , it began the Super Eights with a loss against South Africa , before showing great character in bouncing back quickly . There followed a strong win against the West Indies , the hosts , a thrilling two-run win against England and a six-wicket win against New Zealand , before a loss against an Australian side on the top of its game. An eight-wicket margin against Ireland restored parity , and Sri Lanka was set to face New Zealand once again in its semi-final . The Moment After winning the title in 1996 , Sri Lanka had endured a disappointing 1999 campaign and a moderately successful one in 2003. Winning the semi-final would give the present side the chance to reprise the heroics of Arjuna Ranatunga ’ s men from 1996 . The dream , however , looked more like a nightmare within the first three overs of the match. Sri Lanka lost Sanath Jayasuriya in quick time and was without Kumar Sangakkara in the 14th over. Out came skipper Jayawardena. With Upul Tharanga going great guns , Jayawardena chose to sit back and watch the fireworks , but once it was his turn to accelerate he did so with ease. His first 50 balls yielded a mere 22 runs. Then he slowly began shedding his cloak of caution , and his next 28 runs came from 16 balls. With no obvious signs of stepping on the gas , Jayawardena created chaos in New Zealand ’ s ranks by delicately putting bowlers away. After Tharanga fell , there were cameos from Chamara Silva and Tillakaratne Dilshan , but it was Jayawardena ’ s innings that well and truly set it up for the Sri Lankans. Delicate with his cuts and punchy with his pulls , Jayawardena surged to his century from 104 deliveries. Sri Lanka scored 102 in the last 10 overs , of which Jayawardena 's contribution was 69 off 35. “ Cometh the hour , cometh the Sri Lankan captain. 28 balls for his second fifty. Just shows how he has pressed on the accelerator button. He has been able to change the pace of his innings. A terrific example of batsmanship in the one-day game. ” Michael Atherton , on air during commentary. He finished unbeaten on 115 with 10 fours and 3 sixes , giving Sri Lanka a winning total. As many as 58 runs of the 109-ball 115 he scored came from boundaries , each of which were worth their weight in gold. What happened next Sri Lanka reached a competitive 289 for 5 , and then bowled New Zealand out for just 208 courtesy a stellar spell of bowling from Muttiah Muralidharan . “ I ’ d probably put this right at the top. This was a World Cup semi-final , ” Mahela Jayawardena . The final was a re-match of 1996 , with Sri Lanka facing Australia , but the Lankans were unable to repeat that triumph , with Australia riding on an Adam Gilchrist century to post a 53-run win via the Duckworth-Lewis method for a third successive World Cup crown . Share this article
