57 Days to Go 19/12/14 57 Last Gasp Bangladesh stun England in 2011 Bangladesh 's looked to be heading to defeat vs England at home in 2011 , but Shafiul and Mahmudullah came together to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat. Needing 57 to win & just two wickets in hand , the duo sent Chittagong into raptures . Greatest CWC Moment - 57 Days to Go Background : In Bangladesh ’ s previous match against the West Indies , the team mustered only 58 all out , while England was also not looking at its best , coming into the match after Ireland came from behind for an upset win. However , given that England had bounced back partly with a narrow win against South Africa , it was clearly the favourite going into this match . Bangladesh too , seemed to be down and out , headed towards another loss , until Shafiul and Mahmudullah made a dramatic last-minute change to the script . CWC Greatest Moments , 57 days to go Bangladesh ’ s bowlers had justified making first use of the pitch to keep England to just 225 all out in 49.4 overs. Eoin Morgan and Jonathan Trott had played well for their 60s , but it was only a par score , even taking the slowness of the surface into account. The onus was on Bangldesh 's batsmen to step up , and they did exactly that for large parts of the chase. Led by a patient 100-ball 60 by opener Imrul Kayes , Bangladesh was cruising at 155 for 3 in the 31st over with Kayes and captain Shakib Al Hasan well set. However , Kayes being run out in the 31st over triggered a collapse and the home team found itself 169 for 8 in the 40th over , losing five batsmen for just 14 runs. In the 10 overs since Kayes fell , the England bowlers tightened up , conceding just 16 runs. With only Mahmudullah and Shafiul , the No. 7 and No. 10 , in the middle , and 57 runs from 62 balls to get , it seemed like an improbable task. But the battle was n't over yet , and the momentum shifted towards the home side in the 42nd over , when the batsmen broke the shackles and smashed Graeme Swann for 16 runs. The equation suddenly came down to 39 from 48 balls , and Bangladesh sensed a real chance once again. The sudden assault on Swann was followed by cautious batting , the duo setting themselves up for a final charge . Bangladesh left the Batting Power Play for the last five overs , with 33 needed off 30. James Anderson began the 46th over with five wides to decisively swing the match away from England , releasing pressure. It was one-way traffic after that. While Mahmudullah continued to operate in singles , Shafiul decided to go after the bowling , hitting two boundaries off Tim Bresnan in the 47th over to all but settle the issue . Mahmudullah completed the formalities two overs later by driving Bresnan through the cover boundary , as the whole of Bangladesh erupted in joy. Mahmudullah remained unbeaten on 21 off 42 balls , while Shafiul stayed undefeated on a run-a-ball 24 , which included four boundaries and the only six of the match. It was only Bangladesh 's second victory in One-Day Internationals against England . The 58-run partnership off 56 balls kept Bangladesh 's World Cup chances alive . What happened next Already buoyed by the win over England , Bangladesh went on to defeat the Netherlands at the same venue. It needed a win against South Africa in its final group match to progress to the quarter-final , but the South Africans proved too formidable , with Bangladesh bowled out for 78 , chasing 285 . On the other hand , England managed to put the loss against Bangladesh behind and defeated the West Indies in its final group match to qualify for the quarter-finals , but that ’ s where it ’ s World Cup ended , with Sri Lanka too tough to get past . Share this article
