55 Days to Go 21/12/14 55 Crowe flies high at 1992 World Cup Martin Crowe was in his element at the 1992 World Cup , leading his team to the semi-finals. Crowe averaged exactly 55 in World Cup , but one of his most memorable innings came in 1992 , a century against Australia in the first game of the tournament Greatest WC Moment - 55 Days to Go Background Australia was not just the defending champion in the tournament , it was also the co-host – and that made the side a strong favourite. The opening clash of the tournament pitted the two co-hosts and neighbours – Australia and New Zealand – against each other. New Zealand boasted a strong line-up , but was not expected to best the Australians – until Crowe stepped in . The Eden Park in Auckland offered a sluggish pitch that was expected to become slower and lower as the game progressed , and New Zealand consequently left out Danny Morrison , the fastest bowler in its ranks. Crowe opted to bat , walking in earlier than he would have liked as New Zealand was reduced to 13 for 2 in the fourth over . To compound matters , Craig McDermot and Bruce Reid , the Australian pacemen , found bounce in the surface , and doubts started to rise on the wisdom of dropping Morrison. It was up to Crowe to play a captain ’ s knock . The Moment Crowe was a batsman in the classical mould , with a vast repertoire of shots and lots of time to execute them – all of which was evident in this innings. His first job was to steady the ship , and he did that , putting on 40 runs with Rod Latham for the third wicket , and then 118 for the fourth with Ken Rutherford. A feature of the knock was his footwork . He picked the length early , and was particularly devastating on the leg-side , employing the back-foot pull with regularity. After he and Rutherford had put the innings back on track , wicket fell regularly , but Crowe carried on. A single off the penultimate ball of the innings to bring up his hundred prompted factions of an enthusiastic crowd to invade the field . Crowe ended unbeaten on a round 100 , a knock punctuated by 11 fours. The innings was as much about class as about showing the stomach for a fight , and with New Zealand putting on 248 for 6 , it had more than a reasonable chance . Crowe wasn ’ t done yet , and he displayed captaincy as excellent as his batting. He had Dipak Patel , the offspinner , open the bowling , and the ploy visibly stifled David Boon and Geoff Marsh , the Australian openers. He then rotated his bowlers so frequently that the batsmen weren ’ t allowed to settle. Boon did make a fine 133-ball 100 , but the other batsmen struggled , so much that Steve Waugh ’ s 38 was the second highest score of the innings. Gavin Larsen returned 3 for 30 as Australia was bowled out for 211 , giving New Zealand a famous 37-run win . “ The Australians started to bowl shorter. That was the innings that changed the game. ” Martin Crowe in Crowe on Crowe in ESPNCricinfo . What happened next Crowe carried on in rich form and had an exceptional tournament , ending as the highest run-scorer in the tournament , with the hundred followed by unbeaten half-centuries against Zimbabwe , the West Indies and England. New Zealand looked on track to make the final , but an Inzamam-ul-Haq whirlwind derailed the side in the semi-final , where it had to bow out . Crowe was among the undoubted stars of the tournament though , with 456 runs at an incredible average of 114 in nine matches . Share this article
