54 Days to Go 22/12/14 54 Fleming 's finest stuns the hosts in 2003 New Zealand faced South Africa in Johannesburg a pool match in 2003. Set a revised target of 226 in 39 overs. Stephen Fleming blazed a stunning century , Nathan Astle 's support act , an unbeaten 54 , was equally important as New Zealand shocked the hosts . Greatest CWC Moment - 54 Days to Go Background New Zealand had reached a point of no return. The team had already decided to forfeit its match in Kenya citing security fears. Although it beat the West Indies , a loss to Sri Lanka in its opening game meant that the match against South Africa was critical in terms of qualifying for the Super Six stage . The Moment Herschelle Gibbs smashed 143 as South Africa posted an imposing 306 for 6 batting first in front of a huge partisan home crowd. Stephen Fleming played perhaps a career-defining innings as New Zealand had reached 182 for 1 in the 31st over when thunderstorms lashed the Wanderers. After the weather cleared , the match was reduced to 39 overs , with New Zealand needing another 44 off 51 balls. Astle proved to be the ideal foil for Fleming , chalking out a measured unbeaten 54 off just 57 balls , to ensure no wobbles for the kiwis in the crucial run chase . By the time he had crashed the winning four off Allan Donald , Fleming had faced 132 balls and hit 21 of New Zealand 's 27 boundaries in their innings. He had never played better and New Zealand celebrated the most famous of victories that would see the hosts soon crash out in the first round . " The New Zealand boys are over the wall. That shows how much it means to the side. The crowd is in shock " Dean Jones sums up the scenes at the Wanderers moments after Fleming hit the winning runs . What happened Next Fleming and Astle shared an unbroken 140-run stand for the second wicket to steer a successful chase. The win was all the more significant given that New Zealand had beaten South Africa just once in 18 previous meetings . " Normally , given South Africa 's reputation for having the wood on New Zealand , they could have expected the Kiwis to have rolled over and given the game away. But this is a focused side , and Fleming has been the inspiration as leader , " Lynn McConnell on ESPNCricinfo . The win meant New Zealand progressed through to the Super Six stage , while South Africa , the host nation , couldn ’ t make it past the group stage . Share this article
