53 Days to Go 23/12/14 53 All-round Botham thwarts the Old Enemy in '92 Australia made a poor start on home soil , losing their first two games. The third match , went its way by 1 run before Australia faced England. It was Ian Botham who came up with an inspired all-round performance , taking 4 for 31 and then scoring 53 . Greatest CWC Moment - 53 Days to Go Background It was the first World Cup played in coloured clothing and Australia was the defending champion and one of the favourites . In its first two matches , New Zealand and South Africa handed Australia 37-run and 9-wicket losses respectively. The third match wasn ’ t a walk in the park either as Australia managed to edge past India by just 1 run . England , on the other hand , had won two out of its three matches with the game against Pakistan abandoned because of rain . It was a crunch game at Sydney Cricket Ground then with both Australia and England trying to improve their chances of qualifying for the semi-finals. Cricket World Cup greatest moments , 53 Days to Go Australia batted first and made steady progress after losing Mark Taylor early with Tom Moody leading the way with an 88-ball 51 . A couple of run outs then thwarted Australia ’ s progress but it was only when Ian Botham returned for his second spell that things changed dramatically in England ’ s favour. Allan Border was bowled for 16 , Neil Fairbrother caught Ian Healy , Peter Taylor was out lbw and from 145/4 , and Australia had slipped to 155/8. Botham ’ s 4/31 – all wickets coming within seven balls – was his best in One-Day International cricket. All Australia managed was 171 . Botham wasn ’ t done though. Opening the batting with Graham Gooch , Botham scored 53 off 77 balls with six hits to the boundary. The two scored 103 runs for the first wicket and when Mike Whitney had Botham caught behind , England was just 65 runs away from an emphatic win. It was also Botham ’ s last half-century in international cricket as he retired soon after the World Cup . What happened next Graham Gooch fell for 58 , but with only a few runs left to score , Robin Smith and Allan Lamb took England past the target with 9.1 overs to spare . The loss to England and then to Pakistan proved crucial as Australia failed to qualify for the semi-final. England , meanwhile , went through all the way to the final , where it lost to Pakistan . Share this article
