52 Days to Go 24/12/14 52 Klusener turbocharges South Africa to victory In 1999 Lance 'Zulu ' Klusener was a man inspired. He started as he meant to go on & in the group stages he slammed an unbeaten 45-ball 52 to lift South Africa from 122 for 8 to 199 , coupled with 3 for 21 to defeat the defending champs Sri Lanka . Greatest CWC Moment - 52 Days to Go Background In the opening game of the tournament , Klusener dismissed three of the biggest names in India 's batting line-up - Sachin Tendulkar , Rahul Dravid and Mohammmad Azharuddin - to restrict it to 254. And though Jacques Kallis 's 96 took South Africa to the brink of victory , it was Klusener ( 12 not out ) , batting at No. 8 , who helped cross the finish line alongside Jonty Rhodes ( 39 not out ) . So when South Africa found itself tottering at 122 for 8 in the 35th over in the next game against Sri Lanka in Northampton , Klusener had an opportunity to showcase his batting temperament and prowess – and he grabbed it with both hands . CWC Greatest Moment , 52 Days to Go Aside from a boundary off Pramodya Wickramasinghe in the 39th over and another one off Sanath Jayasuria in the penultimate over , Klusener dealt solely in singles. It was only during the last over that he cut loose and showed how devastating he could be. 0 , 4 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 6 off Chaminda Vaas propelled South Africa to a competitive 199 for 9 . Kallis and Shaun Pollock then reduced Sri Lanka to 14 for 4 , and it was one-way traffic thereafter , with the defending champion folding for 110 in 35.2 overs. Klusener mopped up the tail , and was declared Man of the Match for his all-round efforts . What Happened Next Klusener was , undoubtedly , the star of the tournament with 281 runs in nine games , dismissed only twice for a whopping 140.50 average scored at a run-rate of more than 7 an over. In eight innings , he only failed with the bat once , against New Zealand when he was out for 4 batting at No. 3. In six of those innings , he contributed a fifth of South Africa 's total runs. On five occasions , he batted at more than a run a ball. And he remained not out six times. He was equally potent with the ball , picking up 17 wickets overall at 20.58. Despite Klusener 's oustanding tournament , it was a bittersweet one as he was at the crease in the semifinal against Australia when a crazy run - with just one run needed for victory - ended South Africa 's campaign as Allan Donald was run out. Klusener was named Man of the Tournament , and as a result , topped the International Cricket Council One-Day International batting rankings , but has often said that he would rather have not played well and won the World Cup instead . Share this article
