51 Days to Go 25/12/14 51 Wonderful Winston proves a Star in '83 West Indies included Winston Davis to face Australia in '83 , because of injuries to Malcolm Marshall and Joel Garner , and he was the star turn , becoming the first bowler in ODI history to take seven wickets in an innings . Greatest CWC Moment - 51 Days to Go Background Both teams had less-than-ideal starts to their campaign. In two major upsets , Zimbabwe , making its first appearance at the event , got the better of Australia by 13 runs , while the West Indies , the defending champion , slumped to a 34-run loss against India. Going into this clash , both sides were in search of much needed momentum. The Moment Put into bat in moist conditions on a Headingley surface that had inconsistent and unpredictable bounce on offer , the West Indies was tottering at 78 for 4 when Larry Gomes and Faoud Bacchus started scripting a fightback with a 76-run fifth-wicket stand. Bacchus struck a timely 59-ball 47 , before inclement weather pushed play into the reserve day , shortly after the stand was broken. Gomes returned to make 78 and was the backbone of the West Indies innings of 252 for 9 . Andy Roberts accounted for Keppler Wessels early. Graeme Wood retiring hurt on 2 after being hit on the head by a Michael Holding delivery meant Australia was on the backfoot. Thereafter , it was a one-man show as Davis had the spotlight firmly trained on him alone . Australia captain Kim Hughes was his first victim , and when it was over , Australia had slipped from 55 for 1 to 151 all out. Davis entered history books with a spell of 10.3-0-51-7 , and the West Indies got its campaign back on track. What happened next The win ensured whatever rustiness remained was shaken off by the Caribbean side , the two-time defending champion once again favourite for the title. West Indies won all its subsequent matches before heading into the final at Lord ’ s against an unheralded Indian side . What followed was historic , with India winning its first World Cup title in what remains the last West Indian appearance in a title clash . On the other hand , Australia failed to make it to the semi-finals , and would have to wait until the next edition for its own breakthrough win . Davis took only one wicket in the next four games he played in , and wasn ’ t part of the playing XI for the semi-final and the final. Share this article
