49 Days to Go 27/12/14 49 Jacobs stands tall to carry bat in 1999 Australia and the West Indies faced off in a Group B clash in 1999 needing a win and Ridley Jacobs , the wicketkeeper-batsman became the first batsman to carry his bat through an innings at the World Cup , ending with an unbeaten 49 . Greatest CWC Moment - 49 Days to Go Background : The 1999 World Cup introduced the Super Sixes stage after the league phase and before the semi-finals. Teams were divided into two groups , and there was a tight race in qualifying for the Super Sixes. The West Indies had done well before this clash , winning three of four matches. Two of those wins were against Bangladesh and Scotland though , and it needed victory against Australia to ensure a spot beyond the league stage . The Moment Glenn McGrath came out in rare form , blowing away the West Indies top order , while Ridley Jacobs , who had opened the innings , stood firm even as wickets continued to tumble. Jacobs shared a 44-run stand for the fourth wicket with Shivnarine Chanderpaul , the only significant partnership of the innings – with Chanderpaul the only other West Indies batsman to get into double figures. However , with McGrath ’ s five-wicket haul complemented by Shane Warne ’ s figures 10-4-11-3 , West Indies could manage only 110 all out in 46.4 overs . In ten editions of the Cricket World Cup , Ridley Jacobs remains the only man to carry his bat through a completed innings . " McGrath got into his stride , collecting three wickets in 13 balls to finish with five for 14 … only Jacobs , the first man to carry his bat through a World Cup innings , got the score to 110. " Wisden Almanack. What happened next : Australia won the match comfortably , but took a ‘ go-slow ’ approach once victory was in sight , taking 13 overs to score the final 19 runs. The tactic was adopted so that Australia would win but West Indies ’ net run-rate wouldn ’ t suffer too much , and was aimed at ensuring the West Indies had a better chance of qualifying than the other team in the fray New Zealand . This was done because teams would carry forward only points against other teams who had qualified , and having lost to New Zealand earlier , Australia wanted West Indies to qualify so that it would get a valuable two points. The tactic was controversial , but Steve Waugh , the captain , defended them , saying winning the World Cup was what mattered most , and this method gave Australia the best shot . It was all in vain though , with New Zealand beating Scotland handily to qualify ahead of West Indies , but a rejuvenated Australian side then didn ’ t lose a single match on the way to winning the title . Share this article
