48 Days to Go 28/12/14 48 When Jonty went airborne and the stumps went flying Pakistan faced South Africa in 1992 and Pakistan 's bowlers restricted South Africa to 211 for 7 , Inzamam-ul-Haq found some form , and was shepherding the chase when he was spectacularly run out by Jonty Rhodes on 48 , and Pakistan never recovered after that . Greatest CWC Moment - 48 Days to Go Background : South Africa was re-admitted to the International Cricket Council in 1991 after the apartheid years and immediately arrangement was made for it to participate in the 1992 Benson and Hedges World Cup. The initial schedule that was structured keeping eight teams in mind was redesigned and the event became a nine-team competition . South Africa made its biggest impact in the first match when it beat Australia , the hosts , by nine wickets. Another win against the West Indies followed and by the time the game against Pakistan , which it had to win to remain alive in the tournament , the team ’ s superlative fielding led by Jonty Rhodes , a hockey player in school , had caught everyone ’ s imagination. Rhodes had taken just two catches in four matches , but the acrobatics he showed in one moment – combined with anticipation and agility – while running out Inzamam-ul-Haq established him as the world ’ s best fielder. The Moment Andrew Hudson ’ s half-century and healthy contributions from Mark Rushmere , Hansie Cronje and Brian McMillan ensured that despite Pakistan ’ s disciplined bowling performance , South Africa posted 211 for 7 after being asked to bat first. Pakistan ’ s chase got off to a steady start before openers Aamir Sohail and Zahid Fazal fell at the score of 50. Inzamam and captain Imran Khan steadied the ship and Pakistan was on 74 for 2 in 22 overs when heavy rain stopped play . Pakistan ’ s target was reduced to 194 in 36 overs and the pair added 61 runs in nine overs after the rain break. Inzamam , sporting Mushtaq Ahmed ’ s jersey , stepped up the tempo with five boundaries and was 48 when Rhodes scripted one of the most memorable moments of the 1992 World Cup . Inzamam , standing just outside the crease , failed to execute a flick shot off Brian McMillan from outside the offstump , and set off for a leg bye but was sent back by Imran. He was late to react though , and Rhodes charged in from point , picked up the ball on the run with his right hand , defied gravity and flew airborne to break the stumps. By the time Inzamam could return back to the crease , Rhodes had uprooted all the stumps and the leg umpire Steve Bucknor immediately raised his finger , ending Inzamam ’ s knock at 48 . Imran was caught behind soon after that and Rhodes took a good catch to send Ijaz Ahmed back. Pakistan managed only 176 for 8 in 36 overs as South Africa emerged victorious by 20 runs . What happened next : Both sides eventually reached the semi-final , but South Africa couldn ’ t progress further , while Pakistan went on to lift the trophy . South Africa established itself as a top fielding side and Jonty Rhodes set a world record for most number of catches in a match by a fielder when he held on to five chances against West Indies in Mumbai in November 1993. Rhodes played his last ODI in the 2003 World Cup and finished with 105 catches. Inzamam retired in 2007 as Pakistan ’ s highest run-getter in limited-over cricket.
