47 Days to Go 29/12/14 47 Ranatunga & De Silva lead Sri Lanka to memorable triumph A first World Cup final for Sri Lanka in 1996 showed how far they had come since their early World Cup efforts. Many gave them no chance in the final , but a combination of an inspired all-rounder and a fiery captain made history for the island nation . Greatest CWC Moment - 47 Days to Go Background : Sri Lanka arrived at the World Cup with not many thinking they could go all the way. It powered through the group stage with wins against Zimbabwe , India and Kenya – and points garnered when Australia and West Indies opted to forfeit matches because they opted not to travel to Sri Lanka – and made it to the quarterfinals . A comprehensive win against England followed , and in the semifinal , India was outplayed , setting the stage for a summit clash against Australia . The Moment Sri Lanka won the toss and decided to field first on a pitch that looked like it would assist seamers early on. The decision was justified when Australia lost Mark Waugh early , but a second-wicket stand of 101 between Mark Taylor and Ricky Ponting put Australia in the driver ’ s seat. A stutter in the middle , however , meant that Australia only got to 241 for 7 , a reasonable score but not a formidable one . Sri Lanka had relied on its fiery opening combination of Sanath Jayasuriya and Romesh Kaluwitharana for cracking starts during the tournament , but both men fell early this time. A 125-run partnership between Asanka Gurusinha and Aravinda de Silva stabilised the innings , but when Ranatunga walked out to join de Silva , his vice-captain , there were still 94 runs required . “ That ’ s it. All the way the boundary for a four. What a victory for the Sri Lankan ’ s. A fantastic effort. Their players are charging out on to the ground. They ’ ve taken out the World Cup. The thing I like about these guys is that they not only win , they also win in style. They play the kind of cricket people want to watch. ” Tony Greig during commentary . De Silva , who had starred with the ball already , was in fluent form and Ranatunga was expected to play second fiddle but Sri Lanka was still not over the hurdle. It was still 93 runs short , and it needed De Silva and Ranatunga to finish it off . Ranatunga was expected to take it easy and play second fiddle to De Silva , but he matched his well-set partner stroke for stroke with typical nonchalance. His unbeaten 37-ball 47 with four fours and a six complemented De Silva ’ s own 107 not out to perfection . “ What a moment. Sri Lanka are world cricket champions. It is a moment that they have been waiting on for years. ” Sunil Gavaskar during commentary . What happened next : Sri Lanka went on to win its first ever World Cup title. It also became the first host nation to win a World Cup. De Silva , expectedly , was named Man of the Match for an incredible all-round show , but Ranatunga reigned as captain supreme . Share this article
