45 Days to Go 31/12/14 45 Dravid & Ganguly partner to World Cup best in '99 Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid batted together for an incredible 45 overs , en route to the biggest partnership in the history of the ICC Cricket World Cup , putting on 318 runs for India against Sri Lanka in Taunton in 1999 . Greatest CWC Moment - 45 Days to Go Background India had reached the semi-finals of the previous World Cup in 1996 , and was the champion when the World Cup was last held in England – in 1983. It had therefore entered the tournament with high expectations , but began badly , with a close loss against South Africa and a three-run defeat to Zimbabwe . A win against Kenya followed , but with matches left against Sri Lanka and England , India needed to get its campaign on track. What followed was almost a perfect day out for the Indians . CWC Greatest Moment , 45 days to go Dravid joined Ganguly in the first over after S Ramesh had fallen with the score 6 for 1. But after that early success , Sri Lanka was made to wait – and chase leather – for 90 percent of the innings , with the Ganguly-Dravid combine adding 318 runs for the second wicket. It remains the highest partnership in World Cup history , and at the time it was the highest partnership in ODI history too – and the first time a batting pair had put on more than 300 in ODIs . Dravid , who would end the 1999 World Cup as the highest run-getter with 461 runs , was into his stride as early as the second over , pummelling Pramodya Wickramasinghe for three fours. Ganguly was not to be outdone , elegantly flicking the ball and memorably stepping out to spinners – including the great Muttiah Muralitharan – to deposit the ball into the stands for seven sixes . “ My batting in that particular knock was probably the most fluent in the one-day game. It was a really good wicket , and a really fast outfield , but right from the time I went in , I felt I was in a really good space. I was middling the ball well , my feet were moving beautifully , my timing was right … and I actually got off to a much quicker start than Sourav did. Generally , the pattern was that Sourav would get off to pretty good starts. ” Rahul Dravid to ESPNCricinfo . Both men had made their Test debuts together at Lord ’ s three summers ago , and reprised their heroics. Dravid completed a hundred to join a select club of those having hit back-to-back world cup centuries. Ganguly powered on to make 183 , the highest individual World Cup score by an Indian , going past the iconic 175 not out that Kapil Dev had hit in 1983 . The partnership ended the only way it could have – via a run-out , with Dravid walking back after a 129-ball 145 in the 46th over. Ganguly continued to hit out , before falling off the penultimate ball of the innings for 183 off 158 , the second highest individual score in World Cup history , behind Gary Kirsten ’ s unbeaten 188 against UAE in 1996 . “ This is terrific. This is tremendous. This is magnificent. This is simply superb. ” Sunil Gavaskar on commentary . What happened next India racked up 373 for 6 – an out-of-sight target in 1999 , and the bowlers knocked Sri Lanka over for just 216 to complete a massive 157-run win against the defending champion. A deflated Sri Lanka didn ’ t make it past the group stage. Robin Singh , who took 5 for 31 , would have been the hero of the day in any other match , but this one was all about the Ganguly-Dravid stand . For India , an equally impressive win against England followed , but in the Super Six , India faltered , with a stirring win against Pakistan offset by losses to Australia and New Zealand to bow out of the competition .
