44 Days to Go 01/01/15 44 When Billy the Kid silenced Lahore Craig McDermott could run through any batting line-up on his day. And that ’ s exactly what happened against Pakistan in the 1987 semi-final in Lahore. He grabbed 5 for 44 to steer Australia to the final . Greatest CWC Moment - 44 Days to Go Background : Australia was considered the underdog ahead of the tournament , but a one-run win over India in the tournament opener boosted the side ’ s morale. The Allan Border-led team went on to win four of its next five group matches , with McDermott one of the standout performers. But the Australia players would have been aware all that counted for very little against Pakistan in the semi-final. The Imran Khan-led side was even more dominant , topping its group with five wins in six games. Moreover , the match was in Lahore so every spectator was hoping and praying for a Pakistan victory . After winning the toss , Australia justified Border ’ s decision to bat first and a 73-run opening stand between Geoff Marsh and David Boon set the tone. Saleem Malik 's direct hit ran out Marsh , but David Boon and Dean Jones added 82. When they too fell in quick succession , Border and Mike Veletta kept the innings chugging along before a late flourish from Steve Waugh took Australia to 267 for 8. CWC Greatest Moments , 44 days to go After Ramiz Raja was run out in the first over , McDermott cleaned up Mansoor Akhtar for 9. Malik then played across the line , spooning the first ball of Waugh 's spell to McDermott at extra cover , to leave Pakistan tottering at 38 for 3. However , Javed Miandad and Imran Khan forged a 112-run stand for the fourth wicket. When Imran fell for 58 , Pakistan needed another 118 runs in 15 overs. It had six wickets in hand and the crowd was cheering every run with wild abandon , but Border had an ace up his sleeve in McDermott . The Queensland pacer , bowling fast and accurately , knocked over Wasim Akram for 20 to stun the crowd into pin-drop silence. And when Miandad was bowled by Bruce Reid in the 44th over , only the last three wickets remained with Pakistan still 56 runs adrift. McDermott had the satisfaction of delivering the knockout blow , dismissing Saleem Yousuf , Saleem Jaffar and Tauseef Ahmed , all caught behind , to help Australia win by 18 runs . " We were dubbed the worst team in Australian history to have left the shores , but we were well prepared because we had been to India the year before. I bowled pretty well in the semifinal , and the ball started to reverse a bit in my second spell. I picked up three or four nicks and we won the game. We fielded well on top of some good batting. We deserved to win that game , and at the end of the game we were all flying. Beating Pakistan in Lahore in front of a full house was just unbelievable. " McDermott to ESPNCricinfo. What happened next : Imran ’ s dreams of winning a World Cup at home were dashed. McDermott , meanwhile , was adjudged Man of the Match for his superb bowling performance , which was incidentally the first five-wicket haul of the tournament . " 40,000 people in the stadium and when I took the last wicket , there was n't a sound. It was deadly silence. The whole day those 40,000-odd people kept blowing the horns and whistles and kept screaming , but when I took the last wicket to fall , it was pin drop ( silence ) . They were shattered , the whole country was shattered. " Craig McDermott He also finished the tournament as the leading wicket-taker with 18 scalps and Australia beat England by seven runs in the final , winning its maiden World Cup title .
