Cricket World Cup : Pakistan Coach Waqar Younis Hopes Struggling Younus Khan Comes Good Cricket World Cup : Pakistan Coach Waqar Younis Hopes Struggling Younus Khan Comes Good Veteran Pakistan batsman Younus Khan has managed just 1 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 25 and 19 in the six matches Pakistan have played since arriving in New Zealand last month . Last updated on Thursday , 12 February , 2015 13 : 44 IST Total Shares Younus , Pakistan 's most experienced batsman , has been in the middle of poor form © AFP Sydney : Pakistan coach Waqar Younis on Thursday backed senior batsman Younis Khan to return to form in the Cricket World Cup despite a worrying slump . The 37-year-old has managed just 1 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 25 and 19 in the six matches Pakistan have played since arriving in New Zealand last month. ( Pakistan Ponder Options Ahead of India Clash ) Younis was not in the selectors ' planning for the World Cup but the veteran hit a hundred in the 3-2 defeat against New Zealand in the United Arab Emirates in November last year and forced his way into the 15-man squad . " I think the pitches in Australia and New Zealand are challenging and initially batsmen struggle here but he is a senior batsman. We need him to get into the right kind of form soon. I am confident that he will come into that soon , " said Waqar. ( Clarke to Miss World Cup Opener vs England ) If Pakistan persist with Younis they have to drop either of their two talented youngsters , Umar Akmal or Sohaib Maqsood . It will be a tough decision as Younis has passed 50 just twice in his three previous World Cups . Pakistan lost both their warm-up games before their recent New Zealand series and then were defeated in both one-day internationals against the Black Caps . They found themselves a bowler short after spinning all-rounder Mohammad Hafeez was unable to bowl due to a suspension for an illegal action last year . " It 's difficult to find the right combination. We will sit down in the next three days and see. Still , there are three more days to go before the big one , " said Waqar . The big one , of course , is Sunday 's sell-out World Cup blockbuster against India in Adelaide . " India has always been a tough opponent , we are not going to take it easy. We will wake up that morning in a positive frame of mind and try to give our best. " Pakistan go into the game having lost all five of their World Cup clashes against their neighbours at the World Cup . But Waqar said wins in the World Cup warm-up games over Bangladesh and Pakistan this week will give his team much-needed momentum , without reading too much into it . " Look , these are just warm-up games and one must not draw conclusions from here. But we must take positives , they have given us the right kind of momentum. " Waqar described the World Cup as an " open " competition . " You can judge this World Cup to be very open , some teams are in good form , some are getting into the groove. So , it can be anybody 's cup , " said the Pakistan coach . " Cricket is such a game. What happened in 1992 ( Pakistan winning the World Cup ) can happen again. That 's the beauty of cricket. " Story first published on : Thursday , 12 February 2015 12 : 10 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
