News On Eve of Cricket World Cup 2015 , Nawaz Sharif Tells Narendra Modi he Wants 'Acche Din ' for Pakistan On Eve of Cricket World Cup 2015 , Nawaz Sharif Tells Narendra Modi he Wants 'Acche Din ' for Pakistan India and Pakistan are set to battle it out on the cricket field during World Cup 2015. In the political sphere though , Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Nawaz Sharif bonded over the rivalry and fondly remembered past clashes . Last updated on Friday , 13 February , 2015 15 : 00 IST Total Shares India and Pakistan play each other at Adelaide this Sunday. As usual , tensions are high and expectations have sky-rocketed in the sub-continent . © AP Cricket has always been a great leveler and India Prime Minister Narendra Modi is riding the game 's virtues at a time when political relationship with Pakistan have been on a low in recent times. Ahead of a crucial World Cup 2015 match between the arch-rivals , Modi reached out to his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif and the two shared cricket jokes to break the ice . India and Pakistan play each other at Adelaide this Sunday. As usual , tensions are high and expectations have sky-rocketed in the sub-continent. None of that though was evident when Modi called Sharif on Friday , said sources to NDTV. In the past several political heads in Pakistan have used cricket to sweeten relationship with India . On Friday , Modi is learnt to have referred to the 1987 Reliance World Cup ( co-hosted by India and Pakistan ) when then chief minister of Punjab Province , Sharif walked out on the field to make his presence felt. Ironically , Imran Khan - Sharif 's main political rival now - was the captain of the national team then and the Pakistani Premier fondly remembers the days. " Kassh voh acche din fir vaapas aa jaate ( If only those good days could come back again ) , " he replied to Modi. ( Chance For Pakistan to Create History , Says Moin Khan ) Both Modi and Sharif are avid cricket fans. While Sharif has personally attended several important cricket matches in the past , Modi has given a special impetus to development of sports in India. He , on Thursday , even wished MS Dhoni and his players in a series of tweets. Modi was also in Australia for a diplomatic meeting recently and had former cricketers Sunil Gavaskar , Kapil Dev and VVS Laxman by his side . " Cricket is a sport loved by both our countries and the sport can bring us closer together , " he had said at the iconic Melbourne Cricket Ground. Modi has been the president of Gujarat Cricket Association , a position he relinquished to his trusted lieutenant Amit Shah last year . On Sunday though , it will be the turn of Adelaide Oval to grab the spotlight as India and Pakistan begin their World Cup campaign against each other. Both teams have been in iffy form but India have the advantage of having never lost to Pakistan in the history of the tournament . " Both countries have suffered recent losses but going by past records in World Cup , I would have to side by India , " Gavaskar told NDTV in an exclusive chat recently . While Modi may be hoping for World Cup Down Under to bring peace and prosperity in the sub-continent - he also called leaders of all SAARC nations participating Down Under to wish them luck -- the India vs Pakistan match will surely be a bitter contest on an off the field . Tickets to the match were sold out in under 20 minutes and both India and Pakistan can bank on massive support courtesy a sizeable diaspora based in Adelaide . Story first published on : Friday , 13 February 2015 13 : 26 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
