World Cup 2015 : Steven Smith 's Form Wo n't Last Forever , Says Steve Waugh World Cup 2015 : Steven Smith 's Form Wo n't Last Forever , Says Steve Waugh Steven Smith has enjoyed a record-breaking season with the bat , scoring four centuries in four Tests against India and also reaching three figures twice in the one-day internationals in the past six months . Last updated on Friday , 13 February , 2015 15 : 42 IST Total Shares Smith has averaged 57.53 since he returned to the ODI side in August . © AFP Melbourne : Former captain Steve Waugh has cautioned Australia against expecting Steve Smith 's endless summer of run-scoring to continue during the upcoming ICC World Cup . Smith has enjoyed a record-breaking season with the bat , scoring four centuries in four Tests against India and also reaching three figures twice in the one-day internationals in the past six months . His man-of-the-series performance against India lifted his Test average for the past 12 months to 86.57 , while he 's averaged 57.53 since he returned to the ODI side in August. ( Australia vs England Preview ) All this despite carrying the added burden of the captaincy for most of the summer - he registered scores of 133 , 28 , 192 , 14 , 117 , 71 and 102 not out. ( Anderson Rules Out Sledging War With Warner ) But Waugh has warned that Smith 's incredible form wo n't last forever . " He has had an exceptional start and you have to remember that sport is ups and downs , " Waugh told News Corp. ( Allan Border Tells Australia to Absorb Pressure of Playing at Home ) " You will not always be scoring runs or winning as a captain. We do n't want to be too carried away with what he has been doing but he 's led with incredible maturity for a young guy. " Waugh said Australia are rightly one of the favourites for the six-week tournament , which gets underway Saturday. ( Clarke Feared His Career Was Over ) The two-time World Cup winner said Australia 's depth of fast-bowling strike power gives them an edge over other teams in the tournament and could lead them to a record fifth world title . Australia 's 15-man squad includes four frontline quicks - Mitchell Johnson , Josh Hazlewood , Mitchell Starc and Pat Cummins - along with seam bowling allrounders Mitchell Marsh , James Faulkner and Shane Watson . Waugh said this gives the Aussies a distinct advantage . " If someone like David Warner hits a purple patch he could win the World Cup by himself , " said Waugh. ( Bailey Unfazed by Losing Captaincy ) " We have a fantastic stable of bowlers with the amount of quicks around and when you have match-winning bowlers you are going to win a lot of games. We are in pretty good shape. There 's no reason why we ca n't win this World Cup. " Story first published on : Friday , 13 February 2015 14 : 33 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
