18 September 201409 : 35 Around the wicket with : Mitchell Johnson With over 200 One Day International scalps and a slinging action that regularly pushes the 150 km/hour barrier , Mitchell Johnson is one of the most feared and respected bowlers in the world . Share this article : Mitchell Johnson will be hoping to add to his 10 ICC Cricket World Cup wickets at # cwc15 He was a star for Australia in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 with 10 wickets from seven matches at an average of 23 , now he hopes to replicate that form on home soil in 2015 We went around the wicket with Mitchell Johnson to ask him six quick questions about the ICC Cricket World Cup and what we can expect to see in Australia and New Zealand next year . Q : What venue are you looking forward to seeing in action # cwc15 ? A : It ’ s a tough one because all the venues in Australia are outstanding venues. I really can ’ t go past the GABBA and WACA but I think the Melbourne Cricket Ground is going to be electrifying. I think that is the one stadium that the guys are most excited about playing at – I definitely am . Q : What is your favourite ICC Cricket World Cup memory ? A : I remember watching the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 semi-final at the Cricket Academy on TV. The most memorable part of that match was the last ball , when Lance Klusener hit the ball and Allan Donald was at the other end. Donald didn ’ t run , Klusener ran. Damien Fleming got the ball and rolled it to Adam Gilchrist who took the bails off to get them through to the final . Q : What will it mean to play an ICC Cricket World Cup on home soil ? A : Any game you play for Australia is a real honour. When you put on those colours you know it is going to be an exciting game. In the last few years there has been some really exciting games that I have been involved in and I just can ’ t wait to play in another World Cup. Hopefully we can do really well and win in front of our home fans . Q : Who do you think are going to be the Australia players to watch at # cwc15 ? A : I think Steve Smith is one guy that has improved out of sight recently. He ’ s always had the talent but he ’ s become more mature and is starting to know his game a lot better. I ’ ve played against him and I ’ ve played with him , I just think he ’ s a great kid and I ’ m looking forward to watching him play . I ’ ll be biased here and say watch the bowling group this World Cup. We have been performing well together. There might be a few new faces in there but I think you are going to see the same kind of stuff we did last summer at home . Q : Which teams will be the biggest challenge to Australia at # cwc15 ? I think New Zealand , they ’ ve got a very well-balanced side. They ’ ve always got a great fielding team , I think their bowling attack is right up there. They have some good left-armers and a lot of experience , they ’ ve played a lot together now so in their home conditions they will be a strong contender . I don ’ t think you can go past South Africa either. They have a great bowling attack and batting line-up with plenty of players in the top ten. The only thing for them is having a new captain , obviously with Graeme Smith not being there. So I think they will be tough opposition as well . Q : Your moustache was one of the standout fashion features of last summer – will you bring it back in 2015 ? A : I ’ m not sure yet – I ’ ve got to leave that up to the fans and see what they want. At the moment I have a bit of a goatee , if it ’ s not good enough I might have to go back to the moustache – we ’ ll soon find out ! Do you think Mitchell Johnson can be a star for Australia at # cwc15 ? Join the conversation and let us know by using # cwc15 Share this article :
