20 October 201423 : 56 New Zealand v South Africa - Preview in numbers South Africa is ranked higher , but New Zealand has the home advantage and a recent away series win Share this article : Quinton de Kock has scored five centuries in his first 19 ODIs . South Africa will begin its ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 preparations with a three-match One-Day International series against New Zealand , with the first match taking place on Tuesday ( October 21 ) . While South Africa is the second ranked ODI team in the world , New Zealand is at the seventh spot on the Reliance ICC Rankings for ODI teams. Additionally , South Africa has three batsmen - AB de Villiers , Hashim Amla and Quinton de Kock - and two bowlers - Dale Steyn and Ryan McLaren - in the top 10 ODI rankings . Crucially the visitors will be eyeing more than just good preparation in the conditions they will face next year , but also a 3-0 series win , which would put the Proteas into first place on the Team Rankings table . The first two ODIs will be played at the Bay Oval in North Island 's Mount Maunganui , while the third will be played at the Seddon Park in Hamilton . 21 : The ODI series begins on the 21st of October , the earliest ever start to a New Zealand home international series . 58 : The two teams have played 58 ODIs against each other , with South Africa leading 34-20 with four no-results . 2-1 : The score to New Zealand when the sides last met – in a three-match series in South Africa in January 2013 . 9-7 : New Zealand ’ s lead in ODIs between the sides played in New Zealand. There have also been two no-results . 3 : New Zealand has beaten South Africa in each of the last three ICC Cricket World Cup tournaments – at Johannesburg in 2003 when Stephen Fleming inspired his side to a 9 wicket win , at St George ’ s when Craig McMillan ’ s all-round effort saw a 5 wicket win and most recently in the Quarter-Finals in Mirpur where Jesse Ryder ’ s 81 and Jacob Oram ’ s 4 wickets saw a stunning 49 run win . 1 : This is New Zealand ’ s first ODI at the Bay Oval at Mount Maunganui . 4 : The catches needed by Brendon McCullum to reach 250 in his ODI career . 51 : The runs needed by Nathan McCullum to reach 1000 in his ODI career . 1 : AB de Villiers ' position in the ICC ODI Batting Rankings. He averages 73.75 with a strike-rate of 116.60 in his last 16 matches 5 : Quinton de Kock ’ s centuries in his first 19 ODIs – two more than anyone else in the same period of time as the left-handed wicket keeper batsman has started his career with a bang for South Africa . 54.36 : Hashim Amla ’ s batting average – the highest of anyone in ODI history with at least 30 completed ODI innings . 6 : Faf du Plessis ’ scores of more than fifty in his last nine ODI matches , including stunning Man of the Tournament efforts in South Africa ’ s triumph in the Triangular series against Australian and Zimbabwe last month . 32 : Dale Steyn ’ s wickets in his last 13 ODIs to move up to third place in the world in the Reliance ICC Player Rankings . 35 : Ryan McLaren ’ s wickets in his last 18 ODIs as the right arm seamer has become an attacking threat for the Proteas . 159.39 : Corey Anderson ’ s strike rate in his 12 ODIs to date , the left-hander holds the record for the fastest ODI century in history following his remarkable effort against West Indies on January 1st this year in Queenstown . 27 : The matches it took Shane Bond to reach 50 ODI wickets , which is a New Zealand record. Mitchell McClenaghan has so far taken 48 wickets in 22 matches and could break his now bowling coach ’ s record . 115 : The number of days to New Zealand ’ s opening game in the ICC Cricket World Cup from the morning of the first game. New Zealand ’ s first game is also the tournament ’ s opening match as they face off against 2011 finalists Sri Lanka in Christchurch in Pool A . Share this article :
