13 November 201404 : 31 Greatest Mustachioed World Cup XI As it ’ s November and men across the world are partaking in the annual tradition of growing moustaches throughout the month , we delved into the archives to bring you the greatest mustachioed World Cup XI of all time ! Share this article : David Boon is our pick to open the batting for the Greatest Mustachioed World Cup XI 1 : David Boon ( Australia ) ‘ Boony ’ is one of the most iconic Australia players of all time , and it wasn ’ t just for his powerful strokeplay and uncompromising attitude. His bountiful , overflowing moustache was as big a feature of Australia cricket in the late 80s and early 90s as the canary yellow strip. On the field , he is an easy pick to open the innings with a World Cup batting average of 54.33 . 2 : Mark Greatbatch ( New Zealand ) As a pioneering pinch hitter , Greatbatch set the 1992 tournament alight with 13 sixes in his tally of 313 runs from seven matches. His moustache was text-book. Manicured to the edge of the lip-line with a tinge of ginger to make it stand it out from the pack. Along with David Boon , the stocky ANZAC pair would make for one of the most intimidating opening partnerships in World Cup history . 3 : Peter Kirsten ( South Africa ) Following the explosive opening pair , the calm , methodical Peter Kirsten is the perfect pick at first-drop. Although he sported a finely trimmed ‘ mo ’ for the majority of his 25-year first-class career , it wasn ’ t until the ICC Cricket World Cup 1992 where the world got to see it in all its glory. More impressive though was Kirsten ’ s form in the middle , where he hit 410 runs at an average of 68.33 during the 1992 tournament . 4 : Javed Miandad ( Pakistan ) This team would not be complete without the presence of Pakistan legend and World Cup veteran Javed Miandad. The best thing about Miandad ’ s prodigious upper lip growth was that he often refused to wear a grill on his helmet , meaning there was plenty of opportunities for fans to savour the sight. As a batsmen , Miandad is the seventh highest World Cup run-scorer of all time with 1083 runs . 5 : Graham Gooch ( England ) There was no mistaking Graham Gooch , with a moustache that sometimes extended all the way to his jawline , he was a standout feature of the England team in the 1980s and 1990s . As a batsmen , there weren ’ t many better and Gooch saved his best for the World Cup. In 21 World Cup matches , he piled on 897 runs at an average of 44.85 to lead England to the final in both 1987 and 1992 . 6 : Clive Lloyd ( West Indies ) Captain West Indies great Clive Lloyd was all business on the field and so was his moustache. Thick and bristling , it was an intimidating sight , and unlike others on this list , remains on his face to this day . As a leader , Lloyd led West Indies to two ICC Cricket World Cup titles ( 1975 and 1979 ) and is the first choice to lead the Greatest Mustachioed XI . 7 : Ian Botham ( England ) As one of the most dynamic all-rounders of the 1980s , Botham breezes into this line-up on the back of match-winning ability and sublime upper-lip growth . While terrorising cricketers with his aggressive batting and bowling , Botham ’ s moustache was made to look all the more impressive when coupled with a curly mullet . In World Cup play , Botham picked up 30 wickets at an average of 25 , while his always dangerous batting , yielded 297 runs at 18.56 . 8 : Kapil Dev ( India ) As skipper in 1983 , Kapil Dev led India to its first World Cup title and did it all with one of the most memorable examples of upper-lip growth in World Cup history . Along with captaining and opening the bowling for India , Dev set the 1983 tournament alive with a stunning 175 not out against Zimbabwe . 9 : Richard Hadlee ( New Zealand ) No list of cricketing moustaches would be complete without New Zealand ’ s own piece of cricketing royalty – Sir Richard Hadlee . Sir Richard was all class on the field , and this was reflected in the quality of his moustache – manicured and unruffled. In 13 World Cup matches , Sir Richard notched up 22 wickets at an average of 19.14. Extra kudos goes to Sir Richard for maintaining his moustache to this very day . 10 : Mushtaq Ahmed ( Pakistan ) When selecting a spinner for this line-up , only one name sprung to mind – Mushtaq Ahmed . With a bounding action , Mushtaq Ahmed was a stand-out for Pakistan in 1992. He starred in the final against England , bagging 3/41 as Pakistan lifted the trophy for the first time. In 15 World Cup matches , Mushtaq Ahmed finished with 26 wickets at an average of 21.12 . 11 : Merv Hughes ( Australia ) The final spot in the line-up is reserved for the man with the largest amount of growth – Merv Hughes . His bowling was all intimidation , and so was his thick handle-bar moustache. Covering almost half his face , it was a sight to make even the strongest of batsmen quiver as he approached the crease . Although his World Cup career was restricted to just one appearance , against India in 1992 , his legendary facial growth was enough to secure a berth in this line-up . Coach : Warren Lees ( New Zealand ) As New Zealand coach in 1992 , ‘ Wally ’ introduced a number of innovative tactics to lead New Zealand through to the top of the round-robin phase. With a moustache that inspired his team onto great things in 1992 , Lees is the obvious choice to lead this pack of mustachioed cricketing heroes ! Let us know who you would select in your team by using # cwc15 Share this article :
