13 November 201421 : 24 Rohit Sharma – World Record Breaker The first man to score two ODI double hundreds also owns the record for the highest total in 50-over international cricket Share this article : Rohit Sharma became the first man in the history of ODI cricket to score two double centuries . Much like he has throughout his short career , Ajinkya Rahane had been making the most of his limited opportunities at the top of the order in One-Day International cricket , and had already forged a successful and consistent opening partnership with Shikhar Dhawan in Rohit Sharma 's injury-forced absence. And so , naturally , Rohit 's place as opener in ODI cricket was no longer secure. He had to make an impact to regain the faith of the selectors and the captain , and make the place his own. He had the opportunity on Thursday ( November 13 ) when India opted rest Dhawan in the fourth ODI against Sri Lanka , and Rohit made the most of it . Rohit came up with a mesmerising display of batting , the likes of which ODI cricket has n't been witness to. Not only was he responsible for re-writing several pages in ODI cricket history , he also chose the grandest stage on offer in Indian cricket - the Eden Gardens in Kolkata. It was the 150th anniversary of the ground and Rohit chose the most special of occasions to tonk Sri Lanka 's bowlers all across the park and leave the crowd transfixed on his way to becoming the first batsman to score two double centuries in ODI cricket . Here 's a look at some of the records created on Thursday - - Rohit 's 264 is now the highest individual score in ODI cricket. The previous record , also held by an Indian , belonged to Virender Sehwag , who struck 219 against West Indies on December 8 , 2011 in Indore . - By virtue of this knock , Rohit became the first man in history to score two double centuries in ODI cricket. Sachin Tendulkar ( against South Africa in 2010 ) and Sehwag have both achieved the feat once . - This was also the highest score in ODI cricket - men and women. The previous record was held by Australia 's Belinda Clark , who scored an unbeaten 229 against Denmark in Mumbai on December 16 , 1997 . - This is the second highest score in any List A match , worldwide. The record is held by Ali Brown , who scored 268 for Surrey against Glamorgan at The Oval in 2002 . - Rohit struck an astounding 33 fours and nine sixes during the course of his knock - a total of 186 runs in boundaries , also an ODI world record. Shane Watson 's 150 runs in boundaries for Australia , against Bangladesh in Mirpur in 2011 was the previous highest. In addition to that , the 33-four tally also surpassed the ODI record for the highest number of fours in an innings. 25 was the previous highest - a record jointly held by Tendulkar and Sehwag . Rohit Sharma , 264....World Record Breaker ! Is that the greatest ODI innings of all time ? # RohitSharma # INDvSL pic.twitter.com/mz4TD4n31G Here is a look at the progression of the record - DATE
