12 December 201408 : 52 Around the wicket with Damien Fleming As one of the world ’ s premier swing bowlers of the 1990s , Damien Fleming was a regular feature of Australia ’ s pace-attack and a key member of its World Cup-winning 1999 campaign . Share this article : Damien Fleming was a key performer in Australia 's 1999 World Cup success Along with picking up 26 scalps in 16 World Cup matches , Fleming will also be remembered as the bowler at the centre of the famous tied semi-final between Australia and South Africa in 1999 . We went around the wicket with Fleming to ask him six questions about Australia ’ s success at the ICC Cricket World Cup and what to expect at # cwc15 . What is your favorite World Cup memory as a player ? The World Cup final in 1999. We were playing Pakistan and won comfortably. The highlight was celebrating with all the Aussie fans at Lords. About two hours after that , we went to the pitch and took the Trophy with us. We were all arm-in-arm singing the team song . What venue are you most looking forward to seeing in action during # cwc15 ? The final ! It ’ s at my home-ground the MCG with 100,000 thousand people. Hopefully Australia will be there , and maybe the Kiwis will be there too. An Australia-New Zealand final would be huge . Who are the Australia players to watch at # cwc15 ? From the left of centre , we have Glenn Maxwell who they call the Big Show. He smashes the ball all over the park and can find the boundary batting anywhere in the order. He ’ s a handy off-spin bowler and probably our best fielder too. He ’ s a dynamic player. Then you have David Warner and Shane Watson who are match-winners too . Who is your dark-horse for the World Cup ? With their home games , I would be disappointed if New Zealand did not make the semi-finals. You can ’ t count out Sri Lanka either. You put on a World Cup event and they just seem to make the semi-finals or final. Can South Africa make a World Cup final ? Could this be the tournament for them ? Who do you think will be the star batter and bowler in the tournament ? Batting wise , I think AB De Villiers will be the top run-scorer , as long as they play enough games in the tournament. He ’ s an incredible player in all three forms , he can play the accumulator role to begin then he can finish off the innings strongly with sixes over point and square leg – he can hit 360 degrees . With the ball , it ’ s got to be Mitchell Johnson. His ODI record is incredible , his pace , swing and variety makes him the bowler of the tournament for me . If you could pick from all the greats , who would be your opening bowling partner ? It would be Dennis Lillee. He was the reason I played cricket in the first place. And in my top-three bowlers of all-time is Sir Richard Hadlee and his idol was Dennis Lille – so that ’ s good enough for me ! Damien Fleming ICC Cricket World Cup record : Tournaments : 2 ( 1996 , 1999 )
