18 December 201408 : 44 World Cup race wide open : Border and Waugh The race for cricket ’ s greatest prize is wide open , according to two former ICC Cricket World Cup-winning captains . Share this article : Allan Border and Steve Waugh both captained Australia to World Cup success Speaking ahead of next year ’ s tournament , Steve Waugh and Allan Border both predicted at least six teams were capable of taking home the coveted trophy . “ It ’ s going to be a great tournament , I think it will be the most open World Cup for 20 years , ” Waugh , who led Australia to victory in 1999 , said . “ I think there ’ s probably six to eight teams that could win it and that will mean evenly contested games , really good quality cricket. ” Border , captain of the 1987 champion Australia team , agreed. He said with so many sides in the running , fans could be assured of blockbuster games throughout the tournament . “ Realistically there ’ s probably half a dozen of the sides that will have a chance to win the tournament so there will be a lot of important games played throughout the six or seven weeks ” Border said . If the ICC ODI team rankings are anything to go by , the former Aussie skippers are spot on . Australia and India are neck and neck at the top of the ODI rankings as of December 17 , with Sri Lanka and South Africa nipping at their heels . Waugh believes having the home ground advantage could be both a blessing and a curse for Australia and New Zealand . Waugh , a member of Border ’ s team the last time the tournament was played in Australia and New Zealand in 1992 , said all of the encouragement a home crowd offered also brought with it a great burden . “ We certainly did ( feel the pressure ) after we lost the first game to New Zealand , ” Waugh said , referring to the unexpected start to the 1992 tournament at Auckland ’ s Eden Park . New Zealand came into the World Cup off the back of a series loss to England while Australia were the reigning 1987 champions and red-hot favourites . But that was before Martin Crowe scored an unbeaten century and Gavin Larsen took 3-30 to help New Zealand to a 37-run , upset win . “ We thought ‘ hang on , there ’ s a bit of pressure now ’ because we didn ’ t expect to lose that game over in Auckland , ” Waugh said . “ At that time we thought we had a fantastic side that we thought could win the World Cup and suddenly after we lost that game we were behind the eight ball a bit , and chasing our tails. ” But the pressure could also be used in the home nations ’ favour , Waugh added . “ At the same time it ’ s nice to have pressure because that means people expect you to do well and you should expect that of yourself anyway. So you can use it as a positive effect as well. ” He said it was incredibly important for Australians and New Zealanders to get behind their teams . “ You do recognise that the crowd is supporting you and it does make you feel good as an Australian cricketer walking out to a massive cheer , and people appreciating every good shot you play or a good bit of fielding or when you take a wicket , ” he said . “ It does lift the team and I think it ’ s just great to have that sort of atmosphere for a World Cup . “ It only happens every four years so you want to play in front of big crowds in all the games. ” Border said while playing at home did bring extra pressure , he encouraged the Australia and New Zealand players to embrace it . “ In India in 1987 we were a young side playing away from home so we flew under the radar a little bit – it ’ s very hard for the Australian team to fly under the radar in this day and age , ” Border said . “ So there will be extra pressures on them but my advice to them is to embrace it , really get involved in the tournament and embrace the fact that you are the home side and love the crowd support. ” Even the support of adopted fans can make all the difference. Recalling the final of the 1987 World Cup , when Australia battled England in front of 90,000 fans at a packed Eden Gardens in India , Border said the crowd ’ s preference for the Aussie team had been a major boost . “ It was amazing in ’ 87 , we were the underdog team that found ourselves in the final and playing against the arch-enemy England , and we had the crowd support which was phenomenal in Calcutta ( now Kolkata ) , ” Border recalled . “ It was just deafening the noise , but to have it on our side was pretty special so you can imagine if Australia do well in this tournament and going to the MCG ( for the final ) it will be the same sort of feeling. ” Both captains encouraged Australians and New Zealanders to adopt teams from other nations and make the most of the quality cricket the even tournament would offer . “ The game of one-day cricket and Twenty20 cricket has changed so much that you ’ re going to see innovation , you ’ re going to see an exciting last five or 10 overs when a lot of runs are going to be scored and I would definitely advise people to go out and buy a ticket , ” Waugh said . While the clashes between the main cup contenders will be crucial , the encounters featuring the World Cup ’ s less fancied teams , including Afghanistan , Scotland , United Arab Emirates and Ireland , could also produce stunning upsets to turn the tournament on its head . Ireland has produced giant-killing wins over England and Pakistan in recent World Cups - results that altered the course of the tournaments . Likewise , Bangladesh toppled an India team packed with stars in the 2007 World Cup , sending India ’ s campaign into disarray . “ I would say ( to the Australian public ) get out and support the Australian team , that goes without saying but there ’ s a lot of good contests to be played throughout that tournament , ” Border said . “ So for me ( I would say ) don ’ t just support Australia , there will be a lot of good games being played in your city so get out there and watch the lot. ” Share this article :
