23 December 201404 : 36 Ireland “ Quietly Confident ” : Kevin O ’ Brien When Kevin O ’ Brien strode to the crease on a Wednesday evening in Bangalore during the 2011 Cricket World Cup , no one suspected a World Cup record was about to be broken . Share this article : Kevin O'Brien hit the fastest World Cup century off just 50 balls during the 2011 tournament The crowd of 23,500 could have been forgiven for expecting a regulation win for England in their pool game against Associate team Ireland , but the batsman from Dublin ensured a far different result , writing his own name into the record books in the process . O ’ Brien ’ s 50-ball century – the fastest in Cricket World Cup history – was the standout moment in a famous three-wicket victory for Ireland , which shocked their old sporting rivals from across the Irish Sea . “ It was kind of a blur at the time , ” O ’ Brien said as he recalled his innings of 113 from 63 balls. “ I was batting and kind of in the zone , I suppose , and wasn ’ t thinking too much . “ I was just looking to hit the ball as best I could and it ’ s something that come off on the day and got us over the line. “ It was obviously a great day for me personally and for the team – it is always pleasing when an Irish team in whatever sport beats England. ” Fast-forward four years and the Ireland squad has been quietly going about its 2015 Cricket World Cup preparations for months now , spending time in Australia , New Zealand and the United Arab Emirates in a combination of training camps and practice matches . “ We ’ ve learned a lot about the conditions in Australia and New Zealand , so it ’ s been a really good preparation from that side of things , ” O ’ Brien said. “ We ’ ve all improved as individuals and as a team. ” O ’ Brien said he and his teammates were “ quietly confident ” about their chances come February and March . Ireland has proved something of a giant killer in its first two World Cups , recording wins over Pakistan and England and making the Super 8 stage of the 2007 tournament . “ There ’ s a slightly different balance to the squad this time around. We ’ ve got a lot more young guys , especially bowlers , coming into the team , ” O ’ Brien , who at 30 is more of Ireland ’ s most experienced players , said . “ We ’ re not going to look too far ahead in terms of the games or the pool. We just know we need to play good cricket and if we can do that , hopefully we can get a few victories and hopefully make it through to the knockout stages. ” Off-spinner Andrew McBrine and Middlesex batsman Andrew Balbirnie are among the youngsters O ’ Brien can see making their mark for Ireland . “ We ’ ve also got the likes of ( Middlesex batsman ) Paul Stirling , who is 24 , and ( Somerset bowler ) George Dockrell is only 22. ” The son of Ireland cricketer Brendan , O ’ Brien has been playing for his country since its inaugural one-day international in 2006 . Coming from a cricketing background meant he was familiar with the bat and ball from a young age , but it was by no means his only childhood sporting activity . “ I had a good time growing up , watching as much cricket as I could and playing as much as I could with my brothers , ” he said . “ We were a very sporting family , obviously dad playing for Ireland meant cricket was always in the blood , but we played everything : cricket , hockey , football , a bit of tennis. We played anything with a ball. ” O ’ Brien has played alongside older brother Niall in both of Ireland ’ s Cricket World Cup appearances to date , an experience he said made the honour of representing his country even greater . “ Playing international sport is a great achievement and it ’ s a very proud moment to pull on the jersey. I think it makes it even more special when you have your brother or sister playing the same game and pulling on the same jersey with you , so it ’ s a great experience for myself and Niall to be able to have. ” His name might have been etched into the record books on that fateful day in Bangalore and his famous innings watched and remembered by millions of cricket fans worldwide , but O ’ Brien remains grateful for the opportunities international cricket has given him . “ I ’ ve been fortunate to play with and against some of the best players in the world over the last couple of years , ” he said . “ It ’ s been a great learning experience for me as a player and as a man away from cricket. I want to keep enjoying playing cricket and experiencing different cultures around the world. ” Meanwhile , Test cricket remains a dream for the Irishman. “ It would be a very proud day for me if I ’ m around to step on the pitch in Ireland ’ s first Test match. ” Looking ahead to the 2015 Cricket World Cup , O ’ Brien said he was particularly looking forward to playing at Hamilton ’ s Seddon Park and Brisbane ’ s the Gabba , where Ireland will meet India and United Arab Emirates respectively . “ I think a lot of Irish people living in and around Australia ( will get behind the team ) . “ Unfortunately we don ’ t play in Sydney , but hopefully people will make the trip down to Canberra or up to Brisbane and come and support us and watch us play. ” Could his heroics with the bat be replicated in 2015 ? O ’ Brien certainly hopes so . “ It was a great day and hopefully something that can happen again in the future. That would be fantastic. ” Monday , February 16 : West Indies v Ireland , Saxton Oval , Nelson . Wednesday , February 25 : Ireland v United Arab Emirates , the Gabba , Brisbane . Tuesday , March 3 : South Africa v Ireland , Manuka Oval , Canberra . Saturday , March 7 : Zimbabwe v Ireland , Bellerive Oval , Hobart . Tuesday , March 10 : India v Ireland , Seddon Park , Hamilton . Sunday , March 15 : Pakistan v Ireland , Adelaide Oval , Adelaide . Share this article :
