India vs Pakistan World Cup 2015 : Top 5 Batsmen Who May Score a Fifty India vs Pakistan World Cup 2015 : Top 5 Batsmen Who May Score a Fifty As India take on Pakistan in World Cup 2015 , top players are grabbing a lot of attention from the odd makers for their prolific strike-rate . Last updated on Saturday , 14 February , 2015 22 : 23 IST Total Shares Virat Kohli celebrates after taking India to victory in 5th ODI vs Sri Lanka . © BCCI According to the global betting odds , India are likely to beat Pakistan. The bookies have their money on the MS Dhoni-led side because in a 50-over World Cup contest , Pakistan have never been able to put it across India. They have faced each other five times and every time , the Indians have come out victorious. But who will be the men scoring the big runs ? Here are the top 5 contenders who , according to the odds , have a chance to go past fifty runs : ( Complete World Cup coverage | Fixtures | Teams | Players | History | Schedule ) 1. Virat Kohli - 45 % Although , the Indian vice-captain is going through a bad phase , the odds favour Kohli because of his knack of performing in the big games. He has an exceptional record in chasing down targets and in big matches , he has often been India 's saviour . 2. Ahmed Shehzad - 42 % Pakistan are relying on the 23-year-old Ahmed Shehzad to perform in the crunch tie against India. The Pakistani youngster has tremendous potential and the green shirts would be pinning their hopes on him to deliver a big performance . 3. Rohit Sharma - 42 % Rohit Sharma is one of the most elegant batsmen to watch. Often labelled as inconsistent , this Mumbaikar has finally found his place at the Indian top-order. He returned from injury with a smashing 150 in a warm-up match against Afghanistan and India would be hoping for a repeat performance from this ODI double centurion . 4. Younis Khan - 42 % He may be 37 years old , but he has been in terrific form. This experienced right-hander is the backbone of the Pakistani middle-order and has a special liking for the Indian bowling . 5. Ajinkya Rahane - 40 % Another man in great form. India is as dependent on Ajinkya Rahane as they are on Kohli. The 26-year-old Mumbai batsman is one of the mainstays of Indian batting and is touted to be one of their prime performers . Story first published on : Saturday , 14 February 2015 19 : 47 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
