De Villiers , Duminy steer South Africa home New Zealand overwhelmed by six wickets despite Ronchi ’ s battling 99 Share this article : South Africa beat New Zealand by six wickets in its first One-Day International in Mount Maunganui 's Bay Oval on Tuesday ( October 21 ) . Chasing 231 , South Africa reached the target with 11 balls to spare and six wickets in hand , as AB de Villiers led the way with an unbeaten 89 from 85 balls . JP Duminy was the other big contributor in South Africa ’ s batting effort , scoring an unbeaten 58 from 72 balls and putting together 139 runs with de Villiers for the unbroken fifth-wicket stand . Earlier , New Zealand , asked to bat first , rode on Luke Ronchi ’ s 83-ball 99 to recover from 68 for 5 to post a respectable 230 , even though it failed to last its full quota of overs , getting bowled out with 29 balls left in its innings. That was partly because Ronchi got very little support during his knock , Trent Boult the only one to give him company for any length of time as they put together 74 runs for the final wicket , a New Zealand record . As such , the series serves as warm-up for the upcoming World Cup , to be jointly hosted by Australia and New Zealand. But there ’ s additional incentive for South Africa to do well , as it could go past Australia as the world 's No. 1-ranked ODI team if it completes a 3-0 whitewash . The New Zealand batsmen , playing their first ODI since January , looked rusty at the crease. They opened cautiously , with Jimmy Neesham taking until the third over to score the first boundary . New Zealand slumped after that before Ronchi and Tom Latham ( 29 ) set about rebuilding the innings , only for their 67-run partnership to end when Quinton de Kock stumped Latham . Ronchi continued to run out of partners and New Zealand sank to 156 for 9 , with not much expected when Boult arrived at the crease. But he dug in for a 33 ball 22 before the innings ended with Vernon Philander , Morkel , Imran Tahir and Ryan McLaren all taking two wickets apiece . South Africa received a minor scare when Boult dismissed de Kock and Faf du Plessis cheaply but the rest of the attack struggled for wickets. Riley Rossouw ( 26 ) and Hashim Amla ( 38 ) kept the scoreboard ticking over but failed to capitalise after making good starts. But de Villiers then lived up to his ranking as the No. 1 ODI batsman in the world , combining with Duminy to comfortably seal the victory . The next match on Friday will also be played in Mount Maunganui , with the series wrapping up in Hamilton on October 27 . JP smashes the ball away for 6 to get the winning runs. SA win by 6 wickets ! Well done boys ! That was # ProteaFire # NZvSA — Cricket South Africa ( @ OfficialCSA ) October 21 , 2014 To see the scorecard and review the New Zealand v South Africa match in full , please click here . Share this article :
