28 October 201407 : 25 Charity partners announced for Australia and New Zealand The official host charity partners for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 have been announced with McGrath Foundation being appointed in Australia and The Cancer Society in New Zealand . Share this article : Australia legend Glenn McGrath was on hand for the announcement of the McGrath Foundation as a # cwc15 charity partner The host charity partners join the ICC ’ s two global charity partners – THINK WISE and Room to Read – as the official charity partners of the ICC ’ s pinnacle four-yearly tournament , the ICC Cricket World Cup . THINK WISE is a joint initiative between ICC , UNAIDS and UNICEF which promotes awareness and understanding about HIV ; while Room to Read promotes literacy . The McGrath Foundation was started 10 years ago out of the much publicised experience that Jane McGrath and three time World Cup winner Glenn McGrath had with breast cancer . We are thrilled to be named an official charity of the ICC @ cricketworldcup # CWC15 http : //t.co/e2dAkvZoWL pic.twitter.com/hO4hc0zHik — McGrath Foundation ( @ McGrathFdn ) October 28 , 2014 Glenn McGrath – the equal highest wicket taker in World Cup history – joined World Cup organisers , one of the Foundation ’ s Victorian based breast care nurses and McGrath Foundation supporters from the Port Melbourne Cricket Club to launch the partnership . “ Cricket is much more than what happens on the field , ” said McGrath. “ It brings people together and is a real force for good in the community. So I am delighted that the Foundation has this opportunity to team up with the ICC Cricket World Cup next year because it is the biggest tournament in cricket and it ’ s happening right here in our backyard . The Cancer Society of New Zealand is dedicated to reducing the incidence and impact of cancer and ensuring the best cancer care for everyone in New Zealand . Cancer Society executives joined ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 organisers and primary school students at Auckland ’ s Mission Bay beach to launch the important partnership . Head of New Zealand for ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , Therese Walsh , said the Cancer Society is the natural partner for the tournament . “ Kiwis love cricket and have shown before how well they get behind major international sporting events. This provides a tremendous opportunity to promote to a massive audience the programmes the Cancer Society offers to our communities. ” Bucket hats & sun screen were on hand as @ NZCancerSo was named a # cwc15 charity partner today. http : //t.co/BzAment7vk pic.twitter.com/euP8SFqY6Z — Cricket World Cup ( @ cricketworldcup ) October 28 , 2014 Back in Australia , the chief executive of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Local Organising Committee , John Harnden , said the McGrath Foundation was a natural partner for the tournament in Australia. “ Like the McGrath Foundation , our focus is on the community , ” he said. “ This is a chance for all of the unsung heroes of our sport – especially all the women who play , or help run clubs or volunteer or take their kids to practise and cheer them on at matches - to come together in a celebration of our community and our game. ” Click here for more information on McGrath Foundation or The Cancer Society . Share this article :
