04 November 201414 : 33 ICC to Countdown 100 Greatest World Cup Moments LG joins forces with ICC to power fan campaign to identify the greatest ICC Cricket World Cup Moments of all-time ; Voting to open on Thursday 6th November Share this article : As preparations for ICC Cricket World Cup ( CWC ) 2015 intensifies and the countdown to the tournament gathers pace , the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) today announced an exciting initiative for cricket lovers across the world to vote for their favourite CWC moments of all time . Over the course of the 100 days leading up to ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , the ICC will release details of the 100 greatestmoments in Cricket World Cup history. Every day from 6 November to 13 February , a different CWC moment will be announced on ICC ’ s digital and social channels. The moments will be released in random order so that fans can decide for themselves the most memorable CWC moments in cricket history . The 100 Greatest World Cup Moments Countdown will be conducted in conjunction with a Global Partner of the ICC , LG Electronics ( LG ) , one of the world ’ s largest consumer electronics and appliance brands. Participants whose Greatest Moment makes the Top 10 shortlist will then have a chance to win one of 10 LG OLED TV sets with a prize given away to one winner for each Top 10 moment . ICC to Countdown 100 Greatest World Cup Moments http : //t.co/cJQ3xdJN3g Starts Thursday which marks 100 Days to # cwc15 pic.twitter.com/Nz2T9WAGRq — ICC ( @ ICC ) November 4 , 2014 Anyone can vote via the official Cricket World Cup website ( www.icc-cricket.com ) once voting opens at Midnight GMT on Thursday 6th November 2014 or by using the unique Twitter Hashtag that will be announced with each moment. Every one of the 100 moments will only be open for voting for a 24 hour period , so fans will want to log-on every day to make sure they don ’ t miss their favourite moment . A Top 10 short-list of the Greatest World Cup Moments with the most votes will be announced on the morning of the first match of the tournament on 14 February when Sri Lanka face New Zealand in Hagley Oval , Christchurch , while later that day Australia take on England in Melbourne. A final vote will then take place over 24 hours on 2 March to crown the Greatest World Cup Moment from the first ten Cricket World Cups . With representation from all of the major cricketing nations who have each contributed in their own unique way to making this world cricket ’ s flagship tournament , the ICC will be activating the 100 Moments through its various internal and external communication channels . For supporters , there will be competitions , exclusive content , video footage and more exciting digital activations leading up to the ICC Cricket World Cup , which will be played across two countries and 14 venues from 14 February to 29 March 2015 . Share this article :
