26 December 201402 : 45 Volunteer uniform unveiled to mark 50 days to go The vibrant uniforms to be worn by volunteers at this summer ’ s ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 have been unveiled during the Boxing Day Test matches at both the Melbourne Cricket Ground ( MCG ) and Christchurch ’ s Hagley Oval today . Share this article : Volunteers model the uniforms which were unveiled in Melbourne and Christchurch today In 50 days , both grounds will host the opening matches of the ICC Cricket World Cup when New Zealand and Sri Lanka square off at Hagley Oval and Australia plays England at the MCG . ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 chief executive John Harnden said more than 3000 volunteers would be deployed throughout the 14 host cities to welcome fans from around the country and around the world . “ We had an outstanding response when we launched the volunteer program in March and 50 days out from the opening match have a full quota in each of our host cities , ” Mr Harnden said . He said volunteers would perform a huge range of roles across the tournament - everything from driving officials to the venues , greeting VIPs in the hospitality lounges or working in the host cities providing information and assistance to visiting fans . Head of New Zealand for ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , Therese Walsh , said the World Cup was shaping up to be one of the biggest events ever seen in New Zealand and volunteers will play a big role in its success . “ In many cases volunteers will be the public face of the tournament and people will turn to them for information and assistance. It ’ s important they are dressed appropriately for their roles and are instantly identifiable , but we also wanted them to have a uniform that is fun to wear. " Organisers are expecting more than a million people to attend matches and more than a billion to watch on television around the world. More than half a million tickets have already been sold . Tickets can be purchased from www.cricketworldcup.com and are available for just $ 5 for children at all pool matches and from $ 20 for adults . Share this article :
