03 December 201414 : 00 By Anand Vasu “ I ’ ll see you out in the middle ” Cricketers and cattlemen alike celebrate a son , brother and friend , as Phillip Hughes makes his final journey Share this article : Former Australian cricketers came together to bid farewell to Hughes . On the third day of December in 2014 , Phillip Joel Hughes came home to his beloved Macksville one final time . A town of nearly 2500 swelled with more than twice that many people. Every contracted Australian cricketer , man or woman , numbering over 400 , several members of the touring Indian team , Brian Lara , Shane Warne , Glenn McGrath , Sir Richard Hadlee , Nick Compton , ICC Chief Executive David Richardson representing different parts of the cricket family , Tony Abbott , the Australian prime minister , and every Macksville local came together to bid farewell to a son , a brother , a cousin , a friend and a teammate . The memorial service began to strains of ‘ Forever Young ’ , on a hot day , under bright blue skies , there were dark glasses worn and tears choked back . Green and gold ribbons lined the streets and every establishment downed shutters , putting out personal messages for Hughes . Little boys wore T-shirts with 408 on the back and cricket bats stood proudly at every corner . “ Phillip Joel Hughes was baptised at a little church up the road , St Patrick ’ s ... in 1993 , ” says Father Michael Alcock , who began the service by sprinkling holy water on Hughes ’ s casket. “ We have our Easter candle lit for Phillip today. It reminds us that Phillip was a shining light to those who knew him. ” Nino Ramunno , Phillip ’ s cousin , remembered his mate with a touching yet light eulogy , going back to the day when cricket first entered a young boy ’ s life because an Under-10s team was a player short. “ Phillip had little interest in cricket. After some debate and Jason ’ s suggestion that Phillip would be a ‘ wuss ’ , Phillip agreed. “ Phillip duly made 25 in his first match , batting as a tailender. ” Ramunno recalled how difficult it was to teach Phillip how to calculate his batting average , and how a move to Sydney did not really result in an improvement in Phillip ’ s domesticity. “ One domestic duty Phillip excelled at was ironing. Boy could he iron. This was driven by his desire to look good … Phillip was always a country boy at heart , but liked what the city could offer him , ” said Ramunno. “ He was the happiest on the farm with his Dad and their cattle. ” Jason Hughes , Phillip ’ s brother , recalled a partnership of 210 he shared with Phillip for club team Mosman , and promised to honour Phillip ’ s memory in the best way possible. “ I promise to get back on the horse and play the game we both loved , and be the best player I can be , ” said Jason , ending what he called the most important letter he would ever write . Megan , Phillip ’ s younger sister , could barely get through her letter without tears rolling down her cheeks. “ I am so honoured to call you my brother , my best friend and my hero ... Your presence will never leave the people who love and adore you , ” she said. “ I will always remember and admire that you never changed or became someone different while your life and career was progressing. ” But it was not all about cricket. Corey Ireland , who knew nothing about the game , and was a close friend of Phillip , spoke strongly of the other love in Phillip ’ s life : Black Angus cattle. “ Phillip was passionate about Angus cattle. He spent every spare moment researching Angus cattle , genetics and planning his next move. He loved the fact that he could share this passion with Greg … His deal with himself was he would buy a new cow for his herd every time he hit a hundred. The herd grew very quickly. ” A breeder himself , Ireland spoke of the time he first met Phillip and did not realise how big a deal the young man was on a cricket field. “ He had the passion , determination and desire to succeed. He had a good eye for cattle and had the makings of an outstanding cattleman , ” said Ireland. “ I learnt that he was handy on the cricket pitch , but our conversations were about cattle. The thing we loved about Hughesy was that he instantly fitted into our family. ” Ireland and Phillip had spent the last two years talking about a dream , of setting up an Angus business. “ He decided he wanted to build a serious business of breeding cattle fulltime as his life after cricket. It was the beginning of the ten-year plan. We were well down the track of making his dream a reality. I will miss our daily phone-calls and texts , and his favourite sayings. ‘ I ’ m happy , Corey Ireland , I ’ m all teeth , ’ he would say , ” said Ireland , who also ended with a promise. “ I make a promise to you today mate. Hughesy , I will keep your dream alive. ” The most heart-wrenching part of the service came next , with Michael Clarke , deeply emotional , gripping the lectern tight just to be able to get through his speech. “ He left a mark on our game that needs no embellishment. I don ’ t know about you , but I keep looking for him , ” began Clarke. “ I know it ’ s crazy , but I expect to take a call from him any minute. ” Clarke referred to the connection indigenous Australians believe the spirit has with the land a man walked on , and said he believed this was certainly true of Phillip and the Sydney Cricket Ground , where Phillip was struck that fateful blow. “ His spirit has touched it , and it will forever be a sacred ground for me. I can feel his presence there and see how he has touched cricket lovers around the world , ” said Clarke. “ Phillip ’ s spirit ... will act as a custodian of the game we love. We must dig in , and get through to tea. And we must play on. Rest in peace my little brother , I ’ ll see you out in the middle. ” James Sutherland , who has led Cricket Australia so impressively through this difficult passage , said Phillip encapsulated the Australian dream , from backyard to baggy green. “ Cricket ’ s heart has been pierced by pain but will never stop beating. It will find its rhythm next week in Adelaide , and beyond , ” said Sutherland. “ Phillip Hughes , forever unconquered on 63. ” Elton John ’ s ‘ Don ’ t let the sun go down on me ’ concluded the service as pall bearers , including Clarke , Aaron Finch and Tom Cooper , carried the casket out of the Macksville High School assembly hall and into the streets . 03 December 2014 | 24 Photos Cricketers and cattlemen alike instinctively lined up in a guard of honour , and when the hearse began its slow crawl , a surge of people fell in behind the vehicle bearing Phillip on his final journey . The service , which was a celebration of Phillip ’ s life , reaffirmed one thing : cricket took a favourite son of Australia away , but , eventually , it would be cricket that allowed life to go on as well , when the first ball is sent down in Adelaide next week . Share this article :
