Scotland Name preliminary 24 Man World Cup Squad Preston Mommsen would lead the side , with Kyle Coetzer named as vice-captain Share this article : Scotland , who won the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifiers in February , will be led by Preston Mommsen . The Scottish selectors today named their provisional 24-man squad for the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup taking place in New Zealand and Australia from February 14 . Cricket Scotland announced last week that Preston Mommsen would lead the side , with Kyle Coetzer named as vice-captain . The squad will then be reduced down to 15 players on January 7th . Assistant Coach Craig Wright said : “ The squad announcement brings our participation in the 2015 Cricket World Cup another step closer. We ’ ve had some quality preparation already with really productive trips away to New Zealand , Australia and Dubai. I ’ m sure the players are itching to get selected for the final squad , allowing them to display their skills on the world stage. ” Scotland captain Preston Mommsen added : “ It ’ s a real honour to lead this group of players into a global event of this magnitude. We are a tight-knit unit and have grown together over the past few years. We ’ re all very focused on the task ahead , and strongly feel that this is our opportunity to create history. ” Specialist Coach Paul Collingwood concluded : “ I ’ m really excited to be involved with Cricket Scotland again in this superb journey to the World Cup. I ’ m looking forward to working with the boys in the most exciting cricket tournament they could play in. ” Scotland squad in full Preston Mommsen ( captain ) , Kyle Coetzer ( vice-captain ) , Richie Berrington , Frederick Coleman , Matthew Cross , Joshua Davey , Alasdair Evans , Hamish Gardiner , Gordon Goudie , Majid Haq , Moneeb Iqbal , Michael Leask , Matt Machan , Calum MacLeod , Gavin Main , George Munsey , David Murphy , Safyaan Sharif , Ruaidhri Smith , Robert Taylor , Andrew Umeed , Craig Wallace , Iain Wardlaw , Mark Watt . Share this article :
