Zimbabwe announce Provisional 30 Man World Cup Squad Six players who made their international debuts this year were named Share this article : Zimbabwe 's 30-man squad was announced for the 2015 Cricket World Cup . Zimbabwe has announced its provisional 30-man squad for the 2015 International Cricket Council Cricket World Cup , which will be in Australia and New Zealand from the 14th of February to the 29th of March . The squad will be reduced to the final 15 at the beginning of next month. It includes six players who made their international debuts this year . The oldest in this lot are wicket-keeper batsman Richmond Mutumbami and all-rounder Solomon Mire , both 25. Mutumbami made his One-Day International ( ODI ) debut against Afghanistan at the Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo in July , while Mire played his first match for Zimbabwe in Bangladesh last month. So impressive was his performance that he played all the five ODI matches of the tour , scoring two half centuries and returning best figures of three wickets for 49 runs . Neville Madziva and Peter Moore are both 23. All-rounder Madziva made his ODI debut against South Africa in Bulawayo in August and also toured Bangladesh , where Moore made his debut and played two ODIs , keeping wicket in both . The fifth newcomer is 22-year old Brian Chari. The Tuskers top-order batsman made his debut in Bangladesh , where he opened in the first two Tests against the Tigers . The sixth is the youngest. Luke Jongwe was Zimbabwe vice-captain at the last ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup. The former Southern Rocks all-rounder who is now turning out for Matabeleland Tuskers played his first match for Zimbabwe against South Africa in Bulawayo in August . Squad Elton Chigumbura , Sikandar Raza Butt , Regis Chakabva , Brian Chari , Tendai Chatara , Chamunorwa Chibhabha , Craig Ervine , Luke Jongwe , Tafadzwa Kamungozi , Neville Madziva , Timycen Maruma , Hamilton Masakadza , Shingirai Masakadza , Stuart Matsikenyeri , Tinotenda Mawoyo , Solomon Mire , Peter Moore , Tawanda Mupariwa , Natsai M ’ shangwe , Cuthbert Musoko , Richmond Mutumbami , John Nyumbu , Tinashe Panyangara , Vusimuzi Sibanda , Brendan Taylor , Prosper Utseya , Brian Vitori , Malcolm Waller , Sean Williams and Cephas Zhuwao . Share this article :
