20 December 201417 : 47 England names 15 man squad for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Eoin Morgan announced as England ODI captain for Cricket World Cup and Tri-Series against Australia and India in January Share this article : Eoin Morgan replaced Alastair Cook as England ODI captain . England selectors today announced a 15-man squad for the tri-series against Australia and India next month and the ICC Cricket World Cup . Selectors have made three changes to the one-day squad that lost 5-2 to Sri Lanka earlier this month. Led by Eoin Morgan , James Anderson and Stuart Broad return from injury with batsman Gary Ballance also included. Alastair Cook , Ben Stokes and Harry Gurney are the three players to miss out from the most recent one-day squad . The squad will leave for Australia on 6 January for a tri-series against Australia and India ahead of the World Cup . National Selector , James Whitaker , said : “ We have had to make some difficult decisions to get to our final squad but firmly believe that the 15 players selected offer the very best chance of success at the World Cup . “ I would like to congratulate all players on their selection and wish Peter , Eoin , and the squad all the very best. Representing England in a World Cup is a huge honour and responsibility , something all the players recognise. There have been a number of promising performances from players in recent series and it is important that this squad continues to develop their one-day skills quickly and players start to show the sort of consistency needed to succeed regularly on the world stage. ” New ODI Captain for England , Eoin Morgan said : “ It is a huge honour to captain England and I am delighted to be leading the one-day side. I firmly believe that with the players currently involved in the one-day set up we have the makings of a very good one-day side , a young side that can surprise people at the World Cup. We all recognise we still have a lot of work to do on our one-day game but the potential of this group of players is huge and it is now up to us as players to turn that potential into consistent performances on the international stage starting next month against Australia and India. ” England One-Day Squad :
