India Hammer Pakistan for 6th World Cup Win on-the-Trot India Hammer Pakistan for 6th World Cup Win on-the-Trot India defeat Pakistan by 76 runs in their first World Cup 2015 match at Adelaide Oval. Virat Kohli scored a brilliant 107 . Last updated on Sunday , 15 February , 2015 18 : 43 IST Total Shares India rejoice ! They make it 6-0 vs Pakistan ! © Getty Images India consigned Pakistan to a humiliating 76-run defeat in their first match of Cricket World Cup 2015 in Adelaide on Sunday. This was India ’ s sixth straight World Cup win over their arch-rivals. Defending champions India rode Virat Kohli ’ s brilliant 107 to score 300/7 after skipper MS Dhoni won the toss and decided to bat. Mohammed Shami took 4 for 35 to send Pakistan crashing. ( Scorecard | Highlights ) Sunday ’ s result was India ’ s first big victory in almost three months the team has been in Australia. India had lost the Test series versus Australia 2-0 and didn ’ t qualify for the trination final. Australia defeated England to win the championship. ( Virat Kohli in Love with Adelaide after break Sachin 's Cup record vs Pakistan ) Pakistan started well but lost their way due to poor shot selection. Skipper Misbah-ul-Haq ’ s 76 went in vain as Pakistan lost wickets in bunches and never recovered. Indian bowling was backed by smart fielding as Ravindra Jadeja and Suresh Raina took some match-winning catches. ( Adelaide Oval turns into a 'Sea of Blue ' ) Opener Ahmed Shehzad ( 47 ) and Haris Sohail ( 36 ) blew good starts and veteran batsmen Younis Khan and Shahid Afridi failed to come to the party. Afridi , typically , was out to a booming loose stroke . Earlier , Kohli scored an imperious century to steer India to an imposing 300 for seven as they opened their World Cup defence in a frenzied atmosphere at the Adelaide Oval . The much-anticipated Pool B grudge match attracted a noisy full house to the recently revamped ground with up to a billion tuning in on the sub-continent and around the world . It was the two thirds of the crowd dressed in the blue of India , though , who had the most to cheer about after India won the toss and chose to bat , Kohli brushing off his recent poor one-day form with a knock of 107 . India fans celebrate in the stands at Adelaide . © Getty Images Dropped from a difficult chance by Yasir Shah off Shahid Afridi on seven and again by wicketkeeper Umar Akmal on 76 , Kohli otherwise played within himself and gave few chances in his 126-ball innings . Pakistan , who have never beaten their neighbours in five previous World Cup meetings , had made an early breakthrough when Rohit Sharma misjudged the bounce of a Sohail Khan delivery and spooned the ball to Misbah for 15 . That brought Kohli in to join Shikhar Dhawan and the pair set about ruthlessly snatching the momentum away from the Pakistanis with a dominant partnership of 129 . Their previously slick running between the wickets deserted them in the 30th over , however , and Dhawan was sent back by Kohli only to be run out for 73 by a direct hit . Suresh Raina came in to join Kohli but there was no letup in the pace of Indian scoring with the left-hander bludgeoning three sixes in his 40-ball half century . Kohli reached his hundred with a single to long on , whipping off his helmet to celebrate his 22nd century in one-dayers and the first by an Indian in a World Cup match against Pakistan . Two balls later and Raina was celebrating his fifty but soon after raising his bat he was continuing the onslaught on the bowling to help drive the third-wicket partnership to 110 . They were separated when Kohli was caught behind after slashing at a Sohail delivery and Raina joined his team mate back in the dressing room soon afterwards for 74 when he holed out to the same bowler in the deep . Sohail , who took 5-55 in his first one-dayer since 2011 , helped wrest back some momentum for Pakistan , securing his five-wicket haul as Dhoni ( 18 ) , Ravindra Jadeja ( 3 ) and Ajinkya Rahane ( 0 ) were sent back in the last two overs . Story first published on : Sunday , 15 February 2015 08 : 20 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
