20 November 201409 : 50 Shaun Tait : A World Cup biography Often in sport , one person ’ s misfortune is another ’ s opportunity. This was certainly the case for fiery paceman Shaun Tait heading into the 2007 edition of the ICC Cricket World Cup . Share this article : Shaun Tait was on hand to launch the South Australian leg of the # cwctrophytour on 20 November 2014 . As a relatively inexperienced player with just four one-day international caps to his name , Tait was included in the 15-man Aussie squad for the tournament in the West Indies but was expected to play a secondary role behind attack spearheads Glenn McGrath and Brett Lee . His ODI debut had come barely one month earlier and despite incredibly fast bowling he had yet to make a significant impact on the limited overs game , with five wickets from his first four outings. But when Lee was ruled out of the World Cup with an ankle injury the relatively inexperienced Tait ’ s chance came and the South Australian grabbed it with both hands . There had been concern about how Australia ’ s bowling attack would fare without Lee. The side was coming off a 0-3 ODI series loss to New Zealand , also without Lee , where the loss of the paceman had been sorely felt . It turned out there was no need for concern – the man known as the Wild Thing finished the tournament was the second-leading wicket-taker with 23 scalps , only trailing McGrath ’ s 26 . Tait was named man of the match in Australia ’ s Super 8s clash against England at Antigua , helping the Aussies to a seven-wicket victory with 3-41 including the key wickets of captain Michael Vaughan , Andrew Strauss and Paul Collingwood . The quick then tore through South Africa in the semi-final , removing AB de Villiers and Herschelle Gibbs on his way to taking 4-39. It was his best ODI performance to date and propelled Australia into the final against Sri Lanka . Tait went wicket-less in the rain-affected final but his super speed had been a vital part of Australia ’ s third consecutive World Cup victory in what was dubbed the “ most dominant campaign ” by a team in tournament history . Persistent injuries took their toll on Tait and in January 2008 he announced he was taking an indefinite break from cricket . But the paceman returned to the Australia limited overs sides in 2009 and his services were called on again for the 2011 World Cup . The tournament in India , Bangladesh and Sri Lanka did not go as Tait or Australia had hoped , with the Aussies knocked out of the tournament in the quarter-finals . Tait walked away from the tournament with 11 wickets from seven matches , including 3-35 against New Zealand , and immediately announced his retirement from international cricket . Since then , Tait has continued to play in various Twenty20 competitions around the world and in news which no doubt pleased South Australia fans in mid-2014 he announced his desire to return to state one-day cricket , making three appearances for West End Redbacks in the Australia domestic One-Day competition . The quick is set to play for Adelaide Strikers again in BBL | 04 and while a call-up to the Australian 2015 World Cup squad might seem a very long shot , you never know when lady luck might smile on Tait again . Shaun Tait ICC Cricket World Cup Record : Tournaments : 2 ( 2007 , 2011 )
