New Zealand levels after four-wicket win Kane Williamson shepherds chase expertly after pacers bowl Pakistan out for 252 Share this article : Kane Williamson scored an unbeaten 70 off 91 balls . The screen at Sharjah Cricket Stadium flashed 233 as the average score in day-night One-Day International encounters at the venue when Misbah-ul-Haq won the toss and confirmed that Pakistan would bat in its second ODI against New Zealand on Friday ( December 12 ) . But five overs into the match , Pakistan was tottering at 21 for 3 , and any hopes of touching that average looked bleak. It took resuscitating knocks from Mohammad Hafeez , Haris Sohail , and Misbah himself to ensure that Pakistan got to 252 in 48.3 overs before being bowled out . In the end , however , that effort was negated by a mature unbeaten 70 off 91 balls from Kane Williamson , who , along with Luke Ronchi , led the way as New Zealand cantered to a four-wicket win – its first against Pakistan in an ODI in Sharjah – after a few hiccups in the middle overs . Chasing 253 , New Zealand got off to a great start with Anton Devcich and Dean Brownlie stringing together an opening partnership of 103 off 110 balls . This was the first time a New Zealand opening pair had put up a century stand in an ODI since October 2011 , when Rob Nicol and Martin Guptill put together 153 against Zimbabwe in Harare . Pakistan tried everything , including five bowlers inside the first 12 overs , but had little success as the two batsmen approached the innings with utmost cautiousness . It was finally Shahid Afridi , who got Pakistan the first breakthrough in the 19th over , going past Brownlie ( 47 in 61 balls ) with a sharp-turning googly . Williamson , batting at No. 3 , then batted with Devcich for a short while before a terrible mix-up between the two led to an easy run out that cost Devcich after he had contributed 58 off 66 balls . Kane Williamson wins the Man of the Match award as he guided his team to a series levelling victory with 70 * # PAKvNZZ pic.twitter.com/RmlC9KVQKl — ICC ( @ ICC ) December 12 , 2014 Devcich 's wicket seemed to trigger panic in the New Zealand camp , with Ross Taylor , Tom Latham and Corey Anderson falling quickly , the total slipping to 167 for 5 soon . But Williamson and Ronchi ( 36 in 32 balls ) resurrected the chase with a crucial sixth-wicket partnership of 58 off 61 balls that paved the way for New Zealand 's victory . Earlier , Matt Henry , playing only his third ODI , had Ahmed Shehzad caught behind for zero in the first over of the match. Six balls later , Younis Khan edged Mitchell McClenaghan to Ross Taylor at first slip. Henry returned to go past Asad Shafiq in the fifth over before Hafeez , who had watched the top order crumble from the non-striker ’ s end , was joined by Haris Sohail . Sohail , who had taken Pakistan over the line with a gallant unbeaten 85 in the first ODI , and Hafeez then added 77 from 94 balls before Corey Anderson got Sohail to play a rash shot to a short delivery , Taylor taking the catch at cover . That brought Misbah and Hafeez together with Pakistan at 97 for 4 . Hafeez , who had gone past his half-century in the 19th over , anchored the innings , while Misbah played the role of the aggressor once he got his eye in . Henry was easily the pick of the New Zealand bowlers , denting Pakistan further with the wicket of Hafeez ( 76 ) in the 35th over at a stage when it looked on course for a good total with the fifth-wicket partnership having added 66 off 85 balls. Hafeez hit nine fours and a six in his 92-ball innings . Misbah fell to Henry two overs later when he tried to pull a short ball that appeared to kiss his gloves on its way to Luke Ronchi behind the stumps. Misbah reviewed the decision but had to leave after Joel Wilson , the TV umpire , agreed to the decision made by the on-field umpires. Misbah made 47 from 65 balls with two fours and two sixes . It was then up to Afridi , batting at No. 8 , to give Pakistan a good finish , and he played his part , smashing three sixes in his 14-ball 27 . Late cameos from Sarfraz Ahmed ( 23 in 31 balls ) , Wahab Riaz ( 14 in 19 balls ) and Sohail Tanvir ( 14 in 10 balls ) helped Pakistan reach a total that was above par keeping the Sharjah statistic in mind , but not enough to keep the visitors at bay . Henry finished with 4 for 45 from his ten overs , while McClenaghan had 3 for 56 . With this win , New Zealand levelled the five-match ODI series 1-1. The teams earlier drew both the three-Test series and the two-match Twenty20 International series 1-1 . Please click here to see the full scorecard of Pakistan v New Zealand in Sharjah . Share this article :
