ANDY BICHEL – A balanced side but will be interesting to see how it handles pressure Former Australian quick believes the battle between fast bowlers and top-order batsmen will be important Share this article : The Australia squad has been announced for this year ’ s ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , and there is going to be some disappointment for the guys who missed out. But the ones , who got selected , have earned the right to be there . Like all the ICC Cricket World Cups , there are always a few really tough matches in the pool stage , and for Australia , I think England , New Zealand and Sri Lanka will be the big ones. The three matches that Australia is ‘ supposed ’ to win comfortably are Bangladesh , Afghanistan and Scotland. The players can hopefully gain some form against these teams and take momentum into big matches . In this World Cup , I believe the harder pitches and the two new white cricket balls will be the key. Therefore , the battle between fast bowlers and top-order batsmen will be important , and will go a long way in terms of the results . I think Australia can win the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , but it needs runs up front. Playing in Australia will bring some added pressure and it will be interesting to see how the side handles this . I think Australia has selected a well-rounded squad . 1. Michael Clarke - I hope he can get fully fit in time for the ICC Cricket World Cup , and that his injury does n't become a distraction to the team. It will be interesting to see where he might bat in the order. I would bat him at No.3 , and though I 'm not sure if his body will be able to take the workload , because it is a World Cup , he might just get through . 2. David Warner - An amazing striker of the ball , he really puts the opposition under the pump. If he can play some of those match-winning innings and take some momentum into the back end of the tournament , he could single-handedly win the trophy. With the bat comes a huge responsibility for the openers , so the question for me will be can they handle the pressure of playing at home . 3. Aaron Finch - To have Warner and Finch at the top of the order reminds me of Matthew Hayden and Adam Gilchrist. This has been the backbone of Australia ’ s recent success as one of them has always come good to get Australia to some really big totals. 4. Steve Smith - What an amazing period for Steve in recent times , quite remarkable really. We have talked about responsibilities , and he has handled them with flying colours. I would give him the responsibility to bat at No. 4 , as he has done so well there in the Tests. 5. George Bailey - Being captain during the tri-series will be an important momentum boost for the squad in the lead up to the World Cup. His leadership has been excellent , and his batting has been equally impressive. I would also like to point out his unselfishness at the end of innings , and the way he puts the team first – that does n't go unnoticed by me . 6. Shane Watson - His experience will be needed during the World Cup. He ’ s an explosive batsman who can really get the momentum going. Finding the right spot for him will a key point for the coaching staff. He ’ s bowling well at the moment , he also can take the new ball if needed . 7. Glenn Maxwell- Over the last 12 months , he has played some excellent innings , but has frustrated the coaching staff by being a bit inconsistent. He can play all the shots in the middle overs , but he needs to make sure he takes the right option. His bowling has been improving with every game , as well as his fielding . 8. Mitchell Marsh – An exciting talent. His batting is the key for me - he has a real presence at the crease and he fits absolutely perfectly in the Aussie middle order. His bowling has come on over the last 12 months , he has improved a lot and also has the ability to get more movement or swing . 9. Brad Haddin - One last big effort for Hadds to win a World Cup would be outstanding personal result for him. His experience and his valuable knowledge and input will be a huge benefit to the group to be able to go on and win the World Cup. His power hitting at the end of the innings is also very valuable . 10. Mitchell Johnson- He has n't had the same impact with the white cricket ball as the red ball. He ’ s a key member of the bowling unit , he ’ s ready to lead the attack , and , with his experience , he ’ s a go-to man for the captain . 11. Mitchell Starc - What a talented bowler he is , and still very young , which we keep forgetting. He has the skills to blow a game apart , with the ability to swing the white new cricket ball. He ’ s an excellent fielder and can throw the bat very effectively at the end of an innings . 12. Josh Hazelwood - A banker is what you need , and he ’ s also someone that you can rely on. Of course , he would probably like a few more games before the World Cup , but he is ready , and he ’ s gained some valuable experience and confidence from the Test series against India. 13. Pat Cummins- He ’ s starting to get some overs under his belt and along with this , his confidence is building nicely. His pace is up there as well , and I believe he is someone you need in the squad. He ’ s an exciting young talent and if he is going well then he has to be played . 14. James Faulkner - Quickly growing his reputation as a finisher , his power hitting in the slog overs have been very explosive. I believe that since he started to put more value on his wicket and given himself a chance to get into his batting innings , has been when he ’ s been most effective. From a bowling point of view , he has been the guy to bowl the tough overs in the power plays , and he is a captain ’ s dream because he wants to bowl as well . 15. Xavier Doherty - Well , he is Mr Reliable and from a captaincy point of view you know what you ’ re going to get from Xavier. He is able to keep it tight on these flat wickets. I do n't think the wickets are going to turn much and having the off spin and the left arm spin gives some balance to the squad. 2015 © ICC Development ( International ) Limited
