Exclusive Column Aminul Islam Captain of his country in its first ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 in England , Aminul Islam played 39 ODIs , scoring 794 runs and taking 7 wickets. A year later , he became his country ’ s first century-maker when he scored 145 in the inaugural Test against India in Dhaka. In the 1997 ICC Trophy , which Bangladesh won to qualify for the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 , Aminul scored 217 runs in 10 matches , averaging 31. He is currently serving the Asian Cricket Council ( ACC ) as its Development Officer . 13 January 201510 : 30 AMINUL ISLAM : From ICC Cricket World Cup dream to Test arena Former Bangladesh captain writes about the joy after Bangladesh qualified for ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 , captaining the side , and the special win against Pakistan Share this article : Since its independence in 1971 , Bangladesh wanted to play in the ICC Cricket World Cup. Bangladesh competed in the 1979 , 1982 , 1990 and 1994 ICC Trophies and not only improved every time , but got closer to qualification to the pinnacle event . My ODI debut was in 1988 and I played in the ICC Trophy in 1990 , 1994 and 1997 , with the last event earning us qualification to the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999. The Bangladesh cricket team was under tremendous pressure to qualify for the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 in 1997 as it had narrowly missed the opportunity in Holland in 1990 and in Kenya in 1994. In Malaysia in 1997 , Bangladesh had an experienced , mature side that had prepared . The experience of playing the ACC Trophy in Malaysia in 1996 was a major advantage. Bangladesh not only won the trophy in that tournament , it also took away the coach of Malaysia at that time Gordon Greenidge ! Domestic cricket in Bangladesh at the time was very competitive and rich. Wasim Akram , Arjuna Ranatunga , Sanath Jayasuriya , and Neil Fairbrother were just a few among the many foreign players in the Bangladesh domestic league . Doing well alongside and against these international stars gave tremendous encouragement and experience to the local players. Bangladesh qualified for the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 very comfortably and that triggered celebration as if we had won the tournament proper. In 26 years as a nation , this victory gave an international standing and recognition to the people. The nation celebrated and enjoyed this victory wholeheartedly. A special jet carried the cricket heroes back to Bangladesh and the Prime Minister gave a massive reception in parliament . " From 1997 to 1999 , we were dedicated in preparing for the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999. Many of us played club cricket in the UK to get used to the conditions. One year prior to the World Cup , we had a month long trip to the United Kingdom , Ireland and Scotland. Beside all other technical strengths , the mental spirit was the key for the team. " The ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 side had very changes from the side that had won the ICC Trophy two years ago. Each and every member was moved by the fact that he was representing 120 million people ’ s hopes and dreams. We are still the one and only sport in which Bangladesh has played a World Cup. This was not a pressure , rather a responsibility and we were confident and fully capable . In 1999 , the dream came true and we went to England one month before the World Cup with the best wishes from the people of Bangladesh. As the captain , I was thrilled to have the captains ’ photo with all my fellow captains , many of whom I admired from long ago for their skill , courage and character. I was also thrilled when we went to meet the Queen at the Buckingham Palace. Cold as we were in the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 , we performed better and better with each match . Our last match in the tournament was against Pakistan in Northamptonshire. The night before , we came to know that our coach Gordon Greenidge , who had been with us in the most memorable journey from 1997 to 1999 , has been dismissed. Next day , he still came to the ground and gave me an inspirational lecture . We dominated the match against Pakistan and with every contributing evenly , we emerged winners by 62 runs. Immediately after the match , I received a personal call from Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina . That win against Pakistan remains up to now Bangladesh ’ s most significant cricket victory. That win gave us the confidence to really start believing in ourselves and that we can beat Test-playing countries. With this victory , we started dreaming for Test status. Our World Cup mission was a grand success . The crowd at Northampton had a large number of fans from the Bangladeshi origin. After we won , they invaded the field and lifted us on their shoulders. We were their super heroes. That evening , we received a grand celebration from the team management and Bangladeshis who came from all parts of Europe. The next day , the celebration was in East London , popularly known as Banglatown in London. We could only imagine the grand reception waiting for us in Bangladesh... . The day we landed at the Dhaka airport , we experienced the highest of honours from the people of Bangladesh. We went directly to the national parade square. The Prime Minster and the cabinet gave us a heroic reception. We players were all touched by their love and gratitude. For the next few days , we had celebration receptions given by various organisations . " I was extremely fortunate to captain the side in our first-ever World Cup for Bangladesh. I was a regular member of the national team since 1988. Despite the fact that we had very little financial benefits from the cricket Board in those days , we played for our nation with full commitment and deep passion. " From 1997 to 1999 , all players in and out of the team worked together for this mission. I consider myself exceptionally lucky to be a part of such team. From 1997 to 2000 , these three years , our overwhelmingly brilliant achievements - ICC Trophy , World Cup and Test status - put Bangladesh permanently in the elite league . 2015 © ICC Development ( International ) Limited
