Exclusive Column Andy Bichel One of the most successful all-rounders at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2003 , Andy Bichel scored 117 runs in three innings and took 16 wickets in 8 matches , including a career-best seven for 20 against England in Port Elizabeth. In the same match , he scored 35 not out and put on 73 runs for the unfinished ninth wicket with Michael Bevan ( 74 not out ) to snatch victory for Australia from the jaws of defeat. The 44-year-old Queenslander played 67 ODIs in which he scored 471 runs and took 78 wickets . 20 January 201510 : 27 ANDY BICHEL : Kangaroos ruled the roost in Africa Former Australia pacer believes that the game is evolving by the day , but at that particular time , his side was the best in the history of the game Share this article : When I look back on the ICC Cricket World Cup 2003 in South Africa , it was an amazing period for me and a very special place to be in . Everything was going to plan ; I was bowling well in all the lead up games and my body was feeling the best it had in a while. I had been playing lots of county cricket and first-class cricket in Australia as well , in between the Australia international tours. I was as fit as I could be and on top of my game . But there was one serious problem - breaking into this Australia team. There were very limited opportunities , and no-one was getting injured to give me more chances at the top level . Once selected for the tournament , there still wasn ’ t a lot of chance for me if everyone stayed fit. I knew that I would get a chance to play it would be against the qualifying teams , and I really wanted to try and get a Man of the Match performance to push my claim for selection in more matches. I knew that I would have to make a massive impression to get the selector on duty excited , as well as the selectors back in Australia in the early hours of the morning. I knew it was going to be hard . For me , the tournament started with a real bang. Shane Warne was ruled out of the tournament because he failed a drug test , and the harsh reality was that we had lost our world-class spinner. As a group , it was hard to deal with it the night before our first game . Going into the first match , we just needed to find a win against Pakistan , and somehow we did. Well , Andrew Symonds smashed 143 and the rest is history. The win was welcome , and it gave this group the power to say “ whatever you throw at us , we can overcome it. ” The team faced quite a few more challenges along the way after this too - Michael Bevan out with a hamstring injury , Darren Lehmann ’ s suspension and Jason Gillespie ’ s injury that ended his World Cup campaign . I finally got my chance against England in Port Elizabeth after Jason Gillespie was ruled out because of injury. I had taken the final two Namibia wickets in Australia ’ s previous match , and I was pumped to face England next. After only finding out about 10.00pm the night before that I was selected , I was as ready as I could be . Things didn ’ t start off well for as England raced to 75-0 off 11 overs. But then … everything I did turned to gold. I took seven wickets and contributed 34 not out in an unbroken 73-run ninth wicket partnership with Michael Bevan ( 74 not out ) . An amazing day really for me , and England was knocked out of the tournament . Even though we kept on winning , we hadn ’ t batted the house down at any stage , in reality. In the last Super Six match against Kenya , we struggled a little with the bat against left arm spin. We returned to Port Elizabeth for our semi-final against Sri Lanka , and again as a team , we did n't really nail it down after winning the toss and scoring 212-7 from our 50 overs. It turned out to be enough in this game , as Sri Lanka only got to 123-7 before the rain came , and we won on D-L method . I remember seeing everyone ’ s face after that game , and the relief the win gave. Finally , something that we had worked so hard for over the last 18 months ! We were there , we had made it to a World Cup final. Everyone grew six inches overnight . We had a week before the big day at Wanderers. We were ready , and the day before the final we were like kids in a lolly shop. The support staff did n't want us doing too much before the big day , and I found out why ! Glenn ( McGrath ) and I were playing with some tennis racquets on the outfield when I pinched something in my right shoulder. All of a sudden , things were n't so funny anymore ! We worked around the clock on it , and Errol Alcott our physiotherapist got me ready for the game . In the final , our batters were on fire and put on the perfect batting display. Ricky Ponting led that charge , playing an amazing innings. If it had n't been a 50-over match , he would still be batting today ! His brilliant 140 not out gave us too many runs for India to chase down . As a team , we felt there was one wicket we had to target , because he had batted beautifully for India throughout the tournament. That was the wicket of Sachin ( Tendulkar ) , and once Glenn removed him ( caught and bowled ) , we were well on our way to victory. It was a huge win for us , and I think we played the perfect match . This team always managed to win from any position. Someone would always stand up to win a match with the bat or ball , and we had so much self-belief and belief in each other. We had some of the most aggressive batsmen the game has ever seen , bowlers that have records as long as my arm , and fielders that changed the game - in any situation . The game is evolving by the day , but at that particular time , our side was the best in the history of the game . 2015 © ICC Development ( International ) Limited
