Refresh ! The Man of the Match goes to Paul Stirling for his brilliant knock of 92. That 's all we have for today. Join us back tomorrow for the match between New Zealand and Scotland. Goodbye till then and take care . ! The Windies bowling looked mediocre as they were unable to get a breakthrough nor caused any trouble to the batsmen. Taylor ended up with three wickets. Without any spinner in the line up they had to resort to the part time bowling of Samuels and Gayle. They picked up a wicket apiece . ! Ireland win by four wickets. A comfortable chase but Ireland made it a bit interesting towards the end losing a few quick wickets. Good opening stand of 71 between the openers .Stirling was striking the ball fluently as he made 92 but missed out on his ton. Good all round contributions from the middle order as they were at ease during most time of the chase. Ed Joyce and Niall O ' Brien made 84 and 79 respectively and almost took the team home before they got out. But the batsmen to follow ensured they go all the way and pull off a win . 45.5 4 jerome taylor to john mooney FOUR ! That 's all , Ireland has done it ! Bangs in a short ball on middle and off , Mooney looks to pull but the ball lands up getting the top edge and races to the third man fence for a boundary. Ireland beat the Windies by four wickets . 45.4 jerome taylor to john mooney Low full toss on off , pushed to mid off . 45.3 jerome taylor to niall obrien Fullish ball on off , driven to deep covers for a single . 45.2 1 jerome taylor to john mooney Back of a length on middle and leg , Mooney drops it to the on side for a quick single . 45.1 jerome taylor to john mooney In the channel of off stump , Mooney plays and misses . 44.6 kemar roach to niall obrien Good lenghth ball on off , gets in line and defends . 44.5 kemar roach to john mooney Pitched up on middle , Mooney plays it to covers for a single . load more Story first published on : Sunday , 15 February 2015 22 : 08 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
