Exclusive Column Javagal Srinath India ’ s most successful fast bowler at the ICC Cricket World Cup along with Zaheer Khan with 44 wickets , Javagal Srinath played in four ICC Cricket World Cups ( 1992-2003 ) . In the ICC Cricket World Cup 2003 , he took 16 wickets while the 1999 event yielded him 12 wickets. Srinath is now a member of the Emirates Elite Panel of ICC Match Referees and has supervised 33 Tests , 147 ODIs and 46 T20Is . 22 February 201523 : 30 JAVAGAL SRINATH : India has been clinical India 's much-criticised bowling attack would , hereon , be the most discussed topic in the team meetings of most countries in the tournament , writes former India paceman Share this article : Two clinical but extremely convincing wins has set the ball rolling in the right direction for Mahendra Singh Dhoni ’ s men. The much assailed Indian bowling line-up would undoubtedly be the most discussed topic hereon in the team meetings of most countries in the tournament. More than the talent that the Indian bowlers do indeed possess , it is the process of execution which has caught the opposition off-guard. The actual process though started much before a single delivery was bowled in either game the Indian team has been involved in. For , it was the pressure created by the India batsmen , who have scored more than 300 runs each time that has been the beginning of the India bowling plans . Once set on their way by the batsmen , it has been all about hunting collectively and executing game plans , both individual ones and the team gameplan as a whole. It has been very clear that there is a process that has been drilled into each bowler ’ s mind , and they have then set about letting that process take over. There is no greater delight than seeing plans come good through good execution , more so in the face of extreme pressure which a World Cup game brings about automatically. Pressure is an extremely undesirable aspect of the game but as in life , something that can not be avoided. However , when your batsmen are good enough to transfer some of that onto the opposition , then it ’ s time to cash in , something the India bowlers have done twice now. When faced with totals of 300 and above , the approach of the batsmen is different , the score being enough to weigh them down more than a bit. If the bowlers manage to add to that pressure by pitching the ball in the right areas , the combination can be quite lethal. " For me , it ’ s been quite heartening to see Mohammad Shami fire for the second straight time. He ’ s hit the right line straightway in both games , both his line and length being impeccable. " It mostly boils down to confidence. With every ball one bowls , one ’ s confidence must rise. It shouldn ’ t matter who ’ s batting against you , you simply have to back your own ability and that ’ s something Shami has done really well. The judicious use of the short ball showed real maturity on his part as did his fine execution of plans. He ’ s looked for wickets and to me that ’ s always an encouraging sign. The best part is that it ’ s not been about any individual. With three quick bowlers working well in tandem , the opposition ’ s usual ploy of targeting one bowler just hasn ’ t worked. Umesh Yadav has done his part while the relatively unknown Mohit Sharma has reaped the benefits of good opening spells from his two fellow pacers to make his own mark. Mohit is a handy bowler and he ’ s used well the pressure created by Shami and Yadav. Let ’ s not forget the role of the Indian spinners even for one moment. Ravichandaran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja were the ones who brought the India team back in the middle overs. Ashwin ’ s willingness to bowl it slow and toss the ball up shows that he is bowling without fear. Jadeja , at the least , has been superb in support. Just like the support from Dhoni the captain. The India skipper has been positively brilliant with his moves , not allowing the batsmen to get used to any bowler , his constant bowling changes being spot on. " The decision to send Rahane ahead of Raina against South Africa , who in a similar situation against Pakistan , had delivered , was a champion move. " I understand Shikhar Dhawan – and what a game he had , certainly one of the more impressive innings he has played – being a left-hander , Rahane ’ s coming in at that stage , wasn ’ t a total surprise but I think the move had more to it. Dhoni , to my mind , has understood the strengths of each of his batsmen and he was I feel letting Rahane know he trusted him against the strong South Africa attack. This sort of belief percolates down to the individual who then more often than not goes on to deliver. Having the captain ’ s confidence is a big thing in this game and Rahane ’ s assured batting display was ample proof of that. These sort of moves also convinces the players that the captain is only using the ‘ horses for courses ’ card and thus , doesn ’ t disrupt the mindset of any batsman. It provides the team with the right flexibility , allowing for the batting order to be shuffled without affecting the confidence of any batsman. 2015 © ICC Development ( International ) Limited
