Refresh ! Trent Boult has been named the Man of the Match for his beautiful spell in which he picked up two wickets. That is all we have for today. Do join us tomorrow for the match between Afghanistan and Bangladesh at 0900 IST. Till then goodbye and take care . ! Earlier in the day , the Kiwis put up a disciplined show as all of their bowlers were on the money picking up wickets regularly and bundled the Scotland team for a mere 142. Berrington and Machan were the only two players who showed some resistance but got out soon after scoring their half centuries . ! Wardlaw was impressive picking up three wickets. Davey and Haq too were handy , picking up three and one wicket repectively , With a low total on board it was too much to ask of the bowlers. In the end the Kiwis got home with three wickets to spare and another win in the bag . ! A comprehensive but unconvincing win in the end. A low total on the board and the Kiwis were in some sort of a hurry to finish the game. As a result they kept losing wickets at regular intervals. Post lunch they lost three wickets but still got home with three wickets in hand. Williamson top scored with 38 runs . 24.5 4 iain wardlaw to daniel vettori FOUR ! Vettori with the winning runs ! Back of a length ball outside off , Vettori looks to pull it away but gets an outside edge and over the slip fielders to the third man region for a boundary. New Zealand win by three wickets . 24.4 iain wardlaw to adam milne Length outside off , Milne runs it down to third man for a run . 24.3 iain wardlaw to adam milne Full ball on middle , driven to mid off . 24.2 iain wardlaw to daniel vettori Fuller on middle , Vettori tucks it to square leg for s single . 24.1 iain wardlaw to daniel vettori Short ball on off , Vettori pulls it to mid-wicket for a couple . 23.6 josh davey to adam milne On a length on off , defended off the front foot . load more Story first published on : Tuesday , 17 February 2015 02 : 30 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
