Exclusive Column Aminul Islam Captain of his country in its first ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 in England , Aminul Islam played 39 ODIs , scoring 794 runs and taking 7 wickets. A year later , he became his country ’ s first century-maker when he scored 145 in the inaugural Test against India in Dhaka. In the 1997 ICC Trophy , which Bangladesh won to qualify for the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 , Aminul scored 217 runs in 10 matches , averaging 31. He is currently serving the Asian Cricket Council ( ACC ) as its Development Officer . 27 February 201512 : 20 AMINUL ISLAM : Disappointment on a historic day Bangladesh 's bowling combination was n't ideal and it could have played with five frontline bowlers , writes former Bangladesh batsman Share this article : Bangladesh appearing for the first time at MCG in their crucial ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 match against Sri Lanka was a historic event. After their resounding victory in Canberra against an emerging Afghanistan and sharing points with red hot favorite Australia from a rain out match in Brisbane , Bangladesh brightened its possibility of driving deeper into the tournament. Sri Lanka on the other hand were out of sorts in their first two matches. They lost the tournament opener convincingly against co host New Zealand and then somehow scrapped through against Afghanistan. The MCG match became very crucial for the teams. On an easy paced wicket it started very well for the Sri Lankans being lucky with the spin of the coin. Bangladesh appeared with unchanged team. Angelo without any hesitation opted to bat. Mashrafe bowled on right line and length and put the Sri Lanka openers in spot of bother. Unfortunately his lion-hearted efforts was not backed up in the field as catches started passing through butter fingers. The poor fielding could be highlighted by three dropped catches and a missed stumping. Sangakkara was dropped on 23 and 60 : Taskin Ahmed fumbled a low return catch , and Mominul Haque dropped a sitter at point. Anamul Haque dropped a dolly at slip in the first over to give Thirimanne a life , before the batsman was reprieved through the missed stumping. Anamul also had a chance to run-out Dilshan who was halfway down the pitch after a mix-up , but without a back-up , his throw at the striker 's end was hesitant and ultimately , futile . Teenager Taskin finding lively pace and bounce put all his energy in generating pace .He lost control over line and length .He was bowling at either side of the wicket. At least , 50 runs were gifted to the Lanka batsmen. Bangladesh bowled 87 per cent balls in the wrong channels and consequently got hammered all around the park by Dilshan and Sangrakkara. It could be appropriate if the team think tank and senior players could guide him a bit. The field setting also could be much better. In my opinion , slip fielders were a bit deeper and the wicketkeeper and first slip was standing wider apart. Few half chances sneaked through that. " Bangladesh could have played with five bowlers instead of four and a bits and pieces for fifth bowling combination. " It was not unlikely that Sri Lanka , the bridesmaid in the last two ICC Cricket World Cups , grabbed this opportunities with both hands. After a solid opening partnership between Thirimanne and Dilshan , Sangrakkara and Dilshan using all the tricks out of their hats batted Bangladesh out of the game with a magical unbeaten second wicket partnership of 210. Dilshan achieved his highest ODI score of 161 not out. Sangrakkara celebrated his 400th ODI with his 20th ODI century , his fastest in 76 deliveries. Bangladesh appeared to lose the clue in chasing the target. In such a big chase , the better technically equipped batsmen are expected to play more deliveries. But unfortunately two of the tried and tested Bangladesh batsmen - Shakib and Musfique - batted at number six and seven , respectively. This decision alone put paid to Bangladeshi efforts of challenging Sri Lankan score as more than half of the overs were already gone by the time the pair appeared on the scene. Yet they tried their best in their 64 runs sixth wicket stand till a poor choice of stroke by Shakib put paid to Bangladesh surge. " One of the highlights of Bangladesh innings was a sparkling maiden half-century by Shabbir Khan while batting at number-eight. This youngster fielded smartly , batted superbly and ran between the wickets like a hare. Shabbir looked a player of long assured future. " But all this happened when Bangladesh innings already lost momentum and target still remained 92 runs away when Bangladesh innings was wrapped up at 240 at 47th over. Bangladesh had its moments of glory too. Bangladesh flag flew , national anthem played at MCG. 5,000 strong Bangladesh fans dressed in team color danced and sang on the terrace every time the team had a piece of good cricket. Bangladesh ace cricketer had the honor of carrying the trophy before the match to iconic MCG. Scotland will not be an easy opponent for Bangladesh in New Zealand since they already played few matches there. The condition is more favorable to the Scottish. Bangladesh will have the advantage of slower wickets than Australia and add one extra spinner in the team. The win against Scotland will help Bangladesh to boost their morale against England in Adelaide . The batters will dominate the match at the Adelaide Oval due to their flat batting track. The bowlers should bowl close to the batters due to the shape of the ground. England will be favorite due to their experience. 2015 © ICC Development ( International ) Limited
