Exclusive Column Paul Collingwood The only England captain to lift an ICC trophy , Paul Collingwood is his country ’ s most capped ODI player ( 197 matches ) as well as most successful batsman ( 5,092 runs ) to date. He captained England in 25 ODIs between 2007-2009 , winning 11 and losing 12. Collingwood played in the 2003 , 2007 and 2011 World Cups , scoring 474 runs and taking 8 wickets. An athletic and agile fielder , Collingwood took 108 catches , including 13 in three World Cups. He is now part of the Scotland team coaching staff . 13 March 201518 : 24 PAUL COLLINGWOOD : ICC has helped Associates prepare for the ICC CWC 2015 There is real vision in the background at the ICC on promoting the game , and the quality of the cricket the Associate Members are playing at times is quite high Share this article : There ’ s plenty of debate about the future structure of the ICC Cricket World Cup , but no matter what is decided when the ICC Board meets in April , some good work has been done for the Associate Members in the lead-up to this tournament . I got involved with Scotland last winter for the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier 2014 , the ICC World Twenty20 2014 and the one-dayers , and I quickly realised that you take certain things for granted when you ’ re playing for England . You go to World Cups and you ’ re just there , you don ’ t have to work to get there , compared to what the Associate Members have to do to get there and what goes on at the next level . Last year really opened my eyes of the consequences of trying to get to an ICC Cricket World Cup and the funding that you get from the ICC. It ’ s a huge stepping stone for the team to improve and get better. Players can be paid and have contracts . " Scotland would have lost their contracts if they hadn ’ t qualified for one of the World Cups which is huge. You ’ re effectively losing your jobs. " I found that very interesting to begin with and to become better teams and better players you need to put your players under pressure and have better opposition than you might get in Scottish league cricket . Once you qualify for the World Cup , I can see what Richard Done , the ICC ’ s High Performance Manager , does behind the scenes in trying to get the best opposition they can. Teams can gauge where they ’ re at and learn so much more on a consistent basis . There were tours to Australia and New Zealand last year and the training camp and triangular series in Dubai. I was there as part of the training programme to help the UAE . It was great to go and do some fielding with them. I ’ m sure they get valuable information and Chris Read working with the wicketkeepers and Paul Franks is still working for them now at the ICC Cricket World Cup . It ’ s magnificent that players can go in and get HPP and see specialist coaches and get that experience and good tips . I can honestly say the quality of the cricket the Associate Members are playing at times is really , really high and the only thing is that you don ’ t get it for prolonged periods or the strength in depth but it is getting closer and the gap is getting smaller . You can see what Ireland have done over the last 10 years and they ’ ve made a great progression. There ’ s a real chance that they could qualify for the quarter-finals and that would be an amazing achievement . There ’ s talent out there no matter what but that can only take you so far. The likes of Nepal , Hong Kong , Papua New Guinea and Afghanistan have done amazingly well to get where they have just from raw talent in the first place . There is real vision in the background at the ICC on promoting the game and spreading it and it ’ s really important that getting the quality opposition to play against them . " Whether you ’ re losing or not , coaches want their players to be put under pressure and learn from playing in different countries. " Scotland were due to play in the West Indies , which would have been a great experience , in a one-day competition as well before that was unfortunately called off . It ’ s also key for these guys to understand what touring ’ s all about. It ’ s not just playing against the opposition , it ’ s the emotions that go on , being away from home for six weeks which is not what they ’ re used to . The Scotland players are experiencing what international cricket is all about. They ’ ve been away from home for most of the winter and that ’ s what playing international cricket is about , how you balance your practice and your downtime and all that kind of stuff. It ’ s all one major experience and trying to get the team to become better . There ’ s been a perception in the past that the World Cup is too long but my view is that it can be shortened by playing more matches each day and not reducing the number of teams. You ’ re seeing that the Associate Members can really push the international teams a lot and cause some upsets and it ’ s certainly not a waste of time having them there . 2015 © ICC Development ( International ) Limited
