ICC Cricket World Cup : Mohammad Hafeez Slams Pakistani Tactics After Drubbing vs India ICC Cricket World Cup : Mohammad Hafeez Slams Pakistani Tactics After Drubbing vs India Pakistan allrounder Mohammad Hafeez , who was sent back from Australia due to a calf muscle injury , said on a local news channel that the tour selectors made a mistake by opting to open with Younus Khan in the opening World Cup match vs India . Last updated on Tuesday , 17 February , 2015 17 : 09 IST Total Shares Pakistan have come under heavy criticism following their defeat vs India © AFP Karachi : Disgruntled all-rounder , Mohammad Hafeez , who was left out of the national squad due to an injury , feels Pakistan think-tank made several blunders in the ICC Cricket World Cup opener against arch-rivals India . Hafeez , who was sent back from Australia due to a calf muscle injury , said on a local news channel that the tour selectors made a mistake by opting to open with Younus Khan. ( Dhoni Fails to Collect Souvenir Stump After Beating Pakistan ) " When you have asked for Nasir Jamshed because of his excellent one-day record against India , why not play him and why opt for a makeshift opener in such a big match , " Hafeez said. ( Indian Team in Mood to Celebrate Pakistan Win ) The experienced allrounder minced no words in stating that he did n't think Younus should have been picked in the final playing eleven against India . " Similarly it was mistake to use Umar Akmal as a wicketkeeper. I would have gone with Sarfaraz Ahmed who is the only specialist keeper in the side , " he said . One of Pakistan 's top captains and allrounders , Mushtaq Muhammad praised Indian skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni and his team for picking themselves up in their opening World Cup match against Pakistan which was a very high pressure game . " It would be useless to say I am really disappointed with Pakistan 's performance. This was a very big match and such a good chance to defeat India in a World Cup will not come again until four years. It was sad to see our team go into the match without any proper plan and our bowlers let us down , " Mushtaq told PTI in an interview . Mushtaq , who is in Karachi on a private visit , said he would give credit to Dhoni and his team for being so well prepared for the crunch match . " It was a very high pressure game and the Indian team responded very well. I felt that after having lost so many times in Australia in the last two months the Indians would be jaded and their players fatigued so Pakistan had the advantage in the World Cup match , " he said . Story first published on : Tuesday , 17 February 2015 04 : 00 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
