PAUL COLLINGWOOD : Mouth-watering quarter-finals on the cards Former England captain picks Australia as the winner of the ICC World Cup 2015 Share this article : I think the most exciting thing about the knock-out phase of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 is that you ’ re only going to see teams getting braver and braver as the stakes get higher. It ’ s actually frightening how quickly the game has changed and I don ’ t think anyone would be able to predict some of the scores that have been made so far in this competition . They ’ ve proven that the braver you are , the more successful you ’ re going to be and I can ’ t see anyone taking the foot of the gas , they ’ ll almost be going harder and harder which is exciting for the quarter-finals . People will stick to their approaches and game plans and for most of those teams it ’ s worked really well. New Zealand are probably the only team that has gone hard from Ball One. Australia ’ s David Warner and Aaron Finch can do that as well but many times New Zealand been knocking off totals and gone ballistic in the first 10 overs when a lot of the other teams are happy with a run a ball and being one or two down . I actually think this World Cup has revitalised one-day cricket. We ’ ve seen wickets and runs , people trying to do outrageous stuff , some incredible catches , and some very close games . New Zealand have been excellent all-round , winning all their matches. They ’ ve been impressive with the batting and bowling but they ’ ve also been immense in the field and they save a lot of runs. The bowlers up top , Tim Southee and Trent Boult , swinging it around , have been exceptional and the best batsmen in the world haven ’ t been able to cope with their late swing . They ’ re up against the West Indies who everyone said were a shambles going into the World Cup and they lost to Ireland. But on their day they can be a very powerful side and can beat anybody. Teams are really going to have to keep going hard and keep being brave . When that quality comes off , it is match-winning. Chris Gayle seems to be finding form after his double hundred against Zimbabwe and every team that plays against them will know if he plays well he ’ ll take the game away from them , playing a 20-20 style innings but for longer. The West Indies ’ batting line-up is seriously powerful , with some of the most powerful hitters in the sport , and bowlers aren ’ t going to enjoy going up against that . As New Zealand ’ s win in Auckland proved , they and Australia are very , very close . Australia have that powerful batting line-up and their two left-arms but they don ’ t have a lot of spin options. Glenn Maxwell is doing the job at the moment , but if the ball isn ’ t swinging around , it ’ s nice to be able to spin and change the pace and that ’ s where New Zealand come into their own. They ’ ve got the two really good swing bowlers up front and World Class Daniel Vettori coming in later on and he turned the game against Australia taking a few quick wickets. He can do it in any conditions whether it ’ s turning or not . They ’ re up against Pakistan , who have come good with four victories after a difficult start to the competition and a couple of defeats. Their bowling ’ s a real strength. Mohammad Irfan is huge and can cause anyone problems . India have been awesome and full credit goes to the players and management for turning it around. They ’ ve been in Australia for a long time now and they had a really tough ODI series against Australia and they could have been mentally shot when the tournament started but they have turned things around . They ’ re playing good quality cricket , they ’ ve adjusted to the conditions really well. They were tested by Morne Morkel and Dale Steyne on bouncy tracks and they came through it with flying colours because they ’ ve got such a strong batting line-up. They ’ re on the march and they ’ ll be confident and I think every team in the quarter-finals will be confident they can do something special . Probably the biggest surprise of the group phase was Bangladesh playing as well as they have. They had the great win against England and it ’ s a really good achievement for them to get through to the quarter-finals. It looks as though their batting has improved. They ’ ve got guys who naturally time the ball and given any width they score pretty well . Bangladesh have bowled well at times but against Scotland we got over 300 against them , they can be a bowling unit you can target and I think the Indians will be too strong for them . With South Africa you ’ re always waiting for that hiccup. One moment they seem to be the real deal and they look world class but a lot hinges on AB de Villiers . He ’ s done some miraculous stuff , in terms of his stroke play and the records he ’ s setting. A lot hinges on him and Hashim Amla at the top to score the runs. You always feel with South Africa that you ’ re waiting for that one bad game and if that comes they get knocked out. I know they have the tag of being chokers but when it comes to crunch time , Australia and New Zealand will be brave and go for it whereas South Africa almost take their foot off the gas . Sri Lanka did their job to get to this stage , beating England and Bangladesh but they also ran Australia really close and if Dinesh Chandimal hadn ’ t got injured , they could have knocked 370 off. Their batting has been exceptional , Kumar Sangakara is in the form of his life , peeling off hundreds whenever he wants . He ’ s their big player and Tillakaratne Dilshan at the top of the order has been in great one-day form as well. If those two players get going they ’ re going to be hard to stop and you ’ ve got the best death bowler in the competition in Lasith Malinga who will be tough to score against . I can ’ t wait for these next matches but if I had to pick a winner , it would be Australia , simply because the final is at the MCG. 2015 © ICC Development ( International ) Limited
