ICC World Cup : No Smooth Sailing at Adelaide Airport for Team India ICC World Cup : No Smooth Sailing at Adelaide Airport for Team India Skipper Dhoni and Team Director Shastri face tough security measures while leaving Adelaide . Last updated on Tuesday , 17 February , 2015 17 : 44 IST Total Shares The Indian team waits in a queue at the Adelaide airport for a security check before flying to Melbourne © Mid-Day Adelaide : They may enjoy superstar status back home , but in matters of aviation security , not even World Champions India are given any leeway . At Adelaide airport yesterday , hours after beating Pakistan by 76 runs in their ICC World Cup opener at the Adelaide Oval , mid-day spotted Team India going through the mandatory security check just like normal passengers before boarding their 10 : 30am Qantas flight to Melbourne for Sunday 's second World Cup fixture against South Africa. ( India Can Match Australia and South Africa : Tendulkar ) MSD leads the way Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni , leading the way here too , was among the first to take off his personal belongings , put it in a tray to pass through the electronic scanner and walked through the metal-detecting door frame . But just as he stepped through , the alarm went off and he was promptly stopped by the security officer and sent back to repeat the exercise after emptying his trouser pockets. The skipper complied and moved through the detectors a second time , but was sent back again by the officer. ( Dhoni Fails to Collect Souvenir Stump ) This time his metal buckle-bearing leather shoes set off the alarm bells. An unfazed Dhoni , smiled , turned around , removed his shoes , placed them in the tray and moved on , without being obstructed this time. ( Team India in no Mood to Celebrate Pakistan Win ) Right behind , Team Director Ravi Shastri also had to pass through the detectors twice. He had to remove his cowboy hat and the sunglasses atop his head , which were metal-framed . Prompt Dhawan Seeing this , the next man in queue , opener Shikhar Dhawan promptly began emptying his pockets cautiously , just like he started off against the Pakistan pace attack of Mohammad Irfan and Sohail Khan . He then quickly whipped off his shoes , removed his sunglasses and breezed through the security check , again just like he had accelerated later on against the arch-rivals the previous day and went on to score a fine 76-ball 73. As soon as the team finished their security procedures , a large group of Indian fans welcomed them at the other end with chants of 'Indiaaaa , Indiaaaa'. Dhoni & Co 's superstar status had returned . Story first published on : Tuesday , 17 February 2015 11 : 30 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
