Exclusive Column Andy Bichel One of the most successful all-rounders at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2003 , Andy Bichel scored 117 runs in three innings and took 16 wickets in 8 matches , including a career-best seven for 20 against England in Port Elizabeth. In the same match , he scored 35 not out and put on 73 runs for the unfinished ninth wicket with Michael Bevan ( 74 not out ) to snatch victory for Australia from the jaws of defeat. The 44-year-old Queenslander played 67 ODIs in which he scored 471 runs and took 78 wickets . 24 March 201515 : 50 ANDY BICHEL : Australia and India know each other at the back of their hands Australia will have to take their intensity to a new level against India says former pacer Share this article : You would have to say that the intensity in the knockout stage of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 went to a new level. This is what you would expect in a World Cup , and it was great to watch the players take on the pressure . For Australia , they hadn ’ t really been tested in the last couple of matches before the quarter-final. Pakistan was able to put them under a certain amount of pressure , but Australia came through in the end . So , once again they will have to take their intensity to a new level against India . It is tricky because you just can ’ t turn this on , it doesn ’ t have a switch. Only now the subject I spoke about at the start of the tournament around performing under pressure as hosts of the tournament . " For Australia to win on home soil would be huge and probably life-changing for all players as this is something we have never experienced as a country before. " Australia ’ s experienced men play a huge part in preparation for these big matches , just how they carry themselves leading in. Still , I believe someone in the top three holds the power of success for their team if they are going to continue to Sunday ’ s final . Aaron Finch started with a bang but he has been pretty quiet recently , David Warner is a big game player just , maybe , he might be the difference but this is a massive stage. Steven Smith has been in amazing form all summer , it ’ s had to imagine him missing out. These boys hold the key . Mitch Starc is not only a good bloke but he is a game breaker and just maybe with the ball he will have some impact. Another key to Australia has been their fielding and it ’ s a credit to Mike Young and Greg Blewett getting it done . Come this Thursday , India will have been in Australia for 126 days on tour. An amazing period where they haven ’ t been too bad at all. Yes , they lost the Test series 2-0 , but if you think back to the Adelaide Test , it could have gone either way. Then during the ODI series , they tried a few different combinations here and there. But really , for them to experience the Australia conditions was so valuable before such a huge tournament . Of course , a few of their players are going to be sick of the roundabout plane , hotel , train , hotel , play. This is something you get used to , but it can wear you down mentally. It ’ s a really credit to Duncan Fletcher and MS Dhoni just on how they have got their players up and are playing with a real confidence and consistency . As far as the game goes , it will be the same for India - the top three hold the magic for success. In all previous World Cup winners , the platform is where it is at and this will be no different. India ’ s bowling unit is bowling with a lot of confidence in their own ability. As usual Suresh Raina , hussles up this fielding unit and makes them field above standard which is another good component about this outfit . Two hurdles to go for these teams now , they looked fantastic but only one team can advance through to the final. Australia and India at the SCG on Thursday will be a huge game as they have played against each other a lot this summer. These teams know each other like the back of your hand , and between the summer of cricket and the IPL tournament , all these player have experienced each other so much recently . © ICC Development ( International ) Limited
