16 January 201513 : 52 ICC Launches Official ICC Cricket World Cup Quiz New Game can be played on ICC website on Desktop , Tablet and Mobile with fans able to test their Cricket World Cup knowledge in two different game modes Share this article : The International Cricket Council on Friday ( January 16 ) launched the official ICC Cricket World Cup Quiz for fans to challenge their knowledge of the premier event , which beings in Australia and New Zealand next month . The CWC Quiz has a bank of over 1000 questions and covers all ten Cricket World Cups so far – from 1975 to 2011 , with questions on every team that have participated in the tournament over the years . The CWC Quiz has two game modes – Super Over and Powerplay. In the Super Over , the player has to answer six questions and try and score as many runs , while in the Powerplay , the player gets 30 questions. Runs are scored for answering questions correctly , and the faster you answer , the more runs you score . The maximum number of runs that can be scored off one question is Six , which means a quizzer can do a Herschelle Gibbs and score the maximum 36 runs off one over ! PLAY Now , the brand new official ICC Cricket World Cup Quiz http : //t.co/G3FqYQSOWT & Share your score with # CWCQuiz pic.twitter.com/fK6Mtc3j8V — ICC ( @ ICC ) January 16 , 2015 In addition , players can reach higher levels in the game and win in-game badges depending on their performances. This they can share with friends on Facebook and Twitter . The Power Play version of the game will launch on Tuesday the 20th of January which is also going to give fans the opportunity to win exclusive ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Merchandise. Make sure to stay tuned to @ ICC & @ CricketWorldCup social media accounts to see how you can win from next week ! Participants who sign in via their Facebook or Twitter accounts can show off their Cricket World Cup knowledge to their friends and perhaps even top the leaderboard . To play the game , visit : quiz.cricketworldcup.com or click here to get in the zone ahead of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Share this article :
