23 January 201501 : 51 Around the wicket with : Kevin O ’ Brien Kevin O ’ Brien set the cricket world alight when he blasted the fasted hundred in World Cup history , off 50 balls , against England during the 2011 tournament . Share this article : Kevin O'Brien hit the fastest World Cup century off just 50 balls during the 2011 tournament We went around the wicket with O ’ Brien to ask him six questions about the World Cup , ODI cricket and what we can expect to see at # cwc15 . What venue are you most looking forward to playing at next year ? “ I think the Gabba. We had a training session there and did some fielding out in the outfield and it looks like an unbelievable stadium. It will be one of the biggest stadiums that I ’ ve played in attendance wise , so I ’ m really looking forward to getting out there . If not Ireland , who will win the 2015 tournament ? I think there ’ s probably four or five teams that will start out as favourites. The likes of Australia on home soil will be a very difficult team to play against , while South Africa of course are a very good side as well and India always play well . Do you have a dark horse ? New Zealand on home soil will know the conditions very well and they ’ re playing some good cricket at the moment. I think they ’ re well lead by Brendan McCullum and they play some aggressive cricket. I think a lot of teams will go into the tournament confident they can go on to win it . Who is the best one-day international player you ’ ve played with or against ? “ There are probably too many , to be fair. I ’ ve played against Brian Lara , Sachin Tendulkar , Ricky Ponting as well. The list will go on , Jacques Kallis , Graeme smith , Virat Kohli. It ’ s been a great experience for me over last eight years to say I ’ ve played against them and played with a few of them too , which is something I never thought I ’ d be able to achieve in my cricket career . Who do you think is the current best ODI player in the World ? “ I think maybe AB de Villiers or Virat Kohli , and if you look at fast bowlers Dale Steyn is bowling very well , and Mitchell Johnson has had a very good 12 to 14 months . What are your favourite memories from the 2007 and 2011 tournaments ? In 2007 it was just the whole experience. It was our first World Cup as a squad and as a country. We tied the first world cup game and won the second and made it through to the knock out stages. Fast forward four years to 2011 and I think on a personal note , obviously the England game ( where O ’ Brien scored his 50-ball ton ) was a standout. The whole experience of playing in India in front of such big crowds and such passionate supporters it was a great experience for us all .
