26 January 201504 : 54 Around the wicket with : James Faulkner Since making his ODI debut in early 2013 , James Faulkner 's star has continued to rise with some memorable performances. We went around the wicket with Faulkner to ask him six questions about the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Share this article : James Faulkner has become a key member of Australia 's ODI side since debuting in early 2013 . What would it mean to you to play in a World Cup in front of a home crowd ? I think obviously everyone is really excited , it ’ s so close now. Everyone ’ s been counting down the weeks and the months for the last 12 months now. But there ’ s still a lot of cricket to be played before the World Cup even starts so we ’ re trying not to get too far ahead of ourselves and just take each game as it comes. I ’ m sure once it all starts it will be bigger than ever. It ’ s obviously been a long time since it ’ s been in Australia . Are there any matches you ’ re particularly looking forward at the World Cup ? I think the first game against England will be very big at the home of cricket , the MCG . I ’ d expect a pretty full house , but I think they ’ re all going to be pretty big. I know we play New Zealand over there so that ’ s going to be a pretty big game as well . Who will be Australia ’ s biggest competition at the World Cup ? I think South Africa will be very good in Australia. Obviously they had the opportunity to play five games against us just recently and if they bring their A-game , they will be very hard to beat. With their batting and bowling line-up , they ’ re probably the standout I reckon . Which of the Associate teams ( Ireland , Scotland , Afghanistan and United Arab Emirates ) can you see causing upsets this time around ? I ’ m not too sure , they can all be dangerous on their day. We ’ ll have to wait and see what happens . Do you have any favourite World Cup memories from when you were growing up ? Obviously the run out with Damien Fleming ( in Australia ’ s tied semi-final against South Africa in 1999 ) and Ricky Ponting always tended to get runs in World Cups so I used to love watching him bat . Who is the best one-day player you ’ ve seen ? I think there ’ re a lot of big players , Ricky Ponting , Matt Hayden were quality , and Andrew Symonds was a very good one-day player. I know I ’ ve missed a heap of players as well , but back when I was growing up they were the players I used to love watching . Make sure you are there to see if James Faulkner can help Australia to World Cup success on home-soil. Tickets are selling fast - get yours now ! Share this article :
