World Cup 2015 : Wasim Akram Ready to Help Pakistan Team if PCB is Willing World Cup 2015 : Wasim Akram Ready to Help Pakistan Team if PCB is Willing Wasim Akram said he was unhappy that fingers were pointed out at him for helping out players from other countries , notably India , and not the Pakistani players . Last updated on Wednesday , 18 February , 2015 11 : 34 IST Total Shares A file photo of Kolkata Knight Riders bowling coach Wasim Akram . © BCCI Karachi : Pakistan 's former captain Wasim Akram has offered to help the national cricket team salvage its World Cup campaign. ( Full Coverage ) But the left-arm fast bowler made it clear either the Pakistan Cricket Board or team management would have to first ask for his help and advice. ( Hafeez Slams Pakistan Tactics ) " I am in Australia and New Zealand and I am ready to do my bit to help out the Pakistan team in their World Cup campaign. I know a lot about the current players. But so far no one neither the management nor the board has asked me for assistance , " Akram said on a Pakistani News Channel . Akram said he was unhappy that fingers were pointed out at him for helping out players from other countries , notably India , and not the Pakistani players . " What am I supposed to do ? Go and stand outside the Gaddafi stadium that please give me employment... I want to do something for Pakistan cricket. How does anyone expect me to get involved with the Pakistan team in the World Cup if no one asks me , " he said . He pointed out that he was always willing to offer tips to any player . . " What hurts me is that no one from the Pakistan camp has thought it fit to ask for my help or advice. I am here and I am willing to help. I have told the PCB time and again I do n't want a job , I just want to help out the players , " he said . The star player who is on the Kolkata Knight Riders coaching staff in the IPL , said that the Pakistan team could even face tough times against the weaker teams in the World Cup if they did n't pick up their game . " They have no other option but to just improve now. We also lost our first match of the 1992 World Cup to West Indies by 10 wickets but kept on going as our captain believed in us. This Pakistan team has to also improve quickly. " Story first published on : Wednesday , 18 February 2015 08 : 57 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
