01 February 201520 : 20 Scotland ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Tournament Preview & Guide Scotland , a side with a mix of youth and experience , and hungry for a first World Cup win , is a team to watch out for in Pool A Share this article : Scotland has played eight matches in the tournament in the 1999 and 2007 editions and will be looking to register its first World Cup win this year . Scotland , with a string of impressive performances in recent times , has made it to the ICC Cricket World Cup for only the third time ever . Scotland 's cricket journey began as late as 1992 after it broke away from the Test and County Cricket Board ( TCCB ) – the England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) , as it was known previously. In 1994 , it became an Associate member of the International Cricket Council , and started off with a third-place finish in the 1997 ICC Trophy , before qualifying for the ICC World Cup 1999. Eight years later , it qualified for the 2007 edition . " We have a strong squad line-up and excellent leaders in Preston and Kyle. We do n't underestimate the challenge , but we have been training hard and will be bringing our absolute best to this hugely important global event. " Grant Bradburn - Scotland head coach By finishing on top of the Super Six table in the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier in New Zealand in January 2014 , Scotland qualified for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 before going on to win the tournament outright beating the UAE in the final . World Cup History : Scotland has played eight matches in the tournament in the 1999 and 2007 editions. It will be looking to register its first World Cup win this year . Pool : Scotland is a part of Pool A , with New Zealand , Australia , England , Sri Lanka , Bangladesh and Afghanistan . Related Articles Captain : Preston Mommson Coach : Grant Bradburn Preview : Scotland 's squad for the World Cup features the experienced Kyle Coetzer , the Northamptonshire batsman ; Rob Taylor , the Leicestershire All-Rounder ; Matt Machan , who plays for Sussex ; and Iain Wardlaw , the Yorkshire seamer . Majid Haq , the offspinner , with exactly 50 ODIs under his belt , is also a vital cog in the Scotland setup. He is the leading wicket-taker in the side , and if some of the pitches in Australia and New Zealand assist the slower bowlers , like they often have of late , there will be a lot for Haq to prove , given the expectations around him . The players will surely benefit from the experience of the team ’ s backroom staff , comprising Grant Bradburn , the head coach , a former New Zealand Test cricketer , will be supported by Paul Collingwood , the former England All-Rounder . Strengths : The Scotland squad is a mix of youth and experience , and is full of fight. Matt Machan , Hamish Gardiner and Richie Berrington have been among the runs in the recent tri-series involving Afghanistan and Ireland in the United Arab Emirates. On the bowling front , right-arm medium pacers Iain Wardlaw and Josh Davey have struck form at the right time. Leading from the front will be the experienced Preston Mommsen . Recent Form : Scotland started its ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier campaign in January 2014 with a bang , defeating UAE in the final to lift the title , and in the process , qualify for Pool A of the World Cup . Preston Mommsen 's side met England in a one-off One-Day International in May , which saw Davey dismiss Jos Buttler , Ravi Bopara and Joe Root in a spell of 3 for 28 in four overs. The rain-hit game in Aberdeen , which was reduced to 20-overs per side , was eventually decided by the D/L method , with England emerging victorious by 39 runs . Later in September , playing Ireland in Dublin , Scotland went down 1-2 in the three-match ODI series despite impressive performances from Haq and Callum MacLeod . In January 2015 , Scotland won two matches and lost one in the Dubai tri-series involving Afghanistan and Ireland , with the final match of the tournament getting washed out . Star Player : Preston Mommsen Mommsen took over from Coetzer as Scotland captain for its World Cup warm-up campaign in New Zealand last January . He led from the front , amassing 520 runs in eight innings at an average of 88.66 in the tournament. In fact , his unbeaten 139 helped Scotland win the title with a 41-run win over UAE in the final. Apart from being awarded the player of the tournament for his heroics , Mommsen was also named the 2014 ICC Associate and Affiliate player of the year . One to watch : Richie Berrington He is the first Scotland batsman to score a Twenty20 International century – against Bangladesh in July 2012. In the recent tri-series in UAE , he scored a match-winning 62 against Afghanistan while batting at No. 6. He is also a handy right-hand medium pacer , able to chip in with a wicket or two for his side . Key Facts : - Iain Wardlaw climbed Mount Everest in 2012 and once held the world record for holding his breath underwater . - Calum MacLeod was England 's 12th man during a 2009 match at Edgbaston . - Rob Taylor bowls with his left arm but throws with his right . - Hamish Gardiner was born in Brisbane , Australia , to Scottish parents , while Richie Berrington was born in Pretoria , South Africa . - Matthew Cross studied engineering at the Loughborough University . Key Match : Scotland v Afghanistan , February 26 , Dunedin Scotland 's first match of the World Cup 2015 is against co-host New Zealand at the University Oval in Dunedin – a fixture for which all tickets have been sold out. Its second match is against England six days later . But Mommsen 's side would be eagerly looking forward to the contest against Afghanistan , a familiar opponent , in the third group stage match. In the last two encounters between the sides – both in the Dubai tri-series in January – Afghanistan won the first by eight wickets before Scotland fought back with a dominating 150-run victory in the second . Quotes : “ The tournament is an opportunity to get on the map. You ’ re trying to bring the next generation through and give them something to aspire to and everyone is looking to make progress. Scotland ’ s fielding is world class and it ’ s an area where we should shine. ” – Paul Collingwood , member of Scotland coaching staff " Scotland has n't won a game in a World Cup before so that 's something we 're targeting. The team have set out the goal over the next few years to become the best-ever Scottish team so putting in some good performances and getting a couple of wins would set us on the way to achieving that goal. " – Craig Wright , member of Scotland coaching staff
