Afghanistan : A Remarkable Rise in Focus Team 's success has captured the attention of its nation and cricket fans across the globe Share this article : Should Afghanistan find success at CWC 2015 , expect a huge reception for the team when it returns home . When Afghanistan ’ s national cricket team was formed just 14 years ago , a rise to cricket ’ s biggest stage seemed a distant hope . The country had recently been liberated from Taliban rule and while the sport had been played by Afghanis for some years – the Afghanistan Cricket Board ( then Federation ) was formed in 1995 – playing in an ICC Cricket World Cup would have been far from the minds of players and fans . That quickly changed. Afghanistan ’ s rise has been a rapid one : it started in Division 5 of the ICC World Cricket League in 2008 and it fast moved up the ranks until a win over Kenya in October 2013 secured Afghanistan a second-placed finish in the ICC World Cup League Championship . With that victory came a spot in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Related Articles Afghanistan ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Tournament Preview & Guide Led by captain Mohammad Nabi and coached by Englishman Andy Moles , Afghanistan will make its maiden World Cup appearance on February 18 when it plays Bangladesh at Canberra ’ s Manuka Oval . Afghanistan ’ s success has captured the attention of the nation , which will be anxiously watching from home to see whether the Associate team can break through for a win at their maiden World Cup . Should they find success at CWC 2015 , expect a huge reception for the team when it returns home . “ I think there is pressure on the players , the expectation for them to do well at home is huge , but the country ( also ) just wants to see them on the world stage , ” Moles said in an interview with the ICC . " " What other sport can they get the opportunity to be on the world stage ? There isn ’ t one. " " “ Cricket gives an opportunity for the country to feel proud about the players. And I know the players are very proud to do well , not for themselves but because they know the country will be fully behind them . “ If they can pull off a couple of results they ’ ll get the freedom of Kabul when they get home , without a shadow of a doubt . “ The passion at home is massive. ” Many Afghanis became familiar with the game – and fell in love with it – while living in refugee camps in Pakistan after fleeing the Taliban. When they returned , the game came with them . Nabi ’ s own life followed this plotline. Born in a refugee camp in Peshawar , he first picked up a cricket bat aged 10 . He honed his skills through countless hours of practice before beginning formal training at Arshad Khan ’ s academy in Peshawar , where the off-spinning allrounder attracted the attention of Mike Gatting when he scored a century against a visiting MCC team . From there his cricket career was launched and Nabi was named Afghanistan captain in 2010 . “ Everyone is very happy and ready for this mega event , ” Nabi told the ICC last month . Just qualifying for the World Cup was a major cause for celebration in Afghanistan , he said . “ At the airport there was a big celebration , parliament members and ministers came to the airport as well , ” he said . But just making it to the tournament will not satisfy Afghanistan ’ s coaches and players , who believe they have the talent to take some big scalps . If the team ’ s recent form is anything to go by , they could be right . Afghanistan recorded wins against Ireland and Scotland in a warm-up series last month , having already completed warm-up tours of Australia and New Zealand and a four-match ODI series against United Arab Emirates late last year . “ Hopefully we ’ ll play against ( Bangladesh ) very well and if we can win against them at the start of the tournament , hopefully we will perform well for the whole tournament , ” Nabi said . “ We will try to qualify for the super eight. The boys like the conditions in Australia and we have good attack bowlers and good attack batsman as well. ” Moles , who took over Afghanistan coaching duties last September having previously coached New Zealand , agreed . “ I ’ m very excited to be associated with these boys. It ’ s a fairy tale story to get where they are now , ” Moles said . “ We ’ re going to compete. We ’ re not just going to fulfil fixtures . “ To get to the super eights we need to beat Bangladesh and Scotland and another one of the full member nations. " “ Realistically there are five sides ( ranked ) above us in our group and so they really should beat us , but we ’ re going to hopefully compete very well and if we have a good day and one of the other guys have an off day , we ’ d hope to take advantage of that. ” Nabi said Afghanistan ’ s players would benefit from their warm-up tour of Australia and New Zealand , where they gained valuable experience on World Cup grounds . “ It was quite a good experience for the boys and for the team as well , ” Nabi said . “ The conditions in Australia and New Zealand are different. ” Canberra , Dunedin , Perth , Napier and Sydney will be the destinations for Afghanistan , who will play host nations Australia and New Zealand , along with Bangladesh , Sri Lanka and Scotland during the pool stages . The team ’ s World Cup preparations will culminate in warm-up matches against India , at Adelaide Oval on February 10 , and the UAE , at Melbourne ’ s Junction Oval on February 13 . For a country which did not even have a national team 14 years ago , the fairy tale is about to enter a new era . Share this article :
