06 February 201505 : 29 BANGLADESH ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 2015 TOURNAMENT PREVIEW & GUIDE Confident after the clean sweep against Zimbabwe at home , Bangladesh will be the team to watch out for in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Share this article : Bangladesh registered a memorable win against England in the 2011 World Cup in front of its home crowd by two wickets . The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 provides a great opportunity for Bangladesh to make strides in its performance in Australia and New Zealand. Bangladesh has played 12 One-Day Internationals combined in both countries , without tasting victory so far. The fact that its yet to win a match in any of the host nations could work in Bangladesh ’ s favour though , with players hungrier than ever to register a first win . Led by Mashrafe Mortaza , a veteran of 144 ODIs who has a wealth of experience spanning over 13 years in international cricket , Bangladesh also boasts of a very experienced think-tank in Shakib-al-Hasan , Mushfiqur Rahim and Tamin Iqbal , all of whom have played well over a hundred ODIs . " Some are anxious but I feel it is possible for Bangladesh to do well in those conditions. I think we may see a couple of Bangladeshi batsmen among the top five batsmen at this World Cup. We are preparing for it , now we are bracing to implement it in the matches. Our target will be to do something special. " Mushfiqur Rahim - Bangladesh ’ s wicketkeeper-batsman Bangladesh is currently ranked No. 9 in the Reliance ICC ODI Team rankings but they will be looking to go at least one place better and qualify for the quarter-final stages down under . Past World Cup performances Bangladesh started its World Cup journey in 1999 against New Zealand at the County Ground in Chelmsford , in England. It didn ’ t have to wait too long for first World Cup win as it defeated Scotland in its third match of the tournament by 22 runs. However , it caused the biggest upset of the 1999 edition when it defeated Pakistan by 62 runs in Northampton . Bangladesh had to wait for a while before its next World Cup win , going win-less in 2003 , but when victory did arrive , it was nothing short of a dream start to its 2007 campaign. Bangladesh put it across India in what was the first match of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 for both sides , winning by five wickets to earn a passage to the Super Eights stage. That remains the only occasion Bangladesh moved past the first round of a World Cup . Bangladesh was a dark horse for making it to the quarter-finals of the 2011 World Cup too , but although it registered wins against Ireland and the Netherlands , and beat a third Test playing nation at a World Cup by clinching a thriller against England , the team narrowly missed out on progressing beyond the first round . Pool : Bangladesh is in Pool A , with New Zealand , Australia , England , Sri Lanka , Scotland and Afghanistan . Captain : Mashrafe Mortaza Coach : Chandika Hathurusinghe Preview One of the factors that could work well for Bangladesh is its unpredictability. On his day Shakib-al-Hasan can turn a match on its head with either bat or ball. Bangladesh will also bank on Tamim Iqbal for a brisk start , and will hope the likes of Mominul Haque , Tamim , and Mushfiqur Rahim can build the innings. If the batsmen fire , the bowling is more than capable of running through sides on its day . The Bangladesh batting is going to revolve around Rahim , who has been in good touch in 2014 , scoring 704 runs at an impressive average of 44.00 and also has a century to his name , which came against India in the Asia Cup. Both Shakib and Mashrafe Mortaza are going to be vital cogs in Bangladesh ’ s wheel to get wins in the tournament. Shakib was Bangladesh ’ s leading wicket-taker in ODIs in 2014 with 21 victims , while Mortaza was second with 18 sticks from 13 matches . Strengths : That the selectors have relieved Rahim from his captaincy duties could work in its favour , allowing him to focus on his batting. The diminutive wicketkeeper-batsman is a classy bat with strokes all around the wicket , and can pack a punch when required too . Shakib , the top ranked all-rounder in ODIs , will be a vital contributor. As for Bangladesh ’ s bowling , the talented young Taskin Ahmed started his career with impressive performances against India at home , while Taijul Islam , the left-arm spinner , recently became the first bowler to claim a hat-trick on ODI debut . Recent form Bangladesh began 2014 searching for a win for the longest time , but as its recent 5-0 rout of Zimbabwe at home shows , the signs were there of the side coming together well. It played 18 ODIs in 2014 , winning five , losing 12 and with one match against India in Dhaka abandoned due to rain . Star Player : Shakib-al-Hasan A left-hand batsman and left-arm spinner , Shakib will be playing his third World Cup. He has been the team ’ s mainstay in both batting and bowling , and is ranked as the ICC ’ s top all-rounder with good reason. If Bangladesh are to progress , the man who will have to provide the star turn will be Shakib. Besides , he is the only one to have experienced Australian conditions recently , having participated in the Big Bash League Twenty20 tournament. In the last 12 matches he has scored 289 runs , including a century , but more importantly he as picked up 21 wickets at an impressive average of 16.80 . One to watch out for : Tajiul Islam Left-arm spinner Tajiul Islam made his ODI debut against Zimbabwe in Mirpul on December 2014. The 22-year-old shot to fame in his very first match , becoming the first bowler to claim a hat-trick on ODI debut. He played a key role in cleaning up the tail , ending with figures of 4 for 11 in a match that Bangladesh won by five wickets. He was also adjudged the Man of the Match . Fun facts : Tamim Iqbal - In 2011 he was named as one of Wisden Cricketers ' Almanack four Cricketers of the Year . Anamul Haque – He was the leading run scorer at the 2012 ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup . Shakib Al Hasan - The first player ever to top the ICC all-rounder ranking in all 3 formats at the same time . Mushfiqur Rahim – He made his international debut when he was just 16 years old . Key match : Afghanistan v Bangladesh , February 18 , Manuka Oval Bangladesh will start its campaign against Afghanistan at the Manuka Oval in Canberra. Both teams have played each other just once in an ODI , where Afghanistan emerged victorious by 32 runs at Fatullah during the Asia Cup in 2014 . Bangladesh will want to not only avenge that loss , but also being its campaign on a winning note. Up against strong teams , every win and all points on offer are precious , and victory against Afghanistan will also put the side on firmer footing before taking on the likes of Australia , New Zealand and Sri Lanka . Quotes “ Three wins give you a chance , but if we win four games , we will probably make sure that we qualify for the quarterfinals. I think the Brisbane stint as well as four matches over there will give us a good indication about where we are. ” - Chandika Hathurusinghe , the Bangladesh coach . “ Obviously we want to go to the second round. But it ’ s a tough job. We really need a good start in the tournament. If we can start well , we will be confident against every other side. ” - Mashrafe Mortaza , the Bangladesh captain . “ We can definitely cause an upset and get to that quarterfinal stage , that 's our big goal. But to guarantee that we have to upset two big teams. We also have to make sure we beat Scotland and Afghanistan , who we ca n't take lightly. It 's a big ask and it will be tough to beat Australia and New Zealand in their home conditions. But we 've got players , and if they perform on a certain day , they can be match winners. ” Heath Streak , the Bangladesh bowling coach . Scott Styris ’ s Prediction : Bangladesh : Group Stage Predicting where Bangladesh will finish is relatively easy based solely on where the tournament is played. In the subcontinent they 're a force and a certainty to knock over a top 8 opponent. Down in the southern hemisphere they will struggle with the extra bounce and lack of spin. This tournament will teams will rely on their pace bowlers and with a dearth of quality options I think they will be chasing big scores more often than not . Squad : Mashrafe Mortaza ( capt ) , Tamim Iqbal , Anamul Haque , Mominul Haque , Shakib Al Hasan ( vice-capt ) , Mahmudullah Riaz , Mushfiqur Rahim ( wk ) , Nasir Hossain , Taijul Islam , Taskin Ahmed , Al-Amin Hossain , Rubel Hossain , Soumya Sarkar , Sabbir Rahman , Arafat Sunny . Feb 18 : v Afghanistan , Manuka Oval , Canberra Feb 21 : v Australia , the Gabba , Brisbane Feb 26 : v Sri Lanka , MCG , Melbourne Mar 05 : v Scotland , Saxton Oval , Nelson Mar 09 : v England , Adelaide Oval , Adelaide Mar 13 : v New Zealand , Seddon Park , Hamilton Share this article :
