14 February 201516 : 00 South Africa v Zimbabwe Preview , Match 3 at Hamilton Under Whatmore , Chigumbura ’ s men have seen a change in fortune , but de Villers ’ s side is as complete as they come Share this article : With an all-round side , South Africa is a top contender for the title in 2015 . South Africa , never having gone past the semifinal of a World Cup , has worn the tag of ‘ chokers ’ for way too long. If , however , its recent form – the loss to New Zealand in the warm-up fixture a few days ago surely but a blip – and the depth in its squad is anything to go by , South Africa is a top contender for the title in 2015 . But , as the South African skipper AB de Villiers said on Saturday ( February 14 ) , the team isn ’ t looking that far ahead. For now , South Africa is solely focussed on its opening Pool B encounter against Zimbabwe in Hamilton on Sunday . De Villiers ’ s statement could have been dismissed as a rehearsed clich é if it had come before Zimbabwe ’ s warm-up fixtures. But now , two inspiring performances later , it seems like Zimbabwe has stated its intention . Arriving in New Zealand following a 5-0 loss to Bangladesh in the One-Day International series , Zimbabwe won three practice fixtures against Northern Districts XI comfortably before working its newfound intensity under Dav Whatmore , the coach appointed after that Bangladesh tour , on New Zealand in the opening warm-up tie . It reduced the World Cup co-host to 157 for 7 before rain played spoilsport. The weather wasn ’ t a factor in the second tie , as Hamilton Masakadza led the way with a century in a seven-wicket win over Sri Lanka . Having said that , Sunday ’ s isn ’ t a warm-up fixture. Zimbabwe is up against the No. 3 side in the world. A side that relies on the likes of Quinton de Kock , Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis to get the runs at the top of the order , before de Villiers and JP Duminy look to sign off with their blazing willows. If a stellar batting line-up isn ’ t enough , the team has a well-oiled bowling line up too with Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Vernon Philander , Wayne Parnell and Kyle Abbott forging the pace battery. Imran Tahir and Aaron Phangiso make up the spin unit . The line-up looks so complete it prompted even de Villiers to say : “ We ’ re certainly one of the favourites. There ’ s no hiding from that fact. ” The only concern for South Africa is Farhaan Behardien ’ s fitness. It is uncertain if the all-rounder has recovered from a lower-back injury , but should he be ready , South Africa will have another arrow in the quiver . With or without Behardien against it , Zimbabwe will need to come up with something out of the ordinary . It had Neil Johnson deliver that for them with both bat and ball during the 1999 World Cup in England when Zimbabwe defeated South Africa by 48 runs. This time around , it has a bunch of players who have the ability to come up with the goods . Elton Chigumbura , the skipper , carries the team on his broad shoulders and will need to put his experience to good use. Masakadza ’ s rise bodes well for the side , Sean William ’ s ability provides much-needed stability to the middle order and Brendan Taylor , the wicketkeeping batsman , is as much a force with the bat as he is behind the stumps . Squads ( from ) South Africa : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( wk ) , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( capt ) , JP Duminy , David Miller , Farhaan Behardien , Wayne Parnell , Kyle Abbott , Vernon Philander , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir , Rilee Rossouw . Zimbabwe : Sikandar Raza , Chamu Chibhabha , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( wk ) , Craig Ervine , Sean Williams , Elton Chigumbura ( capt ) , Soloman Mire , Tawanda Mupariwa , Prosper Utseya , Tinashe Panyangara , Tendai Chatara , Regis Chakabva , Tafadzwa Kamungozi .
