15 February 201506 : 28 India ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Tournament Preview & Guide Defending champion looks to batsmen to fi find prolific run-scoring form on the quicker Australian and New Zealand pitches Share this article : This time around , India has had a luck-less tour of Australia , but is itching for a turnaround in fortunes as it prepares to defend its crown . India has had a unique ability of lifting its game by several notches in the build-up to an ICC event. In 2011 , the team headed into the ICC Cricket World Cup at home on the back of a One-Day International series loss to South Africa , but won the tournament. Even in 2003 , when it reached the final , it had a poor tour of New Zealand just before. And in 1983 , when it won the ICC Cricket World Cup for the first time , it was not even among the top teams in the world . This time around , the side has had a luck-less tour of Australia , but is itching for a turnaround in fortunes as it prepares to defend its crown . In between , the side has had a tremendous run at big events. At the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy , India edged England out in a tense final in Cardiff. A year later , the team finished runner-up at the 2014 ICC World Twenty20 in Bangladesh. Clearly , the team has a penchant of performing well at big events , something Mahendra Singh Dhoni , the captain , touched upon during his arrival press conference . " You reach the quarter-finals , have three good days , have a bit of luck and you could win it. I may make it sound easy but certainly the team is capable. If Virat Kohli has a great run and Dhoni has a great run anything is possible. ” Rahul Dravid - Former India captain History : After just a solitary win , against East Africa , across the first two editions – in 1975 and 1979 – the team caught the world by surprise as it stopped West Indies in its tracks in 1983. While memories of Kapil Dev with the trophy on the Lord ’ s balcony are still fresh in the minds of India ’ s cricket fans , Dhoni ’ s winning six to win India the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup is the sort of stuff legends are made of. In between , India reached the semi-finals in 1987 and 1996 , both in home conditions , while the Sourav Ganguly-led side finished runner-up to Australia in 2003 . The lowest of lows came in 2007 when India lost two group matches to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka to be knocked out in the first round. In 1992 , India , under Mohammad Azharuddin , couldn ’ t get past the pool stage in Australia and New Zealand , while in 1999 , also under Azharuddin , the side reached the Super Six stage . Pool : India is in Pool B , along with Pakistan , South Africa , West Indies , Afghanistan , United Arab Emirates and Zimbabwe . Coach : Duncan Fletcher Preview Only four members of the current squad – Dhoni , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina and Ravi Ashwin – have had the experience of playing in a World Cup. But that isn ’ t to say the rest are inexperienced as India has groomed a side carefully over the last 12 months . Although an ankle injury ruled Ishant Sharma out of the tournament , replacement Mohit Sharma provides some capable fire-power with the ball. India has long wished for a genuine seam bowling all-rounder , which Stuart Binny could be , but he ’ s still a rookie at the top level , as is Axar Patel , which means Ravindra Jadeja and Ashwin will have their task cut out in the spin department . That said , there ’ s not an iota of doubt that the side ’ s batting is top notch. India ’ s record of chasing over the last two years has been phenomenal , and the team management would be hoping that the trend continues at the World Cup . Strengths Dhoni likes continuity and has often expressed his wish to have every squad member get an extended run in the lead-up to the World Cup. The ability of the players to thrill and frustrate in turn notwithstanding , the selectors have shown patience with a number of them over the last two years and that has often borne fruit , especially in the batting department , as exemplified by Rohit Sharma . Unlucky to miss the bus in 2011 , Rohit has emerged as one of the pillars of the batting , twin double centuries in ODIs enhancing his reputation. Ajinkya Rahane at the top , and Kohli ’ s presence along with Raina and Dhoni in the middle , gives the order a power boost. The team ’ s penchant of chasing down tall totals is sure to give the opponents something to think about . Recent Form India ’ s form in the build up to the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup has been anything but sparkling. The tri-series against Australia and England , which served as an ideal preparation for the event , ended in disappointment as the side did n't make the final. The Test series prior to that wasn ’ t too encouraging either as India lost 0-2 despite playing well and dominating on occasion . Yet , the side would draw inspiration from its string of victories against West Indies and Sri Lanka at home , where a relatively young side , led by Kohli , dominated from start to finish . Star Player : Virat Kohli Picked in 2011 on the back of solid performances in the limited-overs arena , Kohli thrilled on World Cup debut by smashing a century against Bangladesh. Sizeable contributions in all the other matches , including the final , meant his role even within a team of superstars was clearly defined. The dynamics are different now and he would have to be the pivot around which the middle order revolves. Aggression is his middle name , and India 's new Test captain has shown he can walk the talk . One to watch out for : Axar Patel Growing up in Nadiad , an hour away from Ahmedabad , Axar Patel picked up the game ’ s basics playing tennis-ball cricket after school at the age of 16. The rise has been meteoric , as he made his India debut less than four year later , against Bangladesh in June 2014 . Although Axar considers himself a batting all-rounder , his performances with the ball went some distance in ensuring his selection in the national team. Axar has been miserly with his left-arm spin and his height makes him an interesting proposition on surfaces with good bounce. Ravindra Jadeja ’ s absence has allowed him an opportunity to establish his credentials in India ’ s ODI side . Fun Facts Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni - Co-owners of FC Goa and Chennayin FC respectively in the Indian Super ( football ) League Umesh Yadav - He started playing cricket in Nagpur after unsuccessful attempts at becoming a policeman and an army officer Ravi Ashwin - Is one of India ’ s lead spinners , started his career as a batsman and even opened for his state side Tamil Nadu at the Under-17 level Key match : India v Pakistan , February 15 , Adelaide Fans from both countries would agree that it doesn ’ t get bigger than this. Some even consider this a final before the final. Both nations come to a standstill when the sides clash. With India having a decisive edge , having beaten Pakistan on each of the five previous occasions the sides have met at an ICC Cricket World Cup , the pressure will be on Misbah-ul-Haq and his boys to break the jinx. More importantly , it will set the tone for both sides as they get into the tournament . Scott Styris ’ s Prediction : India : Quarter-Final India has traditionally struggled in the southern hemisphere and I can ’ t see it progressing past this point. They have Virat Kohli , who is arguably the best batsman in the world , and a top order which is still scary when they all fire together. Lack of penetration with the ball I think will hold them back. Any team with MS Dhoni in it must not be taken lightly as he has proven he is a match winner in every tournament there is to win . Quotes ” I think whenever you play one-day cricket , India will always have a chance. You look at the batting , they have a strong line-up. Moreover , ODIs are a lot easier than Test cricket so bowlers will also do well. I 've earlier said also this is the best possible team at the moment. " – Sourav Ganguly , former India captain . " I think MS Dhoni and the Indian team have always been successful , especially under his leadership. I have no doubt that India will be one of the toughest teams to beat. They gave some extremely gifted players. So I think their time in Australia will help them. ” – Michael Clarke , Australia captain . Squad : MS Dhoni ( capt , wk ) , Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Ajinkya Rahane , Virat Kohli , Suresh Raina , Ambati Rayudu , Ravindra Jadeja , Stuart Binny , R Ashwin , Axar Patel , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Mohammed Shami , Mohit Sharma , Umesh Yadav .
