Bangladesh v Afghanistan Preview , Match 7 , Canberra If Afghanistan can balance circumspection and innate aggression , it will test the more experienced Bangladesh Share this article : Much has been made of Afghanistan 's victory over Bangladesh at the last Asia Cup in 2014 , but it will be well aware that its opponent was without Shakib Al Hasan ( R ) , its best player , and Tamim Iqbal , its most explosive batsman , at the time . You have to go back to March 15 , 2007 , for the last time a nation made its World Cup debut. That day , two of them took their first bow : Bermuda and Ireland. Bermuda was bowled out by Sri Lanka for 78 , but the other new team , was made of sterner stuff , sneaking a tie against Zimbabwe off the very last ball after Jeremy Bray , born in New South Wales , had started the campaign with a resolute 115 not out. Two days later , the Irish would defeat Pakistan and qualify for the Super Eight stage . When it makes its first appearance in the competition at the Manuka Oval in Canberra on Wednesday ( February 18 ) , the challenge before Afghanistan is to ensure that it follows Ireland ’ s path when it comes to World Cup debutants . Much has been made of its victory over Bangladesh at the last Asia Cup in 2014 , but the Afghans will be well aware that their opponent was without Shakib Al Hasan , its best player , and Tamim Iqbal , its most explosive batsman , at the time. Bangladesh may have had an indifferent build-up , but there is plenty of skill in the ranks and an experienced core , which always helps at the big tournaments . The conditions will also be completely different. The Manuka Oval has hosted just three matches since South Africa and Zimbabwe played there during the 1992 World Cup , but the pitch will certainly offer more by way of pace and bounce than that Asia Cup surface. That should help Afghanistan , who has a pace attack capable of worrying more heralded sides. Hamid Hassan has taken 22 wickets in his last ten ODIs , while the Zadrans – Shapoor and Dawlat – offer a different sort of test. Mirwais Ashraf also bowled tidily in the warm-up against India . Bangladesh , so used to relying on spin in home conditions , will also go in with three pacers. Mashrafe Mortaza remains the standard-bearer , but Taskin Ahmed is an exciting prospect , and they are likely to be joined by one of the Hossains. The vastly more experienced Rubel should get the nod over Al-Amin . For spin , Bangladesh will rely on Taijul Islam and Mahmudullah in addition to Shakib , who remains its most reliable player by a distance. Afghanistan struggled against the Indian spinners , and even on a relatively quick pitch , it should surprise no one if Bangladesh opts to try and exploit its spin strengths . For Afghanistan , the key to success is composure. Its batsmen are all capable of being destructive , but questions remain over their ability to construct an innings. Unlike in Asia , the conditions here do not favour a gung-ho approach from the first ball. If the team can find a healthy medium between innate aggression and circumspection , it will give Bangladesh a real test . Mohammad Nabi , the Afghanistan captain , was certain that his team was ready. “ We 've prepared well , ” he said. “ The players are immensely fitter than what they were a year ago. They understand the hardness of the game. We 've played against some pretty good opposition over the last six-seven months by touring and playing in Western Australia and New Zealand. We played India the other day . “ Are we nervous ? No , we 're excited. But we know we 're in for some serious challenges in this competition. But if we do our things right and only concentrate on our own skills , the results and performances will look after themselves. ” Those that love a cricketing fairy tale will be watching their progress with eager eyes . Teams : Bangladesh ( likely ) : Tamim Iqbal , Anamul Haque , Soumya Sarkar , Mahmudullah , Mushfiqur Rahim ( wk ) , Shakib Al Hasan , Sabbir Rahman , Mashrafe Mortaza ( capt ) , Taijul Islam , Taskin Ahmed , Rubel Hossain . Afghanistan ( likely from ) : Javed Ahmadi , Usman Ghani , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Najibullah Zadran , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( capt ) , Afsar Zazai ( wk ) , Mirwais Ashraf , Shapoor Zadran , Dawlat Zadran , Hamid Hassan . Share this article :
