Zimbabwe v UAE Preview , Match 8 , Nelson Chigumbura ’ s men hope to keep up good form , while Tauqir too expects 300-plus total Share this article : Elton Chigumbura said Zimbabwe took a lot out of its opening game against South Africa . Mohammed Tauqir , the United Arab Emirates captain , will have to bring all his maturity to the fore as his country returns to the World Cup fold after nearly 20 years. In its opening game , against Zimbabwe at the Saxton Oval in Nelson on Thursday ( February 19 ) , UAE has its best shot at fulfilling one of its stated goals . “ See , every individual in the team has his own target and goals. Collectively , we are looking forward to at least having a couple of wins against Test nations. That 's what we are targeting , ” said Tauqir. While that may seem like a lofty ambition , the Zimbabwe match provides the best opportunity for UAE to make a dash for glory . It is obvious that the manner in which the West Indies failed to establish its superiority over Ireland has emboldened Associate nations. “ I think it was a great win for Ireland , and I think most of the Associate nations are doing well , ” said Tauqir. “ We would like to prove a point , also. We respect Zimbabwe 's side. It 's a good side. If we bowl first , we will try to restrict them , and if we bat first , we would like to put up a strong total. ” The setting at the Saxton Oval too promises to deliver excitement. The boundaries are short , and big hits , aided by a strong breeze , carry far , as the Ireland match proved. Early in the day , there will be some assistance for the fast bowlers , but once the sun has been out for a bit , the pitch becomes perfect for batting and the fast outfield ensures high value for shots if the batsman gets his placement right . “ If I look back , except for the Australia game , the rest of the three games we have scored around 300 , so yeah , our batting is good , is strong. Wherever we see it 's 300-plus runs. We are also expecting 300-plus in the Zimbabwe game , ” said Tauqir , and this was the one point on which his opposite number , Elton Chigumbura , was in complete agreement . Zimbabwe lost its first game of the tournament , to South Africa , but certainly did not disgrace itself. In pursuit of 340 , Zimbabwe got to 277. “ It was a confidence boost the way we played , and also it 's always disappointing to play the way we did for 90 overs , and we did n't manage to finish off the last 10 overs , ” said Chigumbura. “ But we took a lot out of the game that we played , and hopefully we can carry on with that form. ” Hamilton Masakadza was in red-hot form in that game , making 80 off only 74 balls , and Chigumbura hoped others in the team would take a leaf out of his book. “ He 's leading from the front. He 's a senior batter on the team , and it 's rubbing off to the rest of the players. The good thing about our team at the moment , everyone is in good nick , so we do n't expect just Hamilton to put up a good performance , ” he said . “ The rest of the guys in the squad are capable of doing the same job. Yeah , we 're looking forward to this next game. Every team that we 're going to play , we have to respect them and play the cricket that we are capable of playing. The good thing about cricket is that it ’ s not about whom you are playing , a good ball is a good ball. We don ’ t know too much about the UAE team , so we have to just focus on sticking to our basics. ” While most international teams know each other well , it is in clashes like this one that there is an element of surprise . Teams : UAE ( likely ) : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Krishna Chandran , Khurram Khan , Swapnil Patil ( wk ) , Shaiman Anwar , Rohan Mustafa , Mohammad Naveed , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Tauqir ( capt ) , Nasir Aziz . Zimbabwe ( likely ) : Chamu Chibhabha , Sikandar Raza , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( wk ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Elton Chigumbura ( capt ) , Solomon Mire , Tinashe Panyangara , Tendai Chatara , Tafadzwa Kamungozi . Share this article :
