18 February 201519 : 34 Mohammad Tauqir : " The team is shaping up well " For United Arab Emirates cricketers , the road to the ICC Cricket World Cup has been a time-consuming juggle between work and training , of finding enough hours in the day to prepare for playing the world ’ s best . Share this article : Mohammad Tauqir debuted for UAE in 1996 Over the last 12 months most headed off each day to their full-time jobs before assembling at the ICC Cricket Academy in Dubai in the evening five times a week for hours of training . Time was found for a warm-up tour of Australia in September last year , before a four-match ODI series against Afghanistan in November and December and a month-long training camp in Dubai . It is just what you have to do when you are playing at cricket ’ s biggest tournament , UAE captain Mohammad Tauqir explained. “ It ’ s tough but we work in the morning and we practice in the evening , ” Tauqir , an investment banker , said . “ We aren ’ t professional cricketers , we are semi-professional but our employers have been very kind and very supportive to let us go and play the game. “ We ’ ve been practising very hard for the last six months. The team is shaping up well. ” The UAE will take on powerhouses including India , South Africa and Pakistan in Pool B , but Tauqir said underdog status suited his team . “ Everybody is very excited to represent the UAE , ” he said. “ We are not under any pressure , which is good. We will be enjoying every moment of this event. “ We have some very good , very talented players. They are match winners and I look forward to seeing them do well at the tournament. ” A coveted appearance at the World Cup and the publicity that accompanies it will hopefully provide cricket in the UAE with a boost , Tauqir said . “ Cricket is very popular among the ex-pat community in Dubai but not many Emirati play the game , ” he said. “ However I believe our participation will inspire more UAE nationals to follow the game with passion. ” Most of the players have experienced large crowds playing in the Asia Cup , Tauqir said , standing them in good stead ahead of matches against India in Perth , Pakistan in Napier and South Africa in Wellington . For 43-year-old Tauqir , it is the realisation of a life-long dream. The handy batsman and off-spin bowler , who first developed a passion for cricket while watching matches in Sharjah during the 1980s , made his one-day international debut in 2004 . He did so with a bang , scoring 55 at No.8 against an Indian team that included Sachin Tendulkar , Sourav Ganguly , Yuvraj Singh , Anil Kumble , Zaheer Khan , VVS Laxman , Rahul Dravid and Virender Sehwag . After a year and a half away from international cricket , Tauqir returned in 2014 to take the reins of the national team for its first World Cup appearance since 1996 . “ I was still playing domestic cricket and I was training , but this break was due to my work commitments. I have been back with the team now since last July , ” Tauqir said. “ I think playing in a World Cup for your country is the ultimate goal , so the World Cup was a big motivating factor for me. ” He took over the captaincy from Khurram Khan but is no stranger to the top job . “ I have led the team in the past and I am the most senior cricketer in the team , so it wasn ’ t a shock but it ’ s a good surprise. “ This is a great moment for me personally to be leading the UAE at the ICC Cricket World Cup. I am very proud to represent my county and it gives me a sense of pride. ” Tauqir said the team was particularly looking forward to returning to the WACA , the venue for its February 28 clash with India , which it visited during last year ’ s warm-up tour . “ ( Also ) the MCG , that ’ s the ground I will be looking forward to playing at. We ’ ve got a warm-up game against Australia at the ground , ” he said. “ We had a tour of Perth and we played couple of matches at the WACA. “ It did us a world of good to know the conditions. We have also been training in Dubai at the ICC Academy where the most of the wickets ’ soil has been imported from Australia. ” PLAYERS TO WATCH Mohammad Naveed : The right-arm medium bowler debuted against Malaysia on May 2 , 2014 , scoring 16 and taking 1-72 with the ball. The opening bowler ’ s performances in that tournament were enough to see him selected in November ’ s one-day series against Afghanistan , where he played all four matches before being included in the World Cup squad . Khurram Khan : Born in Pakistan , Khurram Khan moved to the United Arab Emirates in 1999 to work for Emirates Airlines as a flight purser. The UAE vice-captain , who still combines cricket with his high-flying job , stepped out for his adopted country in the 2001 ICC Trophy in Canada , scoring 243 runs in eight innings to finish with UAE ’ s highest average. He played a crucial role in helping UAE qualify for their first ICC Cricket World Cup since 1996 in early 2014 , finishing the tournament as his team ’ s top scorer . The 43-year-old was in brilliant form in the months leading up to the ICC Cricket World Cup , scoring an unbeaten 132 against Afghanistan in late 2014 to become the oldest player to score an ODI hundred. He followed that with 85 * in the next match of the series . Andri Berenger : Talented young wicketkeeper-batsman Andri Berenger was born in the UAE but spent much of his schooling in Colombo , where he represented Sri Lanka in the 2010 ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup. He returned to the United Arab Emirates in 2012 , and broke into the one-day international team for the November 2014 series against Afghanistan. Berenger played all four matches in that ODI series , scoring a maiden fifty on debut and following it with 66 in the final match of the series . Mohammad Tauqir : A handy lower-order batsman and off-spin bowler , Mohammad Tauqir has been representing United Arab Emirates since 1996 , when he played for his country in the Asian Cricket Council Trophy. The 43-year-old made his one-day international debut against India in 2004 , scoring a half-century. His best ODI bowling performance to date came against Sri Lanka in 2008 when Tauqir took 2-47 . Thursday , February 19 : Zimbabwe v United Arab Emirates , Saxton Oval , Nelson . Wednesday , February 25 : Ireland v United Arab Emirates , the Gabba , Brisbane . Saturday , February 28 : India v United Arab Emirates , WACA , Perth . Wednesday , March 4 : Pakistan v United Arab Emirates , McLean Park , Napier . Thursday , March 12 : South Africa v United Arab Emirates , Wellington Regional Stadium . Sunday , March 15 : West Indies v United Arab Emirates , McLean Park , Napier . Share this article :
