19 February 201508 : 46 Afghanistan inspire on World Cup debut The World ’ s newest Cricket World Cup side won many hearts in their first appearance despite their defeat Share this article : The Cinderella story of world cricket did not achieve the fairy tale finish many hoped for on Wednesday , but Afghanistan ’ s maiden appearance at the ICC Cricket World Cup had a far greater significance than the score at the end of the Manuka Oval match . The Afghanistan team has become a source of inspiration , not only for their fans back home , but for Afghans around the world . Its rapid rise up the cricket ranks has resulted in an equally fast growth of the sport ’ s popularity in Afghanistan , while its qualification for the 2015 World Cup has given Afghans a rare chance to see their nation highlighted on the biggest stage . How much this means was obvious at Manuka Oval on Wednesday. Afghanistan fans were many , they were vocal and they were proud . They came dressed in Afghanistan kit , arriving well before the gates opened baring flags and faces that displayed sheer excitement at being part of the historic match . Melbourne man Javed Khan , along with a collection of friends and family , piled into their cars on Monday afternoon for the seven-hour drive to Canberra . They arrived late at night to discover there was no accommodation available and instead slept either in their cars or outdoors . For them , it was worth it for the chance to see Afghanistan bowl its first World Cup ball . “ I feel proud , I feel ecstatic and happy to see our players represent our nation , ” Khan said . “ Our country has been through a lot of ups and downs over the last 20 or 30 years , so it ’ s good to see a sporting group come up and represent the country in a positive way. ” Having followed the team ’ s fortunes since it was formed , Khan said he help high hopes for the team . “ Hopefully they can keep improving over the next four or five years and become a top six nation in the world. ” His sentiments were echoed by other Afghanistan fans who had endured long journeys to Canberra for the game . The roar when Hamid Hassan bowled Afghanistan ’ s first ball filled Manuka Oval and continued throughout an innings that produced many highlights – particularly some terrific catches from wicketkeeper Afsar Zazai . Even when their batsmen were in dire trouble , the fans loudly cheered every run , doing their best to drown out the larger and equally boisterous Bangladesh crowd . This was a match that was joyful to attend. Absent was any sort of animosity between fans , rather , the most animated spectators from both camps could be seen grinning and patting each other on the back . At point large , a large contingent of Afghanistan and Bangladesh fans paraded around the edge of the ground together , flags waving . Even for those not supporting either team , it was impossible not to get caught up in the infectious enthusiasm . There was dancing , there were drums and there was a sense that all those in attendance appreciated Afghanistan and what its players had been through before finding themselves playing in a Cricket World Cup . The country ’ s national cricket team was formed just 14 years ago , shortly after it was liberated from Taliban rule . Many Afghanis became familiar with the game – and fell in love with it – while living in refugee camps in Pakistan after fleeing the Taliban. When they returned , the game came with them. Captain Mohammad Nabi is just one of those players whose life has followed that storyline . The team only debuted in Division 5 of the ICC World Cricket League in 2008 but flew up the ranks , securing its Cricket World Cup berth with a win against Kenya in October 2013 . It is an ascent that has had an effect on the entire country , coach Andy Moles said before Wednesday ’ s match . “ It 's been well-documented the hardships that the players and the general public have at home and all over Afghanistan , ” Moles said . “ It 's a well-received sport amongst the population in Afghanistan , and the players know that through good performances it will be a massive uplifting and just a general well-being in the country. ” Wednesday ’ s result will not slow the meteoric rise of Afghan cricket . The team is hopeful of achieving a maiden World Cup win before the tournament is over and if they do , the celebrations in Afghanistan will far outdo those that accompanied their qualification for the tournament . There are many who believe Afghanistan could challenge for a place in Test cricket in the not-so-distance future. Either way , its story is one worth following . Share this article :
