21 February 201511 : 25 Sri Lanka v Afghanistan Preview , Match 12 at Dunedin Angelo Mathews promises to field full-strength XI , says his team would have to fight all the way to win Share this article : Angelo Mathews said he would be fielding his strongest side to avoid the possibility of another upset . It ’ s often forgotten that , around four decades ago , Sri Lanka was exactly where Afghanistan is today . Sri Lanka began its journey as Associates and waded through rough waters before winning the 1996 World Cup and establishing itself as one of the premier One-Day International sides. It ’ s likely to be a while before Afghanistan achieves what Sri Lanka has , but when the two sides meet in Dunedin on Sunday ( February 22 ) , Afghanistan will be eager to take some notes and maybe even throw in a punch or two to highlight its intent and ability . The likelihood of Afghanistan pulling the rug from under Sri Lanka ’ s feet is dependent on which Sri Lankan side comes out at University Oval. Should Afghanistan face the side still sapped from the 98-run loss to New Zealand in the World Cup opener a week ago , it stands a good chance. But if Sri Lanka bring its A game to the table to make up for the loss and set itself up for a spot in the knockouts from Pool A , Afghanistan is going to have a tough task on its hands . It ’ s likely that the biggest factor will be Lasith Malinga . The paceman , returning from a six-month layoff due to injury , was a far cry from his devastating self against New Zealand , where he conceded 84 runs from ten overs with no wickets against his name . Malinga must be aching to terrorise batsmen once again and a tie against the Afghans is perhaps his best chance to get back in his groove should the Sri Lankan skipper Angelo Mathews keep him in the playing XI. “ We believe he ’ ll come back strongly in the next few matches , ” said Lahiru Thirimanne on Saturday . While Malinga ’ s form is a concern , Sri Lanka has a lot on its mind with respect to its batting. Chasing a daunting 331 , Sri Lanka was in control with Thirimanne handling the wheel , but in losing nine wickets for a mere 109 more runs , it showed that it can be vulnerable against disciplined bowling . As evidenced in its tie against Bangladesh – its debut at the ICC Cricket World Cup – Afghanistan can be clinical with the ball. While its batting faltered in that 105-run loss , Afghanistan ’ s bowling , led by Shapoor Zadran , showed a lot of grit and control despite lacking threatening pace . “ Sri Lanka will be a step up , but I think my biggest message is you haven ’ t seen Afghanistan play yet , ” said Andy Moles , the Afghanistan coach. “ The issue with associate cricket is at times its inconsistency. When we ’ re good , we ’ re very good. Hopefully , come Sri Lanka , they ’ ll do better. It ’ s like a teacher with children ; we have to educate them every day to get better , and you have good days and you have bad days. ” The ICC Cricket World Cup has already witnessed a big result in Pool B with Ireland toppling West Indies . Mathews , well aware of the repercussions should Sri Lanka crash out in the league stage , said he would be fielding his strongest side to avoid the possibility of another upset. “ They ’ re a very dangerous team. You can ’ t take them lightly because they can upset a team , and they ’ ve got nothing to lose , " said Mathews . “ We can ’ t just run through them. We 've got to fight really hard from ball one to ball 300 probably , and fight it out and just take it as a Test-playing nation. ” Teams ( from ) Afghanistan : Javed Ahmadi , Afsar Zazai ( wk ) , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( capt ) , Najibullah Zadran , Mirwais Ashraf , Aftab Alam , Hamid Hassan , Shapoor Zadran , Dawlat Zadran , Gulbadin Naib , Nasir Jamal , Usman Ghani . Sri Lanka : Tillakaratne Dilshan , Lahiru Thirimanne , Kumar Sangakkara ( wk ) , Mahela Jayawardena , Dimuth Karunaratne , Angelo Mathews ( capt ) , Jeevan Mendis , Rangana Herath , Lasith Malinga , Suranga Lakmal , Dushmantha Chameera , Dinesh Chandimal , Nuwan Kulasekara , Thisara Perera , Sachithra Senanayake . Share this article :
