23 February 201504 : 47 Don ’ t discount the Associates – they are here to fight If someone had tried to sit down and write a script for how the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 would play out , it would have long been tossed in the trash Share this article : Ireland have now beaten three full member nations in its World Cup history The unexpected happens when one-day cricket ’ s greatest prize is on the line and since Ireland ’ s win over higher-ranked opponent West Indies on the third day of the tournament , it has become clear this World Cup will be full of surprises . All four Associate nations provided highlights in the first week. After Ireland ’ s epic win in Nelson , Scotland tried hard to spoil a World Cup favourite ’ s best-laid plans when it met New Zealand in Dunedin , taking seven scalps to give New Zealand a scare before the Black Caps sealed victory . United Arab Emirates posted a big total against Zimbabwe and gave itself a very good chance of winning an evenly-matched contest , while Afghanistan looked set to cause a major upset against Sri Lanka on Sunday after it had already ensured Bangladesh had to work hard for victory in Canberra . These performances have proved the Associate teams , who have already fought hard just to make it to the World Cup , are not about to let their chance on cricket ’ s biggest stage in 2015 slip by without causing a stir . As Scotland captain Preston Mommsen pointed out after his team ’ s three-wicket defeat in Dunedin : “ We 've qualified. We actually have to work harder. We have to go through the whole process of playing in a pressurized tournament to win eight games in a row to qualify for a World Cup. ” For the Associate players , this World Cup is a chance to show what they are capable of : a rare opportunity to gain the cricket world ’ s attention , be treated like their rock-star Test-nation counterparts , and inspire a new generation of cricketers back in their home countries . It is a responsibility they take seriously and want to make the most of , as Mommsen explained prior to the World Cup . “ As players we know we have a huge responsibility in terms of putting in a good performance to give ourselves a good name and really prove that Scottish cricket is a force to be reckoned , ” he said . “ We want to inspire young Scottish people to want to get into cricket and see the potential opportunities that are available to a cricketer in Scotland. ” He echoed those thoughts after the New Zealand match : “ Hopefully the performance we put on today , it gets people talking and shows people that Associates belong at World Cups. ” Likewise , United Arab Emirates captain Mohammad Tauqir hopes his team ’ s appearance in the 2015 tournament will encourage more locals to take up the sport , which at present is largely the domain of the expatriate population . “ Cricket is very popular among the ex-pat community in Dubai but not many Emirati play the game , ” he said. “ However I believe our participation will inspire more UAE nationals to follow the game with passion. ” Tauqir said . This week is a big one for the Associates . First , Scotland is eyeing off a chance to upset rival England today in Christchurch. While Mommsen has said his Associate team has been realistic about the quality of the opposition it must play in Pool A , the players are drawing inspiration from Ireland ’ s wins against higher-ranked opponents . Earning a maiden World Cup win is the main goal for Mommsen ’ s team , after Scotland went winless in its previous appearances in 1999 and 2007 . This time , Scotland boasts a squad of professional players , many of whom are signed to county teams in England . Next , Ireland will play United Arab Emirates in Brisbane. Ireland will eye off a win to keep itself in a running for a quarter-final berth , while the UAE will be eager to post its first World Cup win since it defeated Netherlands in 1996 . On Thursday , either Afghanistan or Scotland will win its first World Cup match – providing Scotland has not already caused an upset against England , that is. The pair meet in Dunedin and it will be an emotional match regardless of who walks away with the points . The World Cup is only one week old and these countries still have plenty of chances to cause an upset to rival that of Ireland ’ s wins over Pakistan and England in 2007 and 2011 . As Zimbabwe ’ s Sean Williams noted after his team ’ s contest with the UAE : “ The gap ( between Associates and full members ) has closed in a very , very long way. I believe that every single team at this World Cup deserved to be at this World Cup , ” he said . “ For example , any one of the top teams could be beaten by us , could be beaten by Scotland. Anyone , any cricket team on that day if they get all three departments right they 'll take the top team right to the end. ” Expect Ireland , Scotland , Afghanistan will produce many more highlights before the tournament is over . Share this article :
