23 February 201505 : 43 Why Week 2 of # cwc15 is Huge We take a look at the crucial second week of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 as it ’ s moving time in the Pool stages . Share this article : New Zealand and Australia will play in a match which may decide Pool A supremacy at Eden Park West Indies ’ victory against Pakistan and the weather in Brisbane has thrown the battle for quarter-finals berths in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 wide open . Ireland had already made Pool B interesting with its win over West Indies last week , but the Windies ’ comprehensive result against their higher-ranked opponent in Christchurch proved a game-changer . Currently , Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates are yet to claim any points in Pool B , while Ireland and Zimbabwe have signalled themselves as potential quarter-final contenders with wins . Meanwhile in Pool A , Bangladesh picked up a point it may otherwise not have when rain prevented a ball being bowled in its clash with No.1 ODI team Australia . With England yet to record a win , from two matches , its chances of advancing could come down to the match between the pair on March 9 . Here are next week ’ s matches which could be make-or-break for the quarter-final hopefuls . POOL A England v Scotland , Christchurch , February 23 England will be desperate to win its first match of the tournament after being smashed by New Zealand in Wellington on Friday afternoon. Despite its results , it will still head into this match against the lower-ranked Scots as the favourite. But Scotland , which has never won a World Cup match , will sense an opportunity to upset their rival. Scotland fought hard against New Zealand last week and despite losing , its result looks better in light of England ’ s defeat. The Scots have also played plenty of cricket at Hagley Oval during the last 12 months , giving them the “ home ground ” advantage over England . New Zealand v Australia , Auckland , February 28 Barring any major upsets , this match will decide who finishes on top of Pool A and meets the fourth-ranked qualifier from Pool B. There ’ s no need to hype this match up. The two host nations and tournament favourites face-off in a replay of the famous World Cup match at the same venue in 1992 , which New Zealand won by 37 runs . England v Sri Lanka , Wellington , March 1 Another match England needs to win to keep itself ahead of Bangladesh in the battle for a quarter-final berth. A loss against Sri Lanka would be devastating to England , which is returning to the scene of its thrashing against New Zealand for the match. The teams played 12 times in 2014 – five times in England and seven in Sri Lanka – and Sri Lanka won 10 games to England ’ s two . POOL B Assuming the world ’ s second and third-ranked ODI teams , India and South Africa , claim the top two positions in Pool B , it leaves the third and fourth spots open. With West Indies ’ mixed results from two matches and Pakistan ’ s two losses , it looks as though Pakistan , Zimbabwe , West Indies and Ireland will be fighting for the two remaining spots . West Indies v Zimbabwe , Canberra , February 24 This match at Manuka Oval will go a long way to deciding the fate of these two teams in the tournament. West Indies revived its hopes of making the knock-out stages when it defeated Pakistan , while Zimbabwe has won win from two matches. The teams have not played in an ODI since February 2013 , when West Indies won a home series 3-0 . Ireland v United Arab Emirates , Brisbane , February 25 Ireland started the World Cup with a bang but if it wants to make the quarter finals , it needs to beat the United Arab Emirates at the Gabba. The last time the teams met was in a Twenty20 match in March last year , which Ireland won by 21 runs . Pakistan v Zimbabwe , Brisbane , March 1 Again , both teams will be desperate to win this match at the Gabba to set themselves on a path to the knock-out stages. Pakistan won ’ t have played since its loss to West Indies in Christchurch on Saturday , while Zimbabwe will be backing up after playing West Indies at Canberra. The teams have not met in an ODI since August 2013 , when Pakistan won an ODI series 2-1 . Other matches which could be crucial before the finals :
