West Indies v Zimababwe preview , Match 15 , Canberra The winner of the match could take a big stride towards knockouts on Tuesday Share this article : West Indies and Zimbabwe face off against each other at the Manuka Oval in Canberra on Tuesday ( February 24 ) , with a chance to move to second position in the points table in Pool B . Both teams have resurrected their World Cup campaigns after losing their opening matches. While Zimbabwe saw off the United Arab Emirates , West Indies had every reason to be satisfied with its 150-run victory over Pakistan . Still , Chris Gayle ’ s lack of runs at the top is a concern. Since the last of his 21 hundreds , against Sri Lanka in June 2013 , he averages 14.42 from 19 matches. He has crossed 30 only thrice in that time. Despite his failures , however , West Indies has crossed 300 in both its matches at this World Cup , with Lendl Simmons , Darren Sammy and Andre Russell instrumental in late flourishes . “ Any team would love having Chris Gayle going guns blazing at the top , ” said Jason Holder , the captain , on the eve of the game. “ Obviously , yet he has n't , but we still have full confidence in him. It 's very good to see that he still has n't fired and we 're still getting 300 runs. I guess when his contribution comes , we 'll get somewhere close to 400. ” West Indies will have to make one change , with Jonathan Carter likely to come in for the injured Darren Bravo , while Zimbabwe could restore Chamu Chibhabha to the top of the order after he missed the UAE game through injury. Regis Chakabva , who replaced him , consumed 62 balls for his 35 . Hamilton Masakadza , who started the tournament with a 74-ball 80 against South Africa , made his debut more than 13 years ago , but has never played in Australia before this tournament. For him , this match is special in more ways than one. Having made a Test hundred on debut against West Indies , Masakadza is looking forward to taking on his favourite opponent. “ Even growing up , I used to watch a lot of their cricket , and they were pretty much my favourite team , ” he said. “ I really do enjoy playing against them. ” Will we see Panyangara 's celebration again during # WIvZIM ? WATCH : http : //t.co/S5DaVLQZIP pic.twitter.com/mCbZRUyvT1 — ICC ( @ ICC ) February 23 , 2015 Having seen the damage West Indies did to Pakistan , he was wary of his team not being switched on from the first ball. “ I think it 's going to be really important to start off well , both with our batting and our bowling , because I think their top order is very dangerous , ” he said. “ We must n't let them get away from us too quickly. Similarly , the batting. Pakistan were four down early , and you ca n't really recover from a position like that. We just have to make sure that we start early , both with bat and with ball. ” West Indies has won all four of its previous World Cup encounters , the last of them in Jamaica in 2007 , and you have to go back to Guyana in March 2010 for the last Zimbabwe win. The two batting heroes that day were Tatenda Taibu , who retired at the age of 29 in 2012 , and Vusi Sibanda , left out of the World Cup squad . Zimbabwe 's best performance came in 1999 and 2003 where it made it to the Super Six stage , while West Indies has n't reached the semifinals since 1996. In a group where India has made all the early running , there are plenty of twists and turns in store. At the Manuka Oval , one of these sides could take a big stride towards the last eight . Share this article :
