25 February 201505 : 23 Can Gayle 's X-Factor carry West Indies all the way at # cwc15 ? X-Factor. Some have it , many don ’ t. When Chris Gayle is at the peak of his trade , he epitomises it . Share this article : Chris Gayle 's 215 overtook Gary Kirsten 's 188 * in 1996 as the highest CWC score . When Chris Gayle strode to the crease against Zimbabwe at Manuka Oval he was sorely out of form , had been the subject of seemingly constant controversy and had averaged 14.42 from his last 20 ODI innings . His last one-day ton was in June 2013 and his first two knocks at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 had produced lacklustre scores of four and 36 . If i get past a hundred I 'm definitely going to make it a big one and I 'm happy to get to my first double century in ODI cricket . Chris Gayle Nonetheless , the West Indies was coming off a good win over Pakistan and the dedicated fans who had braved a drizzly Tuesday afternoon in Canberra were hopeful of seeing some excitement from the Windies ’ big hitters . Those hopes were dulled somewhat when Dwayne Smith was dismissed for a duck on the second ball of the innings. Gayle himself could have been out LBW for naught two balls later , but received the benefit of the umpire ’ s call. How different the day could have been had that ball been travelling an inch lower . When Gayle reached three figures off 105 balls , the West Indies fans – and the crowd , in general – were pleased to see him back in the runs . It was as he blazed his second 100 off just 33 balls that the atmosphere of the ground was transformed. Suddenly , the rain that had continued to fall ( fortunately not enough to warrant leaving the field ) since the start of the innings mattered little . The excitement of the spectators grew exponentially with each Gayle six. Crowd catches were held , others were dropped and a spectator busy updating Twitter about the innings they were witnessing ducked to evade yet another huge Gayle shot . Chris Gayle claims the top spot BUT will there be an even bigger # cwc15 double hundred ? pic.twitter.com/sAhV3hzvFZ — ICC ( @ ICC ) February 24 , 2015 Team alliances didn ’ t matter. A volunteer who did not even understand the rules of cricket was watching in delight. She may not have understood exactly what she was witnessing ( take a deep breath ) – the highest World Cup score ever , the third highest ODI score , the highest ODI partnership , a record-equalling 16 sixes , the fastest ever ODI double century , the highest team total on Australian soil , the first player outside India to score 200 in an ODI and the first player to score a 300 in Tests , 200 in ODIs and 100 in T20I – but she knew it was special . That ’ s what a player like Gayle is capable of. On a wet weekday afternoon the mood at Manuka Oval was electric. Those watching were witnessing history and a fixture that already so important for both teams ’ finals hopes become something else altogether . “ I was there ” will be an oft-repeated phrase in offices around Canberra tomorrow . When Gayle eventually strode back to the rooms , triumphant and cramping after facing 147 balls and smashing a World Cup record 215 from them , the crowd was on its feet while his teammates had been waiting impatiently to congratulate him since the 48-over mark . Gayle expressed his relief following the innings , acknowledging the crowd he had held captivated for the previous 50 overs : " There 's been a lot of pressure. The runs have n't been coming. So many people wanted me to score runs. And I 'm really glad I gave them something to cheer about. " Players like Gayle make World Cups. Already the tournament has seen a handful of classic performances , including Brendan McCullum ’ s fastest World Cup fifty in Wellington and Tim Southee 7-33 in the same match . At home on the Television Broadcast , viewers were aptly asked , 'Which # cwc15 Player has the Biggest X-Factor ? ' , despite the other 3 names being De Villiers , Maxwell and Afridi it was Chris Gayle the viewers went with as over 66 % had their say . Gayle ’ s innings makes Friday ’ s match at the Sydney Cricket Ground one to salivate over. One featuring the big-hitting powers of Gayle and AB de Villiers , with West Indies on a high and South Africa attempting to hit back after being thrashed by India . Even more importantly , Gayle ’ s innings will give the West Indies the boost it needed after a mixed start to the tournament. The Windies are now in a good position to make the quarter-finals and could potentially play either Australia or New Zealand in a knock-out match. If Gayle fires again , anything could happen . Share this article :
