25 February 201512 : 17 Top Five # cwc15 Bowling Performances With # cwc15 already a third of the way through , we have seen some huge totals piled up on batter friendly wickets. But the batsmen haven ’ t had it all their own way , with some bowlers thriving in the conditions Down Under. Join us as we take a look at the top five bowling performances so far at # cwc15 : Share this article : Tim Southee 's 7-33 is the third greatest CWC bowling figures of all time 1 : Tim Southee 7-33 : New Zealand vs England In a blockbuster encounter at the cake-tin , it was Tim Southee ’ s star that shone the brightest with one of the finest displays of swing bowling seen in World Cup history . After bowling both opening batsmen with unplayable deliveries , Southee looked like he could take a wicket with every ball. He ended up picking up five more and with one over up his sleeve , could have had a Cricket World Cup record eight wickets if it wasn ’ t for Adam Milne ending the innings . 2 : Jerome Taylor 3-15 : West Indies vs Pakistan In a fearsome fast bowling assault reminiscent of the devastating West Indies pace attack of the 1970s and 1980s , Jerome Taylor tore through the Pakistan top order to leave them with the worst start in ODI history – one run for four wickets ! He bowled with pace , aggression and produced significant bounce on a pitch which the Pakistan bowlers struggled to penetrate . 3 : Hammid Hasan 3-45 : Afghanistan vs Sri Lanka With war-paint and a head band , left arm quick Hammid Hasan looked the part – but could he act it ? He proved he could against Sri Lanka with an energetic display which almost yielded a famous win for Afghanistan. He started with a big one , slipping right through the defence of Kumar Sangakkara before edging out Dimuth Karunaratne. With the match almost out of reach , Hasan returned to pick up the prize scalp of Mahela Jayawardene . 4 : Mitchell Marsh 5-33 : Australia vs England Chasing 340 to win , England made a positive start until Mitchell Marsh came into bowl and ripped the heart out if its top order. Bowling in great areas and with decent pace , Marsh kept building pressure until the inevitable mistake came and he cashed in. In the end he had sent five England batsmen packing , and the opening match went to Australia . 5 : Mohammed Shami 4-35 : India vs Pakistan Virat Kohli was hailed as the hero of the India-Pakistan clash with his stylish century , but Mohammed Shami wasn ’ t far behind . Bowling at sharp speed , Shami had two spells which both picked up two wickets and effectively ended Pakistan ’ s hopes of victory. Among his four victims were the key wickets of Younis Khan , Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi . Honourable Mentions : George Dockrell 3-50 : Ireland v West Indies As West Indies dined out on a flat Saxton Oval wicket with a plus-300 score , left-arm Ireland spinner George Dockrell was exemplary. Deft changes of pace , subtle turn and use of the crease left the normally aggressive West Indies batsmen to just tip him around. The wickets of Chris Gayle , Marlon Samuels and Dinesh Ramdin helped to keep West Indies total down and lead to Ireland ’ s memorable victory . Josh Davey : 4-68 : England v Scotland In a work-man like performance , Josh Davey kept coming at the England on a flat Hagley Oval wicket. Just as England looked to press for a huge score , Davey struck with the wickets of Joe Root , Eoin Morgan and James Taylor to halt their progress. The wicket of Taylor , especially impressive with the keeper taking a stumping standing up to the paceman . Share this article :
