26 February 201504 : 57 Outstanding Associates After 12 days of World Cup cricket that produced incredible highlights but was short on close finishes , the biggest thriller of # cwc15 to date came courtesy of Ireland and the United Arab Emirates last night . Share this article : Ireland has gone two-from-two at # cwc15 Just one day earlier , Ireland skipper William Porterfield and UAE vice-captain Khurram Khan had spoken strongly about the worth of their Associate teams and they certainly proved it on the field , producing a nail biter at the Gabba that went down to the final over . Once again , Ireland had the goods when it came to executing a big run chase and creating excitement. Incredibly , Ireland now has four of the top 10 World Cup run chases of all-time . Yeah , two associate nations going head to head , it ’ s great. We put on a good show , and obviously thank the Irish fans , there ’ s 5,000 , 6,000 in there tonight , and we heard the voices there . William Porterfield It is an outstanding record from a team only making its third appearance at the tournament. Its greatest chase , the famous 2011 win over England , saw it run down 329 , while it has twice chased 307 : first against the Netherlands in 2011 and then again against West Indies last week. Last night ’ s achievement , 279 , comes in at No. 10 . It was a classic topsy-turvy match that had no shortage of special moments. It started with Ed Joyce ’ s non-dismissal in the 11th over . A ripping ball from Amjad Javed just clipped into his off-stump , causing the bail to bobble – before landing perfectly back in its original position. The match would have been memorable enough for that incredibly rare occurrence alone , but this classic was about more than just quirks of the sport . Gary Wilson ’ s match-winning innings was calm and controlled as he steered Ireland from a perilous position at 97-4 to 267-8 when he was dismissed , leaving his team needing just 12 to win. When Ireland ’ s back was to the wall , needing 102 runs from 68 balls , it was Kevin O ’ Brien who strode to the crease and smashed a 24-ball fifty to transform the match . Many higher-ranked batsmen from higher-ranked teams have collapsed facing similar situations in run chases through this tournament so far . It was fitting that O ’ Brien , the hero of Ireland ’ s 2011 triumph over England , produced the big-hitting goods again. It was enough to prompt a journalist at the most-match press conference to ask , “ What 's it about Kevin O'Brien and World Cups ? ” Porterfield answered by saying O ’ Brien was no “ one-trick ” World Cup player. “ We play every four years on the big games and such , and if we played a few more in between you 'd see it a bit more often. We see it every day in training , ” he said . By the time Ireland was closing in on the winning runs , the hashtag # IREvUAE was trending worldwide on Twitter . The Player of the Match is Gary Wilson for his ice-cool 80 off 69 balls # IREvUAE # cwc15 & he 's trending worldwide ! pic.twitter.com/Zaypd50jO7 — ICC ( @ ICC ) February 25 , 2015 The win keeps its hopes of advancing to the quarter-finals alive and while Ireland was again a source of World Cup thrills , carrying on after its dominant win over West Indies last week , the performance of the United Arab Emirates needs to be given the credit it deserves . For a second consecutive match , the tournament ’ s only team of amateur players was in a winning position and this group deserves to have at least one tick in the “ wins ” column . The batting of Shaiman Anwar was some of the best seen this tournament. Twice now he has steered his team to big scores , having scored 67 from 50 balls against Zimbabwe before his knock of 106 off 83 last night . UAE ’ s classy cricket so far is a tribute to the hard hours of training it has put into its World Cup preparations . The Brisbane match continued what has been a strong tournament so far for the Associates – in addition to Ireland ’ s victory in Nelson and the UAE ’ s strong showing against Zimbabwe , Afghanistan almost brought Sri Lanka undone and Scotland has fought hard against New Zealand and England . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
