27 February 201508 : 32 West Indies v South Africa - Greatest Cricket World Cup rivalries A look at all the memorable duels the West Indies-South Africa rivalry has produced in ICC Cricket World Cups Share this article : Since South Africa 's return , it has met West Indies five times in six editions of the World Cup and played out some memorable matches . The rivalry South Africa was not in the picture when the West Indies had its best days in world cricket. When Clive Lloyd ’ s team won in 1975 and 1979 , South Africa was in exile. When South Africa came back to international cricket , West Indies wasn ’ t the force it had been a decade ago , though with Brian Lara leading the batting unit and Courtney Walsh and Curtly Ambrose very much in the mix , it was not a weak team by any yardstick . Of late , of course , South Africa has had better results , a fact reflected in the ICC rankings – with South Africa No. 3 and West Indies No. 8 at the moment. But over five matches in six editions of the World Cup since South Africa ’ s return , the two teams have played out some memorable matches. And there have been some remarkable individual performances too . Match 1 : ICC Cricket World Cup 1992 , Christchurch The fifth edition of the World Cup marked South Africa ’ s debut in the tournament. Straight in , South Africa made a splash , beating everyone but New Zealand and England on its way to the semi-finals , where it lost a rain-affected game against England. One of the teams it beat in the round-robin stage was West Indies , a line-up of high-quality batters and bowlers . Related Articles South Africa v West Indies Preview , Match 19 , Sydney The match was played in Christchurch and pacemen from either side , expectedly , had a good time. Peter Kirsten ’ s 56 and twenties from five others helped South Africa reach a modest 200 for 8 , Curtly Ambrose , Malcolm Marshall and Anderson Cummins picking up two wickets. Once the four-pronged South African pace attack was done with the West Indians , though , that total proved 64 runs too many . Desmond Haynes – who was hit twice on the fingers – retired , and then came back after wickets fell in a heap to make a battling 30. Gus Logie struck nine fours and a six in his 69-ball 61 , but all the others scored in single figures for South Africa to clinch a big win. Meyrick Pringle was the star with the ball , returning incredible figures of 8-4-11-4 , his wickets being Brian Lara , Richie Richardson , Carl Hooper and Keith Arthurton , West Indies ’ Nos. 2 , 3 , 4 and 5. It was West Indies ’ lowest total in World Cups at the time . Match 2 : ICC Cricket World Cup 1996 , Karachi It was a quarterfinal encounter , and keeping the conditions in Karachi in mind , South Africa left out Allan Donald to accommodate two spinners : Pat Symcox and Paul Adams. The two of them did pick up two wickets apiece , but Symcox was expensive , Brian Lara hitting five fours in one of his overs on his way to a 94-ball 111 . West Indies had lost to Kenya earlier , but overcome that defeat to beat Australia , thus qualifying for the quarter-finals where it had drawn South Africa. Batting first , it was a Lara show all the way , though Shivnarine Chanderpaul ’ s 56 was a valuable support act. Lara was in complete command , with a typically fluent innings , shots all around the park , and a heavy toll taken off the bowlers. His innings carried the West Indies to 264 for 8 , an extremely good total back in 1996 . South Africa ’ s chase looked in good shape with Andrew Hudson ( 54 ) and Daryll Cullinan ( 69 ) putting together 97 for the second wicket and Hansie Cronje chipping in with 40. But Jimmy Adams , the part-time left-arm spinner , was making dent after dent already , sending back all the three batsmen , and once he was done , Roger Harper took over. He removed Jonty Rhodes first ball , and Brian McMillan second ball , and then , later in the same over , Steve Palframan , the wicketkeeper. Just like that , the innings had disintegrated , and it ended 19 runs behind the West Indian total , with the spinners accounting for eight of the South African wickets . Match 3 : ICC Cricket World Cup 2003 , Cape Town It was the inaugural match of the 2003 World Cup , in South Africa , and the two teams – level at 1-1 in World Cup matches – gave the tournament a rollicking start with a three-run result . The early star , giving the crowd plenty to cheer about , was Shaun Pollock , as he reduced West Indies to 7 for 2. But from then on , it was Brian Lara , who followed up his 1996 century against South Africa with another special – this time it was a 134-ball 116 that took West Indies to 278 for 5. Lara was dropped first ball by Jacques Kallis at second slip , and then moved slowly as West Indies reached only 67 for 2 at the halfway stage. He took off after that , though , and smashed all the South African bowlers for runs . Shivnarine Chanderpaul compiled a sedate 60-ball 34 , but Carl Hooper got things moving with a run-a-ball 40 , before Ricardo Powell ( 40 not out in 18 balls ) and Ramnaresh Sarwan ( 32 not out in 15 balls ) turned it on towards the end as West Indies added 110 in the last ten overs . South Africa , docked one over for slow over-rate , had a tough task but contributions by a number of batsmen kept it in the hunt. Herschelle Gibbs ( 24 ) , Gary Kirsten ( 69 ) and Mark Boucher ( 49 ) did well , and then it came down to Lance Klusener and Nicky Boje. The man who could make the difference was Klusener , and he did his bit , smashing five sixes in a 48-ball 57 before being dismissed in the 49th over – the last. And , once he fell , South Africa fell too , a loss that went a long way in the team being knocked out in the first round . Match 4 : ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 , Grenada If West Indies handed South Africa defeat in what was South Africa ’ s home World Cup , West Indies was paid back in the same coin in 2007. The loss sent the home side out of its own party as a result . It was the Super Eights , and Brian Lara , the West Indies captain , inserted South Africa at the National Stadium in Grenada , and then watched as AB de Villiers , Jacques Kallis , Herschelle Gibbs and Mark Boucher pounded his bowlers into submission. Graeme Smith fell early , but de Villiers then put on 170 runs with Kallis ( 81 ) , and 70 with Gibbs , before falling for 146 , scored from 130 balls. Gibbs continued , scoring an unbeaten 61 from 40 balls , and Boucher pitched in with a 23-ball 52 , and West Indies had a chase of 357 lined up . West Indies needed to score at over seven an over , but by the 12th over , it was 69 for 3. Wickets fell at regular intervals , and it was only Ramnaresh Sarwan ’ s belligerent 92 and a late blast from Daren Powell that took West Indies to 289 for 9 – 67 runs short of where it needed to be. It was a one-sided game all the way , and South Africa had levelled scores at 2-2 as far as World Cup matches went . Match 5 : ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 , New Delhi West Indies and South Africa met in a Group B game at Feroz Shah Kotla in New Delhi in the 2011 edition , and viewers were served up a one-sided contest , with West Indies never really threatening South Africa . After being asked to bat , West Indies rode on Darren Bravo ’ s 82-ball 73 and contributions from Devon Smith ( 36 ) , Shivnarine Chanderpaul ( 31 ) and Dwayne Bravo ( 40 ) to reach 222 before being bowled out in the 48th over. It was a dominant bowling performance on the whole from South Africa , with Johan Botha ( 2/48 ) , Dale Steyn ( 3/24 ) and Imran Tahir ( 4/41 ) doing all the damage . The target was never likely to worry South Africa , and it didn ’ t , even though Kemar Roach sent Hashim Amla back early and Sulieman Benn accounted for Jacques Kallis to leave South Africa at 20 for 2 by the end of the fifth over. AB de Villiers , however , was at it again , scoring an unbeaten 107 from 105 balls to guide the chase. He first shared a 119-run stand with Graeme Smith ( 45 ) and then had JP Duminy ( 42 not out ) accompanying him to the end , which came in the 43rd over . What to expect in # cwc2015 It ’ s 3-2 for South Africa in World Cup encounters between the two sides , and the West Indians would have to play out of their skins in Sydney on February 27 if they want to draw level with South Africa at 3-3 . South Africa is , without doubt , one of the most complete One-Day International teams in the world at the moment , and among the frontrunners to lift the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup trophy. West Indies , on the other hand , is among the middle-rungers , and will come into the tournament after suffering a 4-1 loss against South Africa in January 2015 . The neutrals ’ prediction might be for South Africa , but as the West Indies showed in 1996 and 2003 , predictions on paper count for little and individual brilliance can carry the day spectacularly. A few mighty blows from Chris Gayle , a few other performances of note , and , who knows what the people at SCG will get to witness . Share this article :
