27 February 201516 : 20 By R Kaushik , Perth India v United Arab Emirates Preview , Match 21 , Perth No Shami means a chance for Bhuvneshwar or Binny , while UAE will have to raise game its game against the defending champion Share this article : India will have to make do without the services of Mohammed Shami , its pace spearhead who has been laid low by a left knee problem . This is classic David v Goliath stuff. The amateurs of United Arab Emirates – both in spirit and otherwise – against the ultra-professionals that India has transformed into. Men with day jobs to augment their incomes from cricket against acknowledged superstars . India undoubtedly has the edge over UAE in Saturday ’ s ( February 28 ) Group B picture at the WACA ground . But then again , what is life without hope ? What is cricket without the possibility of an upset ? How else does this game become a game of glorious uncertainties ? For all its competitiveness , UAE has lost two of two – to Zimbabwe in its first World Cup game for 19 years , and more narrowly to Ireland two nights back , in the last over by two wickets . With a little bit of luck , composure and experience , it could have pulled at least one those two fats out of the fire. But it didn ’ t. As spirited and as enthusiastic as it was , UAE 's skills were found just a little bit wanting at the crunch , and this against sides that it is closer to in the pecking order than its opponents on Saturday . India find itself at the other end of the spectrum , and not by accident. Its win over Pakistan , by 76 runs , was shaded by its victory over South Africa in Melbourne last Sunday , when Mahendra Singh Dhoni ’ s men ran out victors by a massive 130 runs . Both those margins don ’ t flatter India ; they are amply illustrative of the refreshingly unshackled brand of cricket the team has put on display the moment it came down to mounting a defence of its World Cup crown . Across the board , India ’ s players and influential members of the support staff have stressed the importance of not letting the intensity slip. Cricket has a funny way of coming back to hurt you if you don ’ t give the opponent , or the game , the respect it deserves. There are enough wise heads to impress upon rank and file the significance of maintaining the high standards established over the past fortnight ; this isn ’ t so much about who the opponent is as about what India want to make of itself. UAE is some way short of offering the same challenge as Pakistan or South Africa ; in many ways , that alone makes this India ’ s biggest test yet . India will have to make do without the services of Mohammed Shami , its pace spearhead who has been laid low by a left knee problem. Shami has taken 6 for 65 in India ’ s two victories from 17 overs , and bowled as well as those numbers indicate. An ultrasound-guided injection on Thursday evening should go a long way towards ensuring that he is up and running for the game against West Indies at the same venue on March 6 ; for now , his enforced absence has given the think-tank the opportunity to cram game time into one of Bhuvneshwar Kumar or Stuart Binny , either or both of whom might be called on to do duty at some stage in the competition . Missing from the think-tank discussions will be Duncan Fletcher , the head coach who is away in Cape Town following the demise of his father in law. With two key men – one on-field , the other in the back room – unavailable , any potential for lingering complacency ought to have disappeared completely . UAE slipped into the tournament on the back of an impressive run in the qualifying competition , and has thrown up several colourful stars in the last couple of games. No one has shined brighter than Shaiman Anwar , the experienced middle-order batsman who , on Wednesday , became his country ’ s first World Cup centurion. His dismantling of a quality Ireland attack – his hundred came off only 79 deliveries – was brilliant in its conception and outstanding in its execution. He is , however , a marked man now , much like Kevin O ’ Brien was both before but certainly after his match-winning hundred against England in the last World Cup , and it will be interesting to see how he shapes up given that the expectations of him have mounted manifold . For UAE to rub shoulders with India on an equal footing on a surface that India ’ s pacers should relish more than the opposition , it will need for the top order to support Shaiman more effectively. Pretty 30s will not do , nor will wickets falling in a heap and forcing Shaiman to shore up the lower order while at the same time doing the bulk of the scoring , and reasonably quickly at that. Amjad Ali , the opener , and Khurram Khan , the former skipper and UAE ’ s only other ODI centurion , must bat longer , while the India-born duo of Krishna Chandran and Swapnil Patil both have a great opportunity to make a name for themselves against players that are at once their countrymen and their heroes . Where UAE might find the going particularly tough is in its bowling. Manjula Guruge , the left-arm seamer , has been accurate and Mohammad Tauqir , the captain , reasonably tidy with his offspin. But the rest of the group have tended to go for a few. UAE must find ways of taking wickets – the best way to staunch the flow of runs -- if it is to seriously trouble a line-up coming off scores of 300 and 307 in its last two hits . Teams ( from ) : India : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , Mahendra Singh Dhoni ( capt , wk ) , Ravindra Jadeja , R Ashwin , Bhuvneshwar Kumar , Umesh Yadav , Mohit Sharma , Stuart Binny , Axar Patel , Ambati Rayudu . UAE : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Krishna Chandran , Khurram Khan , Swapnil Patil ( wk ) , Shaiman Anwar , Rohan Mustafa , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir ( capt ) , Manjula Guruge , Fahad Alhashmi , Kamran Shazad , Nasir Aziz , Saqlain Haider . Share this article :
