World Cup 2015 : Match Not Over , But US Embassy Congratulates Afghanistan on Maiden Victory ! World Cup 2015 : Match Not Over , But US Embassy Congratulates Afghanistan on Maiden Victory ! Moments after Afghanistan made their World Cup debut and before the first ball had even been bowled , the US Embassy in Kabul wrongly assumed the match was over . Last updated on Wednesday , 18 February , 2015 14 : 09 IST Total Shares Afghanistan ready to shock Bangladesh . © Getty Images Cricket is by no stretch of the imagination the most popular sport in the United States of America and their citizens could be forgiven for not knowing much about business in the 22-yards. However , the US Embassy in Kabul would have blushed at the extent of their ignorance on Wednesday as Afghanistan made their World Cup debut in Canberra. ( Scorecard | Blog ) Soon after the Afghans were asked to bowl by Bangladesh skipper Mashrafe Mortaza , the US Embassy in Kabul tweeted to congratulate the Afghanistan team on beating Bangladesh. What the Americans did not realise was that the match had just got under way in faraway Australia and they would have to wait at least another six hours for a result . Congratulations to # Afghanistan for their win over # Bangladesh in the Cricket World Cup # CWC15 # AFGvsBAN — U.S. Embassy Kabul ( @ USEmbassyKabul ) February 18 , 2015 The Americans realised their mistake , although almost an hour later , and said despite their premature celebrations , the Embassy continued to support the Afghans , who had made history by qualifying for the World Cup Down Under . Premature posting but we are still cheering for team Afghanistan at the # CWC15 ! # AFGvsBAN — U.S. Embassy Kabul ( @ USEmbassyKabul ) February 18 , 2015 Afghanistan , who had defeated Bangladesh in the only previous ODI between the two sides , got off to a good start and did not have to wait long for their first World Cup wicket . Afghanistan seamer Mirwais Ashraf empted star opening batsman Tamim Iqbal into edging the ball to wicketkeeper Afsar Zazai who took a flying , one-handed catch off the third ball of the 15th over at Canberra 's Manuka Oval. He soon removed the other opener , Anamul Haque as Bangladesh plunged into deeper trouble . Bangladesh were in for more further trouble when Shapoor Zadran chipped in with two wickets. However , former captains Mushfiqur Rahim and Shakib al Hasan arrested the slide with a strong partnership for the fifth wicket. Bangladesh finished with 267 in 50 overs . Story first published on : Wednesday , 18 February 2015 12 : 32 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
