28 February 201518 : 57 By Dileep V Raise your hands if you had Chris Gayle If you missed on some power-packed performers , fret not – the ICC Fantasy League offers a must-grab do-over window Share this article : Picking Chris Gayle was a proper jackpot moment and huge differentiator for the ones who had him , vis- à -vis the ones who didn ’ t . Raise your hands if you had Chris Gayle in your team and as the PowerPlayer ( PP ) in the match against Zimbabwe. There won ’ t be many hands going up. Only 9 % of all teams had Gayle in them , and only 3 % had him as their PP. It was a hit-ratio to rank with England ’ s 500 to 1 odds of winning at Old Trafford in 1981. Not having him ranked as an oversight as bad as Fernando Torres ’ s open-goal misses. But then , maybe that ’ s too harsh. It ’ s not entirely the fault of the team managers in the ICC Fantasy League – it ’ s more to do with how , in recent years , Gayle ’ s fortunes in ODI cricket have swung like the mood of a teenage girl . I had Gayle . I called it blind persistence. Others called it idiocy. But it catapulted me from mid-table status to the top three in our inter-office league – much to the annoyance of colleagues who were having a ball , seeing the defending champion languishing in the lower half of the table . Gayle is a killjoy. Take it from me. His pick was a proper jackpot moment and huge differentiator for the ones who had him , vis- à -vis the ones who didn ’ t . AB de Villiers , with breathtaking versatility and pure hitting , gave people as many points as Gayle , but that wasn ’ t as much of a game changer because about 55 % of all teams had him. That just showed it ’ s important to pick a player whose popularity is high. Of course he should be someone who can be depended on to perform , otherwise he would be like Mt Vesuvius and never erupt. You want your volcanoes to erupt and bury all competition . The key to success in Fantasy League is not just research , balancing the books and sound knowledge of players , oppositions and ground conditions – but also intuition. If yours is working well , persist with it. If it ’ s giving you horrific results , make sure you do the opposite. Just as we talk about a ‘ zone ’ for players who are in form , Fantasy League managers also have phases of whatever they touch turns to gold. So if you ’ re there , it ’ s best to make use of that good phase when it lasts , because you don ’ t know when it will end ! The first stage of the ICC Fantasy League is over , and everyone has the chance to remake teams and mount fresh challenges. Those already leading should just ensure they don ’ t miss out on obvious picks , while taking the occasional risk to maintain their positions. Those catching up need to take more risks , and search hard for hidden gems , while taking advantage of any cockiness that could have crept into those at the top. For those at the bottom , you might feel that nothing can be done to lift you out of the abyss , but worry not ! With the infinite substitutions available between now and the next match – England v Sri Lanka – mean you can redo your team , learn from Stage 1 mistakes and take Stage 2 by storm , eventually getting a crack at finishing on top overall . The seasoned Fantasy League player might wonder at the outpouring of what we call gyaan – trivia and knowledge imparted overbearingly – instead of offering more useful tips , tricks and shortcuts. But I believe in the holistic improvement of Fantasy League players , and not in crash courses to success. The process always wins. Overall development and understanding how the game works will be more important than short-term points game. I can already hear cries of “ Move on from this old-school stuff ” , so I shall . My colleague Saurabh Somani had written of the Fantasy League being more marathon than sprint in this column . I agree with the sprint part , but more than marathon , I think of the ICC Fantasy League as a Pentathlon – two stages split in group phases , the quarterfinals , the semifinals and the final. Like different disciplines in the Pentathlon , you need to use different skill sets for each stage , and what works for one will not for the others . When Stage 2 gets underway , each team will have 42 substitutions for the next 21 matches , which comes to an even two subs per game. But don ’ t let mathematical symmetry rule all while making substitutions. Make changes judiciously , going for the kill when you see the prey and holding back on dry days. These 42 substitutions can be " the answer to life the universe and everything " if used sensibly. Or they can be “ unto death ” , as per Japanese culture , if chosen carelessly . What last week taught us Ignore trump players at your own peril : Gayle got 796 points in two matches against Zimbabwe and South Africa. AB de Villiers got 570 against West Indies , Tillakaratne Dilshan got 456 and Kumar Sangakkara got 284 , both against Bangladesh. All of them made sure you can ’ t afford to leave these players out . Value for money ( VFM ) is the ‘ in-thing ’ : This past week saw two UAE players - Shaiman Anwar ( VFM : 278 ) and Amjad Javed ( VFM : 243 ) emerge as the value buys. " It 's a deal , it 's a steal , it 's the sale of the frigging week ! " might have been the cry going around in Fantasy League circles. Rilee Rossouw , with a VFM of 224 gets an honourable mention . The ones who haven ’ t taken off : The World Cup is a big stage and some embrace it instantly while others take time. Based on form and talent , these players seemed like good picks , but they have been costly for teams who took them. Shahid Afridi has only 87 points , James Anderson has 96 , and Dale Steyn has 136. All three are still being picked , with Steyn in 30 % of the teams , while Afridi and Anderson hover below the 10 % mark – but the hope that they will give handsome returns hasn ’ t come to be so far . Picks for the week Mixing , matching and retention is an art. You should play around with each , as a painter would do with his brushes. Other than the obvious picks , you would do well to select players who aren ’ t too popular , and will thus get you exclusive points. Identifying those hidden gems is key . I won ’ t go into the details of how a leader , the ones catching-up , and the laggards should go about choosing the team. That has already been done here in some detail. Based on the frequency of a team playing in the next week , here are a few names to consider. The final decision , of course , is always the team manager ’ s . Pick players whose teams are playing a set of games in small space of time. A quick glance at fixtures from March 1 to March 8 tells us that Pakistan are playing three and South Africa , Zimbabwe , Ireland and Afghanistan are playing two games each. Hence pack your team with 2-3 players from Pakistan and South Africa , and one each from others seems reasonably sound . England , New Zealand , Sri Lanka , Australia , India , West Indies , Scotland , UAE and Bangladesh play only one game each , so the players from these teams should be floaters – bought in only for a game and substituted with another floating player soon after . Permanent picks : Shahid Afridi ( Pakistan ; 105,000 ) , Wahab Riaz ( Pakistan ; 85,000 ) , AB de Villiers ( South Africa ; 110,000 ) , Imran Tahir ( South Africa ; 90,000 ) , Faf du Plessis ( South Africa ; 90,000 ) , Paul Stirling ( Ireland ; 90,000 ) , Ed Joyce ( Ireland ; 85,000 ) , Sean Williams ( Zimbabwe ; 80,000 ) , Brendan Taylor ( Zimbabwe ; 90,000 ) , Shapoor Zadran ( Afghanistan ; 75,000 ) , Samiullah Shenwari ( Afghanistan ; 75,000 ) . Floater picks : Moeen Ali ( England ; 85,000 ) , Trent Boult ( New Zealand ; 80,000 ) , Brendon McCullum ( New Zealand ; 105,000 ) , Kumar Sangakkara ( Sri Lanka ; 105,000 ) , David Warner ( Australia ; 95,000 ) , Mitchell Starc ( Australia ; 90,000 ) , Virat Kohli ( India ; 105,000 ) , R Ashwin ( India ; 90,000 ) , Chris Gayle ( West Indies ; 105,000 ) , Shakib al Hasan ( Bangladesh ; 105,000 ) . Punt on : Ahmed Shahzad ( Pakistan ; 80,000 ) , Yasir Shah ( Pakistan ; 70,000 ) , Rilee Rossow ( South Africa ; 65,000 ) , William Porterfield ( Ireland ; 80,000 ) , Asghar Stanikzai ( Afghanistan ; 65,000 ) , Joe Root ( England ; 80,000 ) , Ross Taylor ( New Zealand ; 90,000 ) , Rangana Herath ( Sri Lanka ; 85,000 ) , Shane Watson ( Australia ; 105,000 ) , Rohit Sharma ( India ; 90,000 ) , Darren Sammy ( West Indies ; 90,000 ) , Mahmudullah ( Bangladesh ; 80,000 ) , Joshua Davey ( Scotland ; 70,000 ) , Khurram Khan ( UAE ; 85,000 ) . If you are the fastidious and punctual type , you can wait till the toss of each game before making changes. This will give you an advantage for sure. But if you , like me , have a problem with waking up early ( and matches do start at some unearthly hours in South East Asia and the Subcontinent ) , then play blind like in blackjack , and change squad/PP overnight , hoping all celestial bodies align properly . A few important pointers to remember when making decisions and picking a fresh squad on March 1 : 1 ) Pick the players I have suggested . 2 ) Don ’ t lose hope over a few bad misses . 3 ) Think long term . 4 ) Make professional choices , not personal ones . 5 ) The blogger is always right . If you are confused by that , follow Points 1 through 5 on a loop. That will take you places . So go and make those changes before England and Sri Lanka players take the field and be the Elephant in your intra leagues. Otherwise , you ’ ll be remembered as the Dinosaur who never made it . May the cricketing force be with you ! Share this article :
