AB De Villiers : World Cup Superstar The 31-year-old now holds the records for fastest 50 , 100 and 150 in ODIs . Share this article : AB de Villiers stroked 162 off 66 balls against West Indies in Sydney . He is the top-ranked batsman in the world right now and could be forgiven for carrying an attitude to match . But Abraham Benjamin de Villiers ’ humble nature is as endearing as his freakish talent with the bat is entertaining . Nothing sums up his approach better than his remarks while walking off the field after scoring the fastest 150 in history on Friday against the West Indies : " A very enjoyable knock today. It was just one of those knocks , a little bit of luck and made it count , ” de Villiers said after the match at the SCG . After the match , de Villiers summed up the 257-run win – the equal-largest winning margin in World Cup history – by simply saying , “ It was our day today , the bounce of the ball went our way and my way and I 'm sure the West Indies will bounce back. ” At his post-match press conference , he gave much of the credit for South Africa ’ s massive total to batsman Rilee Rossouw . “ I thought he was the guy who started everything for us in the middle of the innings there , ” de Villiers said . “ I did n't feel too well when I was walking out to bat , really flat , and he had a lot of energy about him , a lot of intensity . “ ( The ball ) wasn ’ t actually was n't going off the middle of the bat , not all of them. ” However much he might downplay it , de Villiers set the Sydney Cricket Ground alight . It would be a safe bet to say many Sydney workers took an early mark to make their way to Moore Park , given how much the crowd swelled as his innings wore on . Seemingly breaking records with every ball towards the end of his innings , de Villiers displayed the mix of conventional , unorthodox and simply unbelievable shots he has become famous for , lofting eight sixes and smashing 17 fours . It was the second-fastest World Cup century ever , but it was not even de Villiers ’ fastest ton this year , given he smashed 100 off 31 balls against the same opposition in January . And all this from a man who battled an energy-sapping sickness in the previous 24 hours , and was clearly far from 100 per cent when he took his place in the middle . And to think @ ABdeVilliers17 almost did n't play today because he was suffering from gastro and fever the whole of last night. What a champ ! — Cricket South Africa ( @ OfficialCSA ) February 27 , 2015 “ You would say ( his innings ) was unbelievable , but it ’ s the second time I ’ ve seen this from AB de Villiers in the space of a month , ” former South African captain Shaun Pollock said during the innings break of Friday ’ s match . “ He ’ s too humble. He said he just got lucky. Well , it ’ s the second time I ’ ve seen him get lucky in the space of a month . " When AB bats , the fielders become spectators and the spectators become fielders ! " Author Unknown — Shaun Pollock ( @ 7polly7 ) February 27 , 2015 “ He really is a remarkable player. The fact he is rated No.1 is just so justified . “ He scores 360 degrees around the pitch and as a bowler , I have got to feel sorry for them ( because ) what they can possibly do ? ” The 31-year-old now holds the records for fastest 50 , 100 and 150 in ODIs , has 20 hundreds 43 fifties from 175 ODI innings and holds an average of 52.93 . The fact de Villiers has the back-up of incredibly talented and in-form teammates including Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , Quinton de Kock , David Miller , Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel is the reason South Africa presents such a big threat in the World Cup . Against the West Indies , Amla ( 65 ) , Rossouw ( 61 ) and du Plessis ( 62 ) were also impressive with the bat , while it was Imran Tahir ( 5-45 ) , Morkel ( 2-23 ) and Kyle Abbott ( 2-37 ) who did the most damage with the ball , while Steyn ( 1-24 ) was the most economical . Given Rossouw and Abbott may not even have played had JP Duminy and Vernon Philander been fit , the Proteas have plenty of options . If there were doubts about the team following its disappointing loss to India in Melbourne , they were vanquished by a dominant display with both bat and ball in Sydney . While top spot in Pool B is out of South Africa ’ s control , with India now in the box seat after last Sunday ’ s win , South Africa will take plenty of confidence into its final three pool matches against Ireland , Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates . With a quarter-final match against either Sri Lanka or England likely , Pollock believes more magic from de Villiers in the knock-out stages could be the key to the Proteas winning their first World Cup . “ There ’ s no doubt he is a superstar captain leading from the front , what more could you want ? ” “ He can play those kind of innings and hopefully for South Africa he gets it right in one of the knockout games and gets them over the line. ” Share this article :
