03 March 201509 : 36 By Anand Vasu , Napier Pakistan v UAE Preview , Match 25 , Napier Pakistan should be eyeing a big win , but UAE must believe it has a chance against its below-par opponent Share this article : Pakistan players celebrate the wicket of Rohit Sharma . When the going is good , there are few jobs in cricket that guarantee adulation as readily as that of captain of a team such as India or Pakistan . Such is the fervour among cricket fans in the two countries , that it is often said that the cricket captain ’ s job is more coveted than that of the head of state. But the flip side of this is ugly. When the team is losing , there is no worse chair to be seated in . Misbah-ul-Haq is facing so much fire at the moment , with Pakistan having won only one of the three matches it has played , and the two losses being heavy ones , he should borrow the line made famous by Kevin Pietersen : It ’ s hard being me. Back home , fans are venting their ire , and even good individual performances have not insulated Misbah from attack . But Misbah is too calm and composed to be rattled by this sort of thing , too sensible and mature to let the off-field drama overshadow the actual task at hand. But what is a genuine cause for worry is the utter lack of runs from the top order . Ahmed Shahzad , Nasir Jamshed , Haris Sohail and Umar Akmal have collectively failed to fire , and when this happens , there is little any captain can do. The form and fitness of Jamshed have come in for serious scrutiny , and there is no denying the fact that he looks rusty at the crease and slow on the field. Calls have been made for Sarfraz Ahmed to take Jamshed ’ s place , and the match on Wednesday ( March 4 ) against United Arab Emirates would provide the best possible opportunity to give Sarfraz his first hit of the tournament. The management , however , could well take the view that the UAE game is the best chance to get Jamshed back into some sort of form . For Pakistan , the challenge is more than picking up two crucial points. Pakistan knocks off three matches in seven days , with significant travel involved. Add to this the fact that it had to acclimatise to vastly different conditions – hot , humid Brisbane is far removed from Napier – and varying pitches , and you know it has its task cut out . While Pakistan will begin by looking for a simple win , it also knows that there was every chance of a logjam for the final two qualifying spots from Pool B. India and South Africa are sitting pretty , but Pakistan will certainly be in competition with Ireland and West Indies , if it gets enough points on the board. This will bring net run-rate into play , and on this count Pakistan is far behind at -1.373 , lower even than UAE. This means that it really needs a couple of big wins , and it must be thinking that UAE provide the most realistic possibility of achieving this . For the UAE team , this match is a major opportunity as well. As many as nine players in the UAE squad are from Pakistan and the best game to win would have been the India one. However , the gulf between the two teams was huge in that encounter , with a rampant India blowing its less experienced opponent away. Pakistan is hardly in a similar situation , and if it starts the game badly , UAE will believe it has a chance to exert some pressure and try and force the mistake . A major strength of UAE has been the manner in which its batting has fired when it has had the chance to bat first , a couple of games notwithstanding. UAE has consistently looked like making something in excess of 270 , which gives it a fighting chance . Squads Pakistan : Nasir Jamshed , Ahmed Shehzad , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , Umar Akmal ( wk ) , Shahid Afridi , Sohaib Maqsood , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan , Ehsan Adil , Sarfraz Ahmed , Yasir Shah , Younis Khan . UAE : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Krishna Chandran , Khurram Khan , Swapnil Patil ( wk ) , Shaiman Anwar , Rohan Mustafa , Fahad Alhashmi , Nasir Aziz , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir ( capt ) , Manjula Guruge , Kamran Shazad , Saqlain Haider . Share this article :
