03 March 201517 : 41 By Dileep Premachandran , Canberra Amla , du Plessis sparkle in big win South Africa powers to 411/4 before bowlers , led by Kyle Abbott , end Ireland innings at 210 Share this article : South Africa had got its campaign back on track and given its net run-rate a significant boost . Ireland came into this ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 match at the Manuka Oval high on confidence after victories in its first two games. South Africa , one of the pre-tournament favourites , presented a sterner test , however , and ruthless batting from Hashim Amla ( 159 ) and Faf du Plessis ( 109 ) ensured a dominating win. Amla and du Plessis added 247 in just 217 balls , as South Africa surged to 411 for 4 from its 50 overs. The bowlers , with Kyle Abbott ( 4 for 21 ) especially outstanding , did the rest , as South Africa romped to a 201-run victory on Tuesday ( March 3 ) . The day had started promisingly for Ireland as Quinton de Kock got a thin edge to a John Mooney delivery that slanted across him and after a review , Ireland had its first wicket. Mooney bowled impeccably from one end , but Max Sorensen , at the other end , struggled from the outset . Amla had started off with an on-drive and a lofted shot through point that just evaded William Porterfield , and got lucky when he was dropped at 10. Kevin O ’ Brien had replaced Sorensen , and Amla flicked his first delivery to short midwicket where Ed Joyce couldn ’ t hold on. A cut for four and a peachy cover drive in the same over followed . Du Plessis also had his moment of luck , when on 19. Paul Stirling had come on to bowl his off-breaks , and Kevin O ’ Brien came up at the wrong time at slip as du Plessis edged one. After that , even half-chances were at a premium as Amla and du Plessis wrested complete control . Amla was imperious on the offside , driving and cutting with power and timing , while du Plessis tended to favour the legside , with pulls , flicks and heaves as the bowlers repeatedly erred in length. George Dockrell was economical , but both men eased to their half-centuries at almost a run a ball . Sorensen ’ s return to the attack signalled a change of gear , as Amla took sixes over wide long-on and extra cover before du Plessis finished a 24-run over with a clean strike over long-on. Amla ’ s 20th ODI hundred – it took him just 108 innings , 25 fewer than Virat Kohli – took exactly 100 balls , and du Plessis soon followed , having faced just three deliveries more . Mooney ’ s first spell had been 5-2-9-1 , but when he was recalled , his first over went for 27 , as Amla pulled for four and six before a scythe to third man and a lovely loft over cover left Ireland reeling . Kevin O ’ Brien finally got du Plessis with a yorker that he played all over , but with AB de Villiers starting with a cover-driven four and a swept six off Dockrell , it was clear that there would be no respite. South Africa took 69 from the Batting Power Play , and though de Villiers miscued a reverse sweep to backward point soon after Amla mishit one to long-on – both off Andy McBrine – Rilee Rossouw and David Miller muscled their team past 400 for the second straight game . Rossouw , who had struck a 31-ball half-century against West Indies , smashed 61 from 30 balls ( five fours and three sixes ) , while Miller finished with 46 from just 23. The two added an unbeaten 110 from just 51 balls as South Africa rattled off 131 runs in the last ten overs . Ireland needed to stave off the new ball to have any chance of getting close , but Dale Steyn and Abbott effectively ended the contest within the first Power Play. Stirling played two sublime cover drives before Steyn summoned up a snorter that took the edge and was given out after a review . Du Plessis , at short midwicket , smartly took Porterfield ’ s push to Abbott at shin height , while Ed Joyce edged Steyn to Amla at first slip. Amla was in the fray again when Niall O ’ Brien went for a cut too close to his body off Abbott ’ s bowling. De Kock couldn ’ t hold on , but Amla juggled the deflection and held it under his armpit . When Abbott trapped Gary Wilson , the key player in Ireland ’ s run chase against UAE , in front , Ireland was 48 for 5 in the 11th over. There would be no way back. Andy Balbirnie and Kevin O ’ Brien started uncertainly , but then settled down to add 81 at better than five an over . Balbirnie played some fine cuts and also worked the ball well off his pads , while O ’ Brien was at his best when powering the ball through the leg side. While they were out there , Ireland had a decent chance of damage limitation. But then , Morne Morkel tempted Balbirnie into a pull that went straight to Rossouw at deep midwicket. His 58 had spanned 71 balls . De Villiers gave overs to Farhaan Behardien , du Plessis and Rossouw , but it was when he brought himself on that South Africa got its next wicket. John Mooney chopped a wide one on , prompting both celebration and delight. Minutes later , O ’ Brien ’ s 65-ball 48 ended when he pulled Abbott into the deep , where Rossouw ran around to take a fine catch . Cameos from Dockrell and Sorensen brought down the margin of defeat , but with a win that was stil massive , South Africa had got its campaign back on track and given its net run-rate a significant boost . Share this article :
