04 March 201515 : 37 By Anand Vasu , Napier Pakistan wins as batsmen come good Fifties from Shehzad , Sohail , Misbah set up 129-run win over UAE , even as Anwar tops World Cup run-getters list Share this article : Misbah Ul-Haq plays a shot . Pakistan topped 300 for the first time in the tournament and not only secured two more points with its win over the United Arab Emirates , but also bolstered its net run-rate , going from -1.373 to -0.385 . Save for Nasir Jamshed , every batsman made runs , pushing 339 for 6 at McLean Park in Napier on Wednesday ( March 4 ) . UAE could not mount a serious challenge , and ended 129 runs adrift . When Mohammad Tauqir won the toss and put an unchanged Pakistan team in to bat , he hoped that the quick bowlers at his disposal would be able to make use of the cloud cover on offer . Mohammad Naveed bowled with discipline , landing the ball just where the batsmen might falter , and sure enough , Ahmed Shahzad just about escaped , a mishit being just out of reach at mid-off. Khurram Khan was at full stretch , and got one hand to the ball , but it did not stick. In the very next over , Andri Berenger gave Shahzad , then on 11 , another reprieve , and the batsman would make it count . Jamshed soon made way to Haris Sohail , and for a passage , Pakistan ’ s batsmen struggled to get the scoreboard moving. At the same time , the batting was effective , Sohail and Shahzad matching each other run for run. Both brought up half-centuries , and once the shine wore off the two new balls , batting become easier. The partnership was 160 when Sohail ( 70 ) , tried to catch up with Shahzad , who had pulled away a touch. Trying to smear the ball over long-on , Sohail failed to clear mid-on . Sohaib Maqsood joined Shahzad , but the partnership did not last long. Looking to romp to his century , Shahzad ( 93 ) pushed hard for a second run , but a good , flat throw from the deep and a bounce of the bat as Shahzad dived resulted in a run-out . Sohaib Maqsood began to turn on the heat , flicking Manjula Guruge deftly over backward square and clattering him over midwicket for sixes. Maqsood , who got to 45 from only 31 balls , flashed hard to point , and Rohan Mustafa held on . Misbah-ul-Haq provided just the kind of finish his team needed , beginning steadily but opening up at the right time to hit two sixes and four fours in a 49-ball 65 . Pakistan ended on 339 for 6 , its second-highest total in a World Cup match , after the 349 against Zimbabwe in Kingston in 2007 . When the chase began , UAE would have known that only an exceptional start could help it mount a serious challenge. Even when Mohammad Irfan went off the field to have his glute iced after only three overs , there was no real joy for UAE . Amjad Ali , Berenger and Krishna Chandran Karate were all back in the hut by the time 10 overs were bowled , with only 25 runs on the board. Khurram helped himself to 43 and Shaiman Anwar made a stroke-filled 62 to head to the top of the run-getters list for the tournament. Anwar can take pride in having left the likes of Kumar Sangakkara and Chris Gayle behind , even temporarily . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
