05 March 201506 : 56 Hashim Amla , fastest man to 20 ODI Centuries Amla ’ s runs come in a more measured manner. With a strike rate of 89.13 , his 108 ODI innings to date have featured 532 fours and just 31 sixes , making up 42.39 per cent of his runs Share this article : Consistency best sums up Hashim Amla ’ s career to date . Quiet , unassuming but consistently brilliant , Hashim Amla provides the perfect foil for the freakish exploits of AB de Villiers . Both are blessed with an abundance of talent , carry humble demeanours and are natural leaders , but the similarities end when it comes to the way they score their runs . Consistency best sums up Amla ’ s career to date . The batsman made his Test debut in 2004 , but had to wait another four years before earning his first one-day cap for the Proteas in March 2008 . Since , the top-order regular has more than made up for lost time and in 2012 was the fastest player to reach 3000 ODI runs . In January , he became the fastest batsman to reach 5000 runs , passing the milestone in 101 innings , well ahead of Virat Kohli and Viv Richard ’ s previous record of 114 . Amla continued that trend at Manuka Oval on Tuesday when he plundered his 20th ODI century . His 20th ton - a superb 159 from 128 balls - came from 108 innings , making him the fastest ever to the milestone , overtaking previous record-holder Kohli by a massive 25 innings . Amla ’ s knock in Canberra was also his second in excess of 150 for the year. His first was scored against the West Indies on January 18 , in a match overshadowed by partner-in-crime de Villiers ’ s 31-ball century . While a typical de Villiers ’ innings combines a mix of the conventional , the unorthodox and the simply unbelievable , Amla brings a sense of calmness and serenity to his batting . His game has few weaknesses and he accumulates runs at an astonishing rate . Amla ’ s 5457 ODI runs have come at an average of 55.58 – the second-highest all-time ODI average , second only to that of the Netherlands ’ Ryan ten Doeschate who has an average of 67 from 32 innings . De Villiers is fourth on the list , with an average of 52.93 . However , Amla ’ s runs come in a more measured manner than that of his ODI captain. With a strike rate of 89.13 , his 108 ODI innings to date have featured 532 fours and just 31 sixes , making up 42.39 per cent of his runs . By comparison , de Villiers has a strike rate of 98.19 and has scored a mammoth 691 fours and 148 sixes in his 7676-run career . De Villiers was full of praise for his ODI vice-captain after Tuesday ’ s 201-run win . “ He ’ s still the rock , he will always be the rock for us , ” de Villiers said in his post-match interview . “ He just effortlessly plays with a lot of class and his game plans are so set , no matter what you do he always has an answer it seems . “ Hopefully that form can continue for the rest of the tournament. ” After a slow start to the World Cup , South Africa ’ s batsmen have shown their strength in the Proteas ’ last two matches . On Tuesday , the team became the first ever to score in excess of 400 in consecutive ODIs . The scores were not against top-ranked teams , but West Indies and Ireland are both sides in the running for quarter-finals . Additionally , the second 400-plus score came without a major contribution from de Villiers , who scored a quick-fire 24 off nine before top-edging to backward point . Already South Africa has five centuries for the tournament from five separate batsman . Amla , de Villiers , Faf du Plessis , David Miller and JP Duminy have all scored tons , while du Plessis and Rilee Rossouw have also scored two fifties apiece . Opener Quinton de Kock is the only batsman struggling for form , with scores of 7 , 7 , 12 , and 1 for the tournament to date and an average of 15 for the year . “ There ’ s been a lot of hundreds over the last 12 to 18 months and it ’ s something we ’ re very proud of , ” de Villiers said . “ We want to keep scoring centuries. We feel it is definitely helping setting it up for the latter stages of the innings. ” Only Sri Lanka is challenging South Africa when it comes to the number of batsmen leading the run-scoring for the World Cup to date . If the Proteas ’ batsmen can continue this form through the tournament – and produce it when it is needed in the knock-out stages against the likes of Australia , India or New Zealand – they could deliver their country a long-sought after maiden trophy . Share this article :
