05 March 201514 : 50 Shaiman Anwar – Top of the World UAE ’ s Shaiman Anwar has taken the ICC Cricket World Cup by storm , scoring 270 runs at 67.5 Share this article : ​ Anwar ’ s form in the tournament to date has been the cornerstone of a dogged UAE outfit . Nor was it AB de Villiers , Lahiru Thirimanne or David Warner . It was Shaiman Anwar , the United Arab Emirates middle-order batsman who has taken the tournament by storm with 270 runs in four innings at an average of 67.5 . While those other batsmen , along with the other six making up the top 10 in the runs tally , are full-time professional cricketers , Anwar took leave from his day job to play in the World Cup . " Anwar ’ s preparation for the World Cup was the same as that of his amateur teammates : months of managing a careful juggling act between full-time work and long hours of training. " But the toil has clearly paid off. Anwar ’ s form in the tournament to date has been the cornerstone of a dogged UAE outfit. Competitive against Zimbabwe and Sri Lanka before being blown away by India , the Emirates team again dug in chasing a big Pakistan total in Napier , never troubling the run rate but at the same time refusing to bow down and be bowled out . Anwar ’ s stellar tournament started with a flashy 67 off 50 balls against Zimbabwe which propelled his team to a competitive 285 . Against Ireland , his 106 off 83 balls was crucial and carried the UAE from 78-4 to 269-8 when he was dismissed. It was the first century scored by a UAE player in a World Cup match and only the team ’ s second in ODIs . Upon reaching three figures , a mega-watt smile light up Anwar ’ s face , he knelt on his knees and he threw out his arms. It was obvious to see how much it meant . In both innings , Anwar played fearlessly and with unbridled enthusiasm , enjoying the opportunity to score runs for his team on cricket ’ s biggest stage . He was at it again against Pakistan , digging in for a gritty 62 from 88 deliveries , having come to the crease with the UAE in trouble at 25-3 . Like many of his teammates Anwar was born in Pakistan , where he played domestic cricket before receiving an offer in 2007 to play club cricket in the United Arab Emirates . He accepted and after finding employment with a shipping firm , relocated permanently to the UAE . Two years later , he made his international debut for his adopted country . Impressively , the 35-year-old first had only played six official one-dayers when he stepped on to Saxton Oval against Zimbabwe on the sixth day of the World Cup . His performances so far have earned him a new nickname , UAE captain Mohammad Tauqir revealed after the Pakistan match . " “ He 's such a confident individual that we call him Sir Viv in the dressing room. His nickname is Sir Viv , ” Tauqir said. " “ He 's a brilliant batsman. He 's doing very well for himself and the team . “ Even today I think he missed a hundred I think. If we would have stayed to the end , he would have scored 90 to 100 runs , but an excellent performance. ” Teammate Amjad Javed gave similar praise after the Ireland match . “ He is one of the best players we have on our team , yeah. On his day he can really score quick runs for us , and we have seen it , ” Javed said . “ He 's very dangerous , yeah. Once he starts scoring he will score more and big runs. ” Anwar ’ s performances are leading the way for the remainder of the team , which has two more opportunities to cause an upset before the end of the pool stages , with matches to come against South Africa and West Indies . # cwc15 is now past the half-way stage , who 's the leading run-scorer so far ? It 's Shaiman Anwar of the # UAE # Batting ! pic.twitter.com/G3abPtifUV
