06 March 201507 : 02 Kyle Coetzer , Scotland ’ s trailblazer at CWC ‘ 15 Preston Mommsen praises Scotland 's first World Cup centurion , says the team is proud of what Coetzer achieved and will take confidence from his performance Share this article : Kyle Coetzer 's century against Bangladesh in Nelson was a display of maturity and skill . World Cup records continued to tumble in Nelson on Thursday , led by the efforts of a man from Aberdeen . Scotland vice-captain Kyle Coetzer produced one of the best batting performances of the tournament against Bangladesh with a superb 156 from 134 balls , breaking the record for highest World Cup score by an Associate player . — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 5 , 2015 It was the first World Cup century by a Scotland player , a career-high score for Coetzer , the overall third highest score by an Associate batsman in ODIs and the highest against a full member nation . Unfortunately for Coetzer and for Scotland , it was also the highest World Cup total from a player on a losing side , after Bangladesh pulled off the second-highest run chase in tournament history in scoring 322-4 . The ton , which featured 16 fours and four sixes , was a continuation of the good form Coetzer has shown in recent months , adding to the crucial 71 he scored in Christchurch against England . A County Cricket player for Northamptonshire , his innings in Nelson was a display of maturity and skill . Coetzer was rightly named Player of the Match for his efforts. Not only that , he currently leads the World Cup tally for the most fours scored this tournament with 33 – three ahead of Kumar Sangakkara . “ As a team , we 're very proud of what he achieved out there , ” Scotland captain Preston Mommsen said following the match . “ It was a fantastic I was fortunate to spend a lot of time out there with him , especially through that period where he accelerated perfectly and timed his innings perfectly . “ So the guys will take a lot of confidence from his performance , will enjoy his performance . “ We 're very proud of his performance , and hopefully the people back home are also very proud of that. ” Coetzer , 30 , was also one of the form batsmen of Scotland ’ s acclimatisation tour of Australia and New Zealand late last year , when he scored 333 runs at an average of 55.50 , the highest tally of any player from the four World Cup qualifiers . Previously Scotland captain before being succeeded by Mommsen last year , Coetzer has long been part of his country ’ s cricket set-up , having played at an international level from under-15s onwards before making his senior debut in 2003 . After disappointing showings with the bat against New Zealand and England , Scotland ’ s batsmen finally delivered a performance in Nelson that showed that the Associate team ’ s batsmen are capable of . Supporting Coetzer were Mommsen ( 39 ) , Matt Machan ( 35 ) and Richie Berrington ( 26 ) Scotland ’ s 318-8 far eclipsed its previous highest ODI total against a Test-playing nation – 211 scored against England in 2010 . Described by Mommsen as the “ best prepared Scotland team that 's left the shores ” , Scotland is still fighting to claim its long-awaited maiden World Cup victory , but there is no doubting the team has fought hard this tournament . With 15 fully contracted players , Scotland made New Zealand ’ s batsmen work chasing 143 in Dunedin , while its match against Afghanistan went down to the final over . Two opportunities remain for Scotland to secure a World Cup win in 2015 . Their opponents – Sri Lanka and Australia - are formidable , but do not expect Mommsen ’ s men to give up without a fight . “ We ’ ve still got two big games to look ahead to , ” Mommsen said . “ Two very exciting fixtures , obviously playing against two top nations , so the boys are very excited for that. We 're going to have to pick up our heads and move on and hopefully Hobart is a good venue for us. ” Share this article :
