06 March 201513 : 17 By Anand Vasu , Auckland Pakistan v South Africa Preview , Match 29 , Auckland South Africa has excelled on all counts , while Misbah ’ s side will look to maintain winning momentum Share this article : The question before teams now isn ’ t so much how to beat South Africa , but how to stop AB de Villiers . On the back of grey skies and a persistent drizzle , an unstoppable force breezed into Auckland ahead of the weekend. AB de Villiers , in red-hot form , has refused to be denied thus far in South Africa ’ s campaign and has been the beating heart of the run-making in a World Cup that has seen big scores . His visceral hitting , both traditional and innovative , has lit up stadia and driven bowlers to despair. The question before teams now isn ’ t so much how to beat South Africa , but how to stop de Villiers . Certainly , de Villiers is not alone in his success. Hashim Amla is up to his usual tricks , scoring comfortably at better than a run-a-ball without ever seeming to break a sweat or play a shot in anger. David Miller and Rilee Rossouw have muscled the ball around , and Quinton de Kock is due . If South Africa ’ s batting has become a major factor , the bowling has done so well that someone such as Vernon Philander has been forced to sit out. Dale Steyn lays down the early markers , Kyle Abbott has pace and energy , Morne Morkel brings bounce and Imran Tahir has mopped up wickets at every possible chance . To this batting and bowling add South Africa ’ s razor-sharp fielding , and you have a team that is going to be very hard to beat. Certainly , the likes of New Zealand and Australia have the bowling attacks to beat anyone , and India will believe its batting can more than make up for shortcomings elsewhere. But , what of Pakistan , South Africa ’ s next opponent ? Pakistan has rediscovered its winning ways after a slow start. The batting came good as it put up 339 against UAE , after the bowlers held their nerve to defend 235 against Zimbabwe , for a thrilling 20-run win . However , the line-up has come in for criticism from former players . After a disappointing tournament for Nasir Jamshed , Sarfraz Ahmed might get a look in or Younus Khan could return to the squad , especially with Haris Sohail struggling with an inflamed heel. Former players ’ suggestions that Misbah-ul-Haq , the captain , do something out of the box was met with : “ Should I open the batting with Irfan ? ” He also suggested that with Eden Park ’ s short straight boundaries , and the presence of Shahid Afridi , Yasir Shah , the legspinner , might spend a bit more time on the bench . If Pakistan wins the South Africa clash , it will get an important boost to its quarterfinal hopes. Else , it could all come down to the final Pool B game against Ireland - which too has two wins so far but from three games compared to Pakistan 's four - on Sunday . If Pakistan is worried about missing some key players who brought stability to the line-up , it is not letting on. The team has managed to hang in there , and Misbah has done everything to keep the dream alive . Teams ( likely ) : Pakistan : Nasir Jamshed , Ahmed Shehzad , Younus Khan Sohaib Maqsood , Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , Umar Akmal ( wk ) , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan . South Africa : Hashim Amla , Quinton de Kock ( wk ) , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( capt ) , David Miller , JP Duminy , Rilee Rossouw , Vernon Philander/Kyle Abbott , Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir . You can follow the build up to the game and the live scoring and match highlights for Pakistan v South Africa here in the ICC Match Centre . Share this article :
