07 March 201508 : 02 By Himanish Bhattacharjee Ireland v Zimbabwe , Preview , Match 30 , Hobart Win takes Ireland up to No. 3 in pool table , while a Zimbabwe victory would add to the mid-table clutter . Share this article : In the lead up to the 2015 World Cup , experts struggled to single out one team as the outright favourite to win the title. They even suggested this would be the closest World Cup of all time . So far , the tournament has panned out pretty much on those lines. India and New Zealand have been the most dominant , while almost every team has rewritten record books , done better – and not so , occasionally – than anticipated . Ireland , for instance , came into this tournament with the reputation of being a small team that , when at its best , can upset even the best in the world . Pakistan felt the pinch in 2007 , England suffered in 2011 , and West Indies , playing its first match of this World Cup , was left shocked by William Porterfield ’ s men , who chased down a 300-plus total to clinch a fabulous four-wicket victory in Nelson . Ireland carried that confidence into the next match , against United Arab Emirates , the following week , beating it by two wickets , before finally being brought down to earth by the mighty South Africans , losing by a massive 201-run margin . On Saturday ( March 7 ) , in the 30th match of the tournament , Ireland takes on Zimbabwe – another side that has shown immense determination in its three matches so far . After opening its World Cup campaign with a 62-run loss against South Africa , Zimbabwe bounced back with a four-wicket win over UAE . But little did Elton Chigumbura ’ s side know that a rampaging Chris Gayle awaited it on the other side – Gayle smashed the first double ton in World Cup history to power the West Indies to a dominating 372 for 2 . Zimbabwe fought hard to reach 289 , falling short of the Duckworth-Lewis target by 73 runs . Against Pakistan , though , the bowlers got their act together to restrict the opposition to 235/7 , and with key contributions from Chigumbura , Brendan Taylor and Sean Williams , put up a spirited chase , eventually losing by 20 runs . But , against Ireland , it goes in without Chigumbura , who tore his thigh muscle while fielding in the match against Pakistan . Taylor , who will lead the side now , insisted Zimbabwe stood a good chance of emerging victorious against Ireland. “ We feel we are 80 % there , ” he said on Friday. “ We think if we can close that gap a little bit more , I think we are heading in the right direction for a good win against Ireland. ” In the six One-Day Internationals played between the two sides , Ireland has won one and lost three , rain washed out one game and the only time the two sides locked horns in a World Cup match , in 2007 , it ended in a thrilling tie at Sabina Park in Kingston . Victory for Ireland will move it ahead of West Indies and Pakistan to third position with six points in Pool B , while Zimbabwe will go up to four points to join the mid-table tussle with a win . “ Everything is in our hands in terms of wins , ” said Porterfield , speaking on match eve. “ Tomorrow is no different. We 've gone into every game looking for those two points , and we 're two from three at the moment , and going into tomorrow ( we are ) looking to make that four from three. ” The Bellerive Oval , the venue for the clash , is set to host its first World Cup match , and given the stakes , being part of the crowd might just be the best way to spend Saturday evening if you are in Hobart . Teams ( from ) Ireland : William Porterfield ( capt ) , Andrew Balbirnie , Peter Chase , Alex Cusack , George Dockrell , Ed Joyce , Andrew McBrine , John Mooney , Tim Murtagh , Kevin O'Brien , Niall O'Brien , Paul Stirling , Stuart Thompson , Gary Wilson ( wk ) , Craig Young . Zimbabwe : Brendan Taylor ( capt , wk ) , Regis Chakabva , Tendai Chatara , Chamu Chibhabha , Craig Ervine , Tafadzwa Kamungozi , Hamilton Masakadza , Stuart Matsikenyeri , Solomon Mire , Tawanda Mupariwa , Tinashe Panyangara , Sikandar Raza , , Prosper Utseya , Sean Williams .
