07 March 201514 : 52 Australia v Sri Lanka Preview , Match 32 , Sydney Spin expected to be a factor in intriguing Sydney clash between two teams coming off emphatic wins Share this article : Both teams are almost assured of a place in the last eight , with games against Scotland to come . If there ’ s one Asian team not overawed by the Australian experience , it ’ s Sri Lanka . The team may trail 31-55 in the overall head-to-head numbers , but in matches against Australia on Australian turf in the new millennium , it has a 12-17 record – superior to India ’ s ( 5-11 ) and better than Pakistan ’ s ( 3-10 ) . The team has been exceptionally good at the Sydney Cricket Ground , where it has won its last two completed matches against Australia and four of the last eight ( with two defeats ) . All this suggests that the home side and pre-tournament favourite will not have it all its own way on Sunday ( March 8 ) . After a poor start against New Zealand , the Sri Lankan batsmen have worked their way into ominous form . Injuries to Dimuth Karunaratne , who is out of the tournament , and Rangana Herath ( on the sidelines after needing stitches in a finger injury ) have forced Sri Lanka to tinker with the XI. Upul Tharanga , who has 13 One-Day International centuries , could come into contention , but if Sri Lanka opts for the extra bowler , then both Seekkuge Prasanna – drafted into the squad as a replacement for Karunaratne – and Sachitra Senanayake will play . On a very dry pitch , spin will undoubtedly be a factor. Angelo Mathews , Sri Lanka ’ s captain , was appreciative of the work that Senanayake has put in to correct his bowling action , but though he has an extremely modest record , Prasanna ’ s ability to take the ball away from the right-hand batsmen could also see him in the fray . One man who will definitely keep his place is Suranga Lakmal , who went for 71 in 7.4 overs against England. “ He 's bowled really well in the first three games , ” said Mathews . “ Bowlers tend to have their off days , and it was an off day for him certainly in the last game. He 's a very good bowler , and we all know that. He can bowl with the new ball , in the middle , and also at the death. ” Australia dropped Shane Watson for the match against Afghanistan in Perth , but the conditions in Sydney mean that he ’ s very much part of the equation ahead of Sunday ’ s game. Mitchell Marsh has recovered from a foot problem , but Watson ’ s experience and his changes of pace possibly make him a better bowling option. But whether he ’ ll be restored to No. 3 if he does play remains to be seen . There could also be an outing for Xavier Doherty , the left-arm spinner. Australia does have Glenn Maxwell , Michael Clarke and Steve Smith as slow-bowling options , but Doherty could get a look in if the selectors decide to go with a specialist. If he plays , Josh Hazlewood is most likely to sit out . “ I think he can bat anywhere , ” said Clarke about Watson on the eve of the game. “ I think he ’ s shown at the top of the order that he can be extremely successful. He averages over 40 in one-day cricket and he ’ s striking at about 90 , so I think he ’ s skilful enough to bat anywhere in the order. ” Its recent record in Australia notwithstanding , Sri Lanka has found the side its bogey in the World Cup. Australia has won six of the eight matches between the teams on the biggest stage , and you have to go back to St Patrick ’ s Day in 1996 for Sri Lanka ’ s only success. There was , of course , the small matter of that being a World Cup final . Both teams are almost assured of a place in the last eight , with games against Scotland to come , but Sunday ’ s encounter could have huge repercussions for the knockout stages. The loser will almost certainly have to play South Africa in the quarterfinal – instead of West Indies/Pakistan/Ireland – and if it surmounts that hurdle , a trip across the Tasman Sea awaits , to play the semifinal in Auckland . With both teams coming off emphatic wins , this could be a contest to savour. There have been too few of them in the group stages , especially between full-member nations , and the quarter-semifinal permutations should ensure that both teams treat it as they would a knockout game . Teams : Australia ( likely ) : David Warner , Aaron Finch , Steve Smith , Michael Clarke ( capt ) , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh/Shane Watson , James Faulkner , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood . Sri Lanka ( likely ) : Lahiru Thirimanne , Tillakaratne Dilshan , Kumar Sangakkara ( wk ) , Mahela Jayawardena , Angelo Mathews ( capt ) , Dinesh Chandimal , Thisara Perera , Seekkuge Prasanna , Sachitra Senanayake , Lasith Malinga , Suranga Lakmal . You can follow the build up to the game and the live scoring and match highlights for Australia v Sri Lanka here in the ICC Match Centre Share this article :
