07 March 201515 : 57 Afghanistan v New Zealand Preview , Match 31 , Napier Afghanistan faces mighty challenge against red-hot New Zealand side but hopes to bounce back after loss to Australia Share this article : Brendon McCullum has been in electric form , smashing quick-fire half centuries against Sri Lanka , England and Australia . Played four , won four. That ’ s how New Zealand and India have fared in the ICC Cricket World Cup so far. Both teams , comfortably perched on top of its respective groups , have sealed a quarter-final berth as well . But complacency is something one does not associate with this red-hot New Zealand side. When it meets Afghanistan on Sunday ( March 8 ) in Napier , it is expected to field the same XI that defeated Australia in a thrilling encounter in Auckland last week . Kane Williamson took the side to victory with one wicket to spare after Mitchell Starc ’ s 6 for 28 triggered nerves in the New Zealand camp in its chase of 152. Trent Boult , who remained unbeaten alongside Williamson , was the wrecker-in-chief in the first innings , bagging 5 for 27 to restrict Australia to its lowest total batting first in a World Cup match . Unsurprisingly , New Zealand ’ s bowling attack , with the new-ball pair of Boult and Tim Southee , has been lauded as one of the best in the competition. The duo have been ably supported by the experienced Daniel Vettori , Corey Anderson and Adam Milne . And the batting has been equally impressive. Brendon McCullum has been in electric form leading up to the World Cup and has carried that into the tournament , smashing quick-fire half centuries against Sri Lanka , England and Australia . There was a serious injury scare against Australia when a Mitchell Johnson delivery travelling at 147 kmph thudded into McCullum ’ s unprotected left arm , but medical reports later confirmed he had escaped with just a bruise. With the likes of Martin Guptill , Ross Taylor , Grant Eliott , Williamson and Anderson in the side , McCullum said his team would manage just fine even if he were to sit out against Afghanistan . “ I 'm just thankful that I managed to come through that and I 've still got a part to play in this tournament , " he said at the pre-match press conference on Saturday. " If the worst had been the case , I still believe we have the squad , the personnel and the leadership within this group that not too much would have changed in terms of how we go about playing the game. " Meanwhile , Afghanistan , playing in their first-ever World Cup , have won over fans from around the world with its passionate brand of cricket. After losing to Bangladesh in its first match of the tournament , it looked on course to pull off a win in its next encounter , reducing Sri Lanka to 51 for 4 after setting it a target of 233 for victory. However , a clinical ton from Mahela Jayawardene turned things around , and Mohammad Nabi ’ s side went down by four wickets . But the hungry Afghans fought back in its third match , pulling off a thrilling one-wicket win over Scotland in the last over in Dunedin. Shamiullah Shenwari anchored the 211-run chase despite wickets tumbling regularly at the other end . The latest game against Australia , however , did n't go according to plan for Afghanistan. A fiery David Warner took the inexperienced attack apart with a 133-ball 178 , powering Australia to 417 for 6 – the highest total ever posted in a World Cup match. Afghanistan lost the match by a massive margin of 272 runs , but Afsar Zazai , the wicketkeeper , said the team would fight back against New Zealand . “ I can say that when our team has a bad day , in next game we come back strongly , ” he said on the evening of the match. “ We will try our best to come back strongly in the next game. ” McLean Park is known to be one of the most favourable grounds for batsmen in New Zealand and no matter how the match pans out , there will surely be plenty for the fans to cheer about . Teams ( likely ) Afghanistan : Javed Ahmadi , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( capt ) , Afsar Zazai ( wk ) , Najibullah Zadran , Gulbadin Naib , Dawlat Zadran , Hamid Hassan , Shapoor Zadran . New Zealand : Martin Guptill , Brendon McCullum ( capt ) , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , Daniel Vettori , Adam Milne , Tim Southee , Trent Boult . Share this article :
