08 March 201513 : 27 By R Kaushik , Adelaide Bangladesh v England Preview , Match 33 , Adelaide A win for Bangladesh would take side into quarter-finals , but England would hope to keep its World Cup campaign alive Share this article : Bangladesh has packed its batting and relied on the part-timers to fill in the fifth bowler ’ s quota . Almost four years to the day , driven by its unbelievably passionate fans , Bangladesh conjured a magnificent win against England in Chittagong. It wasn ’ t , however , enough to power victorious Bangladesh to the quarter-finals or scupper England ’ s chances of progressing to the knockout stage of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 . A repeat of that result on Monday ( March 9 ) at the Adelaide Oval will have the exact opposite impact – Bangladesh will secure its last-eight berth , England will fly home after it complete the formalities in its last encounter against Afghanistan . A fair bit , therefore , hinges on the outcome of this contest , a virtual pre-quarterfinal even though this is not the last group game for either side. Theoretically , Bangladesh can afford a defeat and still go through if it wins its last league fixture , but its final game is against New Zealand , Pool A toppers and playing out of its skins since the start of the tournament . When Eoin Morgan was announced as England 's captain ahead of the World Cup , expectations were high. Under Morgan , England began brightly in the triangular series in Australia in mid-January , getting to the final at the expense of India , but its World Cup campaign has n't gone according to plan . Wondering just how tight Pool A is ? See why # ENGvBAN showdown today is so crucial ! Who will win ? # Eng or # Ban # cwc15 pic.twitter.com/b1ZrvrR9yj — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 9 , 2015 A defeat at the hands of Australia at the MCG was followed by losses to New Zealand and then Sri Lanka. In the previous game , Joe Root , England 's most consistent batsmen , hauled the side to 309 for 6 but Sri Lanka hunted that total down with ease , for the loss of just one wicket with nearly three overs to spare . England 's main worry is that James Anderson and Stuart Broad , its most experienced and incisive pace bowlers , have looked off colour. Anderson has taken 2 for 182 from 29 overs , Broad 2 for 184 from 29.2 ; both have gone at 6.27 runs an over and taken a wicket every 14-and-a-half overs. And though Steven Finn has taken eight wickets , he has conceded 6.89 runs per over. England may want to bring in James Tredwell , the offspinner , for his first game of the competition , ahead of Finn . England may also want to re-think Gary Ballance 's position at No. 3. Ballance has 36 runs from four hits , and could make way for Alex Hales . Like England , Bangladesh too conceded 300-plus in its previous game , but hunted down Scotland ’ s 318 for 8 with clinical professionalism. The top order contributed handsomely , and at no stage did it look out of the game. Thus far , Bangladesh has packed its batting and relied on the part-timers to fill in the fifth bowler ’ s quota . With Anamul Haque , the opener , out injured and his replacement Imrul Kayes having arrived in Adelaide just on Saturday , it would be tempted to bring in an additional spinner , or leave out a paceman for the extra tweaker. That could be either Taijul Islam , the only man to take a hat-trick on ODI debut , or Arafat Sunny ; both are left-arm spinners but bring different skills to the table . The drop-in pitch at the Adelaide Oval might not necessarily be an ally , but if there is any purchase to be had or if the pace is slightly dodgy and the bounce a little uneven , Bangladesh could have the edge over England . This is a massive game for Mashrafe Mortaza ’ s side. The skipper himself has recovered adequately from the calf strain that left him hobbling during the Scotland victory , and has a solid core group of seniors to fall back on , among them his predecessors – and successors – as captain , Shakib Al Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim . Tamim Iqbal rediscovered run-scoring touch in time against Scotland , while Mahmudullah at No. 3 has proved to be an excellent move . Bangladesh has done reasonably well – beating Afghanistan and Scotland , with the one loss to Sri Lanka. The equation for both teams is straightforward. If Bangladesh wins on Monday , and makes the quarter-finals , the reward most likely a date against India at the MCG on March 19. If England wins , it could boost its chances of securing a quarter-final berth . Share this article :
