08 March 201515 : 26 South Africa v Pakistan , 6 Key Moments The Pakistan v South Africa game in Auckland was a low-scoring match , but it turned out to be a thriller . Share this article : Pakistan threw the race for Pool B finals spots wide open with its rain-affected 29-run win over South Africa . One week after New Zealand ’ s clash with Australia went down to the wire , Eden Park delivered another thriller . Pakistan threw the race for Pool B finals spots wide open with its rain-affected 29-run win over South Africa in Auckland . It was a match that had every twist and turn a cricket fan could wish for. Here are the six defining moments that made this game a classic : 1. Steyn ’ s screamer Pakistan ’ s top order had struggled throughout the tournament but with Sarfraz Ahmed coming in for the out-of-form Nasir Jamshed , it made a careful but optimistic start in Auckland. At 30-0 in the ninth over , Ahmed Shehzad was just beginning to look settled when he miss-hit a slower ball from Kyle Abbott . It looked as though it would fall safely , but that was before Dale Steyn launched himself , taking a spectacular catch diving at full stretch. Suddenly South Africa had the wicket it needed . 2. Sarfraz caught short Back in the Pakistan side and with a fifty beckoning , perhaps Ahmed Sarfraz got a little excited when he tried to turn a single into two when he was on 48 * . A bullet-like throw from David Miller saw him caught well short of his crease and he was dismissed for 49 . Sarfraz had been looking very good , with five boundaries and three sixes , but his run out handed South Africa the wicket it needed . While it was not a moment during the match , the decision to bring Sarfraz into the side turned out to be inspired – in addition to his 49 , he also took a record-equalling six catches as ‘ keeper and was named player of the match . 3. Going out after pouring rain Pakistan was 196-5 when play was suspended for a second time due to rain. Upon resumption , Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi were at the crease and with 10 overs remaining , a big score was still on the cards . That changed one over later when Afridi took a big swing at a Steyn delivery , pulling high into the hands of JP Duminy in the deep . From there the batsmen crumbled , losing 5-10 to be all out for 222 . 4. Second-ball strike Quinton de Kock has struggled to score this year , producing scores of 4 , 0 * , 66 , 11 , 7 , 7 , 12 , 1 and 0since January 1. Nonetheless , the South Africa ‘ keepers ’ wicket is a valuable one and Pakistan was rightly thrilled when he edged one behind on the second ball of the innings . Mohammed Irfan had the crucial first wicket and suddenly Pakistan ’ s confidence soared sky high . 5. The bowling change that changed the match After losing the wicket of an out-of-form Quinton de Kock on the second ball of the innings , South Africa had recovered well to be 51-1 after seven overs. Misbah-ul-Haq made the bowling change and Rahat Ali came on , only to be smacked for 10 runs. He got his revenge in his next over though , picking up a wicket maiden and removing Faf du Plessis . Wahab Riaz came on at the other end and was immediately effective , dismissing Hashim Amla first ball , before removing Rilee Rossouw seven balls later. Suddenly South Africa was 74-4 and in dire trouble . 6. The crucial wicket As the Proteas wickets fell , there was still a sense they could get over the line as long as one man – AB de Villiers – remained at the crease. While Amla , du Plessis , Miller , Rossouw and Duminy fell , the skipper remained and looked every bit as dangerous as he has throughout the tournament to date . It was going to take something special to remove de Villiers but with rain threatening and South Africa in a precarious position , the skipper was forced to move things along and it resulted in a top edge through to the safe gloves of Sarfraz . Pakistan celebrated like the match was over and with 31 runs needed and Morne Morkel and Imran Tahir at the crease , it was just a matter of time until the final wicket fell. It came seven balls later and Pakistan capped off a famous victory . As de Villiers said after the match , “ It was all about me not getting out , and unfortunately I got out. ” It 's been a great comeback by # PAK at # cwc15 ! Will they make the Knockouts ? pic.twitter.com/NOcwOigHrs
