Waqar Younis Vows Pakistan World Cup Comeback After Cracking Under Pressure vs India Waqar Younis Vows Pakistan World Cup Comeback After Cracking Under Pressure vs India Pakistan succumbed to a 76-run defeat against India in their first Pool B game of the World Cup in Adelaide on Sunday . Last updated on Wednesday , 18 February , 2015 14 : 19 IST Total Shares Pakistan player during a drinks break vs India . © AFP Christchurch : Pakistan coach Waqar Younis on Wednesday insisted his team would bounce back in the World Cup despite a demoralising defeat against arch-rivals India , a loss he blamed on an inability to handle big-match pressure. ( Hafeez Slams Pakistan ) Pakistan succumbed to a 76-run defeat against the defending champions in their first Pool B game in Adelaide on Sunday. ( Imran Khan Confident of Pakistan Attack ) " We can all see what went wrong , " Waqar told reporters. " We did n't play well , India played better than us by building partnerships , probably we took more pressure . " But we have to realise that it 's just the start and there are more games to play and we will come back in the matches ahead. " Pakistan will look to put things right in their second game in Christchurch on Saturday against the West Indies , who also suffered a shock defeat at the hands of Ireland . Waqar repeated his team were not amongst the title favourites , a statement which he gave before the departure for New Zealand last month. Then , such pessimism was greeted with severe criticism from former Pakistan players . " I think it 's the same , I back that again , I am not saying that we have become favourites. Of course , saying that releases pressure from players when you are not favourites . Waqar , who is in his second stint as coach after guiding the team to a semi-final finish in the 2011 World Cup , blamed poor batting for the India loss . " Unfortunately our batting did not click , " said Waqar , of Pakistan 's batting which failed to chase a target of 301 , wrapped up for 224 . " A target of 300 runs in Australia and New Zealand is chaseable , this has become the norm , a par total , and we have to chase down 300 in games ahead , " said Waqar . Pakistan desperately need a win against the West Indies to keep up their chances of a quarter-final place . " We know the importance of the game so we will try to have a positive frame of mind and do well , " said Waqar , who admitted that experimenting with Younis Khan as an opener had failed . " The experiment to use Younis was n't successful , " said Waqar. " It 's not too tough to drop a senior player but in a tournament like the World Cup you try to use maximum experience . " When we used Younis at number three or four he was not scoring runs so as per the requirement we used him as an opener but it did n't work. " Younis , playing his fourth World Cup , has managed just 73 runs in seven matches with a highest of 25 since the team 's arrival in New Zealand last month . Pakistan have opener Nasir Jamshed waiting in the wings and he is likely to replace Younis , who made just six on Saturday , if the veteran is dropped . Story first published on : Wednesday , 18 February 2015 13 : 10 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
