Veteran Vettori shines on the Biggest Stage Veteran spinner leads New Zealand to fifth straight win Share this article : Daniel Vettori became the first Kiwi and only the 12th bowler from any country to take 300 wickets . Five months ago , Daniel Vettori was nursing an ageing body which had not been subjected to the rigours of international cricket for well over a year. He was also nursing the dream of playing in a home World Cup . At the time the veteran Black Caps spinner , who turned 36 in January , had not played a one-day international since June 2013 , a Twenty20 International since September 2012 , or a Test match since July 2012 . Concentrating on the only form of cricket he felt his body could handle - Twenty20 cricket – Vettori had not bowled more than four overs in a game for nine months . But the allure of playing in a World Cup in New Zealand and fulfilling a dream held since he had watched the 1992 tournament as a 13-year-old was enough for Vettori to put his injury concerns aside . He returned to ODI cricket in late October before a surprise Test appearance in Dubai in November . His summer was spent on ensuring he would be fit to take the field come New Zealand ’ s Cup opener against Sri Lanka on February 14 . Looking back , it is difficult to picture this Black Caps campaign without their bearded and bespectacled spinner . If he is finding the demands of bowling 10 overs in a match difficult , it is not showing . Vettori has asserted himself in New Zealand ’ s five games to date , perfectly complementing the opening bowling feats of Tim Southee and Trent Boult . He has 12 wickets in five matches at an economy rate of 3.00 , while his best figures for the tournament , 4-18 off 10 over at an economy rate of 1.80 , came on Sunday against Afghanistan . Entering the match with 298 one-day international wickets under his belt , Vettori was brought on in the third over of the match to allow Boult and Southee to switch ends. His cameo provided an extra benefit ; wicket No.299 in the form of Usman Ghani . Nine overs later , he bowled Nawroz Mangal to bring up his 300th scalp . In doing so , he became the first Kiwi and only the 12th bowler from any country to reach the milestone , joining the likes of Sri Lanka 's Muthiah Muralidaran , Pakistan ’ s Wasim Akram and Glenn McGrath . But arguably , his most influential performance for the tournament was at Eden Park against Australia , when he was brought on by skipper Brendon McCullum to halt the fast-flowing runs from the Australian top order . That match brought wickets 297 and 298 through the key dismissals of Shane Watson and Steve Smith , as Vettori slowed Australia ’ s scoring and helped New Zealand to a one-wicket win . Speaking before Sunday ’ s match , he summed up his role as such : “ My role is to be complementary to our attacking bowlers... to tie up the other end , " Vettori said . # howzstat - Daniel Vettori is the first @ BLACKCAPS bowler to take 300 ODI wickets ! WATCH : http : //t.co/GWgMKR51VO pic.twitter.com/tJpl8R3LKp — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 8 , 2015 While Vettori has his eyes on a bigger prize than 300 wickets – one that could be waiting for the Black Caps at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on March 29 if their current world-beating form continues – the spinner said he was pleased with the milestone . “ I suppose I went into the World Cup not really thinking about that that much , ” Vettori said after Sunday ’ s match . “ I honestly did n't believe it would take this many wickets and this few of games , so it will be something nice to look back on . “ But I think we are caught up in the middle of the World Cup. There is an important game on Friday , and probably the most important game of our careers the following Saturday . “ So maybe in a month or so 's time there will be a chance to look back on it. ” For 18 years , Vettori has been a crucial part of New Zealand cricket . Since making his international debut in February 1997 , Vettori has become his country ’ s most-capped Test and ODI player , has captained in all three formats and has taken 362 Test wickets . Add to that 2213 ODI runs , six Test tons and 4531 ODI runs . This is Vettori ’ s fourth World Cup appearance and the Black Caps ’ best finishes during that time have been semi-final appearances in 2007 and 2011 . This time , enjoying the enthusiastic support of the home crowds in New Zealand – Vettori described the crowds at the Wellington and Auckland matches as “ one of the best experiences I ’ ve had in New Zealand stadiums ” – he will be determined to make sure the Black Caps are on the winning side come next week ’ s quarter-final in Wellington and in the semi-final in Auckland should it follow . Given it would be asking rather a lot of his body to last another four years in the one-day game , Vettori will dearly want to see the Black Caps lift the World Cup trophy for the first time come the end of the month . Share this article :
