12 March 201513 : 05 England v Afghanistan Preview , Match 38 , Sydney England will hope for a consolation win , even as free-spirited Afghanistan eyes a win over a Member nation Share this article : England 's Chris Jordan : You want to get back on the horse quickly and put in a performance . When the England and Afghanistan players line up for their clash in Sydney on Friday ( March 13 ) , their last in the group stage , it will be an inconsequential match in the larger scheme of things for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , with both teams having failed to make it to the quarterfinals. Yet , it will be a win the teams crave , with a lot riding on the result for both Morgan ’ s side and Nabi ’ s . Both teams are equal on points , having one win each from their five games , and they will be hoping to add one more to the wins tally before bidding farewell to the tournament . England ’ s troubles at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 began early , starting its campaign off with losses to Australia , by 111 runs , and New Zealand , by eight wickets. It pulled things back against Scotland , but despite a good batting effort against Sri Lanka , the bowling let it down as it fell to a nine-wicket loss. Against Bangladesh , the bowlers showed more self-belief to put in a strong performance , but the team fell short by 15 runs. Now , facing flak back home and with questions over the future of the players and staff , the team has a point to prove . “ We got blown away in the first two games , and I do n't think we 've really recovered from that , ” said Paul Farbrace , the assistant coach , on the eve of the game. “ There has been a lot said about , perhaps our nervousness , and the tension that we 're playing with. I think it 's hard to argue against that. I think the biggest disappointment over the last couple of days is thinking about what might have been. ” Chris Jordan , the all-rounder , however , was eager to move on. “ First and foremost , because of the ( Bangladesh ) result the other night , you want to get back on the horse quite quickly and put in a performance , " he said . Adding to England ’ s worries are some injury concerns. Moeen Ali and Chris Woakes are both on the injured list. It seems almost certain that the replacements will be Ravi Bopara and James Tredwell . One player who has stood out for England is Jos Buttler , who has batted 47 times for England , and has a strike-rate of 111.3. He could , one day , be as good as Brendon McCullum , and will threaten the Afghan bowlers. Alex Hales provides another promising option , not having got his chance in the competition till late , and is likely to open in the absence of Moeen . Meanwhile , Afghanistan ’ s displays at this World Cup have been all about spirit and enthusiasm. It had a poor outing against Australia and Bangladesh , but with better fielding , it could have upset Sri Lanka. Its one-wicket win over Scotland will be a much-cherished one , but having come into the tournament confident of causing an upset , this is a last opportunity for Mohammad Nabi and his boys as well. Hoping to claim the scalp of a big team , it will play with nothing to lose . Andy Moles , the Afghanistan coach , believes that if his free-spirited team play “ the Afghan way ” , it could pull off something special. “ I think it 's just the freedom of play. It 's one thing I 've tried to allow to happen and enhance ... they must play the Afghan way. " Samiullah Shenwari has received plaudits for his batting , and there isn ’ t a cricket fan out there who hasn ’ t been charmed by the pace and hostility of the Zadrans – Dawlat and Shapoor – and Hamid Hassan . On a faster surface than that on view at the Sydney Cricket Ground , the Afghan pace bowlers might have fancied their chances against a demoralised English line-up. But this pitch is likely to be brimful of runs . Teams : England ( likely ) : Ian Bell , Alex Hales , James Taylor , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( capt ) , Ravi Bopara , Joss Buttler ( wk ) , Chris Jordan , Stuart Broad , Jimmy Anderson , James Tredwell . Afghanistan ( likely ) : Javed Ahmedi , Usman Ghani , Nawroz Mangal , Asghar Stanikzai , Samiullah Shenwari , Mohammad Nabi ( capt ) , Afzar Zazai ( wk ) , Najibullah Zadran , Hamid Hassan , Dawlat Zadran , Shapoor Zadran . You can follow the build up to the game and the live scoring and match highlights for England v Afghanistan here in the ICC Match Centre . Share this article :
