Refresh ! Sean Williams is adjudged the Man of the Match for his brilliant all-round performance. Zimbabwe earn 2 points from this match and move to the 4th place in Pool B. That 's it for today 's match. Join us back for all the action tomorrow at 0600 IST for New Zealand vs England match. Until then , it 's goodbye from all us here ! ! The UAE bowlers bowled well upfront. They got the ball to swing a bit and that troubled the Zimbabwe openers , they however could not provide their team with early wickets. The spinners chipped in with the wickets in the middle overs and their skipper Tauqir was the pick of the bowlers with figures of 2/51 in his 9 overs. The fielding though was mediocre and maybe that proved to be a deciding factor in the end . ! Zimbabwe have won it ! They started off slowly but the openers saw through the new ball. They got partnerships in the middle overs but every time they had an upper hand in the game they lost wickets. They were in a spot of bother at 167/5 in the 33rd over , but then Williams and Ervine got together for an 83-run stand in just 62 balls and brought Zimbabwe close to victory. In the end , Williams ensured Zimbabwe got across the line with an unbeaten 76 off 65 . 47.6 4 mohammad naveed saleem to sean williams FOUR ! That does it ! Full on off , Williams drives it straight down the ground for a boundary and wins it for the team. ZIMBABWE WIN BY 4 WICKETS . 47.5 4 mohammad naveed saleem to sean williams FOUR ! Short again , Williams pulls it through mid-wicket for a boundary. Zimbabwe is a shot away from victory . 47.4 4 mohammad naveed saleem to sean williams FOUR ! Short and slanting on the leg side , Williams just guides the ball past the short fine leg for a boundary. Williams is thinking of finishing it early ! 47.3 2 mohammad naveed saleem to sean williams Short outside off , Williams pulls it but does not time it well and only gets a couple to deep square leg . 47.2 mohammad naveed saleem to elton chigumbura Full on middle , Chigumbura drives it to long on for a run . 47.1 1 mohammad naveed saleem to sean williams On a length on middle , Williams plays it to mid off and comes across for a quick run . ! load more Story first published on : Wednesday , 18 February 2015 23 : 27 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
