13 March 201515 : 01 India v Zimbabwe Preview , Match 39 , Auckland Dhoni ’ s men are firing on all counts and could sour Brendan Taylor ’ s Zimbabwe farewell Share this article : India , undefeated and riding high in the tournament , is the favourite to make it six out of six when it takes on Zimbabwe . Two teams with contrasting fortunes will have their final fling of the group stage of the ICC Cricket World Cup at Eden Park in Auckland on Saturday ( March 13 ) . India , undefeated and riding high in the tournament , is the favourite to make it six out of six when it takes on Zimbabwe . For Zimbabwe , the tournament has been something of a damp squib , with only a solitary win against the United Arab Emirates from five outings to show for its efforts . With the points table stacked as it is , the match has no relevance to the knockouts. India will finish on top of Pool B irrespective of the result , while this is Zimbabwe ’ s last game of the tournament . However , the team will be hoping to make the final international appearance of one of its best players a memorable one. Brendan Taylor , who has accepted a three-year deal with Nottinghamshire as a Kolpak player , will have one last chance in Zimbabwe colours , and a spirited showing would go a long way . Taylor , who has played 23 Tests and 166 One-Day Internationals , managed 11 centuries in all , said : “ It 's been fairly enjoyable , the 11 years that I 've been extremely grateful for. Every player 's dream is to represent their country , and I 've been lucky enough to do that . “ We 've had our challenges as young players coming into the side. We 've had some tough losses , but we 've slowly evolved and managed to sneak a few great ones in for us. It 's been thoroughly enjoyable. But you know , a very proud moment for me. Sad for me that it 'll be ending , but I 'm very proud to be a Zimbabwean , I 'm very proud to represent my country on a great stage tomorrow to finish up and hopefully end on a high note. ” India , however , has been anything but sentimental this World Cup. While the team will wish Taylor well , no quarter will be given simply because this is his last game . India has been clinical and ruthless in the tournament , brushing aside Pakistan and an in-form South Africa . The most impressive fact of its dominance has been the manner in which the bowling attack has worked together. Mohammad Shami and Umesh Yadav have married pace with direction , and Mohit Sharma has been spot on when bowling first change. R Ashwin has made the most of the pressure built by his mates , creatively attacking batsmen with skill and patience . But , while the talk has centred around the bowling , it is not as though the batting has done badly. Almost every player in the top order has performed , in one game or another , and Shikhar Dhawan , with two centuries has epitomised India ’ s turnaround in fortunes . The prosperity of the bowling and batting departments has been backed up by some clinical fielding , with energy levels being maintained constantly through the tournament. The catching has been safe , the infielding sharp and the outfielding reliable , allowing bowlers to be constantly on the hunt for wickets , even when opposition batsmen put together a bit of a partnership . The challenge for India , of course , is not to take things lightly against Zimbabwe. In the normal course , this might have been something of a risk , but the manner in which matches have been spread out in this tournament has ensured that the players are constantly hungry , and looking to play cricket. Practice sessions have been lively and professional , every member of the 15 making the most of any opportunity to get out there and stretch his muscles . Teams ( likely ) : India : Shikhar Dhawan , Rohit Sharma , Virat Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane , Suresh Raina , MS Dhoni ( capt , wk ) , Ravindra Jadeja , R Ashwin , Mohit Sharma , Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav Zimbabwe ( likely ) : Chamu Chibhabha , Sikandar Raza , Hamilton Masakadza , Brendan Taylor ( capt , wk ) , Sean Williams , Craig Ervine , Solomon Mire , Regis Chakabva , Tinashe Panyangara , Tawanda Mupariwa , Tendai Chatara You can follow the build up to the game and the live scoring and match highlights for India v Zimbabwe here in the ICC Match Centre . Share this article :
