14 March 201516 : 27 By Manoj Narayan West Indies v United Arab Emirates Preview , MATCH 41 , Napier With the numbers , as well as the weather , seemingly against it , West Indies has it all to do against UAE on Sunday Share this article : West Indies is expected to unleash Chris Gayle ’ s fury on UAE despite the big batsman , reportedly , not being fully fit . It ’ s math camp. On Sunday ( March 15 ) , the final day of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 group stages , different permutations and combinations will come into play to decide which two of West Indies , Pakistan and Ireland progress to the knockouts. In the middle of it all is United Arab Emirates , with no hopes of progressing , but hopes high of having a decisive say in the way things pan out when it takes on West Indies at McLean Park in Napier . For Pakistan and Ireland , the equation is simple : the winner qualifies. For West Indies , it ’ s a tad trickier. With four points from five games , it is two points behind both Pakistan and Ireland , and has an inferior net run-rate to Pakistan. The least it needs is a win over UAE. But if its win against UAE isn ’ t by a big enough margin , and if Ireland beats Pakistan in the day ’ s second match , Pakistan can go through . To keep its side of the bargain , West Indies is expected to unleash Chris Gayle ’ s fury on UAE despite the big batsman , reportedly , not being fully fit. UAE has so far conceded totals in excess of 300 to Pakistan and South Africa , the likes of Ahmed Shehzad and AB de Villiers doing the damage on those occasions. Gayle could be the latest to join that list , and if he gets a start he surely will . Despite the dangers lurking , Mohammad Tauqir , the UAE captain , saw opportunity in adversity. “ They ’ ll be under pressure of chasing a run rate , and I think it gives us opportunity to play freely and express ourselves either batting or bowling , ” he said . Tauqir drew confidence from Ireland ’ s victory against West Indies in its tournament opener – half the reason why West Indies finds itself in the current predicament – and said it was over-reliant on Gayle. “ We saw Ireland beat the West Indies , it gives us a lot of confidence , and I think we can do that as well , ” said Tauqir. “ The West Indies team is also a very unpredictable side. They heavily rely on Chris Gayle , so we can see some opportunity playing against them. ” Gayle , however , has sparkled only once in the tournament so far , when he hammered a 147-ball 215 – a knock that included 16 sixes – against Zimbabwe. Thereafter , he ’ s scored 3 and 21 in the losses against South Africa and India. It ’ s crunch time for West Indies now , and Gayle needs to come good when it matters most. Apart from putting his team in a good position , Gayle firing on all cylinders also relieves the pressure on his team-mates . Jason Holder , the West Indies captain , had no qualms about outlining West Indies ’ plan of attack – attack. “ Obviously they seem to not like the aggressive stuff , ” he said. “ It ’ s in our nature to be aggressive and we just need to be aggressive and play aggressive cricket. ” However aggressive it is and however well it might play , West Indies may still have to walk away without anything to show for it though. The onset of Cyclone Pam means there is a real chance that the game could be washed out – meaning the teams would have to share a point , which wouldn ’ t be enough to take West Indies through . UAE hasn ’ t posed much of a threat to Test-playing nations so far this tournament , but it would desperately want to be the banana peel on which West Indies slip. How the men from the Caribbean deal with pressure would play a huge part in how the match goes , Pam permitting . Teams ( from ) West Indies : Jason Holder ( capt ) , Marlon Samuels , Sulieman Benn , Johnson Charles , Jonathan Carter , Sheldon Cottrell , Chris Gayle , Denesh Ramdin ( wk ) , Kemar Roach , Andre Russell , Darren Sammy , Lendl Simmons , Dwayne Smith , Jerome Taylor , Nikita Miller . UAE : Mohammad Tauqir ( capt ) , Khurram Khan , Swapnil Patil ( wk ) , Saqlain Haider , Amjad Javed , Shaiman Anwar , Amjad Ali , Nasir Aziz , Rohan Mustafa , Manjula Guruge , Andri Berenger , Fahad Alhashmi , Mohammad Naveed , Kamran Shahzad , Krishna Chandran . Share this article :
