14 March 201516 : 00 Afghanistan inspire in debut World Cup appearance Afghanistan has charmed with its enthusiasm and their genuine excitement at having the opportunity to take on the world ’ s best players Share this article : Afghanistan won the hearts of cricket fans everywhere , not only for its ‘ rags to riches ’ story of players , but also for their talent and their determination to fight in every match they played . Afghanistan ’ s maiden Cricket World Cup appearance may not have resulted in the fairy tale quarter-final appearance many hoped for , but the team has more than made its mark on the 2015 tournament . Moments involving the men in blue will be among this event ’ s most enduring , from the emotional scenes when Hamid Hassan bowled Afghanistan ’ s first-ever World Cup ball in Canberra to the sheer joy in Dunedin when the team secured its first win . This is a team which has won the hearts of cricket fans everywhere , not only for its ‘ rags to riches ’ story of players who started life in refugee camps before finding themselves on the cricket ’ s biggest stage , but also for their talent and their determination to fight in every match they played . Likewise , they have charmed with their enthusiasm and their genuine excitement at having the opportunity to take on the world ’ s best players . Hassan , with his headband , war paint and cartwheels , has claimed cult status , alongside his teammate Shapoor Zadran for his exuberant celebrations upon scoring the winning runs against Scotland . Afghanistan was given a chance to take on the biggest and best in the World Cup and while it was not able to defeat a Test nation , it was no easy beat either . In the opening match , it showed flashes of brilliance but ultimately was undone by what coach Andy Moles described as a disappointing performance with the bat , before it pushed Sri Lanka in Dunedin . Next came the historic victory against Scotland where Afghanistan fought back from 97-7 to win by one wicket in the final over , prompting celebrations from Afghans around the world . Next came opportunities against Australia and New Zealand where Afghanistan , although ultimately outplayed by stronger teams , acquitted themselves well . Had rain not figured heavily in the final match against England , it could have produced a different result entirely . Speaking ahead of Afghanistan ’ s final match , Moles said his team had “ huge character ” . “ You saw it against the win against Scotland , ” Moles said . “ Not many sides can come back from seven wickets down . “ They 're a very passionate group of cricketers that have huge pride in their performance for the fans at home , and that 's something that drives them . “ Every game we play we 're publicising Afghan cricket. They 've come a long way in a very short time , and they want to make sure in every fixture we play , we want to compete. ” For wicketkeeper-batsman Afsar Zazai , the tournament has inspired him to go home and work on his game against the quicks . “ We hadn ’ t faced a 150 ‑ plus bowler before , and we faced bowlers like Mitchell Starc , Mitchell Johnson , so we ’ ve learnt a lot from this tournament , ” Zazai said . “ When we go back to home , we will work hard on our game to get used to it with the pace and hope we get some more chances with these kind of big teams. ” Hassan said the chance to play some of the best players in the world had been an excellent learning experience . “ You can learn a lot from good players. My friend asked me before the game against Australia if I was scared , ” Hassan said . “ There is no scared. If we play some more matches against big teams and big names … maybe we can improve more and more. ” Coming up against elite players helped Afghanistan in other ways as well , Moles said , recalling an encounter with Mitchell Starc after the match in Perth . “ Mitchell Starc did talk to two or three of our seam bowlers at the end of the game and one of the big things they talked about was their boots , ” Moles said . “ We 've got a problem with Hassan particularly , he has gone through five pairs of boots on this tour already , the soles keep breaking off , and Mitchell Starc brought his boots out and they discussed how he gets them made , where he sends them , and they did talk about some bowling. ” Moles said he hoped Afghanistan ’ s appearance in the World Cup would lead to more opportunities for his cricketers . “ ( The tournament has shown ) Afghanistan is not just a war-torn area. It 's a promising group of cricketers , ” Moles said . “ I honestly believe they could be like Sri Lanka in ten years ’ time . “ So how good they can be ? We need fixtures. Our facilities are adequate. We 've got indoor cricket now. We 've got an academy that could improve , but it 's adequate . “ So we do n't need so much in the way of new machinery and things like that. What we need are fixtures. ” Moles said Afghanistan had a plan to increase its exposure to Test teams , by offering its services for practice matches to sides travelling to Dubai to play Pakistan or to the subcontinent . “ In all reality people are n't going to say , ‘ Yeah , we 'll go play against Afghanistan ’ . “ We 're going to be realistic and try to put something together where we can say to England next year , ‘ you are playing against Pakistan in October , come to us a week before ’ . “ You want a four-day game , a three-day game , you want a 50-over game , a 20-over game , we 'll do whatever you want . “ It will give a little bit of competition because we 'll be trying a hundred percent , you can be sure of that. So hopefully that will be a win-win situation for everybody . “ That 's the way we 're going to try to tackle that issue. ” Afghanistan has come a long way in the 14 years since its formation . The players will be better for the experience at the World Cup , while it is certain their brave performances will have inspired a future generation of players back home . An unforgettable debut tournament for Afghanistan ! What are your favourite memories from their # cwc15 campaign ? ? # Afg pic.twitter.com/sqkxjoqAiO
