15 March 201508 : 12 Ireland v Pakistan , a Rivalry in Green The winner will be rewarded with a place in the quarter finals while the loser could well board a plane home . Share this article : On Sunday , it will have been seven years and 363 days since the first time Ireland and Pakistan played in a World Cup . The stakes could not be higher in Adelaide on Sunday when Ireland plays Pakistan in the final match of the ICC Cricket World Cup pool stage . The winner will be rewarded with a place in the quarter-finals while the loser will likely board a plane home , barring an upset in the match between West Indies and United Arab Emirates . John Mooney has described it as the “ biggest match in the history of Irish cricket ” and the stage is set for an epic encounter , not least of all due to the World Cup history between the teams . On Sunday , it will have been seven years and 363 days since the first time Ireland and Pakistan played in a World Cup . It was St Patrick ’ s Day in 2007 and the scene was Sabina Park in Jamaica . Current World Cup squad members William Porterfield , Niall and Kevin O ’ Brien were playing , as was current England captain Eoin Morgan , while Ireland had already had a good start to the tournament after tying with Zimbabwe in the first match . However , Pakistan presented even tougher opposition , ranked fourth on the ODI tables before the start of the tournament . Sent in to bat , Pakistan was soon struggling at 15-2 after Ireland made crucial early breakthroughs , removing Mohammad Hafeez and Younis Khan . A brief recovery was ended when Pakistan lost 16-4 and not even a seventh-wicket partnership of 31 was enough to rescue it from being bowled out for 132 . Extras top-scored for Pakistan and Boyd Rankin was the pick of the Ireland bowlers , taking 3-32 , while Andre Botha ( 2-5 ) and Kyle McCallan ( 2-12 ) were also exceptional . Ireland had a tough start to a chase that was interrupted by bad light and rain and at one point was also 15-2 , but a recovery led by Niall O ’ Brien ’ s 72 made the difference . When he was stumped with 25 runs left to score and Ireland lost a further two batsmen shortly after , a glimmer of hope appeared for Pakistan , but a solid 16 off 52 from Kevin O ’ Brien guided Ireland home before skipper Trent Johnson hit the winning runs with a six . Pakistan was eliminated from the tournament as a result , in an event the BBC described at the time as " unthinkable " . After the match , skipper Johnston struggled to find the words to describe the victory . " I did n't do too well in English at school , " he said . " I ca n't think of a word for it really. It was just amazing. We bowled in some good areas , and some bad areas as well. Then Niall and Kevin batted fantastically well. And the support we got was magnificent. " Coach Adrian Birrell echoed his sentiments . " You do n't really expect to beat a Test-playing country like that , " Birrell said . " We 're a side capable of upsets , and I think we drew on that belief. The way the O'Brien brothers batted , I ca n't praise them enough . “ This will do a world of good for cricket in Ireland . You 've got to have Associates playing. If you did n't , you would n't have had Bangladesh beating India today , or Sri Lanka winning the World Cup in 1996. " Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq praised Ireland ’ s efforts . " It was n't easy to bat first but all credit to Ireland , ” Inzamam said . " They bowled tight lines and we played too many poor shots. ” Ireland has certainly added to its resume of impressive World Cup victories since – beating Bangladesh in the same tournament and upsetting England in 2011 , before famous victories against West Indies and Zimbabwe this time around – but its first Cup victory against Pakistan is arguably its greatest to date . One thing is certain – there will a new contender for the mantle should Ireland defeat Pakistan in Adelaide on Sunday . Share this article :
