14 March 201520 : 42 Pool B Final Day , Qualification Permutations Last two matches of the group stage bring a climax with great excitement , as two qualification spots hinge on the outcome of the matches Share this article : At the end of what has been an exhilarating month at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , it boils down to the final day of the league stages to determine two of the quarter-finalists from Pool B . India and South Africa are already through . Now , on what promises to be a Super Sunday ( March 15 ) , West Indies play United Arab Emirates at McLean Park in Napier. Meanwhile , in Adelaide , Ireland will be looking to repeat history ( from 2007 ) and secure a berth in the knockouts when it clashes against Pakistan . Here 's what each team needs to do in order to cement their quarter-final spot : West Indies With just two wins in five matches , a win over UAE is non-negotiable for West Indies. However , it is n't a straightforward equation . While the winner of the Pakistan v Ireland game will go through , West Indies will be caught in a battle of net run-rates if Ireland beats Pakistan. In that eventuality , Pakistan and West Indies will be locked on points. Therefore , a big margin of victory is imperative on Sunday for Jason Holder 's side . Its task will also somewhat be made tougher , as bad weather has been forecast. If a result is not possible in Napier , both teams would share one point and the West Indies will be knocked out . Pakistan Pakistan has the best net run-rate among the sides in the race. With three wins in five games , a straightforward win will see Pakistan through. However , the side 's good deeds over the last three games could open the back door even if it loses to Ireland , provided West Indies does n't beat UAE by too big a margin . Ireland Despite winning three matches , Ireland faces a do-or-die battle against Pakistan due to its inferior net run-rate. A win would take other results out of the equation. A loss for Ireland would bring it down to a net run-rate fight with West Indies . If there is a weather-forced no-result in the West Indies v UAE game , both Pakistan and Ireland would progress irrespective of the result in their game although the result will still be key for the final classification in the group . With the two co-hosts finishing first and second in Pool A , a journey to either Wellington to play New Zealand or to Adelaide to play Australia awaits two of these sides. What bigger incentive could there be than a Quarter Final spot at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Huge anticipation already building for # SuperSunday which will decide the final two # cwc15 quarter-finals places pic.twitter.com/ILVD5L4hEq
