Sarfraz ton seals quarterfinal spot for Pakistan Its seven-wicket win knocks Ireland out of the tournament , despite fighting hundred by Porterfield Share this article : Pakistan was solid and the runs accumulated steadily . Two days before the eighth anniversary of one of the great World Cup upsets , Pakistan knew that there was no margin for error against Ireland in the final Pool B ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 clash on Sunday ( March 15 ) . When William Porterfield , the Irish captain , helped himself to a composed hundred , the nerves would have been jangling. But magnificent slog-overs bowling from Wahab Riaz ( 3-54 ) and Sohail Khan ( 2-44 ) prevented a late run glut , and Pakistan chased down the tricky target of 238 with composure . Leading the way was Sarfraz Ahmed , the wicketkeeper-batsman who had been on the bench for the first four matches. His unbeaten 101 wasn ’ t the most fluent innings , but the unflustered manner in which he went about his work gave Pakistan the advantage . Defending a modest total , Ireland needed early wickets. Alex Cusack was accurate and John Mooney gave it everything , but Ahmed Shahzad and Sarfraz settled down quickly enough. They took on George Dockrell in the tenth over , smashing him for 17 . And to Ireland ’ s dismay , the half-chances didn ’ t stick either. Sarfraz was on 37 when Gary Wilson failed to hold on to a thick edge off Kevin O ’ Brien ’ s bowling . Shahzad eased to his half-century off 52 balls , but soon went for an ambitious pull that only looped as far as Ed Joyce at mid-on. Shahzad faced 71 balls for his 63 , and the first-wicket partnership produced 120 in 136 balls . Sarfraz was then guilty of yes-no-yes-no as poor Haris Sohail was stranded mid-pitch and run out for just 3 , but with Sarfraz working the ball into the gaps in every direction and Misbah-ul-Haq showing real intent from the outset , Pakistan was solid and the runs accumulated steadily . Sarfraz struck only six fours in his hundred , including two cuts for four in a Cusack over , but his restoration to the top of the order has been behind the rejuvenation of the side. As has the reliance on pace bowling , which again paid such handsome dividends . Pakistan had been dealt a massive blow before the game when Mohammad Irfan , its towering left-arm pacer , was ruled out with a hip problem. But Ehsan Adil , who came into the side in his place , reaped immediate reward when he trapped Paul Stirling in front in the fourth over . Porterfield was pulling and driving fluently , but with Joyce taking his time , the run-rate didn ’ t sneak past five till nine overs were bowled. Wahab , so impressive in previous games , started poorly , but soon made amends with the wicket of Joyce . Niall O ’ Brien , whose unbeaten 72 was the fulcrum of the Irish win against Pakistan at Sabina Park in 2007 , came in and played a couple of gorgeous strokes , but then miscued one to Umar Akmal at short cover. It was what Rahat Ali deserved after a fine opening spell that slowed Ireland right down . Porterfield and Andy Balbirnie added 48 in 78 balls , but could never really dominate. Shahid Afridi , leading wicket-taker at the last World Cup along with India ’ s Zaheer Khan , had taken only two in this competition. He went wicketless again , but a tidy spell in which only 38 were conceded piled the pressure on . Porterfield periodically broke the shackles with some well-placed drives and deflections , but Balbirnie fell once Haris Sohail was brought on to bowl his left-arm spin , as Afridi caught a top-edged sweep at short fine leg . Gary Wilson also added 48 with Porterfield , and the captain received a standing ovation as a straight biff off Rahat ricocheted off the bowler ’ s outstretched fingers and down the ground to give him the two runs that raised three figures . But again , Ireland couldn ’ t build on a promising partnership. This time , Porterfield was the man to go , mistiming an attempted loft over mid-on. Afridi ran in quickly and snaffled the chance. Porterfield ’ s 107 had spanned 131 balls and included 11 fours and six off Sohail . Wilson ’ s 38-ball 29 ended with an upper cut to third man that Wahab took quite nonchalantly , and the expected explosion from Kevin O ’ Brien never materialised on a surface that appeared a little two-paced. Ireland lost 6 for 58 in the last 12 overs , as Wahab , Sohail and Rahat showed what a difference genuine pace can make . After that , the pressure was squarely on the Pakistan batsmen. Fortunately , in Sarfraz the team found the batting hero it so needed . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
