16 March 201523 : 58 Ireland 's World Cup wrap The close finishes are what cost Ireland , as it finished level on points with West Indies in Pool B but below it on NRR Share this article : Ireland 's match against Pakistan was the biggest game in Irish cricket history and while the result did not go as planned , Ireland should be proud of what it achieved at the tournament . Ireland was unable to fulfil its goal of progressing to the knockouts in Adelaide on Sunday , but the Irish players have again proved that when it comes to belief , determination and fight , they are number one . It would be hard to find a more cohesive and committed squad at the World Cup than Ireland , which came to the tournament fully believing it could progress to the quarter finals and beyond . Sunday ’ s match against Pakistan was the biggest game in Irish cricket history and while the result did not go as planned , Ireland should be proud of what it achieved at the tournament . It showed Associate teams can compete at the highest level , defeating Test nations West Indies and Zimbabwe , and also provided two of the most entertaining matches of the tournament to date when its matches against United Arab Emirates and Zimbabwe went down to the wire . It also became the first Associate team to score more than 200 against South Africa , and its total against India was the highest of the tournament before being surpassed by Zimbabwe in the final match . Ultimately , the close finishes are what cost Ireland , as it finished level on points with West Indies in Pool B but below it on NRR . Despite the disappointment of going home at the end of the pool matches , Ireland moved up one place in the ICC ODI team rankings thanks to its three victories , and now sits ahead of Afghanistan in 11th spot . Speaking after the Adelaide match , skipper William Porterfield said he was reluctant to call it a “ missed opportunity ” . “ We 've come in , we 've obviously beaten two test nations. We 've played some very good cricket. We 've won three games , ” he said . “ It 's very easy to go missing sometimes when you get behind in a game against some very strong sides. But we have n't done that , we 've fought on , even the game against South Africa . “ We were 50 for 5 , but the way the lower order and tail brought us up over 200 , obviously that was pretty high quality bowling we were up against. ” While disappointed to not make the quarter finals , Porterfield said the belief the team had in its abilities was pleasing . “ We had high hopes and we came in with a lot of confidence in how we were playing , and that 's a testament to where we 've come and where we 're at the minute as a team , ” he said . “ We 've got that confidence and belief to come out and beat anyone . “ We 've obviously given the fans back home quite a lot to cheer about , and there 's been a lot of fans come out here to support us so we 'd like to thank them , as well. It 's great when you have that kind of support. ” South Africa captain AB de Villiers was full of praise for Ireland after the teams met in Canberra . “ I 've been very impressed with the way they 've improved as a cricket team. I 've played against them in three World Cups now , and every time I 've seen a hell of an improvement in their skill and the way they play the game , ” de Villiers said . Porterfield ’ s excellent century in Adelaide was one of the highlights of the tournament for Ireland. Ed Joyce also walked away with a ton , while Andrew Balbirnie came agonisingly close in Hobart when he was run out on 97 . Paul Stirling scored a match-winning 92 against West Indies in Napier , while Gary Wilson , Kevin O ’ Brien and Niall O ’ Brien also scored fifties . Porterfield led the run scoring with 275 runs at 45.83 average , followed by Joyce ( 246 at 41 ) and Balbirnie ( 236 at 39.33 ) . “ That 's one thing that we 've done is lads have stuck their hand up throughout the batting line-up , and obviously we 've got a couple hundreds but we 've had nineties and things like that , so every game lads have contributed and put their hand up , ” Porterfield said . With the ball , Alex Cusack topped the tables with seven wickets at 24.57 , including best figures of 4-32 against Zimbabwe . While Ireland ’ s strength at the tournament was in its batting , Porterfield said the country had talented young bowlers with plenty of potential , including World Cup squad members Peter Chase and Craig Young . “ They obviously did n't get it going in this competition. But they 're knocking on the door. They 're not a million miles away , ” he said . “ They 're not express , but they 're probably sitting in around 83 , 84 ( miles per hour ) and they can swing the ball so they 've got skills there , as well . “ Stuart Thompson , as well , he 's small but he 's quite skitty when he gets it right , as well. There last two games he 's been chucked into the deep end there playing against the world champions first and then Pakistan , and he 's accredited himself very well . “ So there ’ s young lads there that are looking to put their hands up and obviously if we can get them enough cricket then they 'll be good to go , as well. ” Porterfield said the addition of a cricket academy in Ireland , a board restructure and the development of grounds and net facilities all boded well for the future of Ireland cricket . “ The academy has been a great addition for ourselves , as well , because the young lads coming through need to play cricket , as well , when they come out of school , ” he said . “ They need to get into a system where they can. We 've got the interprovincial system up and going , as well , which is three-day , 50-over and Twenty20 comp back home . “ When that grows , as well , and we get an extra couple of teams , then hopefully that develops into a first-class structure and that 'll turn into obviously need to go semi-professional first , then turn into a professional structure so lads do n't have to leave Ireland to make a living out of cricket . “ There 's a lot of great things that have happened that are in our control and how we 're trying to develop the game , and hopefully when the day comes and we do get test status and we have got the first-class structure back home , then things will be bright there. ” Ireland has a home fixture in Dublin against England in May followed by an ODI in Belfast against Australia in August , as well as hosting the qualifying tournament for the ICC World T20 in July . With Ireland hoping to continue to develop and push for Test status , Porterfield said he hoped to see more fixtures added to the schedule . “ We 've missed out on the quarterfinals on that run rate. I think we 've shown what we can do , ” he said . “ Combined we 've played in four years as what one ( Test ) nation has in a year. I think we obviously need more than just games , but yeah , there has to be more teams in world competitions. ” Share this article :
