17 March 201514 : 27 CWC 15 : 20 Memorable Moments So Far With the Pool stages of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 over , here 's looking back at some of the best moments Share this article : Cricket all day , every day at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Huge totals have been posted , classic catches taken , upsets caused and records smashed during the pool stage of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 . Here ’ s a look at some of the moments that have already made this World Cup a classic : 1. Passionate crowds : India ’ s fans have led the way , filling stadiums on both sides of the Tasman. But all teams have produced their share of colourful and devoted crowds who have applauded every run . New Zealand deserves special mention – the Black Caps supporters have filled grounds at each of the team ’ s pool games and the atmosphere at Eden Park for the showdown with Australia was second to none . 2. Cricket returns to Christchurch : Hagley Oval hosted the opening match of the World Cup in what was Christchurch ’ s first major sporting event since the devastating 2011 earthquake. The 6.3-magnitude quake killed 185 people , injured thousands more , while 83 per cent of the Greater Christchurch ’ s homes suffered damage. Having World Cup cricket played in the city aimed to reunite a fractured community and highlight Christchurch ’ s recovery on the world stage . 3. Kumar ’ s four in a row : To say Kumar Sangakkara is in good form is a serious understatement. The veteran Sri Lanka batsmen has scored four centuries in a row , the most in ODI cricket history. The tons were scored against Bangladesh , England , Australia and Scotland . 4. Bangladesh eliminates England : England ’ s World Cup campaign came down to its second last pool match against Bangladesh in Adelaide. Despite poor showings against Australia , Sri Lanka and New Zealand , England was still fancies to defeat their lower-ranked opposition . But that was before Mohammad Mahmudullah scored a ton and England ’ s batsmen crumbled , handing Bangladesh a historic quarter-final berth . 5. One-hand wonders : Crowd catches have never been so exciting. Thanks to Tui ’ s Catch a Million competition , some of the best catches ever seen in the stands have been taken this tournament. The first weekend produced two catches and there are currently five people sharing in a $ 350,000 prize pool that was increase the further New Zealand progresses through the tournament . 6. Ireland ’ s epic last over : The stakes were high when Zimbabwe needed seven runs off six balls in Hobart. It seemed Zimbabwe would charge home over Ireland , before Alex Cusack took two wickets in three balls to give Ireland a five-run victory . 7. New cult heroes : Afghanistan ’ s Hamid Hassan and Shapoor Zadran have won a legion of new fans thanks to their exuberant and enthusiastic approach to cricket. Hassan , with his headband , painted face and cartwheels , has been nicknamed Rambo and is hands down the tournament ’ s fan favourite . Shapoor likewise attracted worldwide attention after his emotional reaction to Afghanistan ’ s first World Cup win , while Ireland ’ s John Mooney won over crowds with his tatts , green headband and self-designed helmet . 8. Chris Gayle smashes 200 : Gayle ’ s mammoth 215 in Canberra was the highest ever in a World Cup , breaking Gary Kirsten ’ s record of 188 * . He reached the total from147 balls and his innings featured 16 sixes and 10 fours . 9. Southee blitzes England : Tim Southee tore England apart in Wellington , taking 7-33 off nine overs. His figures were the sixth-best in all ODIs and the third-best at a World Cup behind Australians Andy Bichel and Glenn McGrath . 10. McCullum breaks McCullum ’ s record : New Zealand needed just 124 runs to defeat England and McCullum wasted no time in scoring them , smashing the fastest-ever World Cup fifty off 18 balls , breaking his own record andfinishing with 77 off 25. One match later against Australia , he scored the third-fastest World Cup fifty off 21 balls . 11. Afghanistan ’ s maiden win : The World Cup ’ s newest win could not have earned its first points in more dramatic fashion. After a good bowling performance that restricted Scotland to 210 , Afghanistan tumbled to 97-7 and all hope looked lost. That was , until a brilliantly composed century from Samiullah Shenwari saw his team chase down the total in the final over with one wicket in hand . 12. Martin Crowe : The terminally ill New Zealand great spoke attended the Australia-New Zealand match to speak to the Eden Park crowd upon his induction into the ICC Hall of Fame. It was an emotional moment for everyone at the match and the applause was long and hearty for the man who scored a century on the same Auckland ground in 1992 . 13. AB lights up Sydney : South Africa skipper AB de Villiers almost didn ’ t play against West Indies due to illness but no one would have guessed from his performance. He smashed 162 * off 66 balls , setting the record for fastest 150 in history and breaking his own highest ODI score. It helped his team reach the first total above 400 for the Cup in the process . 14. OUT ! Or is it ? When Amjed Javed hit Ed Joyce ’ s stumps at the Gabba , it was time to celebrate for the UAE. But the Ireland batsman stood his ground and rightly so – the bails had moved , but settled back into place. A freak occurrence that thrilled fans around the world . 15. Starc ’ s masterful spell : When New Zealand was 130-4 against Australia , victory seemed imminent. That was before Mitch Starc produced one of the finest spells of one-day bowling seen this World Cup , removing Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi , Adam Milne and Tim Southee. Starc took 3-4 in three overs to finish with 6-28 for the match and almost stole the match . 16. West Indies make the best start in ODI history : A top order batting implosion by Pakistan against West Indies saw it slump to four wickets down with just one run on the board , the worst start in ODI history. Zimbabwe previously held the record for best start , having Canada at 4-4 in 2006 . 17. Wicket celebrations hit a new high : The competition for “ best wicket celebration ” at CWC15 has been strong. Zimbabwe ’ s Tinashe Panyangara kicked it off on day two with his “ wriggling fish ” routine , before Afghanistan ’ s Hamid Hassan introduced his own unique celebration with a cartwheel against Sri Lanka. Kevin O ’ Brien used the “ karate kid ” following the dismissal of United Arab Emirates ’ Krishna Karate and later boxed the stumps against South Africa , while Chris Gayle produced an interesting punching celebration when he took the wicket of Zimbabwe ’ s Craig Ervine . 18. Broken bats : Already the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 has claimed two bats. First , Mahela Jayawardene ’ s was snapped in half in dramatic fashion by Afghanistan ’ s Shapoor Zadran , before Dawlat Zadran took a chunk off the bat of Scotland ’ s Majid Haq . 19. Classic catches : Contenders for ‘ catch of the tournament ’ have been plentiful. Among the best so far were Craig Ervine ’ s stunning juggling effort on the boundary rope against South Africa to dismiss Quinton de Kock , Adam Milne ’ s flying dive to catch Eoin Morgan , Jerome Taylor ’ s excellent boundary rope jump against South Africa in Sydney , Dale Steyn ’ s superman-style leap against Pakistan , and Aaron Finch ’ s slips ripper against Afghanistan . 20. Cricket all day , every day : The fun never stops with # cwc15 and now the pool matches have finished , there are seven huge finals matches to come , with no second chances left for teams wanted to lift the cup aloft on March 29 . Share this article :
