18 March 201514 : 54 By R Kaushik , Sydney South Africa storms into semi-finals Tahir and Duminy pave the way before de Kock leads easy 134-run chase against Sri Lanka Share this article : South Africa laid its ghosts to rest in the most comprehensive of fashions . It was here , at the Sydney Cricket Ground in 1992 , that South Africa ’ s ICC Cricket World Cup hard luck story began. It was in the fitness of things that its World Cup knockout jinx ended at the same venue . South Africa was bundled out of the 1992 edition , at the semi-final stage against England. Since then , despite making the knockouts in 1996 , 1999 , 2007 and 2011 , it always found itself on the wrong side of the result . But on Wednesday ( March 18 ) evening , AB de Villiers and his men laid those ghosts to rest in the most comprehensive of fashions. Through a steady diet of hostile pace , followed by a masterful display of guile from Imran Tahir and the wicket-to-wicket accuracy of hat-trick man JP Duminy , South Africa sent Sri Lanka sliding to 133 all out with 12.4 overs unutilised in the first quarter-final of the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup . South Africa was n't letting this one go. Quinton de Kock followed up a good afternoon behind the sticks with his first knock of substance of the competition , a handy half-century ahead of the trip to Auckland for the first semi-final on March 24. Faf du Plessis , electric in the field , helped himself to handy runs on his return from a back injury against a bowling attack that didn ’ t have the runs , to pull off a victory. Victory arrived for South Africa , by nine wickets , as it reached 134 for 1 in only 18 overs. As quarter-finals go , this was singularly unremarkable. Apart from the end of South Africa ’ s 23-year wait , of course . Sri Lanka ’ s only chance lay in a clutch of early wickets. But Angelo Mathews chose not to open the bowling with Tharindu Kaushal despite having drafted him in as the last-minute replacement for Rangana Herath. Instead , he allowed Tillakaratne Dilshan and then Nuwan Kulasekara to use the new ball ahead of Kaushal , an unknown quantity whose USP was precisely that . Sri Lanka did all the shuffling , while South Africa got the job done with clinical efficiency. In a bid to catch the opposition off guard , Sri Lanka made two moves that , had they come off , would have been hailed as master strokes. A few hours before the game , it roped in Kaushal ; then , after Mathews won what ought to have been a significant toss , it sent Kusal Perera out to open the batting with Dilshan , pushing Lahiru Thirimanne down the order for the first time in the competition . If South Africa was caught unawares , it didn ’ t show. Bowling with tremendous control and fielding as well as it has ever done , it came hard at Sri Lanka , determined to land the early punches and grab the initiative straightaway. With Dale Steyn returning to somewhere near his best and Kyle Abbott , replacing the injured Vernon Philander , slipping into new-ball duties with aplomb , South Africa struck telling blows inside the first 25 balls to set the tone for the rest of the afternoon . Those were blows Sri Lanka never recovered from. Briefly , when Thirimanne counter-attacked with panache , it seemed up for the fight , but once de Villiers turned to Tahir and Duminy , the legspinner and the offspinner weaved their magic against a side that traditionally prides itself on its brilliance against the slow stuff . This was the kind of surface that seemed to suit Sri Lanka . There was early pace and not inconsiderable bounce , but gradually , the ball started to sit in the pitch and hold up. Shot making wasn ’ t easy , but Sri Lanka found it difficult to rotate the strike. Even Kumar Sangakkara , with four centuries in a row , found shot-making tough. He took 16 deliveries to get off the mark , reached 5 off 28 , hit his first boundary only off his 43rd delivery , and while he was never unduly troubled , his approach was fraught with danger if he didn ’ t bat through the innings . South Africa couldn ’ t have chosen a better occasion to turn in its most complete bowling display to date. The general belief was that the toss could turn out to be crucial and a total of 275 would have taken some getting. But South Africa didn ’ t allow itself to be draped in negativity. Its new-ball bowling was immaculate – pacy and accurate , both Steyn and the taller pair of Abbott and Morne Morkel getting good bounce , bowling in the channel that allowed the batsmen no liberty to free their arms and making excellent use of movement in the air and off the surface . Kusal was the first to go , expertly caught on the second attempt by de Kock diving to his left , and Dilshan ’ s luck ran out a few minutes later as Steyn got bounce and late movement to catch his splice. Du Plessis took off to his right at second slip , catching the ball inches off the ground. It was 4 for 2 in 4.1 , one of those runs coming from a legside wide . Thirimanne was slightly chancy to start with , but increasingly rediscovered the fluency that had brought him 261 runs as an opener in this tournament. He called the shots in the third-wicket stand of 65 , and Sri Lanka seemed to have climbed out of the hole and set itself up for a grandstand finish when de Villiers brought on Duminy and Tahir to operate in tandem . De Villiers , who led with the onus always on taking wickets , set fields astutely and applied relentless pressure. Thirimanne then reached out to push Tahir down the track , the legbreak stopped on him , and the resultant lob landed straight in the bowler ’ s hands to send him on a sprint of delirium. It was just reward for some wonderful bowling against batsmen accustomed to playing the turning ball with felicity . Things were to get worse for Sri Lanka four overs later when Mahela Jayawardena , in what turned out to be his last international innings , succumbed to mounting pressure and a static scoreboard , caught at short midwicket off Tahir . Sangakkara and Mathews , the last recognised pair , navigated the middle overs carefully , but the runs weren ’ t coming at any pace . Mahela Jayawardene thanks all the fans after his final ever # SL appearance # ThankYouMahela # legend pic.twitter.com/w98Ij9f2MH — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 18 , 2015 Something had to give. It did , when Mathews charged Duminy in frustration , and smashed him straight to midwicket off the last delivery of the bowler ’ s seventh over. It was to trigger a rash of wickets ; with the first two balls of his next over , Duminy had Nuwan Kulasekara caught behind and trapped Kaushal in front to become the eighth bowler to take a World Cup hat-trick . Sri Lanka lost its last six wickets for 19 runs in 27 deliveries , Sangakkara ninth man out after a 96-ball 43 in his final ODI appearance. His innings summed up Sri Lanka ’ s batting effort. It also put in perspective the quality of South Africa 's bowling , which , to a man , was little short of exceptional . A first ever World Cup knockout win for South Africa. Who will they play in the semifinal ? # SLvSA # cwc15 pic.twitter.com/l8P7vQKyLb Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
