18 March 201519 : 26 Two of the greatest depart for the final time together Sri Lanka ’ s exit brought the curtains down on Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardena ’ s ODI careers Share this article : Sangakkara and Jayawardena were schoolboy rivals before making their international debuts . Ultimately , obtaining a piece of the silverware was not to be for two of the one-day game ’ s greatest batsmen , with Sri Lanka ’ s World Cup exit also signalling Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene ’ s ODI farewell . Quite simply , legends of our great game ! Thank You ! # ThankYouMahela # ThankYouKumar # cwc15 pic.twitter.com/quFRW1pa4C For Jayawardene , retirement beckons , while Sangakkara will continue playing the five-day game until Sri Lanka ’ s Test series against India in August . For more than a decade , the pair has been a staple of the Sri Lanka line-up . Best friends who were schoolboy rivals before making their international debuts , together they have played in World Cup finals and claimed a World T20 title together . They have pursued a passion for charitable work and gone into business together . Both have captained Sri Lanka and have batted 293 times together in international cricket for a total of 13,368 runs , more than any other due in cricketing history and ahead of Sachin Tendulkar and Sourav Ganguly with 12,400 . Well done on glorious ODI careers @ KumarSanga2 & @ MahelaJay Being an integral part of the ODI side for so many years,it is difficult to ( 1/2 ) — sachin tendulkar ( @ sachin_rt ) March 18 , 2015 imagine the side without the 2 of you.Wishing you the very best and will miss the 2 of you constructing the innings in coloured clothes ( 2/2 ) — sachin tendulkar ( @ sachin_rt ) March 18 , 2015 In Colombo in 2006 , they put together a World Record stand of 624 runs , Jayawardene contributing 374 runs and Sangakkara 287 . Both Sangakkara and Jayawardene sit in the top five run-scorers in the history of ODIs , on 14,234 and 12,650 respectively . In Test cricket , Sangakkara has scored 12,203 runs and Jayawardene 11,814 , placing them fifth and seventh on the overall list . Their partnership has been enduring both on and off the field and Sri Lanka cricket will miss them dearly . In their three previous World Cups appearances together - in 2003 , 2007 and 2011 - they saw Sri Lanka to a semi-final and two finals . Jayawardene also played in the 1999 World Cup . While winning the 2015 trophy would have been a fairy tale finish for the pair , Sangakkara shrugged aside the disappointment of the quarter-final defeat after the match . “ That 's the way it goes. Someone has got to lose in a quarter-final , ” he said . “ It could have been my last game , it could have been one of the games that I 've played. I do n't think that makes a huge difference or adds to the disappointment. ” Sangakkara says goodbye to the one-day game in sublime form , having scored 105 * against Bangladesh , 117 * against England , 104 against Australia and 124 against Scotland . In his final match , he made a stoic 45 while his teammates crumbled around him and at the end of the match , he sat on top of the tournament run-scoring tally with 541 runs at 108.2 . Against Scotland , he became the first player to score four consecutive one-day international hundreds , while this tournament has also seen him claim the record for most World Cup dismissals . Sangakkara has averaged just under 60 in his last 66 ODIs , having scored 11 centuries and 20 fifties , and scored three centuries , two double centuries and one triple century in his last two years of Test cricket . Even his captain Angelo Mathews has said he “ got down on one knee ” and begged Sangakkara to reconsider his retirement . The 37-year-old who has played 404 ODIs and 130 Tests for Sri Lanka since breaking into the team as a 22-year-old . Jayawardene , born five months to the day earlier than Sangakkara , made his international debut three years earlier , playing his first Test against India in 1997 . His ODI career has featured 448 matches and 19 centuries , while his 149-match Test career included 34 tons . Like Sangakkara , Jayawardene is leaving the one day game in excellent form , having averaged 35 in ODIs over the past two years . In his last 10 Tests before his retirement in August , he scored one double-ton , two centuries and five fifties . During this World Cup , he scored a crucial century when Sri Lanka was in trouble at 51-4 against Afghanistan in Dunedin . Jayawardene and Sangakkara have shared runs and friendship , but another shared trait makes this pair stand out – their sense of humility . The esteem they are held in by their peers was obvious after the quarter-final , when the South African players made way to allow the pair to leave the field , hugging and patting them on the back as they departed . Neither player is being forced into retirement. For them , it is just time . “ Retiring from cricket is not about form , ’ Sangakkara said after the match . “ I 'm sure I can play maybe a year or two more , but like I said before , it 's time and place , and I feel that the time is now and it 's right . “ The World Cup , with a four-year wait in between , is the right occasion to do it. ” He signed off his one-day career in typical Sangakkara manner. Asked how he would like to be remembered in cricket , he said : “ If anyone can say that they 've enjoyed playing against me and playing with me , I 'll be more than happy. ” Share this article :
