India v Bangladesh – Key Moments Rohit 's responsible ton , a terrible mix-up , Dhoni 's blinder behind the stumps , and other game-changers Share this article : With a 109-run win over Bangladesh , India took a comprehensive step towards a second consecutive World Cup final , while also strengthening the belief in their fans that they wo n't give the World Cup back . India ’ s 109-run win over Bangladesh was a comprehensive step towards a second consecutive World Cup final appearance and further strengthened the belief in players and fans that their team “ won ’ t give it back ” . Bangladesh had come into the quarter-final in exceptional form , having knocked England out of the tournament and run the undefeated Black Caps close just days later , but a near faultless bowling performance was ultimately not enough . While India won by a comfortable buffer , sealing its place in a semi-final against either Australia or Pakistan in Sydney next Thursday , there were some key moments along the way . Virat veers wide After 17 overs it was all going India ’ s way. MS Dhoni had won the toss , the score was 75-0 , and Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma looked solid . Then a wild charge down the crease went astray for Dhawan as he missed the ball and some snappy glove work from Mushfiqur Rahim saw him caught out of his crease . One wicket was a breakthrough for Bangladesh but not a heavy blow , given the serious strength of India ’ s batting line-up . But a major moment for Bangladesh came in the next over when Virat Kohli looked to get his innings going with a bang , attempting a lusty cover drive but playing too far from his body and succeeding only in edging to Mushfiqur . Bangladesh had the India vice-captain out for just three runs , the score was 79-2 and the Tigers had all the ascendancy . If there was any doubt about how important this was to Bangladesh , Rubel made it perfectly clear when he gave Kohli one of the most enthusiastic send-offs of the tournament . Responsible Rohit Rohit Sharma had not had the most impressive tournament heading into the quarter-final , having scored 159 runs to be fifth on India ’ s runs tally . But ever the man to rise to the occasion , Sharma stayed and weathered some excellent Bangladesh bowling , bringing up his fifty off a careful 70 balls . He held his nerve while Dhawan , Kohli , Ajinkya Rahane and Suresh Raina fell around him , remaining a crucial man in as Bangladesh took wickets at vital stages and pegged India back . Then , as the Bangladesh pressure eased slightly and the power play began , Sharma accelerated and after the ‘ blink and you will miss it ’ rain delay , the runs began flowing . Sharma brought up his first World Cup century much to the delight of the extremely vocal Melbourne crowd . He then added a further 37 before being dismissed , going from 60 off 80 balls to 137 off 126 in a crucial innings that proved the difference between the teams . Muddle in the middle India ’ s total of 302-6 was , in the words of MS Dhoni , a “ par score ” . Having produced excellent batting performances against both England and New Zealand , Bangladesh had every opportunity to chase down the total and pull off the biggest upset of the tournament . Tamim Iqbal looked good early and had Bangladesh in a strong position after six overs at 31-0. But its hopes were dealt an early blow when Tamim went for one big shot too many , attempting a drive but instead sending a fine edge to Dhoni . One wicket was a blow for Bangladesh , but it became a whole lot worse for Bangladesh one ball later when a disastrous mix-up between Soumya Sarkar and Imrul Kayes resulted in the latter being caught well short of his crease . A second wicket in as many balls and suddenly chasing a total of 300 looked a much more difficult task . Shikhar Dhawan ’ s juggling act Even with two early wickets lost , there was still plenty of hope for Bangladesh in the form of Mohammad Mahmudullah . The man who secured crucial victories for Bangladesh and who had been largely responsible for thrusting it into the historic quarter-final showdown with India , Mahmudullah held the key for his team . A third century in a row and the game could have been Bangladesh ’ s for the taking . It was going to take something special to remove the in-form batsmen , but special was indeed produced . A hook shot from Mahmudullah was top-edged but still looked as though it could carry all the way for a maximum , but as it fell close to the boundary Shikhar Dhawan managed to pull off an unbelievable catch . He fumbled the ball - his foot perilously close to the boundary rope - flicked it into the air , stepped over the boundary and then back on to the safety of the field before claiming the catch . The third umpire was consulted before Mahmudullah departed for 21 , leaving his team 73-3 . Dhoni delights The next vital blow dealt by India came courtesy of the captain himself. With three wickets down and 90 runs on the board , with talented batsmen Soumya and Shakib Al Hasan at the crease , Bangladesh remained in the game . Then , in the 21st over , Soumya found himself outdone by a well-directed bouncer , sending an edge wide towards Dhoni . The 33-year-old ‘ keeper proved he still has the spring in his step to pull of amazing catches , diving horizontal to the ground to pull off a stunning catch . The fourth wicket was lost and with another 203 runs left to chase , the semi-final was all but safely in India ’ s hands . India ’ s legion of devoted fans erupted and remained elated for the remaining 24.2 overs of the match and for a long time after , staying on in droves to cheer as Sharma accepted his player of the match award and celebrate India taking another step towards back-to-back World Cups . # IND march on ! How far will they go at # cwc15 ? pic.twitter.com/4OIwmGVXaE
