21 March 201516 : 21 Martin Guptill 's Record Breaking 237 * The 28-year-old finished the innings unbeaten on 237 off 163 balls , as he posted the second-highest individual score in ODI history Share this article : For the second time in as many matches , Guptill struck when McCullum missed out . Anyone who heard a New Zealand opener had broken Chris Gayle ’ s record for highest World Cup score yesterday could have been forgiven for assuming it had come from the bat of the Black Caps skipper . But it was Brendon McCullum ’ s top-order partner in crime Martin Guptill who produced the stunning knock in Wellington , blasting his way to New Zealand ’ s all-time highest individual ODI score . It could have been a radically different story at Wellington Regional Stadium , had it not been for a lucky break on the third ball of the day . Having won the toss and batted , strong emotions were felt throughoutthe sold-out ground as spectators and players stood to attention for the national anthems of New Zealand and West Indies . The buzz around the Black Caps had been gathering momentum with each win throughout the pool matches and finally it was time for the long-awaited first knockout watch in Wellington . The players were ready – having booked their place in the match two weeks earlier – and so was the full house that filled the stadium . Martin Guptill signalled his intentions when he drove Jerome Taylor ’ s first delivery for four , but West Indies nearly achieved a dream start when Guptill miss-hit the third ball of the day straight to Marlon Samuels . It was fast and low and Samuels could not hang on to it , missing a vital early chance . At the other end , Brendon McCullum had to wait 10 balls before he faced his first delivery in the quarter-final. The skipper was clearly bursting to get out of the gates and sprinted down the pitch to get off the mark with a very quick single . As Guptill took on the role of early aggressor , McCullum was like a simmering volcano at the non-strikers end , having faced just one ball from the first three overs . When finally given an opportunity in the fourthover , he made full use of it , flicking one to the boundary before launching the next into the stands. One lucky punter nabbed the seventh ‘ catch a million ’ grab of the tournament and McCullum looked ominous . It all fell apart four balls later however , when McCullum miss-timed a lofted drive and sent the ball to extra cover where Jason Holder executed a very good running catch . It left Guptill , who headed into the match off the back of a player-of-the-match performance against Bangladesh where he scored 105,to once again highlight the Black Caps ’ plethora of batting back-up plans when McCullum fails . For the second time in as many matches , Guptill struck when McCullum missed out. He started patiently and worked his way first to 50 from 64 balls then 100 from 111 , before launching during the batting power play with a display of lusty shots . His third 50 came in just 23 balls before Guptill found yet another level , reaching his double century in 152 deliveries . Even then there was no easing up for the 28-year-old finished the innings unbeaten on 237 off 163 balls , 137 of those coming off the last 52 he faced . He hit an incredible 11 sixes and 24 fours as he posted the second-highest individual score in ODI history , the highest in World Cup history , and the highest by a Black Caps batsman in ODI cricket , smashing his own record of 189 not out he set against England in 2013 . The highlight of his innings was undoubtedly the 110m six he launched on to the roof of the stadium , becoming only the second man to do so after former New Zealand batsman and current batting coach Craig McMillan . New Zealand ’ s total of 393-6 was the highest total in a World Cup knockout match , the Black Cap ’ s highest total in a World Cup match and the third-highest ODI total by New Zealand . A sell-out Wellington crowd already geared up to see New Zealand in a knockout were in raptures throughout Guptill ’ s innings , producing a deafening cacophony of sound . It was Guptill ’ s sixth one-day ton in 106 matches. His first came on debut in 2009 , also against West Indies . As he left the ground to a standing ovation , Guptill said the double century was “ very cool ” . " Obviously there is pressure but you 've just got to put it behind you and watch the ball as hard as you can and play accordingly , " he said . " That 's what I tried to do today and luckily it paid off . “ It ’ s a very cool feeling , to be fair . Share this article :
