22 March 201514 : 06 Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi : ODI Icons While Misbah is known for his steady , unflappable batting style , Afridi is the master of madcap batting , capable of destroying bowling attacks on his own Share this article : While Misbah and Afridi share talent , leadership skills and a place in Pakistan cricket history , that is where the similarities end for the pair . Two Pakistan greats bid farewell to more than just the World Cup at Adelaide Oval on Friday , with Pakistan ’ s defeat at the hands of Australia also signalling the end of Misbah-ul-Haq and Shahid Afridi ’ s illustrious ODI careers . There was no fairy tale ending for the pair who would have preferred to see out their fifty-over careers by lifting the World Cup in Melbourne at the end of next week , but both produced highlights in a tense knockout match . These two legends have played their last ODI for Pakistan , tell us your favourite Misbah and Afridi moments # cwc15 pic.twitter.com/350kJKIe23 While Misbah and Afridi share talent , leadership skills and a place in Pakistan cricket history that is where the similarities end for the pair . Explosive , entertaining and predictably unpredictable , Afridi has been duelling exciting and frustrating Pakistan cricket fans since 1996 . The man known as ‘ Boom Boom ’ is the master of madcap batting , capable of destroying bowling attacks when on song . Rarely classical in his approach , Afridi burst on to the world stage when he broke the record for fastest ODI hundred in his first one-day innings , reaching the milestone off 37 balls . He was well ahead of his time when he produced the classic knock against Sri Lanka in 1996 and only two men have been able to better him since – AB de Villiers ( 31 balls ) and Corey Anderson ( 36 balls ) – both in the last 15 months . Earlier this month Afridi became the first cricketer to take more than 350 ODI wickets and score more than 8000 runs , a milestone reached against United Arab Emirates in Napier . He finishes with extraordinary ODI career strike rate of 117 and his 398 innings have featured six centuries , 39 fifties , and 395 wickets . Afridi ’ s 27-match Test career originally ended in 2006 , but – in a manner befitting Afridi - he returned from retirement for one Test only in 2010 , which he captained . His one-day career , which has spanned 398 matches , has only been exceeded in sheer number of matches by Sachin Tendulkar , Mahela Jayawardene , Sanath Jayasuriya and Kumar Sangakkara . Afridi captained Pakistan to a semi-final appearance in 2011 World Cup , having also appeared in the 1999 , 2003 , 2007 and 2011 tournaments . Twenty20 batting could have been designed with Afridi in mind and that is where the veteran while continue to focus his international attentions now . Meanwhile , Misbah will direct his focus towards the longest form of the game for the remainder of his career . Unlike Afridi , 40-year-old is known for his steady , unflappable temperament and this has translated perfectly into his batting . Since taking over the captaincy in 2011 , his calm approach has kept Pakistan focused while also bringing the best out of Misbah , helping him reap 5122 ODI and 3736 Test runs through an international career that began in 2001 . After a stop-start beginning to his international career , Misbah returned with a bang in 2007 on the weight of his domestic performances and truly hit his stride with a fruitful 2011 , where he scored nine ODI fifties and one century and seven half-centuries in Tests . Of his two World Cup appearances , Misbah ’ s best result with Pakistan was the 2011 semi-final , while he personally scored 564 runs at 51.27 in 12 innings . He bows out of ODIs with an average of 43.40 and remarkably , without a one-day ton. The closest he came was an unbeaten 96 against West Indies in mid-2013 , one of 42 half-centuries made in the 50-over game . His top five ODI scores were all unbeaten , two of them in the 90s . On Friday , Afridi played his final World Cup innings in typical fashion , launching a big six off Josh Hazlewood and attacking every possible delivery . Misbah played a part in a remarkable moment of his own when the ball clipped his leg stump but did not dislodge the bails , giving him a fortunate escape . Pakistan will feel the loss of this experienced pair , particularly given fellow veteran Younis Khan may also put away his cricket kit in the not-to-distant future , but Misbah had some advice for future players after Fridays ’ match . “ It was really an honour for me to just represent my country , and I really enjoyed my cricket , ” Misbah said . “ I 've already given everything and especially Afridi , also. He put a lot of effort for Pakistan , and we really enjoyed that . “ We always remember that , and the message for the youngster is that if you really want to be there , to compete in the world , you have to really work hard. That 's what our seniors did . “ That 's what we learned from all our greats. ” Share this article :
