23 March 201517 : 44 # NZvSA : The 5 Key Match-Ups that will decide the 1st Semi-Final Though both teams are in brilliant form , these battles between key players could decide the winner Share this article : Both teams are in brilliant form , boasting line-ups packed with potential match-winners but which team makes the final could rest on the outcomes of battles between key players . The combatants are New Zealand and South Africa , the battlefield is Eden Park and the prize is a place in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 final . Both teams are in brilliant form , boasting line-ups packed with potential match-winners . Ultimately , which team boards a flight to Melbourne on Wednesday could rest on the outcomes of battles between key players . Here are the five key match-ups for New Zealand ’ s crunch semi-final clash against South Africa. Whichever side can win the most of these will be given a shot at glory on Sunday at the MCG . 1. AB de Villiers v Daniel Vettori The world ’ s number one ODI batsman , AB de Villiers is just about the biggest scalp in cricket right now. The South Africa captain leads his team ’ s batting statistics in every category and getting his wicket early is a must for New Zealand . ​ De Villiers is freakishly talented , quick on his feet , possesses a seemingly endless array of shots and appears to have no fear when batting . He has been at his best in this tournament coming in with a good base already set up top-order batsman Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis – the perfect example being his unbeaten 162 in Sydney when he was handed a perfect start to launch from – so getting early wickets and forcing de Villiers in earlier than expected could be the key for New Zealand . Good fielding is also crucial when it comes to de Villiers. More than 11 per cent of his dismissals have been run outs , and the skipper is known to take fielders on . One man tasked with the job of containing – and possibly removing – de Villiers is veteran Daniel Vettori. The Black Caps could not ask for a better person in the situation , with Vettori a master of keeping his bowling tight in one-dayers and forcing frustrated batsmen into unwise shots . The 36-year-old , who picked up his 300th ODI wicket earlier in the tournament , has asserted himself in New Zealand ’ s matches through the tournament to date , perfectly complementing the opening bowling feats of Tim Southee and Trent Boult . He has 15 wickets in seven matches at an economy rate of 3.81 , while his best figures for the tournament , 4-18 off 10 overs at an economy rate of 1.80 , came against Afghanistan . Vettori ’ s most influential performance for CWC15 so far was at Eden Park against Australia , when he was brought on by skipper Brendon McCullum to halt the fast-flowing runs from the Australian top order and snared the key dismissals of Shane Watson and Steve Smith . A gifted fielder , Vettori showed his aging body still has what it takes in the quarter-finals when he took a one-handed screamer that was quite possibly the catch of the tournament . Such was the athleticism in the leap that Vettori ’ s six-year-old son James commented , " Dad , you do n't jump that high on the trampoline ! " 2. Brendon McCullum v Dale Steyn When New Zealand and South Africa walk out on to the Eden Park field , it is unlikely anyone will be more fired up than this pair . The Black Caps skipper has shown he will not take a backwards step this tournament and has no time for circumspect cricket and no intention of changing his game plan . He will go hard from ball one and if it comes off , it could be the defining factor in the match. But as shown when he was dismissed for 12 in the quarter-final , McCullum ’ s aggressive , no holds barred approach can be a risky one . McCullum scored the fastest World Cup fifty of all time earlier in the tournament , taking England opening bowlers James Anderson and Stuart Broad to task . He will look to give Proteas openers Dale Steyn and Kyle Abbott the same treatment and the first few overs of New Zealand ’ s innings will be crucial to see who gains the upper hand . McCullum has 269 runs for the tournament at 38.42 , including scores of 77 against England , 65 against Sri Lanka and 50 against Australia . When Dale Steyn steps on to a cricket field , the easy-going South African transforms from easy going to the fiercest of fast bowlers . His reaction to taking the wicket of Tillakaratne Dilshan in the quarter-final as something to behold – arms thrown out , head thrown back , eyes bulging and mouth wide open as he roared . The tournament has not seen the best of Steyn yet – he has taken 10 wickets in seven matches at an average of 27 . But if Steyn bowls at his best , the Black Caps bowlers will find it difficult to negotiate his combination of controlled swing and extreme speed . 3. Hashim Amla v Trent Boult Hashim Amla is generally given second billing when discussing South Africa ’ s batsman thanks to the exploits of his captain , but the unassuming batsman is consistently brilliant . Earlier in the tournament , he became the fastest batsman to 20 ODI centuries. He reached the milestone in 108 innings , overtaking previous record-holder Kohli by a massive 25 innings . That knock in Canberra was also Amla ’ s second in excess of 150 for the year and he has also scored two fifties this tournament , with a total of 323 runs at 46.14 . While Quinton de Kock was struggling for form earlier in the tournament , Amla has been a rock at the top of the Proteas batting order. Remove him early and pressure will mount on the middle order . The Black Caps could not ask for better players to attack Amla than Trent Boult and Tim Southee . The paceman have been consistently tearing apart opposition batting line-ups this tournament and Boult sits on top of the CWC15 wicket takers heading into the semi-finals . He has taken 19 wickets at 14.63 , including 5-27 against Australia and 4-44 against West Indies , and will be the perfect player to attack Amla – and de Kock , for that matter - with a barrage of pace . In a pre-tournament warm-up match in Christchurch , Boult was outstanding , swinging the ball and snaring 5-51 . Amla did not play that day and the way the no.3 ranked ODI batsman handles Boult ’ s bowling will be crucial to the Proteas ’ chances . 4. Ross Taylor v Imran Tahir When the teams met in the 2011 Ross Taylor was the second-highest scoring Black Cap with 43 runs. The man who denied him a half-century was none other than Imran Tahir and it is more than likely the two will do battle again through the middle overs of New Zealand ’ s innings . Taylor has not set the world alight during the group stages of with scores of 14 , 9 , 5 * , 1 and 24 * , but scored 56 against Bangladesh in the final pool game before a determined 42 during the quarter-final against West Indies . That innings was prematurely ended thanks to a mix-up with Martin Guptill , but it would have given him a boost of confidence ahead of the semi-finals . At the other end of the spectrum , Tahir has been in excellent form for the Proteas this tournament . He was player of the match in Sydney after taking 4-26 in the quarter-finals and has 15 wickets for the tournament at an average of 18.86 . Tahir has maintained a tidy economy rate of 4.20 and been among South Africa ’ s best on multiple occasions and figures including 5-45 against West Indies and 3-36 against Zimbabwe . Throughout the tournament it has been the sides that have taken wickets that have been the most successful and the Proteas will be relying upon Tahir to penetrate New Zealand ’ s batting line-up . 5. Faf du Plessis v Tim Southee This match-up has some history dating back to the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011. Four years ago , du Plessis found himself at the centre of an on-field altercation with New Zealand during the 2011 quarter-final . The incident occurred after de Villiers ' crucial run-out when Kyle Mills , who was not in the Black Caps ’ playing XI , ran onto the field with drinks during the short break after the wicket and together with Vettori and several other New Zealand players including Southee became embroiled in a heated exchange with du Plessis and de Villiers . The exchange ended with du Plessis shoving Mills and umpire Rod Tucker stepping in between the players . Before the tournament , du Plessis spoke of his desire to meet New Zealand in a semi-final this time around , saying , “ In my perfect world I would like to play New Zealand in the semi-final and have that same situation arise again , ” he said . ​ “ But this time it will be the other way around. We 'll be the team that 's on top , and we can do the same to them. ” Having settled into his role at first drop in the Proteas ’ line-up , du Plessis has become one of the key men New Zealand will need to contend with. Du Plessis has scored 298 runs at 59.60 during the tournament , including 109 against Ireland , 62 against West Indies , 55 against India . Southee – who took the catch that removed du Plessis during that 2011 quarter-final – will have his eye on the prize scalp . The right-arm paceman has teamed perfectly with Boult through the tournament so far , forming one of the most dangerous opening bowling partnerships . He tore through England taking 7-33 in Wellington and has 15 scalps at 23.46 for the World Cup so far . This match-up could the most intriguing and crucial of them all with a place in the final of the greatest tournament of them all at stake . Share this article :
