23 March 201522 : 16 By Manoj Narayan New Zealand v South Africa – World Cup rivalry New Zealand has the numerical edge , winning four of six previous World Cup matches between the teams , but anything could happen this time Share this article : It 's a 50-50 toss-up between the two teams this time around . “ Bielsa to Barca ? It terrifies me. Some things offer such a possibility of beauty they should be left as immaculate potential. ” That ’ s how Jonathan Wilson , the sports writer , described the matter , on Twitter , when rumours arose a couple of years ago that Marcelo Bielsa , the Argentine coach , was in line to replace Pep Guardiola at Barcelona . Those words can be used to describe the ICC Cricket World Cup semi-final between New Zealand and South Africa on Wednesday ( March 24 ) in Auckland as well. The possibilities are endless. Two teams high on morale and hungry for silverware , filled with strong characters and match-winners , both going head to head on the global platform. Mano-e-mano. Immaculate potential . The two sides have clashed in previous World Cups. New Zealand has fared better in those exchanges , winning four out of six matches , but these clashes were filled with fine individual performances , shows of team spirit and much else. A look back at their previous clashes , while by no means a pointer to what will transpire in Auckland on Tuesday , is sure to whet one ’ s appetite . Match 1 : New Zealand v South Africa at Eden Park in Auckland in ICC Cricket World Cup 1992 The last time these two sides met in Auckland , it was New Zealand who emerged victorious , and quite comfortably at that. South Africa won the toss and chose to bat , but never really got going. On a slow pitch , Dipak Patel , the off-spinner , ran riot , conceding just 13 runs in his first seven overs. South Africa was reduced to 29 for 3 before a 79-run stand for the fourth wicket between David Richardson and Peter Kirsten , who ended on a resilient 129-ball 90 , helped it stay afloat. South Africa posted 190 for 7 , but that wasn ’ t too challenging for the New Zealand top order. A 114-run opening stand between Mark Greatbatch ( 68 ) and Rod Latham ( 60 ) set the base , and despite the dismissal of Ian Smith for 19 , New Zealand strolled to victory with seven wickets and 93 balls to spare . Match 2 : New Zealand v South Africa at the Iqbal Stadium in Faisalabad in ICC Cricket World Cup 1996 In its first World Cup in 1992 , South Africa had made a mark with its fielding. If anything , it set new standards in this clash. New Zealand , choosing to bat , was restricted to 177 for 9 , an innings comprising three run-outs. Stephen Fleming was its top-scorer with a 79-ball 33 , with the menacing paceman , Allan Donald , running through the line-up with a fine 3 for 34 in ten overs . It was a seemingly easy chase , but South Africa was made to work hard for its victory. Hansie Cronje ’ s 64-ball 78 propelled it past the finish line to a five-wicket victory . Match 3 : New Zealand v South Africa at Edgbaston in Birmingham in ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 South Africa made it a second consecutive World Cup victory over New Zealand , posting its highest total up till that point in the tournament . Choosing to bat in the Super Six clash , Gary Kirsten ( 82 ) and Herschelle Gibbs ( 91 ) put on a quick 176 for the opening wicket , allying concerns in the top order. Then , an unbeaten 36-ball 53 from Jacques Kallis and a 22-ball 39 from Hansie Cronje helped it post 287 for 5 . In response , New Zealand couldn ’ t handle the heat of the fiery South African attack. It lost Matt Horne and Nathan Astle early to be reduced to 34 for 2 , and never really recovered. Stephen Fleming and Craig McMillan launched a resistance , putting on 59 for the third wicket , but the stand was broken by Cronje , and regular wickets thereafter meant it ended at 213 at 8 after 50 overs for a 74-run loss . Match 4 : South Africa v New Zealand at Wanderers in Johannesburg in ICC Cricket World Cup 2003 When a top-order batsman scores 143 and the team , possessing an attack comprising Allan Donald , Makhaya Ntini and Jacques Kallis puts up 306 , you expect it to secure victory. Unfortunately for South Africa , they found Stephen Fleming in imperious form . That coupled with a power-failure and a couple of rain breaks meant they ended up on the losing side on the Duckworth-Lewis method . Herschelle Gibbs was exuberant and his 141-ball 143 was built on middling scores by the rest of the batsmen , South Africa ending on 306 for 6. If Gibbs was flamboyant , Fleming was graceful. Rain ’ s interruption meant the target was revised and New Zealand needed 44 more to win in eight and a half overs . Fleming carried on and took New Zealand across the finish line for a nine-wicket victory by the D/L Method. He ended with a 132-ball 134 , following partnerships of 89 and 140 * with Craig McMillan ( 25 ) and Nathan Astle ( 54 ) . Fleming ’ s knock comprised 21 fours , and according to the Wisden Almanack , he “ played the innings of his life ” – Boucher letting him off on 53 proved costly , to say the least . Match 5 : New Zealand v South Africa at National Cricket Stadium in Grenada in ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 A heart-twisting , nerve-wracking encounter in the Super Eights ended in favour of New Zealand in Grenada , and in doing so , it managed to seal a semi-final spot in the 2007 World Cup . South Africa , having been put in , was reduced to 3 for 2 , but recovered through Jacques Kallis and Herschelle Gibbs , who put on 49 for the third wicket. Kallis was sent back for a 54-ball 22 , but Gibbs carried on with Ashwell Prince for company , putting up a crucial 76 for the fourth. Craig McMillan then had all of Gibbs , Prince and Mark Boucher dismissed in fairly quick succession , taking the sting out of South Africa ’ s batsmen , who eventually put up 193 for 7 . If New Zealand thought it had an easy chase , it was made to think again. The South African attack , comprising Sean Pollock , Makhaya Ntini and Andre Nel , never allowed the New Zealand batsmen to settle. Eventually , the batsmen steered clear of anything risky , with Scott Styris playing the steadying hand , putting on 78 and 56 with Stephen Fleming and McMillan for the third and fourth wickets to propel the chase. It took New Zealand to the doorsteps of victory , and it eventually crossed the line , despite the late wicket of Jacob Oram . Match 6 : New Zealand v South Africa at Sher-E-Bangla Stadium in Dhaka in ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 A knockout encounter , and South Africa imploded in the most calamitous manner , allowing New Zealand to seal a semi-final spot yet again. But it made for a fascinating match . New Zealand put up 221 for 8 after opting to bat , with Jesse Ryder scoring a 121-ball 83. Ryder ’ s half-century and his 114-run stand with Ross Taylor ( 43 ) for the third wicket kept South Africa ’ s attack , comprising the likes of Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel , well at bay . South Africa ’ s chase of 222 got off to a seemingly perfect start , with Jacques Kallis leading the charge. He had put up a 75-ball 47 when he was dismissed , but even at that point , South Africa was looking good for victory at 108 for 3. JP Duminy followed suit thereafter , and the slide turned to a full-fledged implosion that resulted in its knockout from the tournament. It was bowled out for 172 in 43.2 overs , New Zealand winning by 49 runs . What to Expect in # cwc2015 A winner can ’ t be picked. Both teams have power-packed units and head into the semi-final clash on the back of convincing victories in the quarterfinals. Playing at home could play to New Zealand ’ s advantage , but you can never discount a line-up that comprises the likes of Hashim Amla , AB de Villiers and Dale Steyn . Steyn , in particular , is due a match-winning performance in the 2015 World Cup , and he is one of those characters who come good when the team needs him most. This could go either way . Share this article :
