24 March 201504 : 26 By Anand Vasu ICC Cricket World Cup Fever takes hold in New Zealand Ahead of the first semi-final in the land of rugby , all talk is about cover drives and yorkers Share this article : Now is as good a time as any for cricket fans in New Zealand to get behind their team . Something strange is happening in Middle Earth. Something odd has captured the imagination of those that live in the Land of the Long White Cloud. It ’ s been a little over a month , and yet , it ’ s hard to believe such a thing is possible . In the land of rugby , all talk is about cover drives and yorkers. The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 has taken over New Zealand in a manner previously thought impossible . The front page of the New Zealand Herald ushered in the week with a letter from Brendon McCullum basically giving every Aucklander a carte blanche to leave work and fill up Eden Park for the semifinal against South Africa. This was a call to arms that might have happened with the All Blacks . But , here was McCullum , leader of the Black Caps , standing tall for cricket was , for once , the talk of his country. While a first appearance in a World Cup final , and then a shot at ultimate glory , was what every New Zealand fan was after , what the tournament has done for the country was unmistakable. Sample what the journey from Wellington -- where New Zealand comfortably got past the West Indies – to Auckland , was like . Here come the Black Caps . It was a seven year old who set things off at Departure Gate 16 at the Wellington Airport. Fresh off their win against West Indies , charging towards a collision with South Africa in the semifinal of the World Cup , New Zealand ’ s cricketers trickled towards the aircraft that would take them upward and onward. While New Zealand ’ s finest were not exactly mobbed – the people of this country are far too polite to do that , irrespective of how much they love sport – their walk through the terminal was certainly not untrammelled . Today 's @ nzherald front page in support of the sensational @ blackcaps pic.twitter.com/WUhmlZ4x9G — Shayne Currie ( @ ShayneCurrieNZH ) March 22 , 2015 One photo , Vettori sir ? One photo , Vettori sir ? It was an Indian tourist , furled tricolour sticking out of a backpack , having done duty at the last match and being stowed away till next needed , at least 20 years Daniel Vettori ’ s senior , who opened the floodgates. Once the New Zealand player stopped long enough to pose , his smile a mixture of bemusement and bashful acceptance at his current standing , there was no stopping the other Indians , and Indian-origin New Zealanders , in the vicinity from each demanding a photo that would end up on Facebook in a moment . In New Zealand , we still trust people , sir . It was the Air New Zealand staffer at the gate , slightly harried at the fact that there were 194 people trying to get on a plane that could hold 177 , each standby passenger hoping earnestly that there would be enough no-shows to let him on , who kept things moving. It was this hard working staffer , whose response came when someone proffered a passport to confirm that he was indeed the person whose name was on the boarding pass , who kept things normal , not breaking stride , or reacting in the slightest , when Trent Boult , on top of the tournament charts with 19 scalps , walked up , guitar casually slung over his shoulder . Have you seen this one , mate ? Really ? It was a member of the New Zealand team ’ s support staff that held the door ajar for the good-natured ribbing to begin , pulling up one of the many morphed photos of Vettori that are doing the rounds on the Internet. Here ’ s Vettori attempting a slam-dunk in the all-star challenge. Here ’ s Vettori dwarfing the Statue of Liberty , white Kookaburra in hand. Here ’ s Vettori , floating beside the statue of Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro. Vettori laughed with his mates , not one of who expected him to take that catch , irrespective of what they might say . Cup of tea would be great , thank you . It was Brendon McCullum , that powerhouse of a batsman who has suddenly and dramatically revealed himself as a leader of men capable of inspiring his wards to ride to war with him – not unlike the bearded Aragorn in the Lord of the Rings motifs so ubiquitous in this part of the world – who was the centre of attention in the New Zealand pack. Seated bang in the middle of their public , tall men squeezed into cattle class seating , New Zealand ’ s cricketers did not hide behind opaque shades or oversized headphones. McCullum , on his knees on his seat , elbows propped up on the headrest , chatted away , as a teenager might on an excursion his school had organised . Can we have three cheers for New Zealand ? Hip … Hip … It was an Indian who broke ranks , and indeed perhaps every unwritten flying etiquette in the Land of the Long White Cloud , for a Kiwi would have referred to his cricket team as the Black Caps , and brought embarrassed smiles to the faces of cricketers who have spent a lifetime walking the streets of Auckland or Christchurch unrecognised , and certainly unapproached. When a planeload load of passengers yelled out ‘ Hurray ! ’ the atmosphere was distinctly carnival , even if the men in the middle of it all were not sure exactly what the fuss was all about . More people on # cwc15 Website from # NZ than anywhere now ! READ how CWC fever has gripped # NZ http : //t.co/RL07gKLazL pic.twitter.com/X2BreoRiwF — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 24 , 2015 Best of luck to the Black Caps for the final. We know you ’ ll be there . It was the pilot of flight NZ 448 , sensibly forgoing the rather pointless details about how high the plane was flying or what the temperature was outside at that very instant , choosing instead to follow the cheering and applause he heard from the cabin with a remark that was typical of the cheeky New Zealand sense of humour. In the rare moments when New Zealanders aren ’ t laughing at themselves in the coolest possible manner , they come up with absolute gems. Obviously , the man at the flight deck did not believe the Black Caps needed any luck for the semifinal . Are you here for the cricket ? Is the World Cup still on ? It was a middle-aged woman sneaking a cigarette outside the arrival gate of the Auckland airport , who picked an unfortunate member of the New Zealand team to ask this question to. Not batting an eyelid , the young man replied that there were still a few games to be played yet , upon which the kindly lady rather redundantly informed him that she did not really follow cricket. It was quintessentially New Zealand : a reminder at every turn that this is Rugby Country , even when the Black Caps are on the rampage ; and the response from the player equally so , not the slightest petulance at not being recognised despite kit clearly identifying who he was . Here come the Black Caps . It isn ’ t a slogan , but it should be. New Zealand ’ s cricketers do not announce themselves before a game like the All Blacks do – remember Vettori ’ s crack about how skinny white men don ’ t do the Haka ? – but there ’ s no reason why Auckland ’ s cricket faithful , who will no doubt pack Eden Park , should not come together to give South Africa a rousing welcome. There hasn ’ t been a cricket World Cup semifinal in New Zealand in 23 years , and who knows when the next one might be ? Now is as good a time as any for cricket fans in this New Zealand to get behind their team , and sound the warning : Here come the Black Caps . Share this article :
