25 March 201507 : 08 Pakistan CWC15 wrap The pacy bowling scripted a change in fortunes , but there would be no repeat of 1992 for Misbah ’ s side Share this article : Pakistan bowled South Africa for 202 . Pakistan lived up to its billing with a topsy-turvy ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 campaign . After a poor start , Pakistan raised hopes of a 1992-like turnaround. But , the team was let down by its batting and fielding , to be knocked out by Australia in the quarterfinal . Yet , throughout the tournament , it proved itself to have one of the best bowling units. And this despite losing out on the services of Saeed Ajmal , while Umar Gul , Junaid Khan and Mohammad Hafeez missed out owing to injury . Pakistan began its tournament on an inauspicious note , going down to India for the sixth time in World Cup history. A 150-run loss to an equally unpredictable West Indies side , which had earlier been defeated by Ireland , compounded Pakistan ’ s woes. The loss set Misbah-ul-Haq ’ s men back in a big way , and the team was deflated . “ We just lost in all three departments. Could n't bowl well , a lot of dropped catches , and batting , totally flopped , ” said Misbah after the loss to the West Indies . “ I think the only way is just to forget this , learn from this , just to improve your performances. That 's how up to just come up. If you just got trapped in the previous two games , then you ca n't perform. Every game is a new game , and now we have to leave it behind and positively prepare for the next ones and try to win all other games. ” And so it did. The side managed to just stay afloat with a 20-run victory over Zimbabwe . Then a massive 129-run victory over United Arab Emirates gave it some sense of confidence , but it was the brilliant come-from-behind win against South Africa that resurrected Pakistan ’ s World Cup campaign . The Pakistan team management had tried a few different combinations at the top of the order , but nothing seemed to work. It finally hit upon a functioning opening pair of Ahmed Shehzad and Sarfraz Ahmed , who got his chance when the out-of-form Nasir Jamshed ’ s luck ran out . “ We started playing good cricket , some aggressive cricket , which I think Pakistan cricket is known for in the past , ” said Waqar Younis , the coach , after the 29-run win against South Africa. “ [ We ] started finding the right combination , people have started believing in themselves , players have started trusting their abilities. I think this was a key. I 'm very thrilled. ” Pakistan ’ s four-match winning streak was completed when it beat Ireland in a must-win last league match. Pakistan had done well to rouse itself from a state of stupor , with elimination staring it in the face . Going into the quarter-final against Australia , Pakistan had a tough task. Mohammad Irfan ’ s absence due to injury further dented its chances . Although its bowling had been aggressive and relentless , pacy and probing , batting was Pakistan 's Achilles heel. Shehzad , Haris Sohail , Umar Akmal and Sohaib Maqsood failed to convert their starts into big scores , and this proved to be a problem in the quarter-final too , when Pakistan was kept to just 213 on the friendliest batting wicket in Australia . “ It was painful to watch the irresponsible attitude of the Pakistan batsmen , and Australia accepted all ten catches that came their way , ” wrote Inzamam-ul-Haq , the former Pakistan captain , in his column for the ICC . “ After playing so many years of international cricket , Pakistan ’ s batsmen still don ’ t understand the meaning of ‘ rotating the strike ’ . To be honest , it simply hurts a lot. Our batsmen play so many dot balls that in sheer frustration they go for airy , fairy shots , and good fielding units like Australia don ’ t miss out on these catching chances. ” This was to be the last ODI tournament for Shahid Afridi as well as Misbah. Afridi will be disappointed that he failed to fire , getting to just 116 runs and two wickets from seven matches. Misbah , on the other hand , led from the front , steadying the innings when Pakistan most needed it , to become its leading run-getter with 350 runs at an average of 50 . Compared to him , Akmal got only 164 runs in seven outings , Shehzad managed 222 and Maqsood scored 124 in five matches . " It 's necessary that the younger batsmen take responsibility , " reckoned Misbah after the quarter-final defeat . “ They are talented players , but maybe they were not made responsible enough to help the team . " If our cricket is to match international standards , then our youngsters have to work hard. They are the best performers in domestic cricket so they have to take the mantle from us. Besides batting , fitness and fielding are two key areas where our players have to work very hard because they are not up to international standards. ” One memorable aspect of the quarter-final loss for Pakistan would be the hostile bowling of Wahab Riaz . Riaz , Pakistan ’ s leading wicket-taker with 16 scalps , had led the attack in the absence of the bowling stalwarts. In the quarter-final , he did it again , producing a menacing and memorable six-over spell of fast bowling during which he got David Warner and Michael Clarke , while troubling Shane Watson no end . Rahat Ali , with seven wickets from five games , and Sohail Khan , the only specialist right-arm paceman in a sea of left-armers , who took 12 wickets from seven matches , were both impressive . But it 's the batting that needs attention , and Misbah hoped the concerns would be addressed soon . “ Maybe the lack of international exposure was hurting the batsmen so I have suggested to the Pakistan Cricket Board that they arrange more and more cricket for these youngsters because batsmen can only get better with exposure , ” said Misbah . “ I think Pakistan should start building a team for the next World Cup now. ” Share this article :
