Australia v India – the 7 moments that defined the 2nd Semi-Final A look at the key moments that decided this crunch semi-final between Australia and India Share this article : Johnson provided Australia with a late flurry of 27-not-out off nine balls to see the team to 328-6 . With a place in the ICC Cricket World Cup final on the line and a sold-out Sydney Cricket Ground awash in a sea of blue and yellow , it was Australia who took advantage of the key moments . Now , a show down with New Zealand in Melbourne awaits Australia , with prize a fifth World Cup trophy . Here are the key moments that decided this crunch semi-final between the co-host and India : 1. Sublime Smith strikes again Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav made an excellent start for India , immediately causing the Australian openers problems with their pace . David Warner was the early victim , falling for 12 , placing the pressure on Aaron Finch , who had looked out of touch since a century in Australia ’ s tournament opener , and Steve Smith , who came into the match in very good touch . What followed was another effortless innings from Smith , who again looked on a different plane while working his way to a fourth ODI century , while Finch put together a well-earned 81 off 116 balls . Their partnership of 182 for the second wicket laid the foundation for Australia of a batting-friendly wicket and when Smith departed in the 35th over , a total higher than 350 and even approaching 400 was not out of the question . 2. Quick one , two The loss of Glenn Maxwell and Finch in quick succession , in addition to tight bowling from spinner Ravi Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja , turned the match in India ’ s favour at the 39-over mark . Maxwell , as he has all tournament , looked threatening as he plundered 23 off 14 before sweeping to deep backward square led , while Finch was set and looked to be on his way to a ton when he looped a shot to mid-wicket . Suddenly , Australia had two new batsmen at the crease at the crunch time of the innings , when quick runs were needed to build a significant total . The run-rate slowed and Australia ’ s lower order was left with plenty of work do to before the end of the innings . 3. No.9 steps up When the death overs approached and Australia needed runs to ensure a difficult total for India , it was expected the finisher , James Faulkner , might be the one to step up and provided the hasty knock needed . But when Faulkner departing for 21 , bowled by Yadav , it was left to Brad Haddin and Mitchell Johnson to step up . Haddin can provide fireworks when required but on this occasion is was the paceman , known for being more than handy with the bat , who provided with a late flurry of 27-not-out off nine balls to see Australia to 328-6 . 4. Chances , a drop India ’ s run chase began with its share of drama as Shikhar Dhawan set about giving his team the best start possible . First , an appeal for catch at slip which was sent upstairs to the third umpire to see whether it did indeed bounce between reaching the hands of Shane Watson , before inconclusive footage gave the batsman the benefit of the doubt . Then three overs later , an edge from Dhawan flew towards Watson but it was Brad Haddin who went for the chance , leaping to his left but failing to grasp the ball in his gloves . Dhawan made the most of the life , hitting six fours and a magnificent flick over square leg for six on his way to 45 off 41 balls. It was the start India needed with a big run chase ahead of it and the large legion of India fans at the SCG were ecstatic . 5. Johnson fires up After the first wicket fell , the hopes of India rested squarely on the shoulders of the fourth-ranked ODI batsman in the world , Virat Kohli . The value of the Kohli can not be underestimated , with the batsman a key for India in run chases , having scored 13 tons when batting second in ODIs . Needless to say , when Kohli took on a Johnson bouncer and sent top-edge high into the gloves of Haddin , the Australian players and fans began to feel the game turn in their favour . That feeling became stronger two overs later when Johnson removed another danger man , Rohit Sharma , with a cross-seamer that cleaned up the opener ’ s stumps . 6. Who heard that ? When Ajinkya Rahane swiped at a Faulkner ball in the 37th over , there was minimal interest from Australia ’ s fielders after it went through to Haddin . That is , except for Glenn Maxwell and Steve Smith , who received top grades for excellent hearing after requesting a review . Snicko revealed the faintest of edges and Rahane headed back to the rooms , giving Australia the vital breakthrough it needed . It broke a 70-run partnership between Rahane and Dhoni and although there was still hope for India as long as the skipper remained at the crease , this vital win from Maxwell edged Australia slightly closer to victory . 7. Australia right on target The run rate was climbing for India as it entered the crucial final 10 overs of the run chase , but renowned finisher Dhoni batting there was a sense he could still produce something special to steal the match from Australia . But that pressure became all the greater after a brilliant direct hit from man of the moment Steve Smith sent Ravindra Jadeja packing . It left Dhoni the only batting hope left for the defending champions and all the while , the run rate continued to climb . Risks needed to be taken and every chance taken , but a quick single proved the undoing of Dhoni as Maxwell produced a second Australian direct hit and the seventh wicket fell . From there , James Faulkner and Mitch Starc cleaned up the loose ends , taking the final three wickets for one run to see Australia through to a Trans-Tasman World Cup final . One of those pesky incidentals is mopping up the end of an innings , and it was a combination of Australia ’ s relentless hours spent in pursuit of fielding perfection that ensured that happened .
