28 March 201507 : 29 Blackcaps fan to undergo epic # cwc15 final journey London-based New Zealander Peter Thompson is travelling 34,000kms and spending 48 hours in the air to see his beloved Black Caps Share this article : Is this the Black Caps ’ most devoted fan ? London-based New Zealander Peter Thompson is travelling 34,000kms and spending 48 hours in the air to see his beloved Black Caps make their first ICC Cricket World Cup final appearance . He will land in Melbourne at 7.35am on Sunday and will have to bolt straight back to the airport after the match for a 1am flight – hopefully elated by New Zealand victory . The 41-year-old said the plan started over a glass of wine and an online chat with an Australian friend . “ It was basically a pact made in blood - virtual blood , over a Whatsapp session with my very good Australian friend Tom Crago , ” Thompson said . “ New Zealand were looking so good in the build up to the World Cup and while watching Ian Smith 's passionate and positive prediction before the first game at the Hagley Oval , the idea was born . “ If it was Australia versus New Zealand in the final and if Tom could get tickets , I would be there . “ It only started to feel real when Tom messaged me and said that he 'd kept his side of the bargain ! ” Thompson will spend a grand total of 18-and-a-half hours in Melbourne , but said it would definitely be worth it . “ Jet lag ? What 's that ? “ Having lived on the planet for over 40 years and for most of that time supported the New Zealand cricket team with all the highs and – mostly - lows that entailed , it means , well , I ca n't describe it really . “ Just to have the chance to go and see the boys play in the final is reward enough. ” Thompson watched the Black Caps ’ semi-final thriller via the CWC App , waking up at 3am and continuing to follow the action-packed finish from his London office . “ When the final update came up with " SIX ! " I leapt into the air , ” he said . “ I had to run into an empty meeting room to have a little power dance , before I composed myself and went and said commiserations to the comms director - she 's from Johannesburg. ” With New Zealand advancing to the final undefeated , powered by brilliant performances including skipper Brendon McCullum ’ s powerful hitting , Martin Guptill ’ s double ton and the fast-bowling of Trent Boult and Tim Southee , Thompson said he had a plethora of favourite moments from the World Cup to date . “ There are so many to choose from , but from a purely aesthetic viewpoint , Daniel Vettori leaping in the air like a Bolshoi dancer and plucking Samuel 's thick outside edge from the early evening Wellington air was pretty special. “ It is safe to say Thompson will have a new favourite moment , should the Black Caps raise the World Cup trophy into the air at the MCG on Sunday night . Will the @ BLACKCAPS remain unbeaten at # cwc15 and lift the ultimate prize come Sunday at the MCG ? # AUSvNZ pic.twitter.com/8i6bIByr7A
