28 March 201509 : 36 By R Kaushik , Melbourne Australia v New Zealand Preview , Final , Melbourne Michael Clarke ’ s impending ODI retirement has added subtext to what is already the biggest cricket match there is Share this article : There will be colour , there will be atmosphere , there will be emotion , there will be passion. And there will be one winner too. A five-time champion ? Or a first-time titlist ? And then , there were two. The two co-hosts , the two best teams in the tournament , the two that have extended impeccable organisational skills off the park to invigorating cricket on it . For the second time in as many editions , the final of cricket ’ s showpiece tournament will be a showdown between the co-hosts. India rode on home advantage in the final against Sri Lanka at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai four years back ; Australia will be hoping for pretty much the same against New Zealand , its little brother from across the Tasman , at the sprawling , intimidating cauldron that the Melbourne Cricket Ground is . An ICC Cricket World Cup final doesn ’ t need any subtext to lift the occasion ; even so , Michael Clarke chose to present one , announcing that he would be retiring from One-Day International cricket at the conclusion of Sunday ’ s ( March 29 ) skirmishes. His teammates will be desperate to send him off on the best possible note , but they know that for that , they will have to overcome the only team that has had the measure of Australia in this World Cup . Much has been made of the fact that this is New Zealand ’ s first visit to Australia in six years. That , having got used to playing on the smaller grounds back home for the last month and a half , the players will be caught out by the vastness of the MCG. That , this is New Zealand ’ s first World Cup final while Australia have been there and done that several times . None of this is untrue , actually. But there is more to this New Zealand side than bare , cold , clinical facts . For one thing , there is Brendon McCullum . In two years and a bit , he has done more to lift the image of New Zealand cricket than any illustrious predecessor. This team doesn ’ t have one standout superstar , no Richard Hadlee or Martin Crowe , but this is a team in the real sense. If there is a string of match-winners with the captain himself in the forefront , it is because the players have been empowered , given leadership roles , given the freedom to express themselves. McCullum and Mike Hesson , the understated coach who loves the background , have pulled off one coup after another. New Zealand ’ s glorious march to the final hasn ’ t come about because of a plethora of happy accidents . New Zealand has been pushed in two of its last three games , by Bangladesh in the final league fixture and by South Africa in the semifinal. On both occasions , the side had various individuals standing up and taking it past the finish line. Its tremendous strength lies in not being dependent on any one person more than the rest , though the team has benefited massively from the early strikes that have become such a Trent Boult trademark through the competition . The one other time New Zealand has been stretched to the limit was , unsurprisingly , when Australia went visiting for a Group A contest at Eden Park. Boult was virtually unplayable , his left-arm swing ripping the heart out of the Australian batting which rolled over for 151. Australia , though , had its own answer to Boult , in the form of Mitchell Starc . With 6 for 28 , Starc threatened to out-Boult Boult until Kane Williamson ’ s calmness carried New Zealand home , by the most miniscule of margins . Both teams will take heart from that result – New Zealand , because it blasted Australia out for a paltry total and Australia , because despite being bowled out so cheaply , it almost pulled off the game. In the larger context of Sunday ’ s game , that result will have little bearing. For feel-good and a dose of confidence , it ’ s a result of great import . New Zealand ’ s key to success has been the form of Boult and Tim Southee at the top of the bowling order. Between them , they have taken 36 wickets , when the ball has swung and when it hasn ’ t. If there is some swing on offer on Sunday , David Warner and Aaron Finch will have to watch out. Even if there isn ’ t , Boult and Southee bring other skills to the table. Then , there is Matt Henry , the tearaway who replaced Adam Milne in the squad and immediately fronted up for the semifinal , and Daniel Vettori , the ageless wonder who missed long stretches of international cricket after the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 though there is no indication at all that he briefly swapped playing with a coaching role at Royal Challengers Bangalore . McCullum and Martin Guptill are the tone-setters in the batting , the captain a dasher who knows no fear , who knows only one way to bat. His annihilation of Dale Steyn in the semifinal is one of the highlights of the World Cup. In Starc , Josh Hazlewood and Mitchell Johnson , he will confront a challenge of a different kind ; few men relish a challenge more than McCullum . Australia hasn ’ t been as commanding in its progress as New Zealand , but in the semifinal against India , it comprehensively reiterated its champion credentials. The early part of its campaign was about easing into the scheme of things , working out combinations to arrive at the best XI , waiting for key members to recover from injuries. By the time the league phase was done and dusted , things had fallen in place. The final piece of jigsaw came together with the inspired move to push Steven Smith up to No. 3 and keep Shane Watson down to No. 5. It lends a terrific balance to a versatile batting group – firepower at the top through Warner and Finch , stability in the middle through Smith and Clarke , and explosiveness thereafter in the form of Glenn Maxwell , James Faulkner and Brad Haddin . Watson is the joker in the pack , who can either steady the ship or cut loose depending on what is needed . This won ’ t be a home game for New Zealand , but the MCG won ’ t just be a sea of green and gold either. There will be colour , there will be atmosphere , there will be emotion , there will be passion. And there will be one winner too. A five-time champion ? Or a first-time titlist ? Not long now for the answer . Teams : Australia ( likely ) : David Warner , Aaron Finch , Steven Smith , Michael Clarke ( capt ) , Shane Watson , Glenn Maxwell , James Faulkner , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , Mitchell Johnson , Mitchell Starc , Josh Hazlewood . New Zealand : Brendon McCullum ( capt ) , Martin Guptill , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , Daniel Vettori , Tim Southee , Matt Henry , Trent Boult . Share this article :
