The 5 Key Match-Ups that will decide the # cwc15 Final The final CWC game will have mouth-watering clashes between star players Share this article : Will Daniel Vettori trump Steve Smith in the 2015 World Cup final ? The battle for one-day cricket ’ s greatest prize has come down to a show down between trans-Tasman rivals Australia and New Zealand . The tournament co-hosts played out a thrilled when they met in Auckland earlier in the tournament , with the Black Caps inching home by one wicket . The final , played on Australia ’ s home turf at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , could go either way and will rest on the performances of these players . — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 29 , 2015 Trent Boult has been a revelation for the Black Cups throughout the tournament. His opening combination with Tim Southee has struck fear into the hearts of the world ’ s best batsmen and they will hold the key to early wickets for New Zealand . Boult has taken 21 wickets at 15.76 , including 5-27 against Australia and 4-44 against West Indies , and kept a tidy economy rate of 4.41 . His 2-53 against South Africa in the semi-final included the key wickets of Hashim Amla and Quinton de Kock . He will be targeting the wicket of David Warner. With 300 runs at 50 , Warner has been Australia ’ s third-most productive batsman and was at his best in Perth against Afghanistan when he powered his way to 178 off 133 balls . Warner ’ s World Cup output has been mixed. Against England , he scored 22 , before being dismissed for 34 against New Zealand . He rounded out the group stage with nine against Sri Lanka and 21no against Scotland , before reaching 24 in the quarter-final. Warner was an early scalp for India in the semi-final , out for 12 . — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 29 , 2015 Having returned to the New Zealand ODI team after a break , Daniel Vettori has been brilliant for the Black Caps throughout the tournament . Backing up the opening bowling partnership of Tim Southee and Trent Boult , Vettori has claimed 15 wickets in seven matches at an economy rate of 3.98 . Vettori was exceptional at Eden Park against Australia , brought on by skipper Brendon McCullum to halt the flow of Australia ’ s top order and executing the job with aplomb while also snaring the key scalps of Shane Watson and Steve Smith . His best figures for the tournament were 4-18 off 10 over at an economy rate of 1.80 against Afghanistan . His spin will be put to the test in the final however , with Australia ’ s man of the moment Steve Smith known for his skill playing a turning ball . Smith ’ s semi-final century added another chapter to a brilliant summer and he leads the runs tally for Australia with 346 from six knocks at 57.66 . His World Cup has featured three fifties and a century , including a crucial 65 against Pakistan in the quarter-final before his 105 in the semi-final . — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 29 , 2015 The Black Caps skipper has stated he will not stray from his aggressive game plan , so expect fireworks when Brendon McCullum strides to the crease . He will go hard from ball one and if it comes off , it could be the match-winner. McCullum ’ s explosive 59 off 32 balls against South Africa made all the different to the Black Caps ’ run chase in the semi-final , while he also scored the fast World Cup fifty of all time earlier in the tournament . On that occasion , he took England opening bowlers James Anderson and Stuart Broad to task to reach fifty from 18 balls . McCullum has 328 runs for the tournament at 41 , including scores of 77 against England , 65 against Sri Lanka and 50 against Australia . One man hoping to capture his wicket will be Mitchell Starc. Sitting second on the World Cup wicket taker tally , Starc has been brilliant for Australia this tournament , with 20 wickets at an average of 10.20 while maintaining a miserly economy rate of 3.65 . He was devastating for Australia against New Zealand in Auckland when he took 6-28 , while against Scotland he collected 4-14 . Starc has been consistent through the tournament , picking up two wickets in each of his five other outings . — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 29 , 2015 Explosive with the bat and more than handy with the ball , Corey Anderson and Glenn Maxwell have a lot in common . Anderson has been a consistent performer for the Black Caps this tournament , starting with a man-of-the-match performance in New Zealand ’ s tournament opener . The allrounder is capable of scoring rapid runs – as evidenced by his 36-ball century last year – and he has scored 231 runs at 38.50 in seven innings this tournament. He has also collected 14 wickets at 16.21 with an economy rate of 6.45 . Arguably his best performance was in the semi-final when he scored 58 and took 3-72 , while he also picked up 3-18 against Scotland earlier in the tournament and scored 75 against Sri Lanka in the tournament opener . Meanwhile , Maxwell has also risen to the occasion this tournament . After a lean summer , he started the tournament with a bang , scoring 66 against England. He followed up with a quick-fire 88 against Afghanistan and followed up with his first ODI century in Australia ’ s clash with Sri Lanka . On that occasion , he came within a ball of posting the fastest-ever World Cup hundred . Maxwell currently has the third-highest strike rate in the tournament behind Brendon McCullum and Andre Russell , and is second the Australian runs tally with 324 at 64.8 .
