29 March 201515 : 55 ICC Cricket World Cup Final 2015 – the Grand Finale ! The atmosphere was electric as 93,013 people at the MCG watched Australia lift the World Cup for a record fifth time Share this article : At the MCG , the atmosphere was electric and a sea of yellow , gold and green , with more than a smattering of black and beige greeted the finalists as they walked into the ground to heady cheers . It plays host to the Australian Grand Prix and the Australian Open tennis Grand Slam tournament. Even the Olympics have come visiting. And with the Melbourne Cricket Ground – capacity of nearly 100,000 , atmosphere that can pack the emotions of millions – forming cricket ’ s grandest amphitheatre , the city of Melbourne is very much the spiritual home of sport in Australia . The final of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 couldn ’ t be set at a better location . Tickets at ‘ The G ’ for Sunday ’ s ( March 29 ) big match had been lapped up , extra flights from New Zealand to Melbourne had been sold out within hours and hotels were booked out. At the end , there were 93,013 people at the stadium watching Australia lift the ICC Cricket World Cup trophy for a record fifth time . That was an Australian record for a single day ’ s cricket in the country , surpassing the previous best of 91,112 set at the MCG during the Ashes series in 2013 . And it took the total number of people attending the 49 matches over 44 days across Australia and New Zealand to over a million – 1,016,421 to be precise . Those who couldn ’ t get a seat at The G cheered their team from the Official Fan Zone at Birrarung Marr , on the banks of the mighty Yarra River , where there was a big screen put up , with food and face painting adding to the festivities . At the MCG , the atmosphere was electric and a sea of yellow , gold and green , with more than a smattering of black and beige greeted the finalists as they walked into the ground to heady cheers . The MCG is crowd is electric ! What an atmosphere ! # cwc15 # AUSvNZ pic.twitter.com/WOCq9iquO3 And when Mitchell Starc gave the home side just the start they would have hoped for , getting danger-man Brendon McCullum out for a three-ball duck , the roar that engulfed the ground was like no other . The dignitaries , indeed some of cricket royalty , were in attendance . But , as the match went on , it was the yellow in the crowd whose chants grew louder. Mitchell Johnson ripped through the line-up while Player of the Match James Faulkner broke the New Zealand resistance with quick wickets . Chasing a target of 184 , David Warner kept the crowd entertained with his boundaries - there were seven in his 46-ball 45 - while Steven Smith was as fluent as ever . It was to be the final ODI for Michael Clarke , the Australia captain , and he was welcomed with a standing ovation. What a farewell it was ! Early boundaries gave way to silken smooth drives through the covers and effortless caresses over the straight field , as he eased to his fifty. When he was finally out for 74 , it was an emotional Clarke who walked back , raising his bat to acknowledge another standing ovation , perhaps just a little secure in the knowledge that the game was in the bag . The MCG is crowd is electric ! What an atmosphere ! # cwc15 # AUSvNZ pic.twitter.com/WOCq9iquO3 — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 29 , 2015 The players ’ reactions after the seven-wicket win showed just how much it meant to them to be lifting the trophy before an adoring home crowd. The celebrations will go on long into the night , and every plaudit that is sure to come their way will be well deserved . Share this article :
