The Six Moments that sealed the World Cup for Australia A look at the key moments that handed Australia a fifth World Cup trophy Share this article : Team Australia takes a lap of honour . It was the battle of trans-Tasman neighbours , the show down between a four-time tournament winner and a team playing in its maiden final . Many – including the more than 93,000 fans crammed into the Melbourne Cricket Ground - had hoped for a repeat of the classic between New Zealand and Australia played out in Auckland just one month earlier . Ultimately it was not to be , as the world ’ s top-ranked ODI team romped to a seven-wicket victory . Here are the key moments that handed Australia a fifth World Cup trophy : 1. McCullum ’ s early fall Having won the coin toss and elected to head out to the crease , there was always going to be a lot riding on the innings the Black Caps captain could put together . Fans of all allegiances at the MCG were eager to see Brendon McCullum in action , in the flesh , after watching his antics from afar throughout the tournament . The enormous crowd clapped Mitchell Starc down into the first delivery of the match to Martin Guptill and after the opener took a single off the second ball of the match , the fans had their first look at McCullum . True to form , the skipper continued his aggressive approach , playing and missing the first delivery as the ball came perilously close to his off-stump . McCullum continued his tactics next ball , charging at a delivery that also failed to find any part of his bat . Then , as Starc sent down a yorker for his third delivery , McCullum 's bat came down late and his off peg was rattled . Australia had the perfect start it desired and McCullum , who leads his team from the front and often sets the tone for his XI , was back in the sheds without scoring . It immediately placed more pressure on the Black Caps batsmen and slowed the run-rate to a pace unrecognisable to those familiar with New Zealand ’ s batting this tournament . 2. Elliot ’ s chance In the 20th over with New Zealand rebuilding after the losses of McCullum , Martin Guptill and Kane Williamson , another wicket would have been disastrous . Little wonder Black Caps fans around the MCG had their heads in their hands then when Elliot looked to sweep a delivery and missed the sharply turning ball . After what seemed an eternity of Australia appealing , the umpire raised his finger and New Zealand was 66-4 . Elliot sent it straight upstairs and while the review seemed to be one made from hope rather than certainty , it was a brilliant move as the ball-tracker revealed the ball was missing leg stump . The Kiwi fans roared and Elliot looked more relaxed for the chance , adopting a positive approach and putting together a crucial innings of 83 . 3. Australia ’ s powerful play New Zealand was 150-3 heading into the batting power play with two established batsmen in Elliot and Ross Taylor at the crease . The time was ripe to let loose , but that all changed in an instant. The first ball of the power play saw Taylor look to squeeze a full delivery from James Faulkner but only managing to clip the ball behind to Haddin , who took a brilliant low catch . The umpires had to send it upstairs to confirm the catch but when the verdict came through – out – the Australian fans rose as one . Then , two balls later , a full in-swinging delivery outsmarted Anderson and the deflected on to off stump , handing Faulkner a game-changing wicket maiden that ultimately saw him named player of the match . In a matter of three deliveries the game had completely swung in Australia ’ s favour . Then , one over later , Luke Ronchi was unable to get his feet moving and sent Michael Clarke a comfortable catch. In the space of eight balls , New Zealand had gone from 150-3 to 151-6 . Ultimately , the power play yielded 15 runs and three wickets and moved Australia significantly closer to grasping the World Cup trophy . 4. Elliot ’ s dismissal Grant Elliot was the lone true highlight from the New Zealand innings. Just days after his heroics in Auckland that sent the Black Caps into the final , he produced a hard-earned and positive 83 . He was the man standing between Australia and an easily attainable total and when he was removed in the 4nd over , again courtesy of player-of-the-match Faulkner , New Zealand was in deep trouble at 171-8 . It capped off a spell from Faulkner which showed exactly why he earned the nickname “ The Finisher " . 5. Black Caps strike If New Zealand hoped to repeat the low-scoring thriller between the teams which took place in Auckland , it needed to take wickets , fast . Needless to say , the Black Caps achieved the perfect start when Finch handed Trent Boult a simple caught-and-bowled chance in the second over and departed for a four-ball duck . The kiwi fans roared , while Australia was 2-1 , the spirits of the home crowd were dampened and New Zealand had a sniff . 6. Smith joins Joyce and Misbah Steve Smith has been the form man of Australia ’ s summer , scoring runs at will . He was the prize scalp the Black Caps were seeking and they came agonisingly close to snaring his wicket in the 15th over when the ball spun back between Smith ’ s legs and hit the stumps – but failing to dislodge the bails . Australia was 69-2 at the time and had the stumps been hit with enough force to dislodge the bails , the whole game could have turned . As it was , Smith survived a very close shave – similar to Ireland ’ s Ed Joyce and Pakistan ’ s Misbah-ul-Haq earlier in the tournament – and went on to finish unbeaten on 56 and guide Australia to a seven-wicket victory and a fifth World Cup . Share this article :
