06 April 201515 : 17 World Cup leaves New Zealand with a lasting legacy McCullum ’ s men were brave and bold with their performances and it is safe to say a new generation of children will have been inspired to follow in their paths Share this article : When the Black Caps flew back into the country after the final , they were given a heroes ’ welcome as fans waited to greet them at Auckland airport waving flags and holding signs . New Zealand returned to Auckland on Tuesday without the trophy it had hoped for , but the legacy left by the Black Caps ’ at the 2015 Cricket World Cup will ultimately outshine any piece of silverware . Everywhere the Black Caps travelled through the World Cup , full houses and fervent support followed as a nation of people who would generally reserve their sporting mania for their rugby heroes took the Black Caps to heart . From Hamilton to Hagley Oval , Napier to Nelson , New Zealand played in front of capacity crowds in full voice , while at public appearances , long lines stretched along city streets as fans patiently waited for a chance to get up close and personal with their heroes . When the Black Caps flew back into the country after the final , they were given a heroes ’ welcome as fans waited to greet them at Auckland airport waving flags and holding signs . Yet more fans attended a ‘ welcome home ’ function that evening , greeting their players with thunderous applause . Taking the stage to speak to the thousands who turned out to see the Black Caps , Tim Southee , Brendon McCullum , Trent Boult , Grant Elliott and coach Mike Hesson thanked fans for their support , describing the turnout as “ humbling ” , while Boult said the support was " pretty magical " . Brendon McCullum ’ s men were brave and bold with their performances through the World Cup and it is safe to say a new generation of children will have been inspired to follow in the paths of their heroes . While their cricket was attacking and aggressive , the Black Caps themselves were humble and their sportsmanship throughout the tournament won them plenty of fans around the world . This sense of humility was best captured in the moments after New Zealand ’ s thrilling semi-final victory , when the Black Caps consoled the devastated Proteas before fully revelling in their own success . The image of Grant Elliot bending down to help a despondent Dale Steyn to his feet was one that went around the world . It perfectly captured the spirit of cricket . From an emotional start to the tournament in Christchurch – hosting its first major sporting event since the devastating 2011 earthquakes – where New Zealand trumped Sri Lanka by 98 runs , through to a record-breaking victory over England and history-making semi-final win over South Africa , the Black Caps entertained and inspired . Late in the tournament , skipper Brendon McCullum noted his team ’ s goal of earning respect through more than just results . " I think we 've earned some respect around the world in the last 12 to 18 months through the way that we have , not just performed , but I think the way that we have carried ourselves as a team and the brand of cricket that we are trying to play , " he said . After the final , McCullum said he believed the Black Caps ’ achievements in the tournament would live on for a long time . “ I thought the way that we played throughout this tournament , the brand of cricket that we 've played , the way we 've entertained people and I guess left nothing out there in terms of the character and attitude on the field … it ’ s something that we 'll remember for the rest of our lives , ” he said . “ It would have been great to have got the silverware but it was n't meant to be , but I think what we were able to achieve in this tournament will last for a long time . “ The friendships we 've created , the experiences that we 've had and I guess the people that we 've been able to inspire throughout the tournament is something that we 're really proud of. ” When fans look back at the Black Caps at the 2015 World Cup , their unique combination of belief , gritty determination , positivity and humility both on and off the field will be as well remembered as their record-breaking and history making performances . Share this article :
