06 April 201518 : 29 CWC 15 IN Review : Top 10 matches From Shenwari 's steadfastness to Elliott 's heroics , the 2015 World Cup had several matches that held spectators in thrall Share this article : A total of 49 matches , of which one was abandoned , spread over 45 days in the recently concluded ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 culminated in Australia beating New Zealand by seven wickets in the final for a fifth trophy. Both co-hosts played exciting cricket , as did many other teams. Pakistan ’ s brand of play was captivating , Bangladesh ’ s fighting spirit was wonderful. India dominated the initial stages of its title defence , Sri Lanka delivered on most days , while Zimbabwe was perhaps the pluckiest , and Ireland continued to grow. Meanwhile , Afghanistan ’ s one-wicket victory over Scotland was one of the best matches of the tournament and earned a lot of new fans . Match 1 : Afghanistan v Sri Lanka That Sri Lanka managed beat Afghanistan by four wickets at the University Oval in Dunedin on February 22 was largely because of Mahela Jayawardene ’ s typically classy 100 and his fifth-wicket partnership of 126 with Angelo Mathews in a chase of 233. Mathews joined Jayawardene at 51 for 4 in 12 overs , and rebuilt steadily . Afghanistan , however did not give up. Mathews was run-out for 44 in the 41st over and Hamid Hassan had Jayawardene caught at third-man in the very next over for his third wicket. However , Sri Lanka ’ s experience won through , with Jeevan Mendis and Thisara Perera , who made an unbeaten 26-ball 47 , taking the side through in a tense chase with ten balls to spare . Match 2 : Ireland v UAE In a thrilling game that swung like a pendulum , Ireland held its nerve to eke out a two-wicket win over United Arab Emirates at the Brisbane Cricket Ground on February 25 . The first half of the match was lit up by Shaiman Anwar , who became his country ’ s first batsman to hit a World Cup ton. Coming in at No.6 , Anwar took calculated risks in his 83-ball 106 , and set a base from which the side finished on a strong 278 for 9 , Anwar putting on 107 for the seventh wicket in just 11.5 overs with Amjad Javed . Ireland started its chase cautiously , but two wickets in two overs by Mohammed Tauqir reduced it to 97 for 4 in 25.2 overs. However , Gary Wilson rescued his side with an attractive 69-ball 80. His partnerships of 74 and 72 for the fifth and sixth wickets with Andy Balbirnie and Kevin O ’ Brien respectively brought back Ireland into the game . O ’ Brien went on to make a 25-ball 50 as victory arrived with just four balls to spare , Ireland ’ s second win in as many matches . Match 3 : Afghanistan v Scotland One team was playing its first World Cup , and the other was making a comeback to the premier tournament after a break. And , true to expectations , the match lived up to its billing at the University Oval in Dunedin on February 26 . In the end , a defiant tenth-wicket pair of Hamid Hassan and Shapoor Zadran added 19 runs in nail-biting tension to hand Afghanistan its first win in a World Cup match . Chasing 211 , Afghanistan had been reduced to 97 for 7 , with Richie Berrington , who finished with figures of 4 for 40 , doing most of the damage. Samiullah Shenwari then rose to the occasion and rallied Dawlat Zadran and Hassan around him to get close to the target . Shenwari fell for 96 , just short of a hundred , having batted out 147 balls. But Hassan and Shapoor ensured that history was created with just three balls remaining . Earlier , Shapoor ( 4 for 38 ) and Dawlat ( 3 for 29 ) had bowled Scotland out for 210 in 50 overs , and the game got so close because very player was willing to fight it out till the end . Match 4 : New Zealand v Australia New Zealand was coasting in its chase of 152 through a fifth-wicket partnership of 52 between Kane Williamson and Corey Anderson at the Eden Park in Auckland on February 28 , when Glenn Maxwell removed Anderson. The game turned on its head after that and went on to become a classic . Mitchell Starc proved to be the protagonist with his full swinging deliveries. He had Luke Ronchi caught behind off a well-directed short delivery and bowled Adam Milne and Tim Southee to finish with figures of 6 for 28 , as New Zealand was left needing six runs with one wicket in hand . Trent Boult played out two deliveries from Starc and that brought Williamson back on strike against Pat Cummins , who had contributed to the drama by accounting for Daniel Vettori. Williamson hit a straight six off the first ball of the 24th over to calmly finish among the tensest matches in history . Earlier , Boult ’ s five-wicket haul had reduced Australia to 106 for 9 before Brad Haddin ’ s counter-attacking 43 extended the total to 151 . New Zealand ’ s chase got off to a flying start with Brendon McCullum making a 24-ball 50 . He was especially severe on Mitchell Johnson , but when he fell to Cummins little would he have known that the game would go through so many twists and turns before reaching a conclusion . Match 5 : Pakistan v Zimbabwe Pakistan and Zimbabwe met in a must-win game at the Brisbane Cricket Ground on March 1 and produced a good contest before Pakistan , driven by the heroics of Misbah-ul-Haq , Wahab Riaz and Mohammad Irfan , prevailed by 20 runs . Reduced to 4 for 2 in 3.5 overs after electing to bat first , Pakistan ground it out through Misbah ’ s 121-ball 73 that prevented further inroads. Misbah displayed immense patience in his partnerships with Haris Sohail and Umar Akmal , but it was Riaz , who made an unbeaten 54 in 46 balls – his maiden ODI fifty – from No.8 , who provided the impetus to the innings , as Pakistan finished on 235 for 7 . After that , Irfan struck twice to reduce Zimbabwe to 22 for 2 in the chase. Though it fought back through Brendan Taylor ’ s 50 and Sean Williams ’ s brisk 33 , Riaz sent back Taylor and that altered equations. Regular strikes meant Zimbabwe found itself 168 for 8 in quick time . With 68 needed in 62 balls , Zimbabwe ’ s hopes were raised through a ninth-wicket stand of 47 runs between Elton Chigumbura and Tinashe Panyangara . It could have gotten closer but Irfan , who finished with figures of 4 for 30 , bowled a tight over and Riaz ended things with his fourth wicket and was named Man of the Match . Match 6 : Ireland v Zimbabwe Brendan Taylor ’ s epic 91-ball 121 fell just short of getting Zimbabwe a victory over Ireland at the Bellerive Oval in Hobart on March 7 , but it made for supreme viewing . Chasing 332 , Zimbabwe rode on Taylor ’ s knock and his 149-run stand with Sean Williams set a solid foundation before Williams took over. He kept producing innovative strokes on his way to an attractive 83-ball 96 , but was caught on the boundary line just when it looked like he would snatch a win . Though Tawanda Mupariwa made a 7-ball 18 , Zimbabwe was bowled out for 326 in 49.3 overs to fall short by five runs . Zimbabwe needed 26 off the last two overs , but it went into the final over requiring only seven runs. But Alex Cusack needed just three balls to pick up two wickets and finish with figures of 4 for 32 as Ireland continued its memorable journey in the tournament . In the first half of the game , Ed Joyce ’ s 112 and Andy Balbirnie ’ s 97 had given Ireland a strong foundation , but three wickets each for Tendai Chatara and Williams meant that it had to be content with 331 for 8 . Match 7 : Pakistan v South Africa A sensational display of seam bowling by Mohammad Irfan , Rahat Ali and Wahab Riaz – all of whom picked up three wickets each – gave Pakistan a 29-run win over South Africa at the Eden Park in Auckland on March 7 , and a place in the quarter-finals . Along with the pacers , Sarfraz Ahmed , playing his first game of the tournament , made 49 while opening the innings and collected six catches behind the stump as Pakistan overshadowed AB de Villiers ’ s sparkling 77 in a rain-affected game . Sarfraz ’ s run-a-ball knock provided Pakistan stability at the top , and Misbah-ul-Haq ’ s fourth fifty in the tournament held the innings together. Pakistan would have aimed for a bigger total , but Dale Steyn ’ s three wickets and two each for Kyle Abbott and Morne Morkel meant it was bowled out for 222 in 46.4 overs . Chasing a revised target of 232 in 47 overs , South Africa looked in control during the second-wicket stand of 67 runs between Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis. But , four wickets for 10 runs brought Pakistan right back into the contest . Even though wickets kept falling , de Villiers hit seven fours and five sixes in his blistering knock and looked set to run away with the game. However , he edged a short delivery off Sohail Khan to be caught behind. He was the ninth wicket to fall , and two runs later South Africa was bowled out for 202 . Match 8 : Bangladesh v England Mahmudullah became the first batsman from Bangladesh to score a World Cup century , while Rubel Hossain returned figures of 4 for 53 as Bangladesh beat England by 15 runs at the Adelaide Oval on March 9 , and qualified for the knockout phase of a World Cup for the first time . After Bangladesh won the toss , Soumya Sarkar and Mahmudullah laid the batting foundation through a partnership of 86 for the third wicket to rescue the side from 8 for 2 . Sarkar fell to Chris Jordan for 40 and Shakib Al Hasan followed soon after , but Mahmudullah found another able ally in Mushfiqur Rahim . The duo added 141 runs at a healthy pace , with Rahim taking the lead in upping the scoring rate. Though England fought back well in the death overs , Bangladesh finished on a competitive 275 for 7 . England started steadily and Ian Bell led the way with a measured 63. But Bell became Hossain ’ s first victim , and three balls later Eoin Morgan was caught smartly by Shakib on the boundary line . Jos Buttler injected momentum in the chase with a 53-ball 65 and a 75-run stand with Chris Woakes . With the game slipping away , Mashrafe Mortaza , leading from the front despite an injured knee , brought Taskin Ahmed into the attack , and he sent Buttler back. Jordan was run out , and Hossain returned to pick up the last two wickets and bowl England out for 260 in 48.3 overs . Match 9 : India v Zimbabwe In his last international match , Brendan Taylor became the first Zimbabwean batsman to score back-to-back centuries in World Cups , but that was not enough for his team to beat India at the Eden Park in Auckland on March 15 . Taylor ’ s innings was filled with audacious strokes. But once he was dismissed for 138 , the Indian bowlers struck back to bowl Zimbabwe out for 287 in 48.5 overs . India ’ s chase got off to a shaky start and at 92 for 4 it was anybody ’ s game. That is when Suresh Raina and Mahendra Singh Dhoni got together to take charge of the situation. Having batted together for many years , the pair displayed clear understanding and attacked in a calculated manner . By the time Raina ( 110 not out ) reached his century and Dhoni ( 85 not out ) recorded his fifty , India had made a tricky chase look easy. The duo remained unconquered and added 196 runs in 26 overs to take India home with six wickets in hand and eight balls to spare . Match 10 : New Zealand v South Africa In what turned out to be the match of the tournament , Grant Elliott played the biggest knock of his life to help New Zealand beat South Africa by four wickets in the semi-final at the Eden Park in Auckland on March 24 . After South Africa had lost two early wickets , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw and AB de Villiers laid a solid foundation for a big score. However , a rain interruption meant the match was reduced to a 43-over affair. When play resumed , du Plessis fell for 82 , but David Miller teed off with an 18-ball 49 to take South Africa to 281 for 5 , with de Villiers making 65 . Set a revised target of 298 runs in 43 overs , New Zealand got off to a flying start through Brendon McCullum ’ s whirlwind 26-ball 59 . South Africa fought back through Imran Tahir and Morne Morkel , and with the score reading 149 for 4 , South Africa was a step ahead. But Elliott and Corey Anderson stitched a 103-run stand and brought the game back in balance. Morkel again provided the breakthrough as Anderson fell for 58 , and it boiled down to New Zealand needing 12 runs off the final over bowled by Dale Steyn . First , Daniel Vettori guided one to the third-man boundary and then Elliott kept calm to dispatch a length ball over the long-on fence as New Zealand created history , moving to its first World Cup final , with a ball to spare . The immediate aftermath of the match also provided the image of the tournament , with Elliott extending a hand to Steyn to lift his fallen rival up after a match that had sapped both sides . Share this article :
