13 January 201500 : 12 Ireland survives scare for three-wicket win Niall ’ s unbeaten 80 trumps Machan ’ s gritty 86 as Scotland falls to three-wicket loss , its second in Dubai tri-series Share this article : Niall O'Brien ’ s unbeaten 80 helped Ireland secure a three-wicket win against Scotland in its second One-Day International . Niall O'Brien ’ s unbeaten 80 and John Mooney ’ s all-round effort helped Ireland survive some batting wobbles to secure a three-wicket win against Scotland in its second One-Day International of the Dubai triangular series on Monday ( January 12 ) . With two wins in as many matches , Ireland now leads the points table , while Scotland fell to its second consecutive loss , Matt Machan ’ s gritty 86 going in vain . Ireland did not get off to the strongest of starts after its bowlers restricted Scotland to 216 for 9. The team lost William Porterfield , the opener , and Ed Joyce even before the total reached double figures. While Iain Wardlaw sent Porterfield back in the second ball of the innings , Joyce , who scored a half-century against Afghanistan in the previous game , failed to replicate his heroics as he was bowled by Rob Taylor . Paul Stirling then took the attack to Scotland , hitting three fours and a six in his 21-ball 28. Stirling ’ s wicket in the seventh over brought the score to 38 for 3 before a steady 42-run partnership between Gary Wilson and Niall put the chase on track again . Then , however , Ireland made a complete hash of what should have been a comfortable run chase. Michael Leask accounted for Wilson , while Kevin O ’ Brien was caught behind off Richie Berrington. Ireland was struggling at 100 for 5 in 22.1 overs . But Scotland ’ s low score meant that Ireland had time on its side , and Niall and Andy Balbirnie focussed on rotating the strike , while hitting the occasional boundary. After Balbirnie ( 20 ) was trapped lbw by Majid Haq , Niall and John Mooney ( 36 off 45 balls ) collaborated in a 61-run stand to quell any hopes Scotland might have had and the target was overhauled with 21 balls to spare . Earlier , Scotland , having been inserted , got off to a less than ideal start with Calum MacLeod and Kyle Coetzer , the openers , dismissed inside three overs with just 11 runs on the board. Craig Young , the right-arm pacer , first bowled MacLeod for nought in the opening over , before having Coetzer caught in the slips soon after . Mooney struck in the next over , when Hamish Gardiner went for a big shot only to edge it to Gary Wilson , leaving Scotland stuttering at 17 for 3 in six overs . Preston Mommsen , the Scotland captain , and Machan , attempted a brief resurrection with a 27-run fourth-wicket stand , before Young sent Mommsen back for 16. Berrington ( 28 ) and Machan then consolidated with a patient 65-run stand before Berrington was dismissed against the run of play . The untimely run-out of Mathew Cross saw Ireland assume a position of total command. However , Machan held the innings together , scoring 86 off 120 balls. In trying to up the scoring rate , he fell to Mooney in the 47th over as Scotland crawled to a below-par total . Young was the pick of the Scotland bowlers , returning 3 for 27 , while Mooney and Cusack took two wickets each . The fourth match of the tournament pits Scotland and Afghanistan against each other on Wednesday . Points table
