21 January 201522 : 53 Tahir , Philander star in South Africa win Hosts overhaul the 123-run target in 24.4 overs to take an unassailable 3-0 lead in the five-match series Share this article : Vernon Philander picked up 3 for 27 helping South Africa restrict West Indies to 122 all out . Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis complemented a superb effort by the South Africa bowlers to help their team to a series-clinching nine-wicket win over West Indies in the third One-Day International at Buffalo Park in East London on Wednesday ( January 21 ) . South Africa bowled West Indies out for a paltry 122 after being asked to field by Jason Holder . Amla , who scored 66 in the first game and a career-high 153 in the second , brought up his 27th ODI half-century to guide South Africa to 124 for 1 from 24.4 overs with the threat of rain looming large. With the win , South Africa took an unassailable 3-0 lead in the five-match series . Amla ’ s unbeaten 61 came from 63 balls , with nine hits to the fence , and du Plessis was just as effective on his way to an unbeaten 51 after South Africa lost Rilee Rossouw early , but it really the bowlers who set things up for South Africa . Imran Tahir picked up four wickets , Vernon Philander had three , and Steyn bagged a couple as West Indies was knocked out of the game soon after it started . The up-and-down nature of the pitch certainly contributed to the collapse , but what made matters worse for the visitors early on was that Philander , later named Man of the Match for his 3 for 27 from eight overs , and Steyn hit the line outside off stump relentlessly and forced them to play everything . Dwayne Smith was the first to go as he edged a good-length delivery from Philander through to AB de Villiers behind the stumps and Chris Gayle , who looked like he was going to stick around , edged an attempted drive to an outswinger from Philander to leave West Indies tottering at 6 for 2 . Narsingh Deonarine , who replaced Leon Johnson for the game , was in good nick as he handled Philander and Morne Morkel with ease. But he lost his composure as he tried to cut a shortish delivery from Steyn. Amla made a hash of the straightforward chance at first slip , but de Villiers was quick to pouch the rebound. That became Steyn ’ s 150th wicket in what was his 96th ODI. He made it 151 soon after when Denesh Ramdin dragged a short delivery from him on to the stumps . West Indies needed Marlon Samuels to hang around and keep the runs coming , and his cover drive off Philander just after walking in showed how confident he was. But that was only till Tahir drew him into a lofted drive after he had scored 26 , the highest of the innings . West Indies was staring down the barrel at that stage , and though a 31-run partnership between Andre Russell and Jonathan Carter raised its hopes , de Villiers gave Steyn a break and brought Morkel on and the ploy worked almost immediately . Russell , who was dropped by Steyn earlier , tried to pull a length ball and lost his leg stump. The very next over , Tahir got Carter out lbw after a review . The review was once again in the picture when Johan Cloete turned down an lbw shout against Carlos Brathwaite from Tahir , replays suggesting that the googly was indeed going on to hit leg stump . Jerome Taylor was the next to go as he was trapped in front by Philander , before Holder and Sulieman Benn got together with the total at 96 for 9. The two swung their bats around for 26 runs , but that was only good enough to take West Indies to 122 . As the West Indies walked out to defend the meek total , overcast conditions did threaten to play spoilsport but , fortunately for outh Africans , the weather held on long enough . To see the full scorecard of the match between South Africa and West Indies in East London. please click here . Share this article :
