South Africa makes it 4-1 after Amla-Rossouw show Home side gets 131-run win after the West Indies folds for 230 while chasing 362 Share this article : Rossouw smashed 132 off 98 to help South Africa post 361 for 5 from the 42 overs after rain delayed the start of the match . Quick-fire centuries from Rilee Rossouw and Hashim Amla helped South Africa post a convincing 131-run win over the West Indies in the fifth and final One-Day International at SuperSport Park in Centurion on Wednesday ( January 28 ) . South Africa had already sealed the series 3-1 and the win extended the scoreline to 4-1 . Amla scored 133 off 105 balls and Rossouw smashed 132 off 98 to help South Africa post 361 for 5 from the 42 overs after rain delayed the start of the match . It then shot down the West Indies for 230 in 37.4 overs. Wayne Parnell was the pick of the bowlers for the home side , ending with figures of 4 for 42 with all his wickets coming in space of ten balls . Amla and Rossouw made a cautious start , but soon got into their groove , adding 247 runs for the third wicket. They equalled their previous record set in the second match of the series in Johannesburg , when both of them hit hundreds before AB de Villiers scored a record-breaking 31-ball ton . South Africa had decided to rest Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel , Vernon Philander , Imran Tahir and de Villiers for the last ODI. That meant Quinton de Kock , who was out with injury , returned to the side ; however , he failed to make an impact and was dismissed by Jason Holder for four . Faf du Plessis got a start but failed to carry on. When he was dismissed by Andre Russell in the tenth over for 16 , the scorecard read 59 for 2. As the batsmen struggled , it appeared Jason Holder ’ s decision to send South Africa in was a wise one , especially since the pitch had spent most of the day under covers with steady rain delaying the start by two and a half hours . After that second wicket , however , it was all Amla and Rossouw. With this knock that included 11 fours and six sixes , Amla took his tally for the series to 413 at a stunning average of 206.50 and emerged as the highest run-getter of the series . Rossouw ended with 271 runs and was the second-highest run-getter of the series. He took 60 balls to reach his half-century , but then cut loose and raced to his century in the next 23 balls before being caught on the boundary off Andre Russell after hitting nine fours and eight sixes . Though Russell took three wickets , he conceded 85 runs in eight overs , including 28 in an over during the batting powerplay . To make matters worse for the West Indies , Kyle Abbott dismissed Chris Gayle caught behind on the very first ball of the innings. Gayle slashed a very wide delivery , initially called a wide by Ravi Sundaram , the umpire , before reviews confirmed that the left-hander had actually edged the ball . Narsingh Deonarine ( 43 ) and Dwayne Smith ( 31 ) , who came in to bat at No. 3 in this match , added 77 runs for the second wicket the West Indies. Marlon Samuels and Denesh Ramdin too got into a handy 91-run stand for the fourth wicket before Parnell sparked a collapse and sealed a win for the hosts . Both teams will play each other in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 at the Sydney Cricket Ground on February 27 . To see the full scorecard of the match between South Africa and West Indies , please click here . Share this article :
