UAE Names Final 15-Man Squad for ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Mohammed Tauqir to captain the side in Australia and New Zealand Share this article : Khurram Khan was named vice-captain of UAE 's 15-man squad . UAE , Abu Dhabi , Saturday January 10th , 2015 : Emirates Cricket Board ( ECB ) has today announced the 15-man team that will represent the UAE at the 2015 Cricket World Cup ( CWC ) , to be played in New Zealand and Australia starting next month . The ECB has also announced that the team will be captained by UAE National Mohammed Tauqir , with Khurram Khan as Vice Captain . Tauqir has a decade-long history with UAE Cricket at both domestic and international levels and has been a previous captain of the national team. The 43-year old has represented the UAE in 50 international matches , including 5 ODI ’ s ; against Afghanistan ( 1 ) , Bangladesh ( 1 ) , India ( 1 ) and Sri Lanka ( 2 ) . On his ODI debut , in the 2004 Asia Cup against India ( at Rangiri Dambulla International Stadium ) he scored a strong 55 runs off 73 balls ( SR 75.34 ) , and took 1 wicket for 46 runs from his allotted 10-overs . Considered a solid middle-order batsman and a right-arm offspinner , Tauqir has been an outstanding performer in the UAE ’ s World Cup preparations , showing positive development in both skill and fitness . The ECB sees Tauqir ’ s appointment as a great opportunity to promote and showcase Emirati leadership and playing skills on the international sporting stage , and at the same time aims to raise the profile of the sport within the Emirati community. The decision also intends to highlight that indigenous players are integral to the future sustainability of the sport . Tauqir ’ s Captaincy will be bolstered by having Khurram Khan as Vice Captain , whose experience and commitment to the game , and to the development of the sport in the UAE , is recognised and applauded by the Emirates Cricket Board ’ s members . UAE is placed in Pool B and will kick start its campaign against Zimbabwe in Nelson . UAE Squad for ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Mohammed Tauqir ( Captain )
