Gilchrist describes de Villiers as “ the most valuable cricketer on the planet ” Australia legend reflects on his time at the ICC Cricket World Cups Share this article : Australia ’ s Adam Gilchrist celebrates after completing his century during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 final against Sri Lanka at Bridgetown . With exactly a month to go before the first ball is bowled in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 and all the experts sharing their views on players to watch-out for , Australia ’ s three-time ICC Cricket World Cup winner Adam Gilchrist has branded South Africa captain AB de Villiers as the “ most valuable cricketer on the planet ” . In an exclusive TV interviews with the ICC , which is available for free download and editorial use on the Online Media Zone , the ICC Cricket Hall of Famer also shared his excitement at the event being staged by Australia and New Zealand for the first time in 23 years . In a candid interview , Gilchrist , who is sixth in the list of leading run-getters in the history of the World Cup and with 52 dismissals is the most successful wicketkeeper , also reflected on the ICC Cricket World Cup 1999 , 2003 and 2007 , which Australia won in three different conditions and against three different oppositions . But heaping praise on de Villiers , Gilchrist said : “ De Villiers is the most valuable cricketer on the planet. His versatility is extraordinary and he is amazing to watch . “ He ’ s so inventive … he can play a touch game or a power game. Then , he can also keep wickets. He ’ s also one of the best fielders in the world and recently has taken some wickets when he had a bowl. And he leads his team very well , so , I think he ’ s the most valuable cricketer around. ” De Villiers will feature in his third ICC Cricket World Cup. In 175 ODIs to date , the 30-year-old has scored 7,210 runs with 18 centuries and 42 half-centuries. He has captained South Africa in 56 ODIs , winning 31 matches. Behind the stumps , he has accounted for 88 batsmen . Closer to home , Gilchrist also tipped Australia ’ s Mitchell Marsh to make a big impact in the tournament alongside David Warner , while he believed that India ’ s MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli would have a big say in the destination of the prestigious trophy . Sharing the excitement about the event to be played between 14 February and 29 March , Gilchrist said : “ I think next month ’ s tournament is going to be really exciting. Conditions , particularly in Australia , are going to be conducive to high scores , entertaining cricket and flamboyant play . “ In New Zealand , there are more result-based wickets on offer , as there ’ s normally a bit in them for the bowlers. The batsmen might struggle a bit more over there but I think we ’ re going to see an exciting and a close tournament . Reflecting on his time at the ICC Cricket World Cup , which saw Australia complete a hat-trick of titles , Gilchrist said : “ They were all very different ( tournaments ) . In 1999 ( in England ) , we just scraped through. We lost two of our first three games and one slip-up and we knew we were out of the tournament. So , we were on a knife ’ s edge , including the famous tied semi-final ( against South Africa ) . It was close . “ In 2003 ( in South Africa ) , again we were a little bit shaky early on , but we got it right. We had a few close calls where a number of games went right down to the wire and it took some flashes of individual brilliance to get us over the line. We ended up winning undefeated , but it was a lot closer than that . “ In 2007 ( in the West Indies ) , we just dominated. Guys like Glenn McGrath and Matthew Hayden were taking opponents out of play , so that was probably the ‘ cruisier ’ tournament. Not without hard work or commitment , but certainly there was a bit more of a relaxed view certainly compared to the other two . “ All three tournaments were very individual in their own right , but they were all wonderful memories. ” Share this article :
