22 January 201502 : 20 ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Warm Up Matches A series of warm up matches in the second week of February will provide the first clues to form for many of the teams taking part in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 – and provide a chance for fans away from the tournament venues to see some of the stars of the game in action . Share this article : World Cup warm up matches start in the second week of February A total of 14 warm-up matches will be played from 8 to 13 February in Adelaide , Christchurch , Melbourne and Sydney. Venues include Adelaide Oval , Hagley Oval in Christchurch , the Sydney Cricket Ground and the Melbourne Cricket Ground , all of which are hosting matches in the tournament proper . Warm up matches will also be played at the following non-tournament venues : Blacktown ’ s International Sports Park in Sydney ’ s western suburbs Junction Oval in Melbourne Lincoln Oval outside Christchurch . The public will be welcome to attend warm up matches which will be ticketed but free of charge. Tickets can be obtained by following the links below and should be printed at home and brought to the ground . Fans are advised that warm up matches are what the name implies ; they are not official ODIs but are designed to allow teams the chance to prepare for the World Cup. They operate under slightly different rules with up to 15 players able to be used throughout the game. The range of activities and spectator experiences in and around warm up venues will in most cases be less than what is provided during the World Cup itself . You can select a maximum of eight ( 8 ) tickets per person per warm up match. No group bookings are available for warm up matches . Warm up tickets are only available online and delivered as a Print at Home email PDF ticket . Please be aware not all seating areas or gates within the venue will be operating or available for warm up matches and ticket holders will be guided to available seating areas by venue staff . Tickets are subject to availability. Ticket Terms and Conditions and purchase conditions apply . The schedule of warm-up matches is ( tickets available from 12pm AEST/2pm NZT on 22 January ) : 8 February : Australia v India , 2pm , Adelaide Oval. GET TICKETS 9 February : South Africa v Sri Lanka , 11am , Hagley Oval. GET TICKETS 9 February : New Zealand v Zimbabwe , 11am Lincoln Oval. GET TICKETS 9 February : England v West Indies , 2.30pm Sydney Cricket Ground. GET TICKETS 9 February : Pakistan v Bangladesh , 2.30pm Blacktown. GET TICKETS 10 February : India v Afghanistan , 2pm , Adelaide Oval. GET TICKETS 10 February : Ireland v Scotland , 2.30pm , Blacktown. GET TICKETS 11 February : South Africa v New Zealand , 11am , Hagley Oval. GET TICKETS 11 February : Sri Lanka v Zimbabwe , 11am , Lincoln Oval. GET TICKETS 11 February : Australia v United Arab Emirates , 2.30pm , MCG. GET TICKETS 11 February : England v Pakistan , 2.30pm , SCG. GET TICKETS 12 February : West Indies v Scotland , 9.30am , SCG. GET TICKETS 12 February : Bangladesh v Ireland , 9.30am , Blacktown. GET TICKETS 13 February : Afghanistan v United Arab Emirates , 10am , Junction Oval. GET TICKETS Make sure you do n't miss out on the Cricket World Cup action when the Tournament starts on 14 February , CLICK HERE for ticketing information . Share this article :
