28 January 201512 : 45 ICC launches official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App Anybody can get closer than ever before to the event by downloading the new App for free Share this article : Available to download now across Android and Apple platforms on both Mobile and Tablet devices The ICC , in partnership with Reliance Communications , today launches the official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 app - now available for free download from the App Store and Google Play. The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , the 11th edition of cricket 's flagship event , gets underway on 14th February and will see 14 of the best teams in the world compete for cricket ’ s top prize . The 2015 edition of the ICC Cricket World Cup promises to be the biggest and best in the event 's history. Whether fans are on the ground in Australia and New Zealand or anywhere around the world , anybody can get closer than ever before to the event by downloading the new ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App for free direct to their smartphone or tablet . The App will have a number of unique features and has been designed to enhance the user experience and enjoyment of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. It will keep fans thrilled with its innovatively designed features and allow everyone to keep themselves up-to-date with all the latest news during the tournament – along with experiencing the best of ICC ’ s digital activations for the World Cup. So fans can play the Official ICC Cricket World Cup Fantasy League , Pick their Greatest All-Time World Cup XI , Play the Official ICC Cricket World Cup Quiz or look back over the 100 Greatest World Cup Moments Countdown all on their smartphone or tablet . The App will provide access to the new ICC Match Centre that will keep fans abreast of the live action with the fastest source of live scores and ball-by-ball commentary. It will also contain video highlights and the most important moments of the match that will ensure that those who haven ’ t caught the action live on television , will not miss out on anything. The video highlights will include all the dismissals , the magic moments , the big innings , the best dismissals and the post-match press conferences . " Fans will also be given a chance to pledge their support for their favourite ICC Cricket World Cup team within the app. " When they choose their side , they will be notified of the latest news and updates surrounding their team throughout the tournament. In addition , the App will list all the relevant tournament statistics , so that scores , the top of the charts in run-scorers and wicket-takers , are all within easy reach . The App will also have details of all the fixtures and results. Viewers can read the reports that will be carried for every match and catch all the breaking news and any exclusive interviews that are conducted during the course of the tournament. There will also be interactive features of the app , where viewers can express their opinions through various polls that will sync with in-broadcast and get involved via the Social Hub section . BREAKING : ICC Launch Official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App available for FREE Download Now http : //t.co/g7WkKhHQi8 pic.twitter.com/obOYONyy3T — ICC ( @ ICC ) January 28 , 2015 The ICC will also have several former legends of the sport contribute exclusive columns that will offer their perspective on the spectacle that will be the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , all of which can be accessed through the App . The App is designed so intuitively for your smartphone and tablet , automatically reacting to your screen size to give the best user experience and will ensure that for all cricket fans , the tournament never sleeps . The Official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App is available free from the App Store on iPhone , iPad or iPod touch or here . The Official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App is available free from the Google Play Store on All Android Devices or here . Share this article :
