06 February 201509 : 11 World Cup Warm-Up Matches a Hit But Do n't Come if You Have n't Got a Ticket Although the warm-up matches are free to attend , everyone must have a ticket to gain entry Share this article : A total of 14 warm-up matches will be played from 8 to 13 February in Adelaide , Christchurch , Melbourne and Sydney . NO TICKETS LEFT FOR AUSTRALIA V INDIA IN ADELAIDE OR BANGLADESH V PAKISTAN IN BLACKTOWN The enormous public interest in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 has extended to the warm-up matches with big crowds expected at some of these fixtures from this weekend . Organisers are reminding fans that although the warm-up matches are free to attend , everyone must have a ticket to gain entry. Tickets for some warm up matches are still available for download from the tournament website www.cricketworldcup.com There are no tickets left for Australia v India at Adelaide Oval on Sunday or for Pakistan v Bangladesh at Blacktown International Sportspark in Sydney. Fans who turn up without tickets will not be admitted . At Adelaide Oval only , South Australian Cricket Association ( SACA ) members can gain entry to the members ’ areas for warm up matches with their SACA membership ID up to the point where seats in this area are filled . A total of 14 warm-up matches will be played from 8 to 13 February in Adelaide , Christchurch , Melbourne and Sydney . Venues include Adelaide Oval , Hagley Oval in Christchurch , the Sydney Cricket Ground and the Melbourne Cricket Ground , all of which are hostinmatches in the tournament proper . Warm-up matches will also be played at non-tournament venues : · Blacktown ’ s International Sports Park in Sydney ’ s western suburbs · Junction Oval in Melbourne · Bert Sutcliffe Oval outside Christchurch . Fans are reminded that warm-up matches are what the name implies ; they are not official ODIs but are designed to allow teams the chance to prepare for the tournament proper. They operate under slightly different rules with up to 15 players able to be used throughout the game. The range of activities and spectator experiences in and around warm-up venues will in most cases be less than what is provided during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 itself . The schedule of warm-up matches is : DATE
