Event Technical Committee approves replacement in Pakistan ’ s squad for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Nasir Jamshed will replace Mohammad Hafeez who is suffering from a calf injury Share this article : Nasir Jamshed has played 45 ODIs for Pakistan in which he has scored 1,413 runs with three centuries and eight half-centuries . The ICC has confirmed that the Event Technical Committee of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 has approved Nasir Jamshed as a replacement player for Mohammad Hafeez in Pakistan ’ s squad for the tournament , which starts on 14 February . Hafeez is suffering from a calf injury , which he picked up while batting in the second ODI against New Zealand in Napier on 3 February . Nasir , the 25-year-old left-handed opener , has played 45 ODIs for Pakistan in which he has scored 1,413 runs with three centuries and eight half-centuries. His last ODI was against New Zealand in Abu Dhabi in December 2014 . Any injury or illness-based replacement requires a written submission to the Event Technical Committee along with a diagnosis from a medical practitioner as to the extent of the injury or illness. Once replaced , a player may not return to the squad save as an approved subsequent replacement for another injured or ill player . Related Articles PAKISTAN ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 2015 TOURNAMENT PREVIEW & GUIDE The Event Technical Committee of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 is Geoff Allardice ( ICC General Manager – Cricket , Chairman ) , Campbell Jamieson ( ICC General Manager – Commercial ) , John Harnden ( Chief Executive , CWC 2015 LOC ) , Gavin Larsen ( Cricket Operations Manager , New Zealand ) , Russel Arnold and Sanjay Manjrekar ( independent nominees ) . Pakistan is in Pool B of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 along with defending champion India , former winner the West Indies , African rivals South Africa and Zimbabwe , and qualifiers Ireland and United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) . Pakistan will play its opening match against India at the Adelaide Oval on 15 February . Share this article :
