12 February 201513 : 41 ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 to take cricket into next generation of digital coverage ICC puts fans first with a plethora of ground-breaking digital innovations ; fastest scores and in-match clips available at www.icc-cricket.com Share this article : On computer , tablet or their smartphone , everyone can get closer to the Cricket World Cup than ever before The International Cricket Council today announced a series of exciting and innovative digital activations for cricket ’ s flagship event , the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , which will give fans some unique opportunities to engage with the event , the legends of the game and the players . At the core of all these activations is the rebranded official website www.icc-cricket.com . The website , which is fully responsive in design , adapting to all devices , includes features like the brand new ICC CWC 2015 Match Centre . The Match Centre , powered by SAP ’ s HANA and Analytics tool , will have the fastest live scores available anywhere online and will also provide real time statistics and insights using live and historical ICC Cricket World Cup data to deliver in-depth match analysis to fans around the world. The Match Centre will also be available on the official tournament app . A newly launched video section will contain short-form highlights of each match , including all action latest match clips - the dismissals , the magic moments , the best innings and the biggest hits , all available within a matter of minutes of the action happening on the pitch . The website will also feature previews , reviews , daily match reports , special features and regular columns from ICC Cricket World Cup legends like Andy Bichel , Paul Collingwood , Inzamam-ul-Haq , Muttiah Muralidaran , Stephen Fleming , Sir Vivian Richards , Graeme Smith and many more . Other exclusive features on the official website are the ‘ 100 Greatest World Cup Moments ’ , an audio-visual countdown from 100 days to go to the ICC CWC 2015 , powered by LG , where fans get to vote on their favourite ‘ Greatest World Cup Moment ’ , the Greatest XI , where fans get to pick their ‘ Greatest World Cup XI ’ and share it with their friends via social media and the Cricket World Cup Quiz . Another hugely popular digital offering is the official ICC CWC 2015 Fantasy League , which already has more than 150,000 registered managers . For those on the go , the official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App , launched in partnership with Reliance Communications , offers live scores , in-match clips , exclusive videos , fixtures , real time statistics and analysis and much more. The app , which is currently rated the No.1 sports app in close to 20 countries , is available for free download on the App Store ( iOS ) and Google Play ( Android ) store . Further strengthening its video offering , ICC will be providing fans with a unique behind-the-scenes insight into the second biggest single sports event in the world via the # CWCDaily , a 5-minute daily video show capturing all the news , clips and off-the-field excitement. This will be available to fans via the various ICC digital and social media platforms . To complement the digital activations , the ICC has lined up exciting tie-ups with key social media platforms to launch some world-first innovations across its Twitter , Google + , Facebook , Instagram , and YouTube channels. These innovations will be announced in due course , ahead of the first match of the tournament . ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 to take cricket into next generation of digital coverage http : //t.co/cyWssTZOxV # cwc15 pic.twitter.com/SR3cAVjYLP — ICC ( @ ICC ) February 12 , 2015 About ICC CWC 2015 digital activations 100 Greatest World Cup Moments : Counting down from 100 days to go to # cwc15 , icc-cricket.com gives fans an opportunity to vote on the Greatest CWC moment ever. Powered by LG , fans are presented with one moment in each of the 100 days leading up the ICC CWC 2015. The top 10 most popular moments as voted by the fans will be announced on 14 February to coincide with the opening matches of the tournament. Fans will then get a chance to vote on their Greatest ever World Cup Moment with the Greatest World Cup Moment being announced on 2 March . Greatest XI : Fans have been given an opportunity to select and share via social media their Greatest World Cup XI from a short-list of the greatest Cricket World Cup players from 1975 to 2011. Cricketing legends have also joined and selected their greatest World Cup teams , Over half a million sides have been selected by fans across the world with tens of thousands sharing their teams using the hashtag , # CWCGreatestXI . Quiz : In a true test of a fan ’ s Cricket World Cup knowledge , the ICC Cricket World Cup quiz has a comprehensive selection of over 1,100 trivia questions which fans are asked to answer in either a Super Over ( 6 questions ) or a Powerplay ( five overs of 6 questions ) mode . Fantasy League : Fans from across the world have been flocking to select their CWC Fantasy line-up and over 150,000 fantasy teams have already been registered. With 210 # cwc15 players to select from , fans are given 1,000,000 credits to select their team of XI. The game makes the # cwc15 more interactive than ever , with fans given an exclusive opportunity to play selectors . By earning points based on the performance of their players , fans will be able to compare their managerial skills with other managers from around the world in country-specific as well as global leagues. Additionally , fans can also register their own private league with their friends to determine who has the best # CWCFantasy skills . App : The Official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App aims to bring fans closer to the action in an unprecedented manner , whether they are on the ground in Australia and New Zealand or anywhere around the world. For the first time , there will be access to live scores , in-match clips , fixtures , exclusive videos , real-time statistical updates and more – all in the palm of their hand. This app which is available for free download on the App Store or Google Play store , is already nearing half a million downloads . Official ICC and ICC CWC 2015 digital and social channels
