20 February 201515 : 30 Why New Zealand could well be the World Cup Favourites Co-hosts produce the performance of the tournament so far to brush aside England in less than 46 overs of dominance in Wellington Share this article : After the attacking performance against England in Wellington , a move to tournament favourite might be one New Zealand is comfortable with . Historically , New Zealand has been pretty accustomed to its role as underdog at international cricket tournaments . But after the Black Caps ’ dominant performances against Sri Lanka , Scotland and most recently , England , there ’ s no place to hide . Judging by the positive and attacking way Brendon McCullum ’ s boys decimated England at Wellington on Friday , a move to tournament favouritism might be one they are comfortable with . Here ’ s why New Zealand could well deserve to be called the World Cup favourite : Bowling The World Cup is just three matches old for New Zealand but already the partnership of Trent Boult and Tim Southee has signalled itself as a serious rival to South Africa and Australia when it comes to the title of best opening attack in ODI cricket . While it took 12 overs at Hagley Oval against Sri Lanka for New Zealand to make a breakthrough – which came thanks to the spin of Daniel Vettori – the Black Caps ’ seamers have been the story of the second and third matches . When Boult tore through Scotland , leaving the Associate team shell-shocked at 4-12 , the talk started about just how damaging New Zealand ’ s attack could be during the tournament . But given Scotland ’ s lower-ranked status , it was almost possible to underrate the quicks ’ fiery performance at Dunedin . There was no questioning their bowling at Wellington. New Zealand – and in particular Southee – was sent in to bat on a pitch that looked set for runs . Southee bowled with control , was the only bowler to find any real swing and his seven wickets were well deserved. His 7-33 was not only his best ODI performance , it was New Zealand ’ s best . Add in the serious pace of Adam Milne , who is the fastest bowler at the World Cup to date , the expert spin of veteran Daniel Vettori , and Corey Anderson ’ s considerable talent , and McCullum has plenty of options up his sleeve on any wicket . Never mind quick Mitchell McClenaghan and Kyle Mills waiting in the wings . Brendon McCullum The Black Caps skipper is at the peak of his powers and his leadership is playing a huge role in New Zealand ’ s success . Not only is he leading the way with the bat – his World Cup record fifty just the latest highlight in his purple patch of form – his decision making in the field is positive and clever . A ruthless captain , McCullum attacked relentlessly against Sri Lanka , Scotland and England. Against England , he started with three slips , finished with four and his bowling changes were inspired , particularly when bringing Southee and Boult back to clean up the England tail . Batting Plenty has already been said about McCullum ’ s record breaking innings and plenty more will be said. It is worth noting that the record he broke for fastest World Cup fifty was actually his own record , set against Canada in 2007 . Thanks to New Zealand ’ s bowling , their batsmen were not left with much of a job to do on Friday and McCullum more than took care of it . But had McCullum failed , there would have been no end of in-form Black Caps stepping up. Kane Williamson ’ s form over the last 12 months has been outstanding. Since January 2014 he has scored 10 fifties and three centuries in ODIs . Corey Anderson until recently held the world record for fastest 100 ton and already has two fifties in 2015 , while Luke Ronchi smashed an unbeaten 170 from 99 balls last month . Likewise , Grant Elliot has averaged 57.33 since being recalled to the one-day team in January after more than a year ’ s absence , Martin Guptill,has two fifties for 2015 already and Ross Taylor is averaging 45.13 for the year . Belief The Black Caps believe they can win and win big. They chased fast runs against Scotland and stumbled , losing seven wickets chasing 143 . A less confident team , faced with a near identical situation just three days later , might have taken it a little easier chasing England ’ s 123 . Not New Zealand. It blasted the runs it needed in just 12.2 overs and its brand of aggressive , positive cricket is pleasing more than just New Zealand fans . Its confidence increases ten-fold when it is playing at home and given all of the Black Caps matches will be played on New Zealand soil - including their massive match against Australia at Auckland ’ s Eden Park next weekend - until the final ( should they make it ) , the Black Caps have a big advantage over their opponents . Share this article :
