World Cup 2015 : Tim Southee , the Master of Mayhem World Cup 2015 : Tim Southee , the Master of Mayhem Tim Southee broke Shane Bond 's record of best bowling in One-Day Internationals with his sublime show against England . Last updated on Friday , 20 February , 2015 18 : 21 IST Total Shares Tim Southee : Wrecker-in-chief for the Kiwis © Getty Images Wellington : If Brendon McCullum 's record-breaking pyrotechnics in New Zealand 's eight-wicket rout of England could have been anticipated , then Tim Southee 's seven-wicket haul was more of a shock to the system . Until Friday , the 26-year-old seamer appeared the picture of reliability , the steady , cool hand on the new ball in 39 Tests for New Zealand and 87 ODIs. ( Southee Credits Coach Shane Bond for Record Feat ) It 's a career that has yielded 136 wickets in Tests and now 127 in one-dayers courtesy of his astonishing seven for 33 wrecking-ball of a performance against a hapless England at Wellington 's Westpac Stadium . The promise was always there for Southee , when as a raw 19-year-old he marked his Test debut with five for 55 against England at Napier in 2008 . For good measure , the teenager , who excelled at rugby in his school days , also hit 77 off 40 balls with nine sixes , the most by a debutant in Test history . That score remains his best in Tests although his best bowling analysis has since been boosted in the longer form of the game. ( New Zealand 's Juggernaut Lights Up Early Stage of World Cup 2015 ) His seven for 64 against India in Bangalore in 2012 , the best figures by a New Zealand bowler in India and quite an achievement for a seamer on the sub-continent 's low , slow pitches . He was a shining light again at the 2011 World Cup , also staged in Asia , with 18 wickets in a tournament where New Zealand reached the semi-finals . South African pace great Allan Donald , when he was working as a bowling coach with the Black Caps at the 2011 World Cup , went on record to claim that Southee could become the greatest swing bowler of all-time . " The first thing I said to him when I met him was - 'I want you to take the responsibility of leading this attack. As young as you are , I want you to take that responsibility because you could become the best swing bowler in world cricket ' , " Donald said . " I want you to believe that but also it 's what you do on the field and off the field that will determine the respect you get. " ( British Press Rips and Rams Deflated England Cricket Team ) Southee has certainly benefitted from the globe-trotting career of the modern cricketer , with spells in the grind of the English county system with Essex and lucrative visits to the Indian Premier League with Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals . And the highlights for a player who relaxes by returning to his family 's farm in the far north of New Zealand ? " I have a few. Beating Australia in Australia for the first time in something like 26 years was pretty amazing to be a part of , " he said . " Also being named in the World Cup tournament team for the World Cup in India was pretty special. And my Test debut for a few reasons , it was the first time playing for New Zealand in a Test and also getting five wickets and the fastest Test fifty by a New Zealander. " Despite those landmarks , Friday 's masterclass in mayhem in Wellington will take some beating . Story first published on : Friday , 20 February 2015 17 : 14 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
