ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 following soars to record levels online ICC announces ground-breaking online figures with interest soaring in # cwc15 right across the globe Share this article : This year , there have also been the exclusive post-match Player of the Match Twitter Mirror selfies . The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 now moves towards the knock-out stages , and the magnificent cricket on the pitch during the Pool stages has been matched with remarkable levels of interest in the tournament across all online channels from right around the world . On the official tournament website , traffic levels have grown over 1,500 % since the last major ICC event and there have been over 26 million Unique Visitors to the website since the beginning of the tournament. These visitors have made up over 225 million Page views . Of particular interest has been the brand new ICC Cricket World Cup Match Centre. The Match Centre , powered by SAP ’ s HANA and Analytics tool , has the fastest live scores available online and now offers real time statistics and insights using live and historical ICC Cricket World Cup data to deliver in-depth match analysis to fans around the world . The video clips of match action from the tournament itself have been hugely popular with fans from over 200 countries watching back on the best moments from on the pitch , with over 24 million Video plays combined across website and App . On Social Media there has been more interest than ever seen before for a global cricket event as people in their millions interact with the tournament. Fans have been able to get closer to the action with exclusive behind-the-scenes access. There has been the exclusive post-match Player of the Match Twitter Mirror selfies , the opportunity to ask the winning captain a question via the Global Broadcast using # AskCaptain. Fans have also used the Google + Facepaint feature to show their colours on the Big-Screens of all the ground and over on Facebook Millions have watched the latest episodes of # CWCDaily . On Twitter , the discussion around # cwc15 has also been very large , with over 8 million tweets sent around the tournament with over 800 Million live tweet impressions from the group stages. This comprises a 250 % growth in the conversation around # cwc15. The tournament ’ s match hashtags have also regularly trended on both Twitter and Google + . Globally on Facebook , 36 million people have generated 341 million interactions with cricket becoming a regularly trending topic throughout February and March . The official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App which the ICC launched in partnership with Reliance Communications , has also seen unparalleled success for a cricket App reaching over 3.35 million downloads. It has topped the charts as the Number 1 downloaded sports App in 48 countries . The App , which is available for free download via the Google Play and Apple App Stores , has received rave reviews with the ICC CWC Match Centre , in-match clips , fixtures , exclusive videos , real-time statistical updates and more being enjoyed worldwide . # cwc15 following soars to record levels online during Pool Stage http : //t.co/3kVW2bmgz9 Thanks Everyone ! # LoveCricket pic.twitter.com/xnFnHdvh2U — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 17 , 2015 The Official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App is available free from the App Store on iPhone , iPad or iPod touch or at : https : //itunes.apple.com/WebObjects/MZStore.woa/wa/viewSoftware ? id = 956440606&mt = 8 The Official ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 App is available free from the Google Play Store on All Android Devices or at ; https : //play.google.com/store/apps/details ? id = com.pl.cwc_2015 For More on ICC Digital please visit the Official ICC and ICC CWC 2015 digital and social channels :
