29 March 201516 : 00 ICC Chairman hails ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 as “ most popular in history ” Mr Srinivasan says 50-over tournament can attract and inspire a new generation of followers to the game Share this article : Mr Srinivasan thanked all of the media , supporters and sponsors for their promotion of the tournament . The Chairman of the International Cricket Council ( ICC ) , Mr Narayanaswami Srinivasan , has hailed the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 as “ the most popular in history ” and he believes that the 50-over game is in good health following Australia ’ s triumph at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday . Commenting in the aftermath of Sunday ’ s game which was played in front of over 93,000 spectators , Mr Srinivasan said the ICC was delighted with the manner in which the game ’ s pinnacle 50-over event was hosted and delivered , and thanked all of the media , supporters and sponsors for their promotion of the tournament . Mr Srinivasan said : “ On behalf of the ICC , I would like to firstly congratulate Australia on its fifth ICC Cricket World Cup win. Australia displayed great tenacity , skill levels and consistency throughout the tournament and are worthy winners . “ It was a wonderful event with many thrilling highs and magic moments which will live long in the memory. Australia has set a new benchmark for limited overs cricket and our congratulations to them , and indeed all of the competing teams , which produced excellent cricket over the past seven weeks and thoroughly entertained the followers of the game worldwide . “ It is not an easy task hosting an event of this scale and I would like to extend my special thanks to the ICC staff as well as Local Organising Committee Chairman Ralph Waters , CEO John Harnden , Head of New Zealand Therese Walsh and the rest of the team who worked extremely hard across both host countries over the last three years to ensure the delivery of a truly world-class tournament. I would also like to pay tribute to Cricket Australia and New Zealand Cricket for their support in the build-up to , and during , the event . “ The ICC had strived to deliver a fan-friendly spectacle , and it has achieved its target. Over one million spectators have passed through the turnstiles over the course of the last seven weeks and our thanks to them and , indeed , to all followers of the game globally for the support they have given the competing sides . “ The ICC ’ s proactive digital enhancement has attracted an unprecedented 36 million unique visitors to its website to date and has accumulated over 300 million page views. This represents a 10-fold increase on any previous ICC event. A further positive development was the official tournament app , which has been downloaded more than 4.5 million times and has been the number-one sports app in no fewer than 48 countries . “ I believe that the legacy of this tournament will extend across the world and the quality of cricket , enhanced by a strong sense of sportsmanship and fair play , can resonate for the next generation of cricket followers . “ I would like to thank all our global , official and local commercial partners , including ICC ’ s broadcast partners STAR Sports for their continued patronage and support. Without their support , the ICC can not put up these great events. Our thanks , as ever , to the various strands of the media for its support and extensive coverage they provided , which has helped the ICC to further promote the game . “ Congratulations to our Emirates Elite Panel of ICC Umpires and Match Referees , who have once again displayed a high level of officiating throughout the competition. The curators and ground-staff who produced quality pitches across all 14 also deserve special mention . “ Finally , a special word of thanks to the unsung heroes of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 – the team of volunteers in each of the cities whose assistance , courtesy and hospitality added enormously to the feel-good factor around the event . “ As we reflect on the success of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , it has reinforced 50-over cricket as a hugely exhilarating format of the game which attracts a large global following. It is with confidence that we look forward to ICC Cricket World Cup 2019 which will be staged in the UK. ” Share this article :
