05 January 201520 : 23 Ireland World Cup Squad Announced Ireland ’ s selectors have confirmed their squad for the World Cup next month in Australia and New Zealand Share this article : William Porterfield will lead Ireland in the World Cup . Ireland ’ s selectors have confirmed their squad for the World Cup next month in Australia and New Zealand . There are no changes to the 15 players named last month for the training camp and tri-series in Dubai against Afghanistan and Scotland . Captain William Porterfield is one of five players who will be participating in their third World Cup , along with the O ’ Brien brothers , Ed Joyce , and John Mooney . At the other end of the spectrum , it will be the first time at a World Cup for six of the squad , with Andrew Balbirnie , Peter Chase , Andrew McBrine , Tim Murtagh , Stuart Thompson , and Craig Young making their tournament debuts . “ It ’ s fantastic to be leading Ireland in another global tournament , ” said 30 year-old Porterfield . “ We ’ ve produced some wonderful performances over the years in World Cups , and there ’ s no reason why we can ’ t claim further successes in Australia and New Zealand . “ While we may have lost the surprise factor over the years , we ’ ve certainly gained a lot of respect for our brand of cricket which has been pretty pleasing . “ There ’ s a great mix as always in the squad , and the younger guys coming through are all hungry which keeps the more experienced players on their toes. Competition for places has been fierce and that ’ s got to be good for Irish cricket. ” Ireland have opted not to name any replacements yet , but Head Coach Phil Simmons did reveal they had taken five bowlers with the squad to Dubai to help with their preparations . “ We ’ ve got five extra seamers with the World Cup squad here in Dubai , ” said Simmons , who arrived with the Irish squad in the Emirates today . “ Max Sorensen , Graeme McCarter , Eddie Richardson , Tyrone Kane and Barry McCarthy will all bowl in the nets and will provide a great resource in our build-up . “ It ’ s our intention to have some additional players based in Australia to provide cover for the World Cup squad , and we ’ ll finalise those arrangements in the coming weeks. It ’ s important that we ’ ll have players who can hit the ground running if we suffer any injuries during the two months of the event. ” Ireland play four ODI ’ s in the UAE , and following a short return to Irish shores , depart for Australia at the end of January for a training camp and fixture against Sydney based club Randwick Petersham . The Irish stay in Sydney for official warm-up matches against Scotland and Bangladesh , before flying to New Zealand to face West Indies in their Pool B opening game in Hamilton on February 16th . Ireland Squad for the ICC World Cup 2015 William Porterfield ( Captain ) , Andrew Balbirnie, Peter Chase , Alex Cusack,
