World Cup 2015 , Highlights : Andre Russell , Jerome Taylor Hammer Pakistan World Cup 2015 , Highlights : Andre Russell , Jerome Taylor Hammer Pakistan West Indies register first win in World Cups after four defeats as they crush hapless Pakistan by 150 runs. Catch all the highlights of the match here . Last updated on Saturday , 21 February , 2015 12 : 43 IST Total Shares West Indies register a crushing 150-run win over Pakistan to record their first win after four losses in World Cups. Catch all the highlights here : ( Scorecard | Results | Fixtures ) 10 : 53 ( IST ) : QUOTES ! Misbah-ul-Haq : It was a tough day , especially after winning the toss. There was a little bit in the pitch and we could n't exploit that . Jason Holder : It was a wonderful performance , we batted really well. Russell , Sammy , Simmons and Ramdin really put their hand up at the end. Jerome Taylor bowled brilliantly and I supported him well , and we applied a lot of pressure with those early wickets. Really pleased we the team effort . Andre Russell : The game was set up perfectly to come in and play my part. Well done to the batters , they did a good job in the middle. Jerome Taylor and Jason Holder gave us a good start. The platform was set up perfectly for me again . Andre Russell celebrates with Marlon Samuels against Pakistan . © Getty Images 10 : 40 ( IST ) : That 's that ! Chasing a challenging 311 for a win , Pakistan are bundled out for 160. Jerome Taylor started off brilliantly and he was well supported by other bowlers. Man of the Match Andre Russell starred with both bat and ball. After his 13-ball 42 not out , Russell finished with three for 33 to help West Indies record an dominant victory . 10 : 32 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Pakistan have lost their last hope too. Shahid Afridi , who looked out of sorts today , is back to the pavilion. Andre Russell bags his third wicket . 10 : 10 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Umar Akmal 's fighting knock comes to an end. Akmal pulls it straight to Dwayne Smith at deep mid-wicket off Andre Russell as Pakistan lose their seventh wicket. Still a long way to go , Wahab Riaz joins Shahid Afridi . 10 : 05 ( IST ) : Umar Akmal and Shahid Afridi have taken the batting powerplay. Bold decision by the duo . 09 : 52 ( IST ) : FIFTY ! Umar Akmal scores his 20th half-century. He has played well so far and now needs support from Shahid Afridi. Can they turn the table ? 09 : 40 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Oh dear ! dear ! Pakistan have lost their sixth wicket and Sohaib Maqsood is the latest victim. Darren Samy bowls a low full toss but Maqsood fails to get under it and manages a toe-end of his bat behind the bowler. Sulieman Benn runs in from mind on region to take a diving catch . 09 : 37 ( IST ) : FIFTY ! Sohaib Maqsood scores his fifth half-century . 09 : 28 ( IST ) : Sohaib Maqsood and Umar Akmal have added 69 runs for the sixth wicket. How far can they take Pakistan from here ? 09 : 09 ( IST ) : DROPPED ! Chris Gayle drops Umar Akmal for 19 off Darren Sammy. Akmal pulled it with all the strength he has and straight to Gayle at mid-wicket. Will this prove costly for West Indies ? 08 : 50 ( IST ) : It 's still raining in Brisbane. Match between Australia and Bangladesh is unlikely to take place. Catch all the updates of the match here 08 : 37 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Misbah-ul-Haq is the fifth Pakistani to make a long way back to pavilion. Misbah edges Andre Russell to Chris Gayle at first slip. Pakistan 25 for five , chasing 311 . Jerome Taylor celebrates with teammates . © Getty Images 08 : 09 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Pakistan chase is in tatters now. They are four down for just one run. Ahmed Shehzad and Haris Sohail too follow suit. Jerome Taylor gets his third while Jason Holder joins the party . 07 : 53 ( IST ) : What a start for West Indies. Jerome Taylor removes Nasir Jamshed and Younis Khan in the first over to hurt Pakistan. While Jamshed top edged pull to mid-wicket , Younis edged one to keeper. Good aggressive bowling this by Taylor . Lendl Simmons and Andre Russell . © Getty Images 07 : 22 ( IST ) : That 's it ! Andre Russell 's 13-ball 42 not out , laced with three fours and four sixes , guides West Indies to 310 for six in their 50 overs. Lendl Simmons also completed his fifty as Windies hammered 79 runs in the final five overs. Haris Sohail picked up two wickets for Pakistan . 07 : 05 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Darren Sammy 's fiery knock comes to an end. He gets a thick outside edge to point where Shahid Afridi makes no mistake. West Indies lose five and all eyes are on Lendl Simmons . 06 : 49 ( IST ) : DROPPED ! Lendl Simmons dropped on 44 by Mohammad Irfan at third man off Wahab Riaz . 06 : 26 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Denesh Ramdin throws away his wicket shortly after reaching his half-century. Looks for a biggie towards mid wicket but ends up getting a thick outside edge to long off and substitute Yasir Shah takes a clean catch . 06 : 23 ( IST ) : FIFTY ! Denesh Ramdin slams his seventh fifty in ODIs . Darren Bravo attended by Pakistani players after being hit on the head . © Getty Images 05 : 50 ( IST ) : This is not good news for West Indies. Darren Bravo pulls his hamstring and looks in severe pain. He is retired hurt for 49. The batting powerplay is in progress . 05 : 42 ( IST ) : Meanwhile , Brisbane 's wild weather remains the major talking point ahead of Australia 's clash against Bangladesh on Saturday. there is no reserve day for pool matches. The ICC match officials will make a decision on the match based on conditions at the time. The match can still go ahead with a delayed start if necessary. A match can be successfully completed if each side has minimum of 20 overs which means that it is still possible to achieve a result with a start after the scheduled innings break. ( Follow updates here ) Marlon Samuels in action against Pakistan . © Getty Images 05 : 19 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Haris Sohail strikes on the first ball of a new over. Marlon Samuels ( 38 ) looks for a big shot but mistimes it and gets a thick outside edge and substitute Yasir Shah makes no mistake at the long off boundary . 05 : 10 ( IST ) : Darren Bravo is hit by a throw on the left side of his helmet by Younis Khan. He looked in pain but seems fine after some medication . 04 : 58 ( IST ) : DROPPED ! Marlon Samuels dropped on 27 by Shahid Afridi at mid wicket off Wahab Riaz. Afridi covered a good distance but slips in the end and spills the catch. Poor fielding this by Pakistan today. They have dropped three so far . 04 : 51 ( IST ) : Partnership ! Marlon Samuels and Darren Bravo have added 55 runs for third wicket. West Indies 83/2 ( 18 overs ) 04 : 37 ( IST ) : Darren Bravo is given out caught behind off Shahid Afridi but he immediately reviews it and it goes in his favour. The noise came from bat hitting the pad . 04 : 30 ( IST ) : STAT ! Shahid Afridi needs one wicket to go clear of Shaun Pollock as the outright fifth highest ODI wicket-taker. Both have 393 wickets . 04 : 09 ( IST ) : WICKET ! What a delivery that. Dwayne Smith has wasted a good start and Sohail Khan gets his first wicket. Sohail bowls a widish delivery , Smith plays away from his body and edges it straight to Haris Sohail at second slip . 03 : 55 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Mohammad Irfan gets the danger-man Chris Gayle. Irfan had been bowling well and even tested Gayle with a couple of bouncers earlier in this over. This time he bangs in short , Gayle looks to pull but ends up top edging it to long leg. Wahab Riaz runs in from fine leg to take a superb catch. West Indies 17/1 ( 5 overs ) . 03 : 38 ( IST ) : STAT ! Chris Gayle needs 60 runs to become the 11th player to score 1,000 runs in ODIs between these teams . 03 : 34 ( IST ) : Dwayne Smith starts with a boundary as Mohammad Irfan opens Pakistan bowling attack . 03 : 13 ( IST ) : TEAMS ! West Indies : Dwayne Smith , Chris Gayle , Darren Bravo , Marlon Samuels , Denesh Ramdin , Lendl Simmons , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder , Jerome Taylor , Sulieman Benn Pakistan : Ahmed Shehzad , Nasir Jamshed , Younis Khan , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq , Sohaib Maqsood , Umar Akmal , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Mohammad Irfan 03 : 05 ( IST ) : TOSS ! Pakistan have won the toss and have decided to field first. Both teams have made one change each. Nasir Jamshed comes in for Yasir Shah , while Kemar Roach makes way for Sulieman Benn . Pakistan cricket team © Getty Images Pakistan and West Indies have had a short but similar tale in the World Cup so far. It would be fair to compare their early pains as while Pakistan lost to arch-rivals India for the sixth time in World Cups , West Indies crashed to minnows Ireland. No amount of lip service has been able to justify their defeats but both teams have since devoted themselves to training harder , longer. ( Also read : Darren Sammy fit to fight Pakistan ) The two teams are hardly alien to each other and would attempt to draw their plans from past duels. The Windies do have a better head-to-head record but then again , the current group of players are only pale shadows of legends who helped the side dominate in the past. Of the 126 ODIs between the two teams , West Indies have won 68 as against 55 won by Pakistan with three tied games. Even in World Cups , the team from the Caribbeans have a 6-3 record. ( Also read : No panic button yet but batting worries Pakistan captain Misbah ) Past stats do not guarantee wins and on paper , the current Pakistani side would fancy its chances against a coach-less Windies team. ( Also read : Phil Simmons to take over as WI coach after World Cup ) Records galore beckon the Pakistani players - further incentive to play out of their skins. While Shahid Afridi needs one more wicket to go clear of Shaun Pollock as the outright fifth highest ODI wicket-taker ( 393 wickets currently ) , captain Misbah-ul-Haq will look to add to his tally of nine fifties from 15 innings vs West Indies . When chips are down though , the men in red have demonstrated fierce cricketing skills. Once again , the batting will revolve around Chris Gayle who needs 60 runs to become the 11th player to score 1,000 runs in ODIs between these teams. The West Indies side have also lost their last four World Cup matches but have never lost five in a row. Will this be an incentive enough ? Story first published on : Friday , 20 February 2015 22 : 51 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
