05 February 201511 : 15 Clarke returns as friendly practice matches begin Australia World Cup Captain Michael Clarke returned to action today as he continues his recovery from injury , in one of several friendly practice matches that took place yesterday and today across Australia and New Zealand Share this article : Clarke scored 34 runs off 36 balls in the warm-up match . Australia skipper Michael Clarke made a successful return from injury in Brisbane today , but the news was not as good for Bangladesh which failed to topple a Cricket Australia XI . Clarke , who is in a race against time to return from hamstring surgery to head up Australia ’ s ICC Cricket World Cup campaign , scored 34 runs off 36 balls in the warm-up match at Allan Border Field while also bowling two overs and taking a great grab in slips . Batting first , Bangladesh was in trouble early after losing star Shakib Al Hasan , who was caught by Clarke in slips . It fell to 5-57 before a partnership between Mohammad Mahmudullah and Sabbir Rahman helped them post a decent total of 193 . The CA XI chased the total with eight overs in hand for the loss of six wickets . The leg-spin of Rahman ended Clarke ’ s innings , while Al-Amin Hossain , Mahmudullah and Soumya Sarkar also picked up wickets . In Sydney , Scotland was in action in a practice match against St George DCC . Fielding a team without captain Preston Mommsen and led by vice-captain Kyle Coetzer , Scotland won the toss and opted to bowl , with St George scoring 9-189 off its 50 overs . Scotland ’ s batsmen had a good hit-out in reply. After losing Coetzer for 23 , Calum Macleod took control scoring an unbeaten 129 to lead Scotland to an eight-wicket victory . Macleod reached his century with 12 fours and five sixes , well supported by Freddie Coleman who finished unbeaten on 39 . Meanwhile in Napier , United Arab Emirates notched a six-wicket win over Central Districts after successfully chasing 250 and in New Zealand yesterday , Zimbabwe was in action against Northern Districts in Gisborne , posting an eight-wicket win . Batting first , Gisborne scored 6-266 , with the wickets shared between the Zimbabwe bowlers. Tinashe Panyangara was particularly economical with his four overs taking 1-14 . Zimbabwe reached the total off 40.4 overs thanks to the batting efforts of Brendan Taylor ( 87 * off 72 ) , Sikandar Butt ( 63 off 64 ) , Chamu Chibhabha ( 62 off 70 ) and Hamilton Masakadza ( 41 * off 41 ) . Share this article :
