Dominant South Africa downs Sri Lanka Dilshan hundred in vain ; Guptill stars for New Zealand in abandoned game against Zimbabwe Share this article : South Africa put up a dominant show to beat Sri Lanka in the second warm-up match of the 2015 World Cup at the Hagley Oval in Christchurch on Monday ( February 9 ) . Put in to bat , Sri Lanka posted a competitive 279 for 7 , courtesy Tillakaratne Dilshan ’ s century and a half-century from Angelo Mathews , after a lengthy spell of rain curtailed its innings at 44.4 overs. South Africa , which was set a revised Duckworth-Lewis target of 188 in 25 overs , cantered to a five-wicket win despite a late wobble . Hashim Amla and Quinton de Kock gave South Africa a dream start , adding 106 in just 15.1 overs before Rangana Herath drew first blood. De Kock , who scored a 55-ball 66 with six fours and two sixes , edged to Dimuth Karunaratne. Amla , leading the side in the absence of AB de Villiers who sat out due to a sore hip , followed soon after , falling to Herath ’ s guile for 46 . What looked like a cruise came to a halt as Sri Lanka struck back with two quick wickets for just three runs. Herath got rid of JP Duminy for 17 , while Nuwan Kulasekara got the better of David Miller. But although Faf du Plessis fell early , Rilee Rossouw and Vernon Philander shared an unbroken 21-run partnership to take South Africa across the line with three balls to spare . Barring Herath , none of the Sri Lankan bowlers could create an impact. Returning from injury , Lasith Malinga snared 1 for 29 in his four overs , while Kulasekara took 1 for 18 in two overs . Earlier , Sri Lanka was off to a shaky start , losing Lahiru Thirimanne early. But Dilshan and Kumar Sangakkara took control with a healthy 76-run stand , before Sangakkara was dismissed for 31 by Imran Tahir . Dilshan then shared a 74-run third wicket partnership with Karunaratne ( 46 ) to take Sri Lanka past 150. He brought up his century along the way , his fourth in eight matches , from 82 deliveries before he was out next ball . Mathews , the captain , then scored a half-century before rain forced the end of the Sri Lanka innings. Kyle Abbott was the best of the South Africa bowlers , taking 3 for 37 from 6.4 overs while Wayne Parnell returned 2 for 44 . Sri Lanka will take on Zimbabwe in its second warm-up match in Lincoln on Wednesday . In Lincoln , Martin Guptill ’ s century was the only highlight of a shoddy New Zealand batting display in its rain-interrupted warm-up match against Zimbabwe . New Zealand scored 157 for 7 from 30.1 overs before the match was abandoned , with Guptill bringing up his century from 85 balls. He fell soon after without adding to his score , having played a lone hand as New Zealand 's batting order caved in around him . Brendon McCullum , the captain , was the first to fall , for eight after being caught and bowled by Tinashe Panyangara , who struck again to remove the in-form Kane Williamson for six . Ross Taylor ( 11 ) , the only other batsman to reach double figures , and Corey Anderson fell to Elton Chigumbura ’ s pace. While Tom Latham was dismissed off Tafadzwa Kamungozi for nine , Daniel Vettori only made six before falling to Hamilton Masakadza . New Zealand plays South Africa on Wednesday in its final warm-up game at the Hagley Oval in Christchurch , before kicking off its World Cup campaign against Sri Lanka on Saturday at the same venue . Share this article :
