10 February 201516 : 34 By Dileep Premachandran , Adelaide Rohit stars in big win for India Rahane , Raina contribute half-centuries as Afghanistan falls 153 short of India ’ s massive 364/5 Share this article : Rohit Sharma ’ s 150 , off just 122 balls , was the centerpiece of India ’ s 364 for 5 . For four overs , this warm-up game at the Adelaide Oval had the makings of an upset. Shikhar Dhawan had played on off Hamid Hassan , and Virat Kohli had edged a full delivery from Dawlat Zadran behind. The small group of Afghan fans in the crowd were in fine voice , but Rohit Sharma , Suresh Raina and Ajinkya Rahane took a heavy toll of the bowling in placid conditions , and the target of 365 was far beyond the ambit of the Associate side , which batted with commendable discipline for two-thirds of its innings before a flurry of wickets gave India a sizeable win . Rohit ’ s 150 , off just 122 balls , was the centerpiece of India ’ s 364 for 5. He had gone past 200 twice in ODIs , and was well on course for such a score by the time he miscued a Mohammad Nabi delivery to long-off. There were still 10.1 overs left to be bowled at that stage , and Rahane made sure there would be no let-up in the scoring , pounding out an unbeaten 88 from just 61 balls . The damage had been done much earlier , as Raina and Rohit resuscitated the innings after Hassan and Dawlat had given the Afghans a sprightly start with the new ball. Once Rohit found his range , the ball was worked into the gaps and over the infield with unerring regularity. Raina , who struck five fours and three sixes in a 71-ball 75 before being caught short by a dive and throw from Nabi , was happy to turn the strike over as Rohit employed both finesse and force to scatter the field. The century came up off 94 balls , and in all , he smashed 12 fours and seven sixes . MS Dhoni made a 20-ball 10 , and the final stages of the innings were all about Rahane and the ease with which he peppered the boundary hoardings. Mirwais Ashraf bowled six tidy overs , and Hassan was never easy to get away , but the inexperience of the attack showed in too many balls bowled on a hittable length , and the batsmen didn ’ t miss out . With the bat , Afghanistan came out swinging. Javed Ahmadi stroked four fours in his 17 before edging Umesh Yadav behind. But though Nawroz Mangal and Usman Ghani added 63 for the second wicket , the introduction of spin stalled momentum. Both Ravindra Jadeja and R Ashwin bowled with great control , and the pace bowlers also kept their discipline . Mohammed Shami dropped a chance offered by Ghani when he had made 43 , but it didn ’ t cost India as a combination of Dhawan and Yadav dismissed him moments later. He mishit a heave off Jadeja and though Dhawan , running towards the rope , couldn ’ t hold on to the ball , he managed to palm it upwards into the waiting hands of Yadav . Shami then took a smart catch at mid-on to end the 60-run stand between Mangal and Asghar Stanizkai , but by then the asking rate had climbed to more than 14 an over. Najibullah Zadran was stumped off Ashwin ’ s bowling , and Mangal ’ s defiant 85-ball 60 ended with a thin edge behind off Mohit. Nabi , the captain , was bowled while trying to slog Jadeja . The final margin was 153 runs , an accurate reflection of Afghanistan ’ s inexperience of both the big stage and these conditions. The side will surely get better as the tournament progresses. As for India , this , although only a practice game , represented a first win after two and a half months on Australian soil , and it will hope that there are a few more to come , starting with the all-important clash against Pakistan at the same venue on Sunday ( February 15 ) . To see the full scorecard between Afghanistan and India , please click here . To see the match report of the match between Ireland and Scotland , please click here . Share this article :
