11 February 201507 : 56 Bumper crowds set to throng to opening weekend of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Four games in two days to kick-start tournament across Australia and New Zealand with bumper crowds set to attend opening weekend . Share this article : The first match of the tournament is scheduled for the Hagley Oval The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 is set to kick off with a bang , with capacity crowds tipped to roll into four venues across Australia and New Zealand . Two matches have already sold out , while only limited tickets remain for the games in Melbourne and Hamilton . The ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 Local Organising Committee chief executive John Harnden said he was delighted with the response from fans . “ We ’ ve already sold over 825,000 tickets a few days before the first ball is being bowled . " We ’ re very close to being at full capacity for Australia v England on Saturday at the MCG. There ’ s a few thousand tickets left and I ’ d urge people if they want to be there , to buy now and don ’ t leave it until the last moment . “ The message to everyone is there are still great tickets available , there ’ s a lot of games over the tournament and don ’ t miss out. If you want to be here , if you really want to be part of history make certain you come. ” Harnden said . So there are four games that make up this bumper weekend of World Cup cricket : Saturday 14th February 2015 New Zealand v Sri Lanka The tournament kicks off in New Zealand , with the co-hosts opening match against Sri Lanka at Christchurch completely sold out at the newly launched Hagley Oval in Christhchurch . The Blackcaps will be looking to repeat their strong Pool form from the 1992 World Cup where they topped the initial stages when they last co-hosted the event . Australia v England Later in the day , the Ashes rivals face off at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Only a few thousand tickets remain for the opening game in Australia. With three days remaining more than 85,000 tickets have been sold putting things on track for the highest crowd ever for an ODI at the ground , which is currently the 1992 World Cup final , when 87,789 people watched Pakistan defeat England . The capacity for the MCG in World Cup mode is 90,000 due to sight screens , sponsor displays and camera positions that mean thousands of the seats in the ground can ’ t be used . Fans are advised to purchase their tickets now to avoid disappointment on the day . Sunday 15th February 2015 South Africa v Zimbabwe On Sunday , the action heads to Seddon Park in Hamilton where one of the favourites to take out the tournament - South Africa - plays Zimbabwe. Already over 8000 tickets have been sold for the 10,000 capacity ground , with fans no doubt hoping to see more brilliant batting from the Proteas ’ AB de Villiers and Hashim Amla who have been in a rich vein of form . With Zimbabwe impressing in their opening warm-up match against New Zealand and holding a proud record over their African neighbour , this is destined to be a brilliant match . Again Fans are advised to purchase their tickets now in advance to avoid disappointment on the day and be part of this once in a generation event . India v Pakistan Tickets for the much-anticipated clash between traditional rivals India and Pakistan at Adelaide Oval sold out in just 20 minutes when they went on sale last year. The match could be the most-watched game in cricket history and has been eagerly anticipated right across the globe since it was announced . See all the ticketing , hospitality and travel package options and start your World Cup experience today by clicking here or going directly to www.cricketworldcup.com/tickets Share this article :
