14 February 201514 : 40 By Anand Vasu , Christchurch All-round New Zealand pockets 98-run win Anderson builds on McCullum ’ s start to set Sri Lanka target of 332 before bowlers combine to ensure victory in Christchurch Share this article : New Zealand celebrates a 98-run win against Sri Lanka in the opener of the ICC Cricket World Cup . A cold , grey morning underpinned by a blustery southerly and a fine drizzle gave way to a summery bright afternoon in Christchurch as the home team rang in the ICC World Cup 2015 with an all-round performance against Sri Lanka on Saturday ( February 14 ) . If the Hagley Oval provided the perfect location , New Zealand played inch-perfect cricket to reaffirm its position as a favourite to win this tournament . That New Zealand won by 98 runs – its first success in five World Cup attempts against Sri Lanka – was not the point , nor was its collection of two points that set the team on its way to a spot in the knockouts. Rather , this was an exercise in ticking boxes , and New Zealand did not miss a single one . Angelo Mathews won the toss , and with the possibility of rain disruptions in the air , chose to chase. From there on , however , it was New Zealand who controlled the game . Aided by some wayward bowling – Nuwan Kulasekara offered too much width and Lasith Malinga bowled more full tosses than good balls – Brendon McCullum and Martin Guptill set the pace. McCullum , who cracked the first ball he faced over cover , stepped up the heat in the eighth over of the innings , Malinga ’ s fourth. McCullum cut loose , swatting , flicking , driving and dabbing his way to a sequence of 446.44. The six was the best of the lot , a slower ball picked up so early that McCullum could set himself up like a golfer teeing off , the ball smacking into the sight screen . The century of the opening partnership came in 13.2 overs. Only 11 runs later , though , Sri Lanka would have its first success as McCullum was tempted down the track to launch Rangana Herath over long off. The hit was clean , but the ropes long and Jeevan Mendis positioned himself perfectly to take the catch. McCullum ’ s 65 had come off only 49 balls and powered New Zealand ’ s start . Guptill , one run from a half-century , was opened up by the lively Suranga Lakmal , the outside edge being well pouched by a diving Kumar Sangakkara. With two set batsmen falling in quick succession , New Zealand suffered a minor wobble and this allowed Sri Lanka ’ s bowlers to sneak in a few quiet overs , getting some control back . But , despite Grant Elliott and Ross Taylor not quite getting going , there was enough cushion from the top order and firepower at the back end to ensure that there were no dramas . Corey Anderson , who can appear less than confident against spin first up , was his muscular self once the powerplay gave way to the death overs. Anderson was particularly impressive , hitting back over the bowler ’ s head , and brought up his half-century with one such hit into the sight screen , off only 36 balls . Anderson kept up the aggression , hitting his way to 75 from 46 balls , and was only dismissed off the last ball of the innings , by which time he had pushed his team to 331 for 6 . A true pitch and a fast outfield meant that the result was far from a foregone conclusion at the break. But , Sri Lanka would have known that at least two of its top guns would have to fire if the target was to be chased down. Tillakaratne Dilshan , distinctly rusty , was late on several wild pulls. Fortunately for Sri Lanka , Lahiru Thirimanne found it easy to score fluently , whether driving full deliveries , tucking the ball off his hips or pulling out the ramp shot when the short ball climbed enough . After a conservative start , Dilshan fell softly , deceived in the air by Daniel Vettori , offering the simplest of return catches. Thirimanne , who comfortably scored at better than a run-a-ball , fell on 65 , missing a peach of a yorker from Trent Boult. From there on , the wheels quickly came off. Mahela Jayawardena feathered a nick off Vettori for a duck and Sangakkara got into an awkward position against Boult to be nailed in front of the stumps . At 129 for 4 , the chase was dead in the water , and even with some batting to follow , the odds were stacked against Sri Lanka . The pacy Adam Milne accounted for Dimuth Karunaratne and Mendis in the 32nd over , and , after that , all that was left was for Mathews to delay the inevitable. Some clean hitting ensured that the margin of defeat was whittled down to 98 , as Mathews helped himself to 46 even as Sri Lanka limped to 232 all out . To see the full scorecard of the match between New Zealand and Sri Lanka , please click here .
