14 February 201517 : 45 By Dileep Premachandran , Melbourne Finch , Marsh star in big Australia win James Taylor stranded on 98 not out as England ends with 231 all out , falling 111 runs short Share this article : Mitchell Marsh took 5 for 33 in nine overs to help Australia complete a convincing win over England in World Cup opener . Aaron Finch scored a superb hundred in front of his home crowd , Glenn Maxwell put on a big show , the back-up seamer picked up a five-for , and there were stunning catches as Australia started the 2015 World Cup with a clinically competent 111-run victory against its oldest rival. Steven Finn ’ s last-over hat-trick and some lower middle-order resistance from James Taylor and Chris Woakes were the few positives to take home for England . A generation ago , Australia started a home ICC Cricket World Cup with back-to-back defeats , setbacks that played a part in its failure to reach the semi-finals in 1992. In the build-up to this tournament , players , including George Bailey – captaining the side in Michael Clarke ’ s absence – had spoken of learning from the mistakes of 1992. And in front of a near-capacity crowd at the Melbourne Cricket Ground , they began Mission 2015 on just the right note on Saturday ( February 14 ) . Two of the Mitchells in the line-up , Starc and Johnson , had been expected to be the main bowling threats , but it was the third , Marsh , who tore the heart out of the English batting , finishing with 5 for 33. As satisfying as the win was , Australia would have been even more pleased with the fact that the impetus for it came from two relatively inexperienced individuals . As a kid in the backyard , few imaginary World Cup games come any bigger than Australia against England at the MCG. Finch was less than a year old when Australia won the ICC Cricket World Cup for the first time , in 1987. As the side started its quest for a fifth title , it was he , the local boy , that did maximum damage , with a magnificent 128-ball 135 . Finch and David Warner had given the home side a perfect start , adding 57 from 45 balls , but when England took three wickets towards the end of the Power Play , the game was back in the balance. But instead of being deflated , Finch and Bailey rebuilt solidly. By the time Finch was run out by a direct hit from Eoin Morgan at mid-off , the partnership was worth 146 from just 156 balls . Bailey followed soon after , having received rapturous applause for his half-century , but there was still time for a late-innings pummeling from Maxwell. His 40-ball 66 ensured that England would have to become the first team to successfully chase in excess of 300 to win an ODI at the MCG . England also suffered on account of missed chances. Finch hadn ’ t opened his account when he pulled the fourth ball of the innings , from James Anderson , to square leg. Woakes got both hands to it , but the ball burst through. Jos Buttler put down Maxwell behind the stumps when he had 42 , and Bailey had scored just 18 when a miscued pull fell between Stuart Broad and Gary Ballance at deep midwicket . It had been Broad , flayed around initially , who dragged England back into the contest with two superb deliveries in his fourth over. First , Warner played all around a full delivery that swung into his pads , and then Shane Watson edged a beauty that left him just a touch. When Steve Smith played on to an inswinger from Woakes , Australia was precariously placed at 70 for 3 . But with Finch carrying on in an aggressive mode , and Bailey working the ball around , the advantage was wrested back. Paddle sweeps were employed to disrupt Moeen Ali ’ s rhythm , and the bad balls continued to be bludgeoned away. Finch even mishit a straight six off Anderson , a skier that dropped into the front seats after following the trajectory of a nine iron . Finch needed just 102 balls for his hundred , and he and Bailey fell within ten balls of each other. But Marsh ’ s 20-ball 23 and Brad Haddin ’ s blistering 14-ball 31 were the perfect complements to Maxwell ’ s drives , cuts and reverse sweeps as the final ten overs realised 105 runs. Finn ended the innings by dismissing Haddin , Maxwell and Johnson off successive deliveries , but figures of 5 for 71 gave some idea of the kind of punishment he had taken earlier . England ’ s quest for a first World Cup win against Australia since 1992 was dealt serious blows within the first 20 overs. Mooen was first to go , top-edging a pull off Starc to mid-on , and Ballance flicked the fourth ball that Marsh bowled to Finch at short midwicket. Ian Bell perished to the pull , as Starc took a brilliant catch on the run , and Marsh was on a hat-trick when Joe Root top-edged another cross-batted shot behind. Haddin sprinted towards short fine leg and made no mistake . Morgan fell when Haddin dived full sprawl to his left to take a one-handed catch after he had toe-ended an attempted pull. Buttler then clubbed one to short cover , where Smith pulled off an airborne catch that Jonty Rhodes would have been proud to call his own. At that stage , England was 92 for 6 , and Marsh had figures of 5 for 16 . Taylor made an unbeaten 98 , playing both orthodox and inventive strokes while looking a cut above the rest. He and Woakes added 92 to revive the innings somewhat , before a slower ball from Johnson induced a miscue to mid-off. Woakes made 37 , and his departure signalled a relatively swift end. Johnson and Starc finished with two wickets apiece before the game ended . Taylor was in sight of a maiden ODI hundred when Hazlewood appealed for a leg-before dismissal , which was upheld. Taylor immediately went for a review and replays showed the ball missing the stumps , but Taylor ’ s relief turned to dismay when another set of replays showed that Maxwell ’ s throw to the keeper ’ s end had caught Anderson short of his crease , and England 's innings ended in 41.5 overs . To see the full scorecard of the match between Australia and England , please click here .
