15 February 201515 : 04 By Anand Vasu , Nelson West Indies v Ireland , Preview , Match 5 at Nelson West Indies will bank on the flair of Gayle and Samuels , while Ireland will bring its own exciting brand of cricket to the game Share this article : Chris Gayle will do his best to get the crowd to its feet as he attempts to rain sixes on them . If you got the entire population of Nelson into Eden Gardens , you would still have 20,000 empty seats. On Monday ( February 16 ) , the big occasion comes to the small town. If Hagley Oval is a pretty venue , sitting as it is in the middle of a park in a garden city , Saxton Oval is a picture postcard. Encircled by hills from which paragliders float down as the sun sets , yet close enough to the sea for the air to smell salty when the wind blows in the right direction , this is a ground where you expect time to stand still . Instead , Chris Gayle will do his best to get the crowd – the ground seats no more than 6000 – to its feet as he attempts to rain sixes on them. And Ireland , a mighty associate team , will not flinch in bringing its constantly exciting brand of cricket to the fore . While Christchurch was cold and grey , Nelson , on the northern tip of New Zealand ’ s South Island , is known for having more sunshine than almost any other place in the region. On the day before the game , the skies were a shade of azure so pure that the wispy cirrus clouds stood out white and proud. The pitch was expected to be true and batsman friendly , and when you add to this the rock hard , lightning quick outfield and shortish boundaries , the recipe is perfect for a run fest . The proof , as always , will be in the pudding , and to this end West Indies will want to put its recent series loss against South Africa behind , and make a fresh start. Gayle , backed up by Marlon Samuels , will form the backbone of the batting line-up , and the less experienced men will be expected to bat around those two . Jason Holder , the tall young fast bowler , certainly looks a long-term prospect. Leadership is about many things , and especially when you have to unite a bunch of players from different islands , different countries even , it becomes about much more than calling correctly at the toss and then setting fields. In a tournament as big as the World Cup , where a campaign has to be built in cogent fashion , with each win building towards something bigger and each loss serving up lessons that need to be learnt quickly , a strong leader is a minimum prerequisite. How Holder shoulders the responsibility will be key . The most organised of the associate nations , Ireland has been quite consistent too. This has come through building a stable squad over the years , having its players constantly in the mix in top-flight cricket where possible , and allowing the team to grow as a unit . In Ed Joyce and William Porterfield , Ireland has bankable batsmen and Kevin O ’ Brien brings to the table a brand of fearless batting that all opposition bowlers would do well to take note of. In the right conditions , Ireland ’ s seam attack , just the right sort of pace and intent , can move the ball enough in the air and off the pitch to keep the best batsmen in the world honest. When it comes to defending , George Dockrell can bottle an end up with his left-arm spin , leaving the side with a well-rounded feel . When push comes to shove , Ireland would know it is good enough to pull off the upset , as it has done in the past. Although that may not eventually come to pass , just the fact that it ’ s on the cards makes for particularly delicious anticipation . Teams ( likely ) Ireland : William Porterfield ( capt ) , Paul Stirling , Ed Joyce , Niall O ’ Brien , Gary Wilson ( wk ) , Andy Balbirnie , Kevin O ’ Brien , John Mooney , George Dockrell , Max Sorensen , Craig Young . West Indies : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Darren Bravo , Marlon Samuels , Lendl Simmons , Denesh Ramdin ( wk ) , Andre Russell , Darren Sammy , Jason Holder ( capt ) , Jerome Taylor , Kemar Roach . Share this article :
