Why you shouldn ’ t be surprised by Ireland ’ s win Teams who do not take Ireland seriously , do so at their own peril Share this article : Ireland ’ s surprise factor has worn off , but its players are happy to have earned the respect of rival teams . Ireland has knocked off a Test-playing nation for the third ICC Cricket World Cup in a row . But for those who follow the Associate nation , the four-wicket win over the West Indies was anything but a surprise . This team has come a long way from the group of amateur players which shocked Pakistan in 2007 . Ireland is a team of full-time , professional cricketers , many of whom have county cricket contracts in England . It has become a serious player in world cricket and rest assured , no team in Pool B is taking Ireland lightly . It is a telling statistic that in World Cup history , teams have only successfully chased more than 300 runs on five occasions . Ireland is responsible for three of them . When Ireland burst on to the World Cup scene in 2007 , upsetting Pakistan and Bangladesh , tying with Zimbabwe and progressing to the Supers 8s , it was safe to say the boys in green had taken other teams by surprise . It was a similar story – albeit to a lesser extent – in 2011 , when Ireland knocked off age-old rival England . " These days , the cricket world knows exactly what this Associate nation is capable of. " Teams who do not take Ireland seriously , do so at their own peril . While the West Indies ’ form is questionable – it has come into the World Cup off a heavy series loss to South Africa – Ireland did not simply fall over the line . It may have stuttered in the late stages against the Windies , but Ireland otherwise dominated its opening clash in Nelson , taking control early with the wickets of Dwayne Smith , ( 18 ) , Chris Gayle ( 36 ) , Darren Bravo ( 0 ) , Marlon Samuels ( 21 ) and Denesh Ramdin ( 1 ) . While the Windies recovered to post a decent 304-7 , Ireland ’ s batsman – led by Paul Stirling and Ed Joyce - ensured the result was never in doubt . Ireland ’ s surprise factor has worn off , but its players are happy to have earned the respect of rival teams . “ I think we definitely get more respect , ” said spinner George Dockrell , a 22-year-old playing in his second World Cup , before Monday ’ s match . “ I think they are more aware of the threat we have been and that ’ s why teams are treating us a little bit differently . “ For Ireland the possibilities are a bit endless at the moment. ” Veteran allrounder John Mooney , who scored the winning runs on Monday , also noted sides would take Ireland lightly to their own detriment before the start of the tournament . “ Our skill levels have gone up dramatically since 2007 , ” Mooney said . “ We ’ ve got a fully professional squad. We ’ ve got professional players who aren ’ t even in the 15 which is massive. ” Ireland ’ s preparations for the World Cup were exhaustive. The team toured Australia and New Zealand in September and October last year , familiarising itself with the local conditions . It then played a series of warm-up matches in Dubai prior to Christmas including two matches against a strong New Zealand A side featuring World Cup squad members Kyle Mills , Martin Guptill , Luke Ronchi , Nathan McCullum , Mitchell McClenaghan and Adam Milne . Ireland then returned to the United Arab Emirates in January for an ODI series against Afghanistan and Scotland , which it won . Now , the team has serious ambitions of progressing beyond the pool stage of the tournament . Ireland brings with it plenty of World Cup experience : 84 games , to be precise. By comparison , defending champions India has 36 games of tournament experience , and Australia has 53 . Players in Ireland ’ s 2015 squad have scored 16 ODI tons between them , more than the England ( 15 ) and Zimbabwe ( 10 ) squads and equal with Bangladesh . Skipper William Porterfield , John Mooney , Ed Joyce and brothers Kevin and Niall O ’ Brien are playing in their third tournaments . Talented youngsters Dockrell and Stirling are making their second appearances , as are Alex Cusack and Gary Wilson . " As Porterfield said after Monday ’ s win : “ I don ’ t see it as an upset. We came into this game prepared to win. We are looking to pick up two points in every game. ” " Ireland ’ s big World Cup chases : 2015 : West Indies 304-7 defeated by Ireland 307-6 2011 : England 327 defeated by Ireland 329-7 2011 : Netherlands 306 defeated by Ireland 307-4 Share this article :
