17 February 201510 : 43 New Zealand quells Scotland challenge in tricky chase Co-host of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 ekes out hard-fought three-wicket win after restricting Scottish side to 142 all out Share this article : Scotland lost six wickets for 33 runs , going from 109 for 4 to 142 all out . The New Zealand cricket team does not want for reasons to be optimistic. But if it needed another one , consider this : in both previous ICC Cricket World Cups it has taken part in , Scotland began its campaign against the eventual tournament winner . Scotland has approached the tournament in a spirit of quiet optimism , and not been without justification. Last month , Scotland routed Afghanistan by 150 runs , and its official warm-up matches brought a thumping win over Ireland , by 179 runs , and a three-run defeat to the West Indies . In 1999 and 2007 , Scotland ’ s World Cup squad boasted only two professional cricketers , but every member of the squad today is a full-time cricketer. It is , as captain Preston Mommsen said , “ The best prepared Scotland team that has left the shores. ” However , against a New Zealand side with depth in both batting and bowling , Scotland was put on the back foot early , with four wickets falling within 26 balls of the game after it had been asked to bat against Trent Boult and Tim Southee . The end result was a three-wicket win for New Zealand after Scotland had been bowled out for 142 , but though the chase became a tad tricky , New Zealand will be happy at having achieved it in 24.5 overs , and giving its net run-rate a significant boost . Bowling the second over of the day , Boult got Calum MacLeod , the scorer of four international centuries for Scotland in 2014 , to a magical delivery that curved in from over the wicket. Hamish Gardiner suffered a near-identical fate. When Southee matched his new-ball partner in snaring wickets with consecutive deliveries , Scotland was 12 for 4 in 4.2 overs , with the Boult-Southee combination showing why it was the most lethal opening bowling pair in the world . However , Scotland fought back admirably from that situation. Matt Machan had seemed serenely calm , batting as if inoculated from the wickets falling around him. A powerfully built left-hander , Machan cuts with venom and his running oozes intent. Hooking Southee for six was a statement that he was not to be overawed. Machan ’ s celebration when he reached 50 was distinctly low-key and unobtrusive : a man here not to compete , but to win. He found a willing ally in Richie Berrington , who used his feet dexterously and lifted Daniel Vettori for a straight six. Together the two added 97 and , with the pitch flattening , Scotland had justifiable ambitions of reaching a score in the region of 230 . However , a second collapse meant that never came to pass. Machan and Berrington had added 49 in the last 7.4 overs , and 97 in all , and Brendon McCullum turned to Corey Anderson and Grant Elliott. To Machan this was the signal to attack , but he misjudged a delivery from Anderson , attempting to pull when he lacked the room to do so. The relief on the New Zealand faces showed what a sterling impression Machan had made. In Anderson ’ s next over , Berrington repeated Machan ’ s mistake of falling to a short delivery. Daniel Vettori bowled with his customary craft , and on the other side of the substantial stand , Scotland lost six wickets for 33 runs , going from 109 for 4 to 142 all out . Martin Guptill and McCullum came out brimming with intent , and New Zealand seemed set to coast to victory , but the Scottish bowlers ensured there was no easy chase . However , Josh Davey and Iain Wardlaw bowled with tenacity and skill , moving the ball off the seam and refusing to be intimidated by New Zealand ’ s big names . Kane Williamson ’ s 38 at No.3 was New Zealand ’ s highest score , while as many as five of the top seven fell before reaching 20. New Zealand was looking comfortable at 66 for 2 in the 11th over when Ross Taylor fell. Even then , at 106 for 3 in 17.5 overs , victory seemed a short distance away , but the Scotland bowlers struck four more times . Wardlaw continually produced deliveries that nipped away from a great height , and Guptill , McCullum and Grant Elliott all nicked behind. Had Wardlaw himself not dropped a chance at fine leg off Anderson , New Zealand would have been 120 for 6. By the time Wardlaw caught Anderson off Davey in the same place , the home side was only 10 runs away from its target – still enough time for Luke Ronchi to perish attempting to heave the ball out the ground . Scotland will feel that if its batting , which is the stronger suit , can come good , it will possess a puncher ’ s chance against England in Christchurch next week . New Zealand , of course , has higher aspirations , and is hoping to go deep into the tournament. In this match , its eagerness to get the runs quickly , and so improve its net run-rate , contributed partly to the rush of wickets , but by the end of the match Scotland had earned respect . Share this article :
