19 February 201512 : 46 By Anand Vasu , Nelson Williams , Ervine take Zimbabwe to four-wicket win Top order too contributes in chase of UAE ’ s 285/7 , which was set up by Khurram Khan and Shaiman Anwar Share this article : Captain Brendan Taylor scored a 44-ball 47 before Sean Williams led Zimbabwe to victory . Had it not been for the bright red of Zimbabwe ’ s strip and the matt grey of the United Arab Emirates ’ , it would have been difficult to tell which team was which , so well matched were the two at the Saxton Oval in Nelson on Thursday ( February 19 ) . As it turned out , the more experienced team held its nerve to seal the deal late in the game . UAE ’ s batting was a template on how to do so against teams that are thought to be better than yours. Wickets fell , nerves jangled , but batsmen of all descriptions played with dead-set determination. Not one pair at the crease looked remotely like it might settle for occupation and a middling score . The captain had publicly demanded 300 runs , and each batsman took it as his duty to make this happen. When Zimbabwe put UAE in , it would have known that the first half hour was the best time to bowl , with two new balls in play and just a bit in the air. Tinashe Panyangara got excellent shape into the left-hand batsmen and Tendai Chatara banged ball in , extracting good bounce and hitting the bat hard. With the opening batsmen being more than a touch nervy , the edges came , but initially either fell short of slip or went just past the outstretched wicketkeeper. A further reprieve came in the form a wicket off a no-ball , but , just when it appeared that the early storm was weathered , came a wobble . Amjad Ali , he of the swishing blade , and Andri Berenger , the young batsman from Colombo who has made UAE his home , fell in succession , leaving UAE at 40 for 2 . Khurram Khan and Krishna Chandran Karate then began to rebuild. Khurram was confident and assertive , playing some pleasing shots. The two added 82 for the third wicket , and just when it would have been time to kick on and force the pace , a wicket fell . Krishna Chandran ( 34 ) miscued while trying to clear the infield and only managed to find mid-off. Khurram , who was well on his way to a half-century , fell soon after at 45 , Sean Williams taking a smart catch at point when the batsman failed to keep a cut shot down . A second phase of consolidation was called for , and the men who took up the cudgels were Swapnil Patil , the wicketkeeper-bat who once plied his trade in Thane , Mumbai , and Shaiman Anwar , all the way from Sialkot in Pakistan. Patil was content nudging , nurdling and turning the strike over while Anwar opened up after getting his eye in. Carving the ball expertly over cover on more than one occasion , and pushing hard for singles , Anwar played the shot of the day in the 40th over , picking up a length ball from Panyangara and hitting it straight into the sight screen. The shot brought up Anwar ’ s half-century , off only 37 balls , and UAE ’ s 200 in the middle of a powerplay that yielded 48 runs for the loss of no wickets . For the second time in the game , however , a wicket fell just when a partnership was looking dangerous as Patil ( 32 ) got under the ball , hitting it high into the off side to be easily caught. The second 82-run stand of the day was the highest for the fifth wicket in any One-Day International by the UAE . When the time came to finish strongly , UAE ’ s batsmen played a few shots too many , Rohan Mustafa and Anwar ( 67 ) falling in the space of two runs as UAE slumped to 232 for 7. Muhammad Naveed attempted to make up for this , and waded into Chatara , launching him over long off and then pulling muscularly over square-leg for sixes . Amjad Javed , coming in at No. 8 , batted like a pro , repeatedly backing away to crash the ball over the off side. Playing a difficult shot with power and safety , Javed was good enough to send one ball deep into the crowd over cover. The late surge , in which the 53 runs came off only 35 balls , took the UAE to 285 for 7 ; it was close , but not quite the same as 300 , and in the end it was not enough . UAE was not as disciplined with the ball. There were enough freebies on offer , and the Zimbabwe openers cashed in , getting the chase off to a good start , putting 64 on the board before they were separated. Even as Sikander Raza ( 46 ) and Regis Chakabva ( 35 ) moved along , and Hamilton Masakadza failed , Zimbabwe kept the score within touching distance of the required rate . Try as the UAE might , the class of Brendan Taylor was unmistakeable. Without breaking a sweat , he helped himself to 47 before a floater from Nasir Aziz straightened like a doosra to beat the sweep and earn the lbw . Sean Williams ( 76 not out ) and , especially , Craig Ervine ( 42 ) powered the chase , getting Zimbabwe across the line with four wickets and 12 balls to spare . With a few more runs on the board , UAE would have had scoreboard pressure on their side , but , in that absence , victory eluded , although respect had been well and truly earned . Share this article :
