22 February 201517 : 21 By R Kaushik , Melbourne Dhawan ton studs India 's comprehensive win Fantastic display on the field backs up the good work of the batsmen as AB de Villiers ’ s men are swept away Share this article : Shikhar Dhawan scored his seventh ODI hundred to help India beat South Africa in World Cup 2015 . The atmosphere at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Sunday ( February 22 ) didn ’ t quite parallel that at the Adelaide Oval last Sunday , but , then again , there is not much that can match the intensity and drama of an India-Pakistan contest . That said , there was no shortage of either colour or passion as 86,786 fans , a massive majority of them Indian supporters , crammed the biggest cricket ground in the world in the fond hope that India would end its ICC Cricket World Cup jinx against South Africa . Their hopes were realised as India produced a commanding performance to sweep AB de Villiers ’ s men aside. S hikhar Dhawan ’ s seventh One-Day International hundred and a truly wonderful mid-innings flourish from Ajinkya Rahane had muscled India , batting by choice , to 307 for 7 , but it was what followed that was special . The bowling was relentlessly aggressive as Mohammed Shami , Umesh Yadav and Mohit Sharma cranked up the pace on a surface that had become livelier under lights , but it was the fielding that shone the brightest . Wonderful athleticism and accuracy from the deep from Mohit and Yadav resulted in the run outs of de Villiers and David Miller respectively. Games turn on just one such dismissal ; two were two too many for South Africa. To see India field with the brilliance that it did must have been particularly heart-warming for Mahendra Singh Dhoni , whose side took a giant stride towards the quarterfinal with a comprehensive 130-run victory after South Africa was bowled out for 177 with nearly ten overs to spare . South Africa would rue Hashim Amla letting Dhawan off on 53 , a lapse that was to cost it plenty as the left-hand opening batsman homed in on three figures. India had never lost on the six previous occasions when Dhawan had made a One-Day International ton ; it was in seventh heaven on Sunday , as the Dhawan streak remained unaltered . The ferocity with which Shami and Yadav came at them rocked Quinton de Kock and Amla. South Africa was given no leeway at all , the boundary balls conspicuously absent. All three quicks hurried every one of the batsmen on view with pace and bounce , commodities that hadn ’ t reared their heads earlier in the afternoon . Just about the only time India was somewhat threatened was when de Villiers and Faf du Plessis were engaged in a 68-run third-wicket stand at just slower than a run a ball. South Africa was still a long way back but the potential for carnage these two men possess is legendary. That ’ s when Mohit stepped up , running to his left from sweeper cover to swoop in on a cut and rifle in a flat throw to a delighted Dhoni. De Villiers gone , the lower order was exposed , with South Africa a batsman short after sacrificing Farhaan Behardien for Wayne Parnell . Du Plessis flowered briefly but India persevered and kept finding success. When Yadav mirror-imaged Mohit ’ s throw to catch Miller , also returning for a second run , just short , the celebrations began in the stands and in the changing room. India had won its first game in World Cups against South Africa in four tilts . India 's batting effort bore an uncanny resemblance to that of exactly a week back , against Pakistan at the Adelaide Oval. Like then , there were two successive century stands , for the second and third wickets ; also like then , one batsman hit a hundred and the No. 4 provided the impetus , even if the personnel involved were largely different . South Africa 's fielding is very seldom anything but less than top-drawer stuff. De Villiers ’ s direct hit from a squarish mid-off to evict Rohit Sharma in the third over of the game was further confirmation of the standards South Africa set and meet on a cricket field . But that ’ s as good as it got for it as India ’ s batsmen turned on the heat. Dhawan blazed to the highest individual score against South Africa in World Cup cricket , while Rahane played an innings of rare incandescence . But just as aggression alone wasn ’ t the bedrock around which Dhawan built his seventh ODI ton , India was n't a one-man army either. Virat Kohli , fresh off his Adelaide century , kept Dhawan company in a second-wicket stand of 127 , and Rahane then took the breath away with a succession of the most spectacular strokes that swept Dale Steyn away too in their wake . Steyn had begun the afternoon with a first-over maiden , bending the ball past the outside edge of Rohit ’ s bat twice in the first six deliveries , but as the swing went out early , Dhawan and Kohli were able to bat with confidence , if not necessarily freedom. The early part of their association was all about occupation of the crease and careful accumulation of runs , through judicious placement and exceptional running – something India did excellently well throughout the innings , Rohit ’ s run out after a mix-up with Dhawan notwithstanding . South Africa was dealt a body blow when it lost Vernon Philander ’ s services with a left hamstring injury after a first spell of 4-1-19-0. Against Steyn and Morne Morkel , India played it smart , not taking undue risks but still scoring briskly because of the manner in which it ran between the wickets . Having returned to somewhere near his best with 73 in the last game , Dhawan drove crisply and cut with disdainful nonchalance as his offside play attained full bloom. Twice , against Steyn first and then Morkel , he did get into awkward positions against the short ball , but as his innings blossomed , he played the pull and the ramp , too , with impunity . Kohli looked far more fluent than against Pakistan , a wonderful on-drive off Morkel competing with a push-drive that left even bowler Steyn gasping in admiration the pick of his strokes. Just as he was primed to kick on , he pulled a long hop from Imran Tahir , otherwise pretty tidy , straight to shortish midwicket . With nearly 23 overs left , the stage was set for Suresh Raina to come out and do his bidding ; instead , Dhoni pulled a rabbit out of the hat and pushed Rahane up , and what a masterstroke that turned out to be. Rahane isn ’ t the fiercest striker of the cricket ball but he is a clean hitter who showed that you can score briskly even through orthodoxy. He arrived in a blaze of positivity even as Dhawan made the journey to his hundred in 122 deliveries. Taking the pressure off his partner , Rahane unleashed such destruction that South Africa were positively rocked. De Villiers and his men might have expected Raina or Dhoni to cut loose ; they were singularly unprepared for the Rahane assault that dominated the third-wicket stand of 129 , which came off only 101 deliveries . Post his century , Dhawan too opened out , an audacious pick-up off Morkel that soared over the fine-leg fence a definitive statement of command and mastery. India then lost 5 for 46 in the last 39 deliveries , starting with Dhawan ’ s dismissal , but that was far from decisive. What was , was India 's pace exhibition , and a tremendous fielding display from a side that will be viewed with respect by the rest of the field . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
