23 February 201512 : 30 By Anand Vasu , Christchurch Moeen heroics give England first points Opener hits brilliant 128 and picks up two wickets in 119-run win over Scotland Share this article : Even when he was not to the pitch of the ball , Moeen Ali was able to control it , hitting into gaps or over fielders . England picked up its first points of the 2015 World Cup , securing a 119-run win over Scotland on Monday ( February 23 ) . The batting clicked for England this time and it posted a healthy 303 for 8. The bowlers then chipped in with some early wickets and Scotland was n't able to recover from that though it did put up a fight . England went into the game with an unchanged team. Put in to bat under overcast skies , England ’ s openers were circumspect at the start . But once the ball stopped swinging , Moeen Ali took full toll. Hipster beard waving in the Christchurch breeze , Moeen swung his bat in clean arcs , his hands coming through the line with flair that would have done Saeed Anwar proud . Even when he was not to the pitch of the ball , Moeen was able to control it , hitting into gaps or over fielders. Bell , meanwhile , gave Moeen good company with 54 from 85 balls . Moeen brought up his half-century in only 39 balls , and when he acknowledged the crowd ’ s cheers upon reaching hundred , there were enough overs left in the innings for him to have a comfortable crack at Robin Smith ’ s England record score of 167 that has stood for a staggering 22 years . England had laid a fantastic platform , getting to 172 for no loss at the 30-over mark , but Bell punched one straight to mid-off , and soon after Moeen ( 128 ) slogged one to the midwicket fielder. Scotland , sensed this was its best opportunity to strike , pounced . Ballance fell for 10 off 18 balls , Joe Root tickled Davey to the ‘ keeper , and England had lost four wickets for 23 runs in the space of six overs. In five Power Play overs , England managed 22 runs , losing two wickets . Eoin Morgan began the rescue operation with James Taylor , but the two were forced to consolidate early on. Scotland sneaked in a few quiet overs , and with the partnership on 49 , the batsmen looking to get a move on. But Scotland struck once more . Taylor shuffled down the pitch to Davey , who fired the ball in wide and Matthew Cross , the wicketkeeper , smartly gloved the ball and dove back to break the stumps. It was the kind of stumping that lifted the entire fielding team , a moment of brilliance . That brought Buttler to the crease with a bit of time to tee up the big shots. Unorthodox , but always looking to be aggressive , Buttler ’ s 24 from 14 balls lifted the innings , and Morgan joined in the home-stretch fun. Clearing his front leg and tonking the ball back down the ground with power , Morgan collected a 42-ball 46 to take England to 303 for 8 . Scotland was full of optimism when they began its innings , but the scoreboard pressure and the extra pace of the England attack proved challenging. Kyle Coetzer hit the ball sweetly at the top of the order , clattering his way to 71 even as wickets fell with regularity at the other end . Once it was three down for only 54 , the chase was in deep trouble. Scotland was bowled out for 184 in the 43rd over , giving England victory by 119 runs . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
