24 February 201517 : 57 Gayle record double blows Zimbabwe away His partnership of 372 with Samuels sets up the West Indies ’ 73-run win over its spirited opponent Share this article : Chris Gayle smashed his way into the record books with a blistering 175 against Zimbabwe in World Cup 2015 . The records didn ’ t just tumble at the Manuka Oval on Tuesday ( February 24 ) , they were smashed out of the park. The highest partnership in ODI history ( 372 ) , putting Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid ( 331 ) in the shade. The most balls a pair has batted together ( 298 ) , again displacing the same duo. The highest score in a World Cup , eclipsing Gary Kirsten ’ s 188 not out against United Arab Emirates in 1996. The most number of sixes in an ODI innings ( 16 ) , drawing level with AB de Villiers and Rohit Sharma . Chris Gayle and Marlon Samuels came together with the scoreboard showing 0-1 after two balls. By the time Gayle was caught off a miscue on the final ball of the innings , he had galumphed his way to 215 off 147 balls. Samuels had eased to 133 from 156. The West Indies had 372 for 2 , its highest ODI total . Zimbabwe , who had batted with real verve in its matches thus far , gave further proof of its ability with a spirited run chase. Sean Williams led the way with 76 , and there were important contributions from Craig Ervine and Brendan Taylo r as they did their best to scale the run mountain. But Jerome Taylor and Jason Holder led the way with three wickets , while Gayle chipped in with two as Zimbabwe ’ s pursuit of 363 in 48 overs – 20 minutes were lost to rain 2.3 overs into the innings – finished on 289 , 73 runs behind ( D/L method ) . Related Articles Can Gayle 's X-Factor carry West Indies all the way at # cwc15 ? For 35 overs with the ball , Zimbabwe had been admirably disciplined , despite taking only the one wicket. When the West Indies took the batting Power Play , it was 165 for 1. At the end of it , the batsmen had added a further 55. The final ten overs was just carnage , with Samuels joining Gayle in clubbing the bowling to all parts. Zimbabwe went to pieces , conceding 152 in that period . Gayle isn ’ t the kind of man to wear heart on sleeve , and there were few signs early on that he would be able to navigate a way out of a wretched run that had seen him cross 50 just once in 19 previous ODIs. He was distinctly fortunate to survive a leg-before shout from Tinashe Panyangara off the first ball he faced. It clipped both pads , and though Steve Davis gave it not out , Zimbabwe was confident enough to go for the review. But with only half the ball clipping the bails , it didn ’ t get the second wicket in the opening over , after Dwayne Smith had played all around one that darted back a touch . Gayle ’ s first four was a chip over mid-on that ballooned tantalisingly over the fielder , and it was Samuels that looked more fluent early with two powerful shots down the ground. But on a sluggish pitch , Gayle eventually found his range , scorching a cover-drive off Tendai Chatara , before flicking him for four more. Williams came on to bowl spin and was greeted with a thump over long-on and a sweep for four . Samuels , who had by then relegated himself to supporting act , should have gone when just 27 , with the total on 73. But Chatara grassed a cut off Sikander Raza at backward point. The West Indies cooled off with drinks , and Gayle resumed by going on bended knee to biff Elton Chigumbura over extra cover for six . He took 51 balls for his half-century , and then took Tafadzwa Kamungozi over deep midwicket and straight down the ground for sixes. When he got to 79 , he became only the second West Indian after Brian Lara to reach 9000 ODI runs , an achievement he marked by lofting Raza over long-on for six . The hundred , his first since making his 21st ODI ton against Sri Lanka in June 2013 , took 105 balls , and after that there was no stopping him. He began the Power Play with a flicked six off Hamilton Masakadza and Panyangara , who had him caught off a no-ball and then the free hit that followed was treated with equal disdain. He ended the Power Play as he had begun it , with a six . It took Gayle 21 balls to go from 100 to 150 and just a further 12 to become the first double-centurion at a World Cup. It made him the first non-Indian – Sachin Tendulkar , Virender Sehwag and Rohit ( twice ) had already pulled off the feat – to reach that landmark in ODIs. It was also the fastest double ( 138 balls ) , besting Sehwag ’ s effort by two deliveries. Samuels , who had labored 95 balls for his half-century , took just another 48 for his hundred , and iced the cake with a flurry of hits to and over the rope . Zimbabwe , despite losing three wickets in the initial Power Play , never dawdled. Regis Chakabva and Masakadza were both leg before , one given after Holder called for a review , and the other wasting a review after Jerome Taylor struck him plumb in front. Raza cut and drove beautifully in a 20-ball cameo of 26 before ramping one straight to third man , leaving Taylor and Williams to resurrect the innings from the depths of 46 for 3 . They did so at better than a run a ball , adding 80 before Taylor , who hit two fours and a six in his 37 ( 48 balls ) , fell . Williams was the most fluent of the Zimbabwe batsmen on view , striking some gorgeous on-drives on his way to 76 from 61 balls. But when he made a hash of a pull through midwicket , the game was as good as up. Ervine , who played some ferocious pulls , flailed away for 52 in 41 balls , but almost inevitably , it was Gayle that once again occupied centre stage . The Player of the Match is of course Chris Gayle ! And naturally it 's the best # TwitterMirror ever ! ! # cwc15 # WIvZIM pic.twitter.com/o3sixrLR5m — ICC ( @ ICC ) February 24 , 2015 Ervine was bowled , Matsikenyeri trapped leg before , and Chigumbura smartly caught at extra cover. At various phases in the contest , Zimbabwe had shown what it was capable of. But in the final analysis , it simply didn ’ t have any answers to the Gayle storm . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
