25 February 201519 : 00 By Anand Vasu Ireland stretched by UAE before winning thriller Shaiman Anwar ’ s century goes in vain as Gary Wilson and Kevin O ’ Brien take their team to last-over win Share this article : Gary Wilson scored a 69-ball 80 to help Ireland snatch a two-wicket victory . Despite chasing down in excess of 300 against West Indies , Ireland discovered that cricket does not follow form sheets during its chase of 279 against United Arab Emirates in Brisbane in a Pool B game on Wednesday ( February 25 ) . Ireland did , however , cling on to the dream to secure a two-wicket win in the last over , and pick up two more vital points . At the Australian fortress in Brisbane that cricket fans know simply as the Gabba , William Porterfield won the toss and put UAE in. Amjad Ali and Andri Berenger , all flailing arms and chancy shots in their last game , against Zimbabwe at the Saxton Oval in Nelson , were remarkably settled. They set risk aside and chose instead to build a base , getting to 49 before they were separated . But , if UAE hoped to make the most of a good start , it was in for another thing. Ireland introduced the off-spin of Paul Stirling early and it paid off. Stirling stuck to his task in an uninterrupted spell and ended with excellent figures of 10-0-27-2. On top of restricting the opposition , the wickets Stirling took , of Berenger and Krishna Chandran , the latter for a duck , ensured that UAE could not build any momentum whatsoever . This changed when Khurram Khan strode out to the middle and took charge of proceedings. Fluent as they come , Khurram showed that neither the opposition attack nor the conditions were insurmountable. Nudging , nurdling , whipping and working the ball away , Khurram looked good for a big one when he fell , against the run of play , given out lbw to the left-arm spin of George Dockrell when he had shimmied down the pitch . At 125 for 5 , UAE was probably looking at a middling score. But Shaiman Anwar , who had showed the utmost urgency in his innings against Zimbabwe , had other ideas. Anwar , fidgety at the crease and not boasting the greatest of records – he came into the World Cup with only 196 runs from eight innings – showed once again how far a fearless attitude can take you . Adding 107 runs in only 11.5 overs with Amjad Javed , a record seventh-wicket stand for the World Cup , Shaiman turned the game into a scrap. Muscling his way to 106 , off only 83 balls , the first century by a UAE batsman in World Cups , Shaiman took his team to 278 for 9 in 50 overs . Ireland needed a good start and ideally for Stirling , who knows only one way to bat , which is hitting good balls and bad , to stay at the crease for a bit. But Manjula Guruge , the left-arm seamer with Sri Lankan origins playing his first game of the tournament , produced a peach that slanted away and induced the nick from Stirling ’ s flashing blade . Porterfield and Ed Joyce then consolidated , pushing the score along to 72 before UAE could celebrate again. Joyce ( 37 ) nicked one and soon after there was more trouble when Porterfield ( 37 ) swept and missed against Mohammad Tauqir and the wobble was on . If Gary Wilson , Ireland ’ s wicket-keeper , had not held his end firm , things could have gotten tricky. But Wilson , who has turned out for Surrey and has the experience 60 first-class matches to fall back on , was not in a mood to give up . Wilson never resorted to naked aggression , and the fact that he got to 80 off only 69 balls without once trying to hit a six was proof of how well he ran between the wickets and constructed his innings. There were some gorgeous shots , such as the inside-out hit over cover off Mohammed Naveed , and the crunching straight hit off the same bowler that nearly decapitated the umpire. But , when Wilson fell for 80 , there was still work to be done . Fortunately for Ireland , Kevin O ’ Brien did his thing when it mattered the most , clattering 50 off only 25 balls to ease the pressure. The game went down to the wire , but Ireland held its nerve enough to get across the line with two wickets and four balls to spare . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
