26 February 201511 : 02 South Africa v West Indies Preview , Match 19 , Sydney South Africa has dominated encounters between the sides , but the West Indies , fresh off big wins , is uninhibited at World Cups Share this article : If this was a bilateral contest , South Africa would be prohibitive favourite , however it seems to struggle in tournaments with top billing . If you go by numbers alone , Friday ’ s ( February 27 ) clash in Sydney is one of the biggest mismatches of the tournament. South Africa has dominated the West Indies in recent seasons , winning 16 of their last 18 encounters. The only loss came at Port Elizabeth , in a dead rubber in January. You have to go back to November 2006 for the last time the West Indies won a big game against South Africa . On that occasion in Jaipur , in the semifinal of the Champions Trophy , Chris Gayle biffed an unbeaten 133 from 135 balls as the West Indies went past a decent total with six overs to spare. That result was also indicative of how the rivalry has played out in global tournaments. South Africa has shaded it 3-2 at the World Cup , and they ’ re all square at 2-2 in the Champions Trophy , with the last game in Cardiff ( 2013 ) ending in a tie . Gayle ’ s century against Zimbabwe in Canberra was his first in 15 ODI innings on Australian soil. Three of his 22 hundreds have come against South Africa , but his average drops six points from the career figure against the team. Since that Jaipur epic , his highest score in 13 matches against South Africa has been 45 . Be that as it may , the West Indies is desperate for him to play. He missed the training session on the eve of the game , resting his back , but was expected to be fit for the match. The bigger doubts surrounded Suleimann Benn , who missed the Zimbabwe game and was still on the doubtful list ahead of this one . South Africa has to replace Vernon Philander , who pulled up with a hamstring injury after bowling just four overs against India. Kyle Abbott , known for his expertise in the slog overs , is the likely replacement. The team will also consider replacing Wayne Parnell , whose nine overs went for 85 against India , with either Farhaan Behardien or Rilee Russouw . Parnell would be the better bowling option on a surface expected to help the quicks a little , while Russouw offers a more explosive and versatile option with the bat . When these two first met in Christchurch in March 1992 , it was one of the most eagerly anticipated matches of the tournament – pitting a nation just returned from apartheid-era isolation with a team that had been at the forefront of black consciousness in sport. On the field , it was a low-scoring game , with Peter Kirsten ’ s sedate 56 trumping Gus Logie ’ s aggressive 61. Meyrick Pringle ripped out the top order after Brian Lara had started with two glorious strokes through the off side . Lara would come back to haunt South Africa twice though. In 1996 , his century in Karachi sent the tournament favourite – five out of five and perfect till then – tumbling out in the quarterfinal , while a fabulous 116 at Newlands in 2003 got its tournament got off to the worst possible start . If this was a bilateral contest , South Africa would be prohibitive favourite. But in tournament situations , it appears to struggle to cope with top-dog billing. The West Indies don ’ t seem as affected or inhibited. Gayle spoke of there being a score to settle after the 4-1 series defeat in South Africa recently , and it ’ ll be interesting to see how South Africa responds if subjected to intense pressure early on . Teams : South Africa ( likely ) : Quinton de Kock ( wk ) , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , AB de Villiers ( capt ) , David Miller , JP Duminy , Farhaan Behardien , Rilee Russouw , Morne Morkel , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott , Imran Tahir . West Indies ( likely ) : Chris Gayle , Dwayne Smith , Marlon Samuels , Jonathan Carter , Denesh Ramdin ( wk ) , Lendl Simmons , Darren Sammy , Andre Russell , Jason Holder ( capt ) , Jerome Taylor , Nikita Miller . Share this article :
