26 February 201512 : 12 By Anand Vasu , Dunedin Shenwari rescues Afghanistan for historic win His 96 lifts team from 97 for 7 for dramatic one-wicket win after Scotland posts 210 Share this article : Samiullah Shenwari scored a stubborn 96 to help Afghanistan clinch a one-wicket win . At the world ’ s southernmost cricketing outpost , Thursday ( February 26 ) dawned crisp and sunny , and while the sun bore down hard through clear blue skies , a cool southerly blew incessantly off the seas , as if in reminder that Antarctica was not all that far away. At the University Oval in Dunedin , the two teams mirrored the elements , blowing alternately hot and cold . And , while the Scots were much the same , Afghanistan took this two-facedness to a ridiculous extreme covering the gamut from brilliant to mediocre and back , sealing a one-wicket in one of the most dramatic games of cricket you will see in a long time . Samiullah Shenwari played the kind of World Cup innings Brian Lara would ’ ve been proud of , singlehandedly lifting his side from the depths of depression to within kissing distance of victory. Coming to the crease with the score on 46 for 2 , and watching the scoreboard slip to 97 for 7 , Shenwari ( 96 ) did not leave till the 47th over , when one booming slogsweep too many missed the meat of the bat and floated down the throat of the long-on fielder. With 19 still needed , though , Scotland was back in the game . Shapoor Zadran , the tall left-arm quick , batted with composure , and when he tucked the final ball of the penultimate over past the fine-leg fielder to the fence , Afghanistan was left needing 5 from the last over . Iain Wardlaw , Scotland ’ s spearhead , conceded a single off the first ball. Rapped on the pads off the second , Shapoor wandered nervously down the pitch and would have been well run out if Matt Machan ’ s under-arm throw had hit the target. The third ball was a leg-stump full-toss , and Shapoor flicked it ever so elegantly to seal the deal . After being set a modest target of 211 – and this was courtesy Scotland ’ s best batting effort in a World Cup match – Afghanistan began strongly. Javed Ahmadi bossed over the bowling. Nawroze Mangal was more subdued , and did not receive as much of the strike , getting to 7 off 13 before a slightly lazy stroke was beaten by a ball from Alasdair Evans that came back in just enough to castle the batsman . Asghar Stanikzai played forward to a ball that was just back of a length , and lifted , the edge fairly flying through to the keeper. The big wicket , though , was of Ahmadi ( 51 ) . Coming down the track to the medium pace of Richie Berrington , Ahmadi went through his big stroke , and the ball went high rather than far , to be easily caught . Afghanistan then lost five wickets for the addition of only nine runs. Berrington was the chief beneficiary , scalping 3 for 9 in the space of 19 balls . Shenwari was left to plough a lone furrow as six batsmen either side of him departed for single-digit scores. At 97 for 7 , Afghanistan would have felt that heartbreak was around the corner. Playing at a different plane , Shenwari kept the game alive , first blocking so determinedly that Scotland was forced to take its foot off the pedal and then picking off the big hits as surely as a sniper would coconuts from 50 yards away. Under pressure , this was an innings of great heart , and Shenwari certainly deserved to end on the winning side . Earlier , Afghanistan had bowled with skill and fielded with spirit . The tone was set early on by Calum McLeod , who cut a rank long-hop straight to the man at point. Hamish Gardiner did not have too much success , playing down the wrong line and Scotland was in a spot of bother . This grew into full-fledged trouble when Kyle Coetzer played an airy drive against Dawlat Zadran . The bowler had kept the ball full enough for it to swing , and the white Kookaburra duly obliged , bending in to exploit the gap between bat and pad and trigger the stumps . Matt Machan and Peter Mommsen set about picking up the pieces of the innings , and although neither batsman was able to dominate the bowling , a sense of normalcy returned to the proceedings. Afghanistan did not go on the defensive at any stage , and its perpetual search for wickets soon bore fruit . Machan , who had been busy enough to get 31 from 28 balls through safe strokes suddenly favoured adventurism and the move backfired. Giving himself room to clear cover , Machan missed and the off stump was pegged back . Even before Machan could take his seat in the dressing-room , his captain was beside him , Mommsen ( 23 ) feathering a nick off Gulbadin Naib . Matthew Cross looked promising for a time , but Shapoor produced a peach , a bit of extra bounce coupled with the ball straightening from around the stumps doing more than enough to kiss the edge. Diving full length to his right , Zazai plucked the ball out of the air one-handed , capping off an excellent passage of play . Berrington provided the resistance , at No. 6 , making 25 before the Shapoor-Zazai firm was back in business and Scotland was 144 for 8 . To their credit , Scotland ’ s bowlers put a price on their wickets , not once choosing to go down in a blaze of glory. Instead , valuable runs were added drip by drip. Majid Haq ( 31 ) and Evans ( 28 ) combined in a 62-run ninth-wicket stand , the best for Scotland in all ODIs and even managed a mini flourish late in the innings to take their team to 210. In the end , it just wasn ’ t enough . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
