28 February 201513 : 05 By Anand Vasu , Auckland Narrow win for New Zealand in low-scoring thriller Bowlers , led by Boult ’ s five-for , restrict Australia to 151 and McCullum sets up chase before Starc takes it down to the wire Share this article : New Zealand beat Australia by only one wicket , but the manner of the win left little doubt and proved that it was the team to beat . A pumped up crowd at Eden Park , bathed in glorious Auckland sunshine , were treated to a rousing display of limited-overs cricket from the home side on Saturday ( February 28 ) . When the bowling was not fast and furious , it was slow and cunning. When the fielding was not safe , it was electric. And the captaincy , oh the captaincy , it was of the kind that makes every ball exciting . The margin of New Zealand ’ s victory over Australia was only one wicket , but the manner of the triumph left little in doubt and New Zealand proved it was the team to beat . Initially , the crowd was kept quiet to begin with. When the first six overs ended , Australia was running away with the game , at 51 for 1. Daniel Vettori , coming on to bowl the seventh , hit a perfect length from ball one , and the speed at which his left-arm orthodox fizzed through made him irresistible. Vettori slammed the breaks on the scoring rate , and accounted for Shane Watson and Steve Smith , although he could ’ ve had more . Vettori ’ s class was only too evident from the time he got the ball in hand. The bespectacled wizard had a reading of the conditions – short straight boundaries and a true pitch – and bowled as though the ball was on a string. To the pacemen went all the glory on the day , but it was Vettori who turned the tide . If Vettori got New Zealand a foot in the door , Tim Southee and Trent Boult combined to kick it out of the hinges . Southee , who had sent down a rocket to trigger Aaron Finch ’ s off stump , nailed David Warner in front of the stumps . Boult then began a spell of absolute carnage , in which he would take five wickets conceding only one run in three overs. Glenn Maxwell and Mitchell Marsh underestimated the pace and failed to account for the swing Boult generated , both batsmen hanging their bats outside off to drag the ball back onto the stumps. Michael Clarke , who returned to the XI in place of George Bailey , popped a catch straight to Kane Williamson . When Adam Milne finally got a chance to bowl , with four slips in place , in the 28th over , just three bowlers had been used before him , and Australia was on the mat at 128 for 9. The crowd , which feasted on Australia ’ s misery , roared one final time for the innings in the 33rd over , when Australia was dismissed , for 151 , thanks mainly to Brad Haddin ’ s 43 . When New Zealand came out to bat , McCullum was in the mood not merely to knock off the runs but to make a strong statement. Blasting back over the bowler ’ s head , pulling with the quickest of hands , and shrugging when the odd ball flew off the edge , McCullum brought up his half-century in only 21 balls. That he was dismissed three balls later did nothing to dampen the enthusiasm . Mitchell Starc ushered in the break with a searing delivery that shattered Ross Taylor ’ s stumps , and when the players returned after their meal , Grant Elliott could do nothing to a yorker that swung late and flattened the middle stump. The wobble got Australia fired up , but there just were not enough runs on the board for it to make a difference. Kane Williamson and Corey Anderson stitched together a 52-run fifth-wicket partnership to take their team to the doorstep of victory . Just when it seemed the game was gone , Australia roared back through Mitchell Starc , whose yorkers blasted through the lower order. Starc ended with 6 for 28 . With six runs still needed , and only one wicket in hand , Williamson ( 45 not out ) , ice in his veins , smacked Cummins back over his head and into the stands . A little over 40,000 delirious people were out on the streets hours before they planned to be , and a long Saturday night beckoned . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
