28 February 201522 : 26 England v Sri Lanka Preview , Match 22 at Wellington Both teams found rhythm and form in their previous matches , and a win is vital for both in a tight Pool A table Share this article : Sri Lanka also had a rocky start to the tournament , but it seems to have found its footing now . Ahead of what has become an even more crucial encounter than it would have been before the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 got underway , England will take on Sri Lanka at the Wellington Regional Stadium on Sunday ( March 1 ) , with both teams aiming for a performance that will lift them towards some security near the top of the Pool A table . Only a couple of points separate second-placed Sri Lanka – who has four – from sixth-placed England , who has two , and the winner of this clash will take an important step towards stabilising its position . England had heavy defeats to co-hosts Australia and New Zealand , but the Eoin Morgan-led side turned it around after a 119-run triumph against Scotland. However , the heavy defeats have meant England has a negative net run-rate , and it will be aware that unless the wins start stacking up , an early flight home could be a possibility . “ It ’ s very important for us and these three games are almost each like a quarterfinal , but we thrive on that sort of pressure and hopefully it will bring the best out of us , ” said Steve Finn , one of England ’ s frontline pacers , on the eve of the match . Sri Lanka also had a rocky start to the tournament , but it seems to have found its footing now . Since a 98-run loss to New Zealand , Sri Lanka has returned to form with wins over Afghanistan and Bangladesh. The manner of the wins – overcoming a collapse in the first one and a clinical performance in the second must have boosted the side ’ s confidence . It will need plenty of that and more against England , a side eager to forget the poor shows against Australia and New Zealand . England lost to Australia by 111 runs and was 123 all out before losing to New Zealand by eight wickets , before its campaign brightened after the win against Scotland. Moeen Ali was the chief architect behind that , and he could play a decisive role against Sri Lanka . The biggest plus for England from the Scotland game was Morgan getting back in the runs with a fluent 42-ball 46 and time spent in the middle . England had lost a seven-match ODI series against Sri Lanka last year by a 2-5 margin last year , but its pace attack had lacked the services of Stuart Broad and James Anderson then. The duo are back now , and conditions in Wellington will also be vastly different to the ones both sides faced in Sri Lanka , and England will thus believe it starts on somewhat even footing against the 1996 World Champions . Sunday ’ s game will be Sri Lanka ’ s third in eight days , and though Sri Lanka has arrived at a point in its campaign where the schedule is rushed , the upside is it has given Lasith Malinga the bandwidth to get miles under his belt. Sri Lanka ’ s strike bowler had come into the tournament after ankle surgery , and has looked close to returning to his best. With Suranga Lakmal and Thisara Perera also in rhythm , Sri Lanka ’ s pace stocks aren ’ t lacking . “ He looked much more like his old self , his bowling had some of that old zip about it and that is a great sign for a team that really needs him to fire , ” said Muttiah Muralithan , the former Sri Lankan spinner , of Malinga . With both teams in look out for important wins , this fixture has assumed added importance and could be another one of those thrillers , or at the very least – a good game of cricket . Teams ( from ) : Sri Lanka : Tillakaratne Dilshan , Lahiru Thirimanne , Kumar Sangakkara ( wk ) , Mahela Jayawardene , Dimuth Karunaratne , Angelo Mathews ( capt ) , Rangana Herath , Lasith Malinga , Suranga Lakmal , Dushmantha Chameera , Dinesh Chandimal , Nuwan Kulasekara , Thisara Perera , Sachithra Senanayake . England : Moeen Ali , Ian Bell , Gary Ballance , Joe Root , Eoin Morgan ( capt ) , James Taylor , Jos Buttler ( wk ) , Chris Woakes , Stuart Broad , Steven Finn , James Anderson , Ravi Bopara , Alex Hales , Chris Jordan , James Tredwell . Share this article :
