04 March 201519 : 44 By R Kaushik , Perth Australia marches to record win Smashing knocks from Warner , Smith , Maxwell in 417/6 total against Afghanistan before bowlers ensure 275-run win Share this article : David Warner 's stellar 178 help set up Australia 's massive 275-run win over Afghanistan Afghanistan was at the receiving end of a stellar Australian performance at the WACA ground on Wednesday ( March 4 ) before a sizeable gathering . Thankful for Mohammad Nabi sticking it in , Australia racked up 417 for 6 , the highest total in World Cup play. That tally came on the back of David Warner ’ s muscular strokeplay , Steve Smith ’ s polish and Glenn Maxwell ’ s unalloyed pyrotechnics. The bowlers then joined hands to fire Afghanistan out for 142 and set up a 275-run victory. It was both Australia ’ s biggest victory margin , and the biggest margin by runs in all World Cup action . Afghanistan rode its luck early on against Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood with Javed Ahmadi and Usman Ghani , coming in for Gulbadin Naib , surviving six testing overs in getting to 30. But Mitchell Johnson arrived as first change in the seventh over to loud cheers from the crowd , and packed Ghani off with his third delivery. Ahmadi steered Hazlewood to second slip in the next over and Asghar Stanikzai , three strokes a ball , put Johnson up for Smith to run back from gully toward third man and cling on to a superb catch . Nawroz Mangal presented poise in the middle. The man who idolises Sachin Tendulkar played two drives down the ground that would have made the master proud , then swung Mitchell Marsh for consecutive sixes as he and Samiullah Shenwari , Afghanistan ’ s most consistent batsman in the competition , strung together 48 for the fourth wicket. But both fell at the same score in the space of four deliveries ; from 94 for 5 , it was a tough challenge for Afghanistan . In the afternoon , Warner had threatened to become men ’ s One-Day International cricket ’ s fifth double-centurion before falling for a most spectacular 178 , Smith looked on course to become the second centurion of the innings until he holed out for 95 , and Maxwell thoroughly entertained the audience with the kind of manic ball-striking that he alone is capable of . Fours ( 36 ) and sixes ( 14 ) tumbled off Aussies willows with tremendous regularity. Afghanistan ’ s two lead bowlers , Dawlat and Shapoor Zadran , went for 101 and 89 respectively in their 10 overs , and Nabi ’ s offspin yielded 84 . For all that , Dawlat had begun pretty promisingly , bowling fuller , and got beautiful shape away from Aaron Finch . He rounded off an excellent second over by forcing Finch to edge a flat-footed drive at a lovely awayswinger that was well held low to his left at first slip by Mangal. Australia 14 for 1 , enter Smith at No. 3 – Shane Watson was dropped to accommodate James Faulkner . Smith was an almost invisible presence as Warner hogged the strike , and the limelight. Warner completed his fourth ODI hundred in 92 deliveries , then upped the pace as 78 came off his last 41. Smith , meanwhile , bridged the gap between balls faced and runs scored with a series of boundaries off Shenwari . Their partnership had burgeoned to an Australian record 260 with Warner four hits away from Club 200 when Shapoor eventually broke through , Nabi circling around a giant skier at midwicket and holding on to an excellent catch . Smith was overshadowed for the second time in as many stands when Maxwell arrived in a frenzy of strokeplay. It was here at the WACA , a little over a month back , that Maxwell had regained form in the tri-series final against England. That was a restrained innings , in deference to the match situation ; here , he had the license to pummel away . The reverse hits were both audacious and awe-inspiring , the driving down the ground and over the ropes mesmeric. Fielders on the boundary were reduced to mere spectators as the ball disappeared way over their heads into the crowds . Smith had been dismissed for 95 , giving Shapoor a second wicket of the day , but Maxwell stayed on course for his maiden – and the World Cup ’ s fastest – hundred until Dawlat foxed him with a back-of-the-hand slower one that was smartly held by Nabi at cover. By then , he had clattered along to 88 off 39. Afghanistan had conceded 118 in the last 10 overs and Australia had passed India ’ s 413 for 5 in 2007 against Bermuda. Only the formalities remained . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
