05 March 201512 : 47 Batsmen take Bangladesh to six-wicket win Scotland posts 318 on the back of Coetzer ’ s 156 , but Iqbal leads chase as team keeps quarterfinal hopes alive Share this article : Tamim Iqbal and Mohammad Mahmudullah consolidated with a solid second-wicket stand of 139 off 130 balls The ICC World Cup 2015 has been a tournament that has seen many a records tumble already , and it continued on Thursday ( March 5 ) , when four of Bangladesh 's batsmen scripted the second-highest run-chase ever completed by a World Cup side – after Ireland 's stunning victory over England in Bangalore in 2011 – to beat Scotland by six wickets in the 27th match of the tournament in Nelson. With this win , it edged closer to a place in the quarterfinal . Set a target of 319 for victory , Bangladesh stuttered at the beginning , losing Soumya Sarkar off the fifth ball of the mighty chase. But given the points table situation , Tamim Iqbal and Mahmudullah were fully aware of the importance of winning this match . Bangladesh came into this match with three points from as many matches , having a tangible shot at making the quarterfinals ahead of England , whom it plays next . Iqbal and Mahmudullah consolidated with a solid second-wicket partnership of 139 off 130 balls to take Bangladesh to 144 in the 24th over before Iain Wardlaw , the medium pacer , went past the defence of Mahmudullah , who scored a run-a-ball 62 . This brought Iqbal and Mushfiqur Rahim together , and the latter assumed the role of the aggressor in the partnership to power the side past the 200-run mark in just the 33rd over . But immediately after that , Iqbal ( 95 off 100 ) was trapped leg before by Josh Davey , five runs short of a fifth One-Day International century . Shakib Al Hasan , batting at No. 5 , and Rahim did not let the required net run-rate drop , hitting quick-fire fifties to take Bangladesh closer to its target. Rahim hit six fours and two sixes on his way to a 42-ball knock of 60 , before departing in the 38th over , caught at long-on off Davey 's bowling . It was now up to Shakib and Sabbir Rehman to take Bangladesh over the line. Rehman hit 42 off 40 balls and remained unbeaten alongside Shakib ( 52 n.o. off 41 ) , who brought up the winning runs , and his fifty , with a boundary over third man in the 48th over . Scotland 's dream of bagging that elusive first win in a World Cup match remained unachieved despite Kyle Coetzer ’ s brilliantly scripted ton earlier in the day . For Scotland , it was probably one big chance to pick up two points , after going down to Afghanistan by one wicket in heart-breaking fashion at University Oval in Dunedin last week . On a bright sunny day in Nelson , expecting the grassy pitch to assist his pacers , Mashrafe Mortaza , the Bangladesh captain , won the toss and chose to field. It certainly wasn ’ t a bad choice , as Scotland found out , losing two quick wickets in Callum MacLeod ( 11 ) and Hamish Gardiner ( 19 ) . Struggling at 38 for 2 , it looked like Scotland was going to struggle with the bat once again. But a consolidating 78-run partnership off 85 balls between Coetzer and Matt Machan for the third wicket not only took Scotland past the 100-run mark without further hiccups , but also frustrated Bangladesh , whose spinners failed to capitalise on the early wickets . Machan ( 35 off 50 balls ) took his time , knocking the ball through the gaps and playing the supporting role in the partnership , while Coetzer took it upon himself to keep the net run-rate going . Rehman , the right-arm offspinner , finally broke the partnership in the 24th over , catching Machan off his own bowling , and , in the process , picking up his first ODI wicket . This brought Preston Mommsen , the Scotland captain , to the crease with his team at 116 for 3. With more than half the quota of overs still left to deal with , the experienced duo looked to build on the platform they now had so the batsmen to follow could capitalise in the death overs . And they did that with precision , adding 141 runs off just 113 deliveries for the fourth wicket to give Scotland hope of going past the 300-run mark for the first time in its World Cup history . Coetzer was the aggressor in the partnership , scoring quickly and reaching his century with a big six off Rubel Hossain ’ s bowling in the 38th over. His ton – the first by a Scotland batsman scored in a World Cup match – came off just 103 deliveries . Bangladesh finally managed to get rid of Mommsen ( 39 off 85 ) in the 43rd over when the batsman , looking to step on the accelerator , ended up being caught by Soumya Sarkar at deep midwicket off Nasir Hossain ’ s bowling . Coetzer fell two overs later , having tonked 156 off 134 balls , in an innings studded with 17 fours and four sixes . With just over five overs to go after that , Richie Berrington and Mathew Cross played short cameos to help Scotland post 318 for 8 , its highest total against a Test-playing nation . Taskin Ahmed returned best figures for Bangladesh , picking up three wickets for 43 runs . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
