11 March 201516 : 52 By R Kaushik , Hobart Sri Lanka romps home after Sanga , Dilshan tons Scotland remains winless in three editions of the World Cup after 148-run defeat Share this article : Tillakaratne Dilshan and Kumara Sangakkarra take a run You could almost see the century coming , from the time Kumar Sangakkara strode out to the middle . Lahiru Thirimanne batted as if he had just woken up from a nightmare , the white cricket ball treated with suspicious apprehension , if not a little dread. And it wasn ’ t as if the ball was doing a great deal – a little bit of movement , a little bit of bounce. Nothing undue or alarming . Even as Tillakaratne Dilshan seemed in the middle of a net session , Thirimanne appeared nervy and uncertain. Alasdair Evans did Thirimanne a favour by having him caught at second slip and putting him out of his misery ; Evans had , however , done his team no favours at all by thus heralding the arrival in the middle of the man who can do no wrong at the moment . The Bellerive Oval , scarcely populated as it was , was treated to another masterclass from the master craftsman , as Sangakkara became the first batsman to score hundreds in four successive One-Day International innings. The main course was sumptuous , obviously , but no less delicious was the treat thrown up by Dilshan , who helped himself to his second hundred of the competition . This Pool A match had always threatened to be a bit of a no-contest. Dilshan and Sangakkara , with a little help from Angelo Mathews , who tonked Matt Machan around , made sure the script held true ; despite losing 4 for 10 during a late-innings slump , Sri Lanka galloped to 363 for 9 against Scotland in its final league encounter after Mathews won the toss . Playing in its third ICC Cricket World Cup , Scotland had lost all 12 games preceding this one. There was little chance of it correcting that anomaly on Wednesday ( March 11 ) as it faced the stiffest chase in its ODI history. Sri Lanka romped home , though it didn ’ t have things all its own way . Preston Mommsen finally did justice to his reputation and Freddie Coleman , one of three changes for this game , played some wonderful strokes so that Scotland replied spiritedly. But , as the last six wickets tumbled for 53 , the Scots nosedived to 215 , and defeat by 148 runs . As a result , Sri Lanka climbed to second in the Pool A table , which could change once Australia finishes its game against Scotland at the same venue on Saturday . Lasith Malinga drew first blood with the second ball of the chase , Kyle Coetzer following up his 156 against Bangladesh with a duck , and Nuwan Kulasekara packed off Calum MacLeod. When Machan was trapped in front by Dilshan , Scotland appeared headed for a collapse until Mommsen and Coleman baulked them through a combination of pluck and luck . Dushmantha Chameera worked up excellent pace but suffered on account of lack of luck and accuracy , allowing Mommsen and Coleman enough freedom to play their strokes. Mommsen was predominantly legside while Coleman was more all-round as they stitched together an entertaining fourth-wicket stand of 118 – only the third century partnership for Scotland against a Test nation – which kept Sri Lanka at bay for an hour and a quarter . Taking a shine to Seekkuge Prasanna ’ s legspin , Richie Berrington also punished a Sri Lankan outfit flat and profligate with the ball , very ordinary in the field , and without Mathews , who left the park early in the chase with an Achilles problem. Misfields and overthrows abounded , as did rank short deliveries , and Kusal Perera put down Coleman at sweeper cover to deny Chameera only his third ODI wicket. It was all never going to be decisive , but Sri Lanka won ’ t look at its bowling and fielding in this game with any great fondness. Apart from the fact that Sangakkara completed 500 ODI dismissals as wicketkeeper and fielder , and that he became the most successful stumper in World Cup play . All this after Scotland had been bled dry by a man so much in control of his skills that if you woke him up in the middle of the night , gave him a stump and asked him to go bat , he would middle the first ball , and every one since. The beauty of Sangakkara ’ s batting stems from the ease with which he picks the gaps , and the lateness with which he allows the bat to make contact with the ball. He is seldom ugly at the crease ; Sangakkara is all timing and placement , old school in this day and age of bruising ball striking . Dilshan suffered only in comparison. After a poor start that netted him just 24 runs in his first two outings , Dilshan has come into his own with scores of 161 * , 44 and 62. Not exactly in the Sangakkara league of 105 * , 117 * and 104 correspondingly , but there is pretty much no one in the Sangakkara league at the moment. Dilshan was the early aggressor as Sangakkara fluently hit his stride , a punch through straightish mid-off first ball faced a clear indicator of how well the left-hand No. 3 batsman is seeing the ball now . Dilshan ’ s creamy drives on the up , particularly off Josh Davey , who had climbed to the top of the wicket-takers ’ chart by the time the carnage ended , were particularly delightful as he clambered on to the front foot and took the ball on top of the bounce. Despite the boundaries flowing , Scotland bowled with discipline through Rob Taylor. The left-arm quick , who came in for Iain Wardlaw , held his own while going for just 46 in his ten overs so that while Sri Lanka was untroubled , the board wasn ’ t quite rattling along . The momentum shift came in the 25th over. Davey was hammered for 17 with Dilshan smashing him for two fours and a six. That was the start of a sustained period of complete domination ; Dilshan and Sangakkara took the bowling apart in their own different but complementary ways , the former with a broadsword , the latter with the rapier . Dilshan was the first to 50 , off 54 deliveries , and Sangakkara followed him a little later , and slower – off 56. Then , Sangakkara switched gears. The fours flowed in a torrent , the sixes came when he so desired. There were delightful inside-out cover drives , especially against the off-spin of Michael Leask , and peachy drives over the top in the V off the quicks. Dilshan , smart enough to understand and accept that he was clearly overshadowed , played well within himself . Dilshan pipped Sangakkara to the century by one ball , but took 97 to the latter ’ s 86. Davey accounted for Dilshan with the second legal delivery of the Power Play to end a stand of 195 in just 179 – the two had also added 213 * against Bangladesh and 130 against Australia previously – but Sangakkara then lay into Evans with a six and four fours in an over that yielded 24. There was one outrageous slap over point that landed well beyond the rope , and two cheeky scoops walking across his stumps. Inventive , but Sangakkara lent even those strokes a touch of orthodoxy . He ultimately fell chasing a wide one from Davey , one ball after Mahela Jayawardena was caught off a skier at mid-off. Sangakkara was Davey ’ s 14th victim of the tournament , helping him move past the New Zealand duo of Trent Boult and Tim Southee as the highest wicket-taker . Sri Lanka was far from done. Mathews smashed four straight sixes over mid-wicket off Machan on his way to the joint second fastest fifty of this ICC Cricket World Cup , in 20 deliveries. Despite a late flurry of wickets as MacLeod and Coleman held three catches apiece , Sri Lanka hammered 229 in the last 25 overs , S cotland well and truly batted out of the game . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
