14 March 201518 : 00 By Anand Vasu , Auckland Raina , Dhoni guide India to sixth win Taylor ’ s century on last game for Zimbabwe takes side to 287 ; India recovers well from 92/4 for six-wicket win Share this article : If Raina and Dhoni made the win appear easy in the end , it was far from a foregone conclusion through several passages of play in the first half . In the four One-Day Internationals leading up to the World Cup , India managed just 267 , 153 , 69 for 2 and 200 in the tri-series in Australia , contriving even to lose to England. Since , then , it has racked up a perfect record , going six for six in the league phase of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , topping Pool B , when Zimbabwe was shaded by six wickets . On an emotional day when Brendan Taylor stood , hand on heart , for the Zimbabwe national anthem one final time , and then raised his bat to a roaringly appreciative crowd after scoring his eighth ODI hundred , Zimbabwe fought , first putting 287 on the board , then scalping early wickets . But , India just had too much firepower in its ranks. The largely untested middle order was summoned to earn its bread , and Suresh Raina and Mahendra Singh Dhoni put together a typically energetic partnership , having come together at 92 for 4 . Zimbabwe ’ s opening bowlers , Tendai Chatara and Tinashe Panyangara , were lively and probing. However , the part-time spin of Sean Williams and Sikandar Raza , on a pitch that offered no purchase , saw Raina wading in , picking his spot in the arc between midwicket and long-off . If Raina , who was dropped on 47 by Hamilton Masakadza , a gentle skier being grassed at short fine-leg , was occasionally scratchy , especially at the beginning of his innings , Dhoni was completely in control from the moment he arrived at the crease. At first , Dhoni was quiet , knocking the ball into the gaps and working those mighty pistons in his thighs to barrel up and down the pitch for ones and twos. But , when offered the latitude , Dhoni was not shy , bringing his ultra heavy blade decisively down on the ball . Having missed their chance to separate the Dhoni-Raina pair , Zimbabwe could only watch helplessly as Taylor ’ s last hurrah turned into yet another defeat , their fifth in six games in this World Cup. Raina brought up his fifth ODI century , his first in a World Cup , and rattled along to 110 , while Dhoni made an unrattled 85 in the partnership of 196 , as India raced home with eight balls to spare . If Raina and Dhoni made the win appear easy in the end , it was far from a foregone conclusion through several passages of play in the first half , when Zimbabwe was asked to bat. Umesh Yadav and Mohammed Shami swung the ball late , at pace , and the going wasn ’ t easy for the opening batsmen , who played and missed plenty before both heading back to the dressing-room inside the fifth over. Solomon Mire hung his bat out to make it 33 for 3 , and India was all over Zimbabwe . It was here that Taylor and Sean Williams took the game by the scruff of the neck. Safety was their prime objective , and seeing off the new ball was key. To this end , it mattered little that the scoreboard was stuck , Zimbabwe reaching only 63 for 3 after 16 overs . With the base laid , however , Taylor began to open up. Down the ground he was magnificent , presenting the full face of the bat , and against spinners Taylor reverse-swept fearlessly . Williams preferred to target the midwicket fence , coming down the pitch to tonk the ball over the ropes and occasionally dragging deliveries from outside off to his preferred region . The partnership for the fourth wicket was seven short of three figures when India managed to break through , Williams ( 50 ) driving back towards the bowler to be well caught by R Ashwin bending low . Taylor slowed down a touch after getting into the 90s , but his strike rate was still excellent , and when Shami bounced , a naughty ramp shot was executed perfectly , sending the ball sailing into the stands and taking Taylor to his century. No other Zimbabwe batsman had scored back-to-back World Cup hundreds , and the manner in which Taylor constructed his innings was a reminder of just what Zimbabwe would miss in the near future . Taylor then began to get a move on , taking 25 runs off a Ravindra Jadeja over that read 144646 and included sweet hits to square-leg , midwicket , long-off , fine-leg and long-on , demonstrating the range of the strokes at the batsman ’ s disposal . Taylor , who had climbed to second spot in the tournament run-getters list and became the first Zimbwean to top 400 in a World Cup , fell on 138 from only 110 balls , trying to muscle a ball over mid-on but failing to connect cleanly. In the final 29 balls he faced , Taylor had biffed 70 , the perfect acceleration after accumulating 63 from his first 81 balls. Several Indian players shook Taylor ’ s hand , and as the crowd roared in warm applause , Taylor soaked it in one final time. It was a great way to go . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
