15 March 201512 : 24 By Himanish Bhattacharjee Holder puts West Indies in sight of quarterfinals Only a Pakistan-Ireland tie or washout will prevent Caribbean side ’ s progress after six-wicket win against UAE Share this article : Jason Holder powered West Indies to a six-wicket win over UAE at Napier on Sunday . The penultimate group stage clash of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 that pitted the West Indies against the United Arab Emirates was a do-or-die encounter for Jason Holder ’ s men. The West Indies knew it needed to win , and win big , to keep its hopes of a quarterfinal berth alive . Led by Holder himself , who returned 4 for 27 in 10 overs to keep UAE to 175 , the West Indies cantered to a six-wicket win in just 30.3 overs at the McLean Park on Sunday ( March 15 ) . Now , unless the last league stage match between Ireland-Pakistan match ends in a tie or is washed out , the West Indies will make its way into the quarterfinals , having raised its net run-rate above both the other teams in the fray . The West Indies had walked into this Pool B encounter with only four points , while both Pakistan and Ireland have six each. The side thus needed to win big and hope for a result either way in the other match , and with this win , it has taken the first step towards qualifying . The team rallied around the stout-hearted Holder to fashion the win even though Chris Gayle was missing injured with a sore back , with half-centuries for Johnson Charles and Jonathan Carter adding to a good bowling performance . The West Indies pacers walked the talk right from the outset , reducing UAE to 46 for 6 in the 14th over. However , Amjad Javed ( 56 ) and Nasir Aziz ( 60 ) got together to script a 107-run partnership for the seventh wicket to help UAE post 175 in 47.4 overs , leaving the West Indies with the task of getting to the target in 36.2 overs to go past Pakistan ’ s net run-rate of -0.194 . At the end of the match , the West Indies ’ net run-rate was -0.053 . With Gayle absent , the Caribbean side needed a new hero at the top of the order. Up stepped Charles , the 26-year old St. Lucian who replaced Gayle in the playing XI , and Carter. The duo ensured the target was achieved well within the net run-rate parameter . Charles smashed 55 off 40 , while Carter , in at No.4 , stayed till the end with 50 not out off 58 . Earlier , Dwayne Smith ’ s disappointing run in the tournament continued , with an edge off Manjula Guruge going to the wicketkeeper early in the chase. That brought Charles and Marlon Samuels together with the West Indies 33 for 1 in the fourth over . Samuels , who has been among the runs in the tournament so far , wasn ’ t entirely comfortable in negotiating the late swing the UAE bowlers managed to extract. He was eventually dismissed after scoring just 9 off 18 balls , bringing Carter to the crease . Charles and Carter didn ’ t hesitate to use the aerial route , but also turned the strike over with ones and twos. They added a brisk 56 for the third wicket off just 46 balls to put the West Indies on course . By the time Charles fell in the 16th over , West Indies needed just 67 more for victory. Andre Russell was sent to give the innings a boost , but he fell for just 7. However , Denesh Ramdin ’ s unbeaten 50-ball 33 provided the steadying influence as he and Carter finished off the chase . The day had begun with Holder and Jerome Taylor unleashing fiery opening spells to rock UAE early , removing Andri Berenger , Amjad Ali , Krishna Chandran , Khurram Khan and Shaiman Anwar inside the mandatory Power Play , leaving UAE tottering at 26 for 5 in just the ninth over . Berenger was the first to go , caught behind by Ramdin off Holder 's bowling. Six balls later , Chandran edged one to Smith at first slip to give the West Indies captain his second wicket . There was swing on offer , and the pacers exploited it well , removing Amjad , trapped leg before , and Khurram , clean bowled by Taylor in the seventh over . Even Shaiman , who has been the most successful batsman for UAE in this competition , had a rare off-day , bowled by a brilliantly directed yorker from Taylor . Holder almost replicated that delivery in the 14th over to go past Swapnil Patil 's defense , and made it 46 for 6 . Amjad and Aziz then got together for what looked like an attempt at only delaying the inevitable. But West Indies was in for a surprise as the duo scripted the highest partnership for UAE against a Test-playing nation in ODIs . Both Amjad and Aziz reached half centuries around the same time , taking UAE past the 150-run mark before Russell finally broke the resistance with a fast yorker that went straight past Amjad 's defenses in the 41st over . Aziz and Mohammad Naveed , the No. 9 batsman , carried on the good work for sometime , but wickets fell quickly once again after the big partnership was broken , and the tail didn ’ t wag for long , leaving the West Indies with a straightforward chase . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
