23 March 201507 : 00 By Anand Vasu , Auckland New Zealand v South Africa Preview , Semi-final 1 , Auckland Neither McCullum , nor de Villiers care for past baggage ; both sides instead will look to chart their own history Share this article : The manner in which McCullum has moulded this New Zealand team , both in terms of tactics and more significantly in self-belief and attitude , makes it a singular bunch . As New Zealand fans dusted off the laziness of the weekend , grabbed a Monday morning cuppa and prepared for the working week ahead , they were stopped in their tracks by a call to arms. There was a rallying cry from the front page of the New Zealand Herald . “ To whom it may concern, Please excuse ______________ from work on Tuesday , March 24th . They may not be in office , but rest assured they ’ ll be putting in the hard yards at Eden Park with helping us get over the line against South Africa . Come down and support us yourself. We ’ ve got a seat with your name on it and a flag that won ’ t wave itself . Yours sincerely, Brendon McCullum BLACKCAPS Captain ” The New Zealand cricket team has been reminded that it lost to South Africa , its opponents in Tuesday ’ s ( March 24 ) ICC Cricket World Cup semi-final , the last time the two teams played a One-Day International series , at home in New Zealand. McCullum has been reminded that his team has played all its seven matches in this World Cup at home , and should it make the final , something it has never done before , it will be rank outsiders , not having played an ODI in Australia in nearly six years. The side has been reminded that it will be without Adam Milne , whose extra pace has been a key factor in McCullum ’ s bowling barrage strategy , heel swelling ruling out the bowler at the eleventh hour . McCullum and his mates don ’ t care in the least about this sort of information . Will # NZ Captain Brendon McCullum be continuing their greatest trip with a # cwc15 final @ MCG ? ? http : //t.co/Cz8mgMLC1A pic.twitter.com/rLvP218IqC — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 23 , 2015 South Africa has been reminded that the only time it has played New Zealand in a World Cup match here at Eden Park , it was well beaten , the home team getting across the line with seven wickets and 93 balls to spare. AB de Villiers has been reminded of his team ’ s penchant for fluffing its lines at knockout matches of global events. The side has been reminded that the team has been called another , less flattering name . De Villiers and his mates don ’ t care in the least about this sort of information . While history is a great teacher , and no man can really escape his history or geography completely , this ICC Cricket World Cup semi-final is one where looking back could be very misleading. The manner in which McCullum has moulded this New Zealand team , both in terms of tactics and more significantly in self-belief and attitude , makes it a singular bunch. There have certainly been more talented New Zealand cricketers pulling on national colours , but this team , as a group , is starkly different from any other that came before it . Or will # SA captain AB De Villiers be leading his side out at the @ MCG on Sunday March 29 ? http : //t.co/Cz8mgMLC1A pic.twitter.com/QYIjveTYp0 — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 23 , 2015 In the build-up to the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , a South Africa player , in conversation with someone who had played a fair bit of cricket himself , said : “ In the past we were perhaps not ready , as a team , or as a country , to win the World Cup. But , this is our time. ” When you look back at South Africa ’ s exits : the rain rule that denied it in 1992 , Allan Donald and that single in 1999 , the collective misreading of the Duckworth-Lewis charts in 2003 , all point to a team , even a country , that was not ready to get across the finish line , having done all the hard work in getting there. It hardly mattered that the personnel changed , the result seemed to stay the same . De Villiers ’ s South Africa has looked anything but brooders , or the kind to look wistfully at the past. There has been a hard edge to this team , a focus on simply getting the job done , not overcomplicating the game or theorising endlessly about it. From batsmen to bowlers to coaching staff , the message that has come out of the South Africa camp has been a simple one : go out there and get the job done , this is what we have been preparing for , for all our lives . Whichever team wins on Tuesday – the chance of rain interrupting play at some stage being the only dampener – it will do so against the weight of history. Neither of these teams have ever been in a ICC Cricket World Cup final. Nothing like the present , then , to create a bit of history . Teams : ( likely ) New Zealand : Martin Guptill , Brendon McCullum ( capt ) , Kane Williamson , Ross Taylor , Grant Elliott , Corey Anderson , Luke Ronchi ( wk ) , Daniel Vettori , Tim Southee , Trent Boult , Mitchell McClenaghan/Matt Henry . South Africa : Quinton de Kock ( wk ) , Hashim Amla , Faf du Plessis , Rilee Rossouw , AB de Villiers ( capt ) , David Miller , JP Duminy , Dale Steyn , Kyle Abbott/Vernon Philander , Morne Morkel , Imran Tahir . Share this article :
