24 March 201516 : 22 By Anand Vasu , Auckland Elliott the hero as New Zealand makes final Heartbreak for spirited South Africa , who goes down by four wickets in intense Auckland semifinal Share this article : The sum of New Zealand ’ s parts , on the field , with the ball and with the bat , was enough to put it in its first ICC Cricket World Cup final . The wildest dreams of 41,279 hearts came one step closer to realisation on a blow-hot blow-wet autumn night in Auckland as New Zealand ’ s fire burned bright enough to overcome dogged South African opposition , the elements and the occasion . Set 298 to win on Tuesday ( March 24 ) from 43 overs after just under two hours were lost to a rain break , New Zealand began in a new-age Brendon McCullum blaze towards glory , then fell back on its greatest traditional strength , good old-fashioned teamwork. The sum of New Zealand ’ s parts , on the field , with the ball and finally , gloriously , with the bat , was enough to steal a four-wicket win with one ball remaining , putting it in its first ICC Cricket World Cup final . When Grant Elliott , born in Johannesburg and cricket bred at Gauteng , Griqualand West and Trasvaal , set himself up perfectly to bludgeon a Dale Steyn short ball deep into the stands at midwicket , the roar that rang through Eden Park was one that will reverberate at this great stadium for years to come . Chasing 298 from 43 overs in a clutch game was never going to be straightforward , and McCullum burst out of the traps , spoiling for a fight , whirling like a dervish , his blade chopping away with the speed of a helicopter and providing the innings lift-off in much the same fashion . Martin Guptill , fresh from an unbeaten 237 , was left gaping as McCullum took 18 off Vernon Philander , 14 off Morne Morkel and an astounding 25 off Dale Steyn. In an opening stand of 71 , Guptill had just 6 when McCullum fell on his sword , attempting one compulsive big shot too many to find mid-on. McCullum ’ s 26-ball 59 had chopped the legs off the required run-rate , leaving his mates with 227 runs to get at a sedate six per over . But , things would prove anything but straightforward as Williamson ( 6 ) chopped on , Guptill ( 34 ) was run out after being sold a dummy by Taylor ( 30 ) , who himself fell just when the time was ripe to go big . South Africa was back in the game big time , just one wicket away from having New Zealand ’ s wicketkeeper at the crease. But , this was hardly on the minds of the lower order , McCullum ’ s legacy of thinking only of victory alive and well in Grant Elliott and Anderson . Elliott showed that character counts for more than technique in a tight spot , and Anderson backed his not inconsiderable ball-striking skills to the hilt. Without attempting anything remotely outlandish , Elliott and Anderson put on 103 for the fifth wicket , pushing South Africa to the brink . With 46 needed from the final five overs , Anderson ( 58 ) was surprised by a Morkel steepler , the pull shot sending the ball high into the inky sky for du Plessis to settle under the catch . Elliott , however , did not take his eyes off the ball , or the ultimate prize for one moment. Keeping in touch with the required rate , pulling out the big shot every time the pressure built , Elliott kept defeat at bay and victory in sight . With 12 needed off the final Steyn over , it was Daniel Vettori who set the ball rolling , digging Steyn out wide of third-man for a four. Then , a scampered single , and five were needed from two balls , but even a tie would have got New Zealand through . Sealing the deal , Elliott , unbeaten on 84 , got his team across the line , Steyn was on his back on the pitch , du Plessis weeping at point and Morkel disconsolate at fine-leg. One man ’ s joy was another ’ s heartbreak , at the end of a see-saw day . When AB de Villiers chose to bat , McCullum unleashed his mob of fast bowlers , packing the slips cordon and daring South Africa ’ s batsmen to attack against the white ball that was curling at pace. Trent Boult was wickedly hard to play , Quinton de Kock being worked over repeatedly before Hashim Amla fell , dragging one on. De Kock , who had been dropped early on , did not make it count , sending Boult soaring to Tim Southee at third man , making it 31 for 2 . It was at this point that Rilee Rossouw and Faf du Plessis realised that being impudent was only going to end one way , and treated each ball with utmost respect. Du Plessis activated Test-match mode , consuming 56 balls to reach 26 , without a single boundary , before changing gears. Coming down the pitch to Tim Southee , confident that the ball was old enough not to swing in the 21st over , du Plessis drove through the line and over mid-off to break the shackles. In the same over , with mid-off vacant , du Plessis pressed forward to punch to the boundary . Rossouw , who had been careful without quite getting bogged down as much as du Plessis , was carving out a crucial innings of his own. With the partnership building , McCullum was forced to switch tactics , for a period using part-timers in one-over spells . Amazing respect between both sides after the match , the true Spirit of Cricket as # cwc15 just keeps getting better ! pic.twitter.com/aa2GaFyHQr — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 24 , 2015 It was Corey Anderson who broke the 83-run third-wicket partnership , Guptill leaping to his right at point , not quite gravity-defying astronaut-style like Vettori against Marlon Samuels , but a fine effort at full stretch nonetheless . New Zealand ’ s joy did not last long , for de Villiers , picking off his first boundary off the 17th ball he faced , occupied the crease with a sense of tranquil that comes from the self confidence that it was a matter of time before the pressure was transferred back onto the bowlers. Where New Zealand ’ s quicks had the batsmen on a leash – even Matt Henry , playing his first game of the tournament as a last-minute replacement for the injured Adam Milne managed two maiden overs – de Villiers broke free and bolted . De Villiers picked off the gaps , repeatedly exploiting the vacant midwicket region before the field was changed. As soon as the slip went out , de Villiers opened the face of the bat to deflect the ball into the newly created gap. This was a master batsmen with an imagination running wild , an artist who had recently discovered the full power of his craft , and de Villiers raced to 60 off only 38 balls . Du Plessis , who was building something of a modern One-Day International epic , batting with the kind of temperament so rarely seen , had 82 hard-fought runs to his name when rain brought New Zealand relief . When play resumed , du Plessis fell straightaway , New Zealand using the referral wisely to uphold the glove to keeper it recognised but Ian Gould failed to detect . CONFIRMED ! MCG , March 29 # cwc15 Final # NZ v ? Who will it be that joins # NZ in the final ? Will it be # Aus or # Ind ? pic.twitter.com/E2WF5dTB0b — ICC ( @ ICC ) March 24 , 2015 De Villiers , never one to go big from ball one , only managed 5 further runs from 7 balls in the five overs left in the shortened innings , but David Miller bailed his team out in style. Sticking to the style his father taught him as a young boy – if it ’ s in the V , it ’ s in the tree , if it ’ s in the arc , it ’ s out of the park – Miller blasted 49 off only 18 to lift South Africa to 281 , which left New Zealand with a Duckworth-Lewis adjusted target of 298 from 43 overs . It was a tall ask , but McCullum ’ s men were up to the task . Please click here to review the match in full in the ICC Match Centre , watch all the video clips from the game , review the scorecard and all of the match coverage . Share this article :
