Amitabh Bachchan Takes to Twitter for India 's World Cup Match vs South Africa Amitabh Bachchan Takes to Twitter for India 's World Cup Match vs South Africa After commentating on India 's clash against Pakistan , Big B became a commen- " tweeter " as Dhoni 's men went up against South Africa . Last updated on Sunday , 22 February , 2015 14 : 45 IST Total Shares Amitabh Bachchan celebrates India win vs. Pakistan © Getty Images Mumbai : After doing commentary for India-Pakistan match of ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 , megastar Amitabh Bachchan took to virtual platform Twitter for online commentary Sunday when the Indian team came to the field to battle it out with South Africa in Melbourne . " The game begins , India v SoAf , India bats first ... and sitting in front of them in the audience on TV is your ex-commentator ! ATB , " Big B tweeted Sunday . The tweet was followed by a series of posts with updates of the match : " from Shikar... and a run ... 5 runs in 2 overs ... INDIA INDIA ! ! " and " Fouurrrrrr ! ! Shikhar 4 runs off Steyn ... 9-0 in 2.4 " . However , the 72-year-old 's spirits dampened with the loss of the first wicket of Rohit Sharma and he called himself out of " online commentating " . ( Shikhar Dhawan Blitz Lifts India to 307/7 vs South Africa ) " Damn...damn...Rohit out...unwanted run out... ok this online commentating is not working...so going off ... INDIA INDIA , " the " Paa " star tweeted . Meanwhile , the screen icon , who attended wedding engagement of Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav 's grandnephew with Rashtriya Janata Dal supremo Lalu Yadav 's daughter at Saifai in Uttar Pradesh , took to his official blog srbachchan.tumblr.com to share his experience of the event . The actor said that the ceremony was an effervescent affair with revelry around it , but with the visit he has come back with another important experience - of real India . " It was the wedding engagement of Mulayam Singh ji 's nephew with Lalu Prasad Yadav 's daughter in Saifai , the hometown in Uttar Pradesh of Mulayam Singh ji. A journey that can only be described as one filled with importance , reverence and adrenalin . " The India that we talk of is not in the metros and the A level cities. It lies in the rural and smaller towns. It lies in their innocence. It lies in their awe and wonder. It lies in their affection and concern...BUT...it lies in their acumen in knowing what and who is right or wrong...that is supreme , " Big B posted on srbachchan.tumblr.com . Story first published on : Sunday , 22 February 2015 13 : 40 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
