World Cup 2015 : Underestimate India at Your Own Peril , Ravi Shastri Issues Warning After Proteas Win World Cup 2015 : Underestimate India at Your Own Peril , Ravi Shastri Issues Warning After Proteas Win Shikhar Dhawan smashed 137 off 146 balls as defending champions India whipped mighty South Africa by 130 runs to step closer to a quarter-final berth in the World Cup . Last updated on Sunday , 22 February , 2015 19 : 19 IST Total Shares Shikhar Dhawan after his hundred , MCG © Getty Images In front of more than 85 thousand fans , India broke their " Proteas jinx " with an sensational win against South Africa at the MCG on Sunday. Batting first , India posted a solid 307/7 , thanks to the exploits of Shikhar Dhawan and Ajinkya Rahane. Dhawan slammed his seventh ODI tin while Rahane tore the South African bowling apart with a belligerent 79. South Africa faltered in chase and India - riding on a fine display from their bowlers and fielders - handed South Africa a 130-run crushing defeat. ( Shikhar Dhawan , Bowlers Guide India to Historic Win vs South Africa ) Ravi Shastri , the team director , was elated at the performance and was " proud " of MS Dhoni and his boys. He described the win over the Proteas as a " clinical and professional performance " . Talking to Mark Nicholas after the game , Shastri sounded warning to the other teams , " Underestimate this Indian team at your own peril. We have the batting and with this bowling attack , we are ready to test any team. " When reminded of India 's terrible form in the Test series , Shastri , in his own nonchalant style , rubbished the doubts over this Indian unit . " I never thought India were ordinary in the Test series " , said the 52-year-old. The former India international blamed India 's lackluster show in the Tests on excessive cricket , " There was too much cricket played. Four Test matches were too much. They were mentally tired and needed a break. " ( President Pranab Mukherjee Congratulates Team India on Win ) The ex-India all-rounder stressed on the fact that India 's bad form in the tri-series also did n't bother him. " If we would have won that tri-series and lost these two games , it would n't have mattered. What matters is these games. " When asked about Shikhar Dhawan , the team director heaped praised on the left-hander and said , " Lot of people questioned his ( Shikhar Dhawan ) selection. ( Shikhar ) Dhawan had no luck in Tests. He 's got his act together and is dominating now. " Shastri also spoke about India 's approach to this World Cup and said that this team believes in being consistent and takes every game as it comes . India play UAE next on the February 28 , Friday . Story first published on : Sunday , 22 February 2015 18 : 00 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
