Refresh ! Moeen Ali is adjudged the Man of the Match for his brilliant all round performance. That 's it from all of us here. Join us back tomorrow for West Indies and Zimbabwe match 0900 IST. Until then , it 's adios from all of us here ! ! England would have loved to wrap things early. The new ball bowlers were a tad expensive and did not take wickets upfront. Steve Finn was the pick of the bowlers picking up 3 wickets and giving away just 26 runs in his 9 overs. Moeen Ali , Jimmy Anderson and Woakes also picked up 2 wickets each. In all not a convincing performance by England but a win is a win and they would like to build on this victory . ! England finally have a win in this World Cup ! The Scots started off the chase well scoring freely. They however did not get a partnership going , barring Coetzer-Mommsen partnership worth 60 runs. The inexperience of the Scottish middle order was visible as they gave away wickets to the English bowlers fiddling outside off. They however will take lots of positives from this game with their death bowling been the best positive . 42.2 W chris woakes to majid haq OUT ! ENGLAND WIN ! Short of a length , Haq tries pulling but gets a top edge to fine leg. Ballance does well to settle underneath it and takes a good catch. That ends it. ENGLAND WIN BY 119 RUNS . 42.1 chris woakes to majid haq Short of a length , Haq pulls it to mid-wicket . ! Iain Wardlaw is the last man in . 41.6 W james anderson to alasdair evans OUT ! England have almost sealed it ! On a length in the channel around off , Evans pushes at it and gets an outside edge to the keeper. Buttler does well diving forward and takes a good low catch. Evans departs and England within touching distance from a win . 41.5 james anderson to alasdair evans Full outside off , Evans fails to get bat on ball . 41.4 james anderson to alasdair evans Back of a length , Evans shoulders arm to it . 41.3 james anderson to majid haq Short outside off , Haq drives it through covers for a single . load more Story first published on : Sunday , 22 February 2015 21 : 25 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
