Useful Links Christchurch Christchurch is the largest city in the South Island of New Zealand and the second-largest in the country. Bordered by the Port Hills and the Pacific Ocean , it is situated on the Canterbury Plains with the Southern Alps as a majestic backdrop . Its location makes Christchurch an ideal destination for visitors , with a huge range of outdoor activities available. You can ski at a world-class alpine resort , play golf , bungy jump , raft , mountain bike , hot-air balloon , wind surf , whale watch and visit internationally-acclaimed wineries and gardens – all within a short drive of the city . The central city and some eastern suburbs have suffered earthquake damage but Christchurch as a whole continues to operate and is still a great place to live , work and play. FANZONE Open and free to the public , fans , friends and families will be able to sit and experience all the thrills and action of the ICC Cricket World Cup in the heart of the city when an interactive Fanzone opens on the 13 February. Running for 11 days , the Fanzone will be complete with cricketing activities and games will be screened live so people can support their teams in addition to the 19,500 expected attendees at the Hagley Oval - only 1.4km away. Other activities on offer within the Fanzone are : hospitality , business and tourist information stands , interactive activities for all ages and performances by leading New Zealand singers and cultural performances on the main stage. Planning is underway so stay tuned for further details and programmed cricketing games. Fanzone Dates : 13-23 February 2015. A programme of events will be released closer to the event . If you are one of the 19,500 people who have a ticket to one of the three matches of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 at the Hagley Oval , come and walk along our idyllic city centre fan trail. Starting at Cathedral Square the trail takes you down Worcester Boulevard , past the Historic Arts Centre and Canterbury Museum and through the Botanic Gardens to the Hagley Oval. Join the crowd that will be attending the games and take in the atmosphere and entertainment that will lead you down the trail. Fan Trail map and its activities will be made available closer to the event at www.christchurch2015.co.nz
