World Cup : Zimbabwe Banking on Dav Whatmore 's Know-How Against West Indies World Cup : Zimbabwe Banking on Dav Whatmore 's Know-How Against West Indies Zimbabwe head into Tuesday 's pivotal Pool B match at Canberra 's Manuka Oval level on points with the unpredictable West Indies side and are responding well to the much-travelled Whatmore 's words . Last updated on Monday , 23 February , 2015 12 : 47 IST Total Shares Zimbabwe lost to to South Africa in their first game . © Getty Images Zimbabwe believe the guile of coach Dav Whatmore can help them spring a World Cup upset by beating the West Indies , senior batsman Hamilton Masakadza said Monday. ( Complete World Cup 2015 coverage | History | Points Table | Schedule | Stats ) Zimbabwe head into Tuesday 's pivotal Pool B match at Canberra 's Manuka Oval level on points with the unpredictable Caribbean cricketers and responding well to the much-travelled Whatmore 's words . Whatmore , who guided Sri Lanka to the 1996 World Cup title and has also been in charge of Bangladesh and Pakistan , was only appointed to the Zimbabwe job six weeks before the World Cup . However , Masakadza said he had made an immediate mark upon the team . " The coach has had a very big impact for us. He 's changed a couple of things and he 's really got the guys going in a certain direction , and that 's been working really well for us , " Masakadza said . " I think the atmosphere within the team has been really good now. The guys are really working hard and the guys are very focused . " The guys are really looking forward to this World Cup , and I think even beyond this World Cup , we 're expecting a lot of good things to happen , because we 've had a few problems in the past with administration and things like that , " he added . " I think that 's also getting better. Guys are a little bit more focused on the actual cricket and giving the cricket side a little bit more of what they need . " I think looking forward and going ahead , I think things are looking up. " Masakadza , who top-scored with 80 in Zimbabwe 's creditable first-up loss to South Africa before his side defeated the United Arab Emirates , said Whatmore had complied plenty of information for the team ahead of the West Indies game . " The coach got quite a bit of information yesterday ( Sunday ) when we got here , so we basically have a really good idea what it 's going to be like out there , " the batsman said . " I think it 's going to be really important to start off well , both with our batting and our bowling , because I think their top order is very dangerous . " We must n't let them get away from us too quickly , and similarly , the batting , Pakistan were four down early ( against the West Indies on Saturday ) , and you ca n't really recover from a position like that . " We just have to make sure that we start early , both with bat and with ball. " Masakadka , playing at his first World Cup , said Zimbabwe would have the plans to deal with the West Indies and their potentially destructive opener Chris Gayle . " They 've had a bit of a mixed tournament so far , so we just come along with our plans , planning for them to be on top of their game and being able to deal with them being on top of their game , " he said . " Chris Gayle is a good player. We all know that. He has n't really got runs so far . " But we have our plans against him and have our plans against all the different batters , and hopefully we fire up front and get a few wickets early. " Story first published on : Monday , 23 February 2015 11 : 35 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
