Moeen Ali Relieved by England 's First World Cup 2015 Win Moeen Ali Relieved by England 's First World Cup 2015 Win Moeen Ali ( 128 &amp ; 2/41 ) starred in England 's first win of the World Cup 2015 against Scotland on Monday . Last updated on Monday , 23 February , 2015 14 : 09 IST Total Shares Moeen Ali 's all-round show gave England a 119-run win over Scotland . © Getty Images Christchurch : Moeen Ali expressed the relief of the entire England team after his century against Scotland provided the platform for their first win of this World Cup on Monday. ( Complete World Cup 2015 coverage | History | Points Table | Schedule | Stats ) " We just said thank God for winning the game , " said Ali , a practising Muslim , after Monday 's victory by 119 runs at Christchurch 's Hagley Oval finally got England 's World Cup campaign up and running . " Hopefully now we can go on a run and win the next three , " he added . Ali made 128 and shared a first-wicket stand of 172 with Ian Bell before England , who had been on course for a huge total , suffered a decline that saw them finish on 303 for eight . But that proved more than enough to see off non-Test nation Scotland , who were dismissed for just 184 , with off-spinner Ali taking two wickets to add to his hundred . It was a desperately needed win for England following thumping Pool A defeats by tournament co-hosts Australia ( 111 runs ) and New Zealand ( eight wickets ) . Nevertheless , it still left England outside the top four-placing they will need if they are to emerge out of the seven-strong group and into the quarter-finals . " It 's nice to get a bit of form going into the next game , " said Ali ahead of England 's clash with 1996 champions Sri Lanka in Wellington on Sunday. " It 's nice to get a winning hundred. " England captain Eoin Morgan said " today was all about a win " as he accepted the innings had fallen away after Ali and Bell shared the highest opening stand of the tournament to date . " It was important for us to focus on what we do , " said Morgan. " Losing the toss and batting first when the ball could move about a bit , the two openers set a great platform. Losing batsmen set us back but we recovered really well and got a good score. " Left-hander Morgan , after a run of low scores , spent some valuable time in the middle while making 46 . " Today was all about a win , it was nice for me to get some runs and I thought we were really good with the ball , " the former Ireland batsman said . " We did n't sit and sulk about past performances , guys put in performances. " Scotland came into this match with high hopes of recording their first one-day international win over a Test-playing nation but in the end were well-beaten by their border rivals , despite four wickets for Josh Davey and a stylish 71 from opener Kyle Coetzer . " We would have liked a few more early wickets , " said Scotland captain Preston Mommsen. " We came back well but then unfortunately with the bat we just could n't quite get going . Story first published on : Monday , 23 February 2015 12 : 14 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
