World Cup : Aaron Finch Backs Rusty Australia to Shine in New Zealand World Cup : Aaron Finch Backs Rusty Australia to Shine in New Zealand The Black Caps have won three games while Australia , who started their campaign with a thumping 111-run victory over England on February 14 , saw their scheduled second match against Bangladesh abandoned due to heavy rain without a ball being bowled in Brisbane last weekend . Last updated on Monday , 23 February , 2015 13 : 49 IST Total Shares Can Australia match New Zealand 's current level of domination in World Cup 2015 ? © AFP Auckland : In-form opener Aaron Finch shrugged off concerns that a rusty Australia will be caught cold by high-flying trans-Tasman rivals New Zealand on Saturday in what will be their first World Cup match in two weeks. ( Complete World Cup 2015 coverage | History | Points Table | Schedule | Stats ) The Black Caps have won three games while Australia , who started their campaign with a thumping 111-run victory over England on February 14 , saw their scheduled second match against Bangladesh abandoned due to heavy rain without a ball being bowled in Brisbane last weekend. ( Shane Warne continues to spin World Cup headlines ) Finch , who scored 135 in the Melbourne romp against England , said the two-week break will not be an issue when the two Pool A rivals meet at Auckland 's Eden Park. ( Brad Haddin praises " brave " New Zealand ) " We came off a good game against England and we 've had no problems really , " said Finch of the game on February 14 -- the opening day of the six-week World Cup . " We 've been training well during the week and had a pretty solid session on Saturday when we were meant to play. We 're feeling good and ready to go. " Surprisingly the 28-year-old Finch has never played a one-day international against New Zealand despite making his debut in January 2013 and having notched up 42 games . That is due to the fact that Australia 's last one-dayer against New Zealand was in the 2011 World Cup , while a game in the Champions Trophy in England two years later was called off as a no-result due to rain . Finch , who was not in the side then , praised New Zealand 's new-ball pair of Tim Southee and Trent Boult . " Their bowling at the top of the innings has been outstanding with Tim Southee and Trent Boult and guys chipping in , " said Finch . Southee recorded the best-ever one-day bowling figures by a New Zealander when he took 7-33 in the comprehensive eight-wicket win over England in Wellington on Friday . " Myself and David Warner are going to have to play as well as we can to negate that , " added Finch who said the team will not be doing too much homework on their rivals . " You do see a lot of cricket and you have access to probably too much footage sometimes -- it can wear you down a little bit . " There 's probably not going to be any surprises from either team... there 's no real mystery spinner from to worry about . " The Kiwis swing the ball right at the start , left and right arm , so we just have to play it on merit. " The game will probably decide who tops the pool and meet a relatively weaker team from Pool B in the quarter-finals Story first published on : Monday , 23 February 2015 12 : 31 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
