Refresh ! That 's all from our side. Hope you enjoyed the coverage. Hope to see you tomorrow , do catch us then for the Ireland-UAE clash at 0900 IST. Till then , good bye and take care . ! Chris Gayle is adjudged the Man of the Match for his swashbuckling innings of 215 runs. Gayle says , it was a fantastic day for him and it was a fantastic team effort. He got his first double century and he is happy with that. They ( Samuels and him ) tried to consolidate after the first wicket. Eventually Marlon ( Samuels ) accelerated in the end of the innings. Coming after a loss in the first game , they have done well to beat Pakistan and Zimbabwe , he adds . ! During the run chase , Raza started well and played a decent knock but failed to get a big one. Williams and Ervine showed some fight and got half centuries. Holder picked up three wickets and so did Taylor. Samuels and Miller got one wicket each. The man with the golden arm , Chris Gayle picked up two wickets as well. Altogether a clinical performance by West Indies . ! West Indies have won it comprehensively ! They have made a comeback in the last two games , beating both Pakistan and Zimbabwe. It was all Chris Gayle today , with the bat and the ball. He along with Samuels broke many records today. A record partnership in ODIs , first non Indian to score a double ton , record for the joint most number of sixes in an innings , highest score by a batsman in World Cups , fastest double hundred in ODIs and many other records. Marlon Samuels supported him well and got a fine century . 44.3 W nikita miller to tendai chatara OUT ! WEST INDIES WIN BY 73 RUNS ! ( D/L METHOD ) ! Zimbabwe are bowled out ! Floated around middle and off , Chatara looks to play it but misses. The ball sneaks through and goes on to disturb the stumps. An emphatic win for West Indies ! 44.2 nikita miller to tendai chatara Floated on middle and leg , flicked through mid-wicket for two easy runs . 44.1 nikita miller to tendai chatara Loopy delivery around middle and leg , Chatara defends it off the front foot . 44.1
