World Cup : Corey Anderson Expects Sledging , Heat From Australia World Cup : Corey Anderson Expects Sledging , Heat From Australia It will be a blockbuster World Cup clash in Auckland on Saturday when New Zealand face Australia. The Eden Park duel is likely to decide who tops Pool A and plays a relatively weaker team from Pool B in the quarter-finals . Last updated on Tuesday , 24 February , 2015 09 : 15 IST Total Shares Corey Anderson feels the Black Caps will face a charged-up Australia , but insists if the sledging starts , it will be one-way traffic . © Getty Images Auckland : New Zealand all-rounder Corey Anderson admits his players are braced for a verbal onslaught from Australia in their blockbuster World Cup clash in Auckland on Saturday . The Eden Park duel is likely to decide who tops Pool A and plays a relatively weaker team from Pool B in the quarter-finals. ( Aaron Finch Backs Rusty Australia to Shine in New Zealand ) As a result , Anderson feels the Black Caps will face a charged-up Australia , but insists if the sledging starts , it will be one-way traffic . " Their sledging tactics are well known now and something we have n't involved ourselves in , " Anderson told reporters. ( Shane Warne Continues to Spin World Cup Headlines ) " We 're fairly neutral on the field. We stick to what we do. We 'll be expecting a bit of heat from them and I guess that 's part of their game-plan and we 'll just deal with it as it comes. " Anderson , 24 , said that despite the two sides not having completed a match against each other since the 2011 World Cup when Australia won by seven wickets , there will be few surprises come game day . " You can play these guys without being in the international arena and see what they 're like. They 're not going to be foreign , " said Anderson , who has yet to face his trans-Tasman rivals . " They 're our neighbours from across the ditch. They do n't have guys who come out of the back of the hand , anything like that. We just have to go about our work and stick by our blueprint. " ( Australia Aware of New Zealand Threat , Says Steve Smith ) New Zealand are in a better position as they have won all their three games at this World Cup while Australia have not been in action since their convincing 111-run win against England in the opening game on February 14 . Their second game against Bangladesh was abandoned due to heavy rain in Brisbane on Saturday . That prompted Australian opener Aaron Finch to declare the pressure of expectation will be on New Zealand as they will also be playing before a packed Eden Park . But Anderson played down the pressure hype . " That might be mind games. It 's the World Cup and every game is a pressure situation . " It 's exciting for us and we look at it as a positive to come out in front of a packed crowd at Eden Park , who hopefully will get stuck into the Aussies. " " With the amount of hype leading into the World Cup , and into the England game , then to come off such a great win , and such a big high , there 's pros and cons with having a break , " said Anderson . The fast-rising all-rounder smashed a match-winning 75 and took two wickets in New Zealand 's seven-wicket win against Sri Lanka and then took three more wickets in a lacklustre three-wicket victory against Scotland . New Zealand also hammered England by eight wickets in their last game , which Anderson believed put the Black Caps in a winning groove . " We are on a bit of a roll and it would be nice to continue that. But the break will have done everybody good so we can come back in fresh. " Story first published on : Tuesday , 24 February 2015 08 : 07 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
