Chris Gayle Hits Fastest ODI Double Century , Breaks Virender Sehwag 's Record Chris Gayle Hits Fastest ODI Double Century , Breaks Virender Sehwag 's Record Chris Gayle smashed record-equalling 16 sixes in his knock on his way to the fastest ODI double century , beating Virender Sehwag 's record ( 140 balls ) . Last updated on Tuesday , 24 February , 2015 18 : 55 IST Total Shares Chris Gayle in action vs Zimbabwe in World Cup 2015 . © Getty Images Chris Gayle smashed his way into the record books with a devastating double century off 138 balls vs Zimbabwe in a Pool B World Cup 2015 fixture on Tuesday. This is the fastest double ton in One-Day Internationals , beating Virender Sehwag 's knock off 140 balls. ( West Indies vs Zimbabwe Live Score | History | Schedule | Stats ) Gayle became the fourth batsman - after Sachin Tendulkar , Sehwag and Rohit Sharma - to score a double century in the history of ODIs. The West Indian demolisher has achieved this feat exactly five years after Sachin Tendulkar scored the first-ever ODI double ton vs South Africa in Gwalior. ( Rohit Sharma 's double ton inspired me , says Chris Gayle ) The 35-year-old Jamaica left-hander 's innings surpassed the previous World Cup best of 188 not out by South Africa 's Gary Kirsten against the United Arab Emirates at Rawalpindi in 1996. ( Chris Gayle 's knock shatters record books ) Chris Gayle was dismissed off the last ball of the West Indies innings , finishing on 215 off 147 balls - the highest individual score in World Cups. His swashbuckling knock included 10 fours and a record-levelling 16 sixes . After a prolonged lean patch with the bat , the Windies opening batsman recaptured his menacing form as he sent the Zimbabwean bowlers on a leather hunt. During the course of this knock , Gayle also brought up 9,000 ODI runs . Chris Gayle had recently come in for a lot of criticism for continued failure with the bat. Even the West Indies Cricket Board president Dave Cameron had created a furore by retweeting a fan who had criticised Gayle 's poor form on twitter. Ahead of this fixture , skipper Jason Holder had said that a big knock from Gayle was coming soon and the big man repaid his young captain 's faith in great style and authority . Story first published on : Tuesday , 24 February 2015 11 : 32 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
