Refresh ! Gary Wilson is adjudged the Man of the Match for his brilliant batting. Ireland now have 4 points off their two games and are in the contention for a quarter-final berth. UAE on the other hand have proved they are no walkovers and will love to build on the exposure and experience they gain in this World Cup. That 's all we have from this game. Join us back tomorrow for the game against Afghanistan and Scotland 0300 IST. Followed by the Sri Lanka Bangladesh match at 0830 IST. Until then , it 's goodbye from all of us here ! ! UAE bowled well but in the end just could not cross the finishing line ! Their skipper , Tauqir and Mustafa were brilliant in the middle overs and cramped Ireland for pace to slow things down. UAE were also unlucky as they did not get direct hits on the stumps and some decisions did not go their way. UAE however showed lots of promise and will be pleased with their performance here at the 'Gabba . ! Ireland win it , but only just ! Ireland lost Stirling early but Joyce and Porterfield steadied the ship and built a partnership. There was a middle order collapse but Kevin O'Brien and Gary Wilson came together to ensure that Ireland accelerated in the after the Batting Powerplay and got near the total. A late drama enfolded as Ireland lost some more wickets but Dockrell and Cusack made sure Ireland get the all important 2 points. Gary Wilson top scored with 80 off 69 balls . 49.2 2 mohammad naveed saleem to george dockrell THAT 'S IT ! On a length on off , Dockrell lofts it over the in field on off side and comes across for a couple to seal it for Ireland ! IRELAND WIN BY 2 WICKETS ! 49.1 1 mohammad naveed saleem to alex cusack DIRECT HIT AND HE WAS A GONER ! On a length on off , Cusack drives it to mid off and comes across for a quick single. The fielder has a shy at the non striker 's end but he again misses and Ireland are 2 short of victory now . 48.6 0 amjad javed to george dockrell Drifting on the pads , Dockrell misses his flick and hits struck on the pads. 3 OFF 6 NEEDED . 48.5 4 amjad javed to george dockrell FOUR ! THAT PERHAPS DOES IT ! Full on off , Dockrell heaves it over covers clears the in field and the ball runs down to the boundary. ONLY 3 NEEDED OFF 7 NOW . 48.4 amjad javed to alex cusack Full on off , Cusack drives it mid off and comes across for a single . 48.3 2 amjad javed to alex cusack Low full toss on middle , Cusack flicks it to square leg. Two fielders converge on the ball but fails to stop it and they get a couple more runs . 48.2 amjad javed to alex cusack On a length outside off,Cusack fails to put bat on ball . load more Story first published on : Tuesday , 24 February 2015 23 : 40 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
