Refresh ! The Man of the Match goes to Samiullah Shenwari for his match winning knock of 96 runs. He thanks God for it , also says that he played a poor shot to get out at the end of the innings. That is all from our side. This was the last match to be played at this venue. The crowd supported both the teams and got to enjoy a thrilling contest. For now a good bye from us , enjoy the coverage of the other match that is going on between Sri Lanka and Bangladesh . ! The Scottish bowlers were brilliant in the middle overs. Berrington got four wickets and Davey picked up two but they were not able to get the important wicket of Shenwari , he was dropped on 20 by Majid Haq. That is why they say , catches win matches. Haq dropped the catch and ended up on the losing side. Scotland are still winless in the three World Cups. They had a good chance today but they could n't do it today as well. On the other hand , Afghanistan get their first victory in World Cup , they 'll be pretty pleased with their effort ! Afterall , a win is a win ! ! Even after watching wickets fall down like nine pins from the other end , Shenwari kept his calm , played it sensibly and then exploded at the end getting 19 runs of the 40th over. He got out to a needless shot but Shapoor got a couple of boundaries at the death and helped Afghanistan to get over the line , he also got a 4-wicket haul with ball. An all-round performance by him today ! ! An amazing finish to the game. Afghanistan need to thank that man , Samiullah Shenwari who took it down to the wire and scored a brilliant 96. A phenomenal performance by him. During the run chase , Afghanistan got off to a good start , Ahmadi got a quick run-a-ball 50. Then they faced a batting order collapse losing 5 wickets for only 11 runs . 49.3 4 iain wardlaw to shapoor zadran FOUR ! AFGHANISTAN HAVE WON A THRILLER ! Wardlaw serves a full toss on the pads , Shapoor flicks it through square leg for a boundary. What a win , AFGHANISTAN WIN BY 1 WICKET ! 49.2 0 iain wardlaw to shapoor zadran Run out missed ! Wardlaw bowls it on the pads. The ball hits Shapoor on the pads and he looks to take a leg bye. Machan is onto it a flash and has a shy at the striker 's end but misses. 4 runs , 4 balls ! 49.1 1 iain wardlaw to hamid hassan Yorker around off , Hassan somehow squeezes this out to third man for a single. That was a brilliant delivery . ! 5 runs off 6 balls required ! 48.6 4 richie berrington to shapoor zadran FOUR ! Important boundary ! Short of a length on the pads , Zadran plays this one delicately to fine leg for a boundary . 48.6
