Refresh ! Tillakaratne Dilshan is adjudged the Man of the Match for his brilliant all-round performance. With this win , Sri Lanka now have 4 points off 3 games and move over Bangladesh in the points table. That 's it for this game. Join us back for the South Africa-West Indies game tomorrow at 0830 IST. Until then , it 's goodbye ! ! Bangladesh , on other hand , tried hard but never looked like chasing the total down. They were 100/5 in the 21st over and in the end it was a huge ask , even for the likes of the in-form batsman Shakib and Rahim , to pull Bangladesh out of the hole. Sabbir Rahman top scored with 53 off 62 balls. All got starts but no one converted it into a big knock . ! Sri Lanka win it comprehensively ! They bowled well and picked up wickets at regular intervals and made Bangladesh toil for runs. Malinga was the pick of the bowlers picking up 3 wickets for just 35 runs. They however dropped some catches and would like to improve that in the upcoming games . 46.6 W lasith malinga to taskin ahmed OUT ! THAT ENDS IT ! Yorker on middle , Ahmed tries to work it on the on side but fails and the ball strikes him low on the pads. The fielders appeal and umpire rules him out. Taskin remembers Bangladesh have a review pending and asks for it. The replay shows it hit the middle of the middle stump. SRI LANKA WIN BY 92 RUNS . ! Taskin Ahmed is the last man in . 46.5 W lasith malinga to mohammad sabbir rahman OUT ! Malinga bangs it in short and Rahman is uncomfortable to deal with the bounce. He gets a leading edge which goes to the keeper and Sangakkara takes a good low catch running to his right and Rahman makes the long walk back to the pavilion . 46.4 lasith malinga to mohammad sabbir rahman Bouncer ! The batsman does well to evade it . 46.3 4 lasith malinga to mohammad sabbir rahman FOUR ! Drifting on the leg side , guides it fine on the leg side for another boundary . 46.2 2 lasith malinga to mohammad sabbir rahman On a length on middle and leg , flicked fine down the leg side for a couple . 46.1 lasith malinga to mohammad sabbir rahman Short outside off , Rahman plays it to point . load more Story first published on : Wednesday , 25 February 2015 22 : 28 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
