World Cup 2015 : New Zealand 's Tim Southee in Injury Scare World Cup 2015 : New Zealand 's Tim Southee in Injury Scare New Zealand pacer Tim Southee has been a power-performer for the side this World Cup but he suffered a shoulder injury recently . Last updated on Thursday , 26 February , 2015 12 : 02 IST Total Shares Tim Southee broke England 's back with a seven-wicket haul. Team management expects him to be fit for the all-important match against Australia . © Getty Images Auckland : In-form New Zealand spearhead Tim Southee suffered a shoulder injury on Thursday but team management said he would be fit for Saturday 's all-important World Cup game against Australia in Auckland . The 26-year-old suffered a nasty blow when struck by a throw from team-mate Adam Milne during fielding practice at Eden Park and fell over in pain , clutching the back of his right shoulder . The fall , and Southee 's reaction , received a light-hearted response from his team-mates but the swing bowler sat out the remainder of the team 's net session while ice was applied to his shoulder . However , a New Zealand team spokesman said there were no fears about his involvement in Saturday 's match . The co-hosts will hope Southee does not suffer any lingering after-effects and remains fully fit for the much-awaited game between the World Cup co-hosts , which should decide who tops Pool A . Southee is currently the leading wicket-taker at the tournament with 11 wickets in three games . He took two wickets each of the Black Caps ' first two victories , against Sri Lanka and Scotland , before his haul of seven for 33 -- the best-ever one-day international figures by a New Zealander -- played a key role in an eight-wicket thrashing of England in Wellington as the co-hosts made it three wins from as many Pool A matches . Southee and left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori are the only two bowlers in the New Zealand line-up who played in a six-wicket defeat by Australia when the teams last met for an ODI at Eden Park in 2010 . Story first published on : Thursday , 26 February 2015 10 : 57 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
