World Cup 2015 : Scotland Rue Missed Chances After Afghan Loss World Cup 2015 : Scotland Rue Missed Chances After Afghan Loss Captain Preston Mommsen admits Scotland did not perform well in the field after the side allowed Afghanistan to sneak their way to a one-wicket win . Last updated on Thursday , 26 February , 2015 15 : 47 IST Total Shares Scotland 's Preston Mommsen in action against Afghanistan . © AFP Dunedin : Scotland captain Preston Mommsen conceded his side still lacked a " killer punch " after narrowly failing to snare a maiden World Cup win against Afghanistan on Thursday. ( Complete coverage of World Cup 2015 ) Mommsen said Scotland were in control with both bat and ball at various times during the Pool A match at University Oval but could not maintain the pressure. ( Afghanistan Beat Scotland by a Wicket to Win 1st Ever World Cup Match ) " We got into winning positions , and regrettably in neither the first innings nor the second innings could we could land the killer punch , " he said . The result was an agonising one-wicket loss as fellow non-Test nation Afghanistan chased down a target of 211 with just three balls to spare . Mommsen acknowledged the match was Scotland 's best chance to secure a maiden win in three World Cup campaigns . However , he was at a loss to explain how his attack failed to oust Afghanistan 's tailenders after having them on the ropes at 97 for seven . " I 'm not sure exactly. Obviously experience is a huge thing , especially at a World Cup , " he said . " We 're still new boys in terms of that and maybe that showed today . " In those last 20 , 30 overs , we were trying everything , throwing everything at them to try to get ( them out ) and unfortunately we just could n't. " Mommsen was also critical of his batsmen for failing to convert starts into big scores after Scotland were dismissed for a modest 210 in their full 50 overs . " Six guys getting in and no one getting past fifty , that 's not something that we 're proud of , " he said of an innings where Matt Machan and Majid Haq were the joint top-scorers with 31 apiece . While disappointed at the result , Mommsen offered his congratulations to Afghanistan for their first-ever World Cup win and was full of praise for Samiullah Shenwari , whose defiant 96 turned the match . " He just kept on top and kept up with the run-rate as that was climbing as well , " he said . " He managed to find a way to keep ( his wicket ) intact there , so it was a brilliant innings by him. " Story first published on : Thursday , 26 February 2015 14 : 05 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
