Tweet Australia faces another trial by spin Pakistan has never lost in Abu Dhabi , winning two of the five Tests at the venue with the other three ending in draws If Pakistan emerges victorious , it would mark the first Test series victory for it against Australia in two decades , following the 1994 triumph at home . Australia will look to put behind the 221-run defeat suffered at the hands of Pakistan in Dubai when the two teams face off in the second and final Test , starting in Abu Dhabi on Thursday ( October 30 ) . A win in the second Test would help Australia level the series 1-1 and end the tour on a high , having already won the one-off Twenty20 International in Dubai and inflicted a 3-0 sweep on Pakistan in the One-Day International series. Australia conceded as many as nine wickets to the duo of Zulfiqar Babar , the left-arm spinner , and Yasir Shah , the debutant leg-spinner , in Dubai , as its nightmares against spin on Asian wickets continued from the forgettable tour of India in 2012-13 , where it was swept 4-0. That would mean Pakistan 's spin attack , though inexperienced , would one again be heavily relied upon to unsettle the visiting batsmen. Should the ploy work and Pakistan does emerge victorious , it would mark the first Test series victory for it against Australia in two decades , following the 1994 triumph at home. Batting , however , is n't the only area where Australia will have work to do. Its bowlers conceded 454 after being asked to field , with Sarfraz Ahmed , the wicketkeeper-batsman , and Younis Khan striking important centuries , while Misbah-ul-Haq , the captain , Asad Shafiq and Azhar Ali also came out with good scores. The second innings did n't give Australia any respite either as Pakistan comfortably marched to 286 for 2 before declaring , with Younis striking a second century and Ahmed Shehzad , the opener , striking one of his own. David Warner and Chris Rogers , Australia 's openers , did a decent job in the first innings of the Dubai Test and the team will look to them to provide the impetus. However , the middle-order collapse in either innings will be a concern and Australia will look to brush up in that area. Glenn Maxwell 's part-time off-spin is an option the team can turn to , should the need arise for an extra spinner. For the record , Pakistan has never lost in Abu Dhabi. Out of the five Tests at the venue , three have ended in draws , while Pakistan emerged victorious in the other two. There is also an added incentive , as should Pakistan manage a win and seal a 2-0 sweep , it will jump to No. 3 in the International Cricket Council Test team rankings. Teams ( from ) Pakistan : Misbah-ul-Haq ( capt ) , Ahmed Shehzad , Mohammad Hafeez , Taufeeq Umar , Shan Masood , Younis Khan , Asad Shafiq , Azhar Ali , Haris Sohail , Mohammad Talha , Rahat Ali , Imran Khan , Ehsan Adil , Sarfraz Ahmed ( wk ) , Zulfiqar Babar , Yasir Shah . Australia : Michael Clarke ( capt ) , David Warner , Chris Rogers , Alex Doolan , Steven Smith , Ben Hilfenhaus , Phillip Hughes , Brad Haddin ( wk ) , Glenn Maxwell , Mitchell Marsh , Mitchell Johnson , Steve O ’ Keefe , Peter Siddle , Mitchell Starc , James Faulkner , Nathan Lyon . Similar Articles
