Tweet Nepal goes to table top with D/L win Bowlers ensure Singapore wins match against Bermuda on reserve day of ICC World Cricket League Division 3 matches Shakti Gauchan returned figures of 3 for 30 for Nepal . With rain not allowing any play on Monday , two matches of the Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Division 3 took place on Tuesday ( October 28 ) , the reserve day. The Singapore bowlers did well to ensure a three-wicket win for the side against Bermuda , while Nepal came through for a narrow 10-run win against the United States of America via the Duckworth-Lewis Method. Victory put Nepal on top of the points table , taking it ahead of Uganda . At the Kinrara Academy Oval , USA 's openers got the team off to a steady start after Steve Massiah , the captain , had chosen to bat first. Fahad Babar shared an opening stand of 64 with Steven Taylor before scoring his first half-century of the tournament. Timil Patel added another 39 and Muhammad Ghous ’ late 18-ball 27 took USA to 223 for 9 in 50 overs. For Nepal , Shakti Gauchan returned figures of 3 for 30 . Rain threatened the proceedings once again , and with Nepal 73 for 1 in 22 overs , no further play was possible. The Duckworth-Lewis target after 22 overs was 64 , giving Nepal victory. Opener Subash Khakurel remained unbeaten on 49 , helping Nepal eventually win. Nepal now remains tied at 6 points with Uganda , but is ahead due to a higher net run-rate . To see the scorecard and review the Nepal v USA match in full , please click here . At the Bayumas Oval , led by Selladore Vijayakumar 's four-wicket haul and Abhiraj Singh 's 3 for 17 , Singapore skittled Bermuda out for 124 , with Kamau Leverock top-scoring with 28 . Chaminda Ruwan then led the chase , scoring a brisk 57 at the top of the order. Singapore lost two wickets in the first two overs , but Ruwan kept the innings steady early on. Singapore faltered as the innings progressed with seven wickets falling , but got over the line in 31.3 overs . Leverock inflicted most damage returning figured of 3 for 16 in five overs . To see the scorecard and review the Singapore v Bermuda match in full , please click here . Similar Articles
