World Cup : Giving up Hope is not an Option for England Captain Eoin Morgan World Cup : Giving up Hope is not an Option for England Captain Eoin Morgan Three defeats from four matches has left England on the brink of an early exit. The Three Lions though face Bangladesh and Afghanistan - teams Eoin Morgan fancies his chances against . Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 00 : 47 IST Total Shares Eoin Morgan at the post-match press conference after his team lost to Sri Lanka . © Getty Images Wellington : England captain Eoin Morgan insisted he was still confident of reaching the World Cup quarter-finals , despite Sunday 's " hard to take " nine-wicket loss against Sri Lanka. ( Match report ) The defeat leaves England on the brink of an early exit after heavy losses to New Zealand and Australia in their opening matches. ( We were punished by Sri Lanka , says Morgan | Morgan blames his bowlers ) England 's final Pool A matches against Bangladesh and Afghanistan now loom as must-win clashes but Morgan said he had not considered failing to make the last eight . " It 's not even a thought at the moment -- two games to win to get us into the quarter-final , " he said . Morgan said the fact that England set a competitive 310-run target made the Sri Lanka loss more difficult to accept than the routs against Australia and New Zealand , when they were never in the game . " When you do n't turn up for a race like those first two games , it 's scratch. But today , when we turn up and we 're beaten in that fashion it 's harder to take. " Morgan said England performed with the bat , particularly Joe Root who made 121 , but failed with the ball to allow Sri Lanka to finish on 312-1 . " When we bowl one bad ball , every couple of overs or every over you 're going to be punished , " he said . Morgan said England remained a quality side that needed to work on " the simple things " to click at the tournament . " It 's not out of our reach or a million miles away , " he said. " It 's just continuing to reproduce the simple things consistently. " Story first published on : Sunday , 01 March 2015 15 : 20 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
