By Anand Vasu in Adelaide powered by Tweet Warner century makes it Australia ’ s day India pull things back a bit near the end but hosts still put up 354/6 by close on Day 1 of the Adelaide Test David Warner scored a punishing 145 that pushed India firmly on to the back foot . An emotional build up , a nervy start , and a sentimental return to Test cricket morphed into a hard day out on the field for India as Australia , led by David Warner , piled on the runs at Adelaide Oval to reach 354 for 6 at stumps on the first day of a much-anticipated Test series on Tuesday ( December 9 ) . Test cricket ’ s gods were not in a mood to be generous to India ’ s latest captain , and Virat Kohli endured the kind of day when nothing he attempted succeeded fully , and his patience was tested to the fullest . Warner , who was around when Phillip Hughes was felled by that Sean Abbott bouncer , and sat with Hughes when he was taken off the field in a motorised stretcher , paid tribute to his mate in the best possible way , with a punishing innings that pushed India firmly on to the back foot . Having been asked to bowl on what appeared to be a belter of a track , India chose pace over experience , opening with Mohammed Shami and Varun Aaron. Both went around the stumps straight away , a move that backfired spectacularly as balls were sprayed well wide of the stumps and carted away by Warner . The first bouncer of the innings , for the record , came in the fourth over , with 31 already on the board , and Warner ducked comfortably under the Aaron offering . Australia ’ s 50 came off only 45 balls , and relief for India came in the form of a mistake from Chris Rogers , who hung his bat out to an Ishant Sharma delivery that slanted away from him . Shane Watson , another player who admitted to being rattled by events past , was welcomed to the crease by a well-directed Ishant short ball , and quickly got out of the way. He then struck the most pleasing of boundaries , clipping one off his toes past two fielders inside the ring on the on side placed there especially for the shot . Warner brought up his half-century without fuss , having already picked off boundaries through sumptuous on-the-rise drives through cover , rasping slices through and over point , and punchy shots down the ground. Warner acknowledged the cheers of the crowd , but it was a muted celebration . Watson created India ’ s second moment of relief , flashing hard at a wide and full delivery from Aaron to bring Shikhar Dhawan into business for the second time in the day . Warner waited patiently on a full toss from Karn Sharma , making his debut as India ’ s lone specialist spinner , and paddled the ball down to long-leg for a brace that took him to 63 not out , a score whose significance needed no explaining to the 25,000-plus crowd that burst into spontaneous applause. Looking up to the sky , Warner took a moment , clearly underscoring how happy he was to be able to do something that not merely helped his team , but honoured the memory of his opening partner and mate . India would have been happy with two wickets before lunch on a pitch such as this one , but the fact that Australia had scored at 4.7 runs an over should have been an obvious cause for concern . After lunch , Warner and Michael Clarke , who had walked out to the kind of rapturous applause usually reserved only for India ’ s former No. 4 , set about feasting. Clarke , playing his first game since a One-Day International against South Africa in early November , showed that his hamstring had recovered well enough to allow him to score runs. A couple of awkward moments were endured when edges did not carry to the slips , but once Clarke established himself , the purity of his strokeplay was on display. A committed thump down the ground , a whiplash pull to a short ball that didn ’ t quite get past waist height , and that trademark cover drive , one of the prettiest sights in cricket , and Clarke had gone past 50 and was on the verge of replicating the Hughes Number of 63 * when his back gave out. After some mid-pitch attention from the physio , it was clear Clarke could not go on , and he trudged off disconsolately on 60 , India having received their third unearned break of the day . When Warner got to his century , with a relaxed push down to long off , he leapt in the air in idiosyncratic fashion , and on return to terra firma turned straight to the heavens again , kissing the badge on his helmet and waving his bat in a message that was loud and clear : This one ’ s for you , Phil . Karn , who risked having an inglorious first day in the format of cricket that counts the most , lucked out when Warner , on 145 , went for the big heave over the on side and picked off Ishant at deep midwicket. The shot was completely unnecessary with the field being what it was , but this is the Warner method. On a day when he became the fourth fastest Australian to ten Test centuries – only Don Bradman ( 16 ) , Arthur Morris ( 23 ) and Neil Harvey ( 24 ) had taken fewer Tests than Warner ’ s 32 – you could hardly fault him . Steve Smith ( 72 not out ) and Mitchell Marsh ( 41 ) added 87 chanceless and trouble-free runs before India took the second new ball , and with it , clawed its way back into the game a touch. Aaron managed to get a short ball to rise steeply enough to catch Marsh ’ s edge , nightwatchman Nathan Lyon dragged one back on to his stumps , and off what turned out to the be the final over of the day , Brad Haddin feathered a nick to the keeper for a duck. At 354 for 6 , you would have to say Australia was well ahead , but the consolation for India was that this track was an ideal one on which their batsmen could respond in kind . Please click here to see the full scorecard and follow live ball-by-ball coverage of Australia v India from Adelaide . Similar Articles
