Lyon ensures Australia ’ s 48-run win Kohli and Vijay take India within reach of a stunning win before final-session collapse Nathan Lyon , who finished with 12 wickets in the game , played his part magnificently in a typically Australian win . One of the great Test matches of all time , brought to a heady climax by an innings of the kind never seen from an Indian batsman in a chase , ended in heartbreak for Virat Kohli and his team. Australia , who is used to playing Test cricket in a certain manner , pressed on relentlessly , and came through , by 48 runs , but not before it stared at the serious possibility of losing the game . This was Test match cricket at its finest. The lead-up to the series had been emotional , but in a real-life sense , with the death of Phillip Hughes being at the front of everyone ’ s minds. Once the players crossed the white line of the boundary ropes on the final day , though , everything that was felt was pure cricket . The first thing that set the day up was Michael Clarke declaring overnight , setting India 364 to win and giving his bowlers 98 overs to pick up ten wickets . Gauntlet thrown down , India waded in , M Vijay setting his stall out while Shikhar Dhawan endured another short stint at the crease . Cheteshwar Pujara , a good candidate to have in the mix when the possibility of batting for a draw exists , got a start , but played for turn when a ball from Nathan Lyon targetted the rough , and feathered a nick to the keeper . At 57 for 2 , Kohli and Vijay came together , and they would not be separated till they had done enough to make the opposition believe India could pull off a stunning chase . Vijay , who can play big shots with the best of them , was the epitome of caution , cutting out strokes that have caused him problems in the past. Instead , he concentrated on picking up the safe runs : the gentle work to fine-leg , the punch past mid-off , the back-foot ease through cover. Vijay was especially guarded against Johnson and Ryan Harris , the principal threats , who sent down a combined 113 balls to the opener , conceding only 26 runs . While Vijay was being careful , Kohli was setting out to make the impossible possible. Inevitably , last innings batting is difficult because of the state of the pitch and the pressure of the scoreboard , and these two things combine to make it unrealistic for a batsman to play normally. But Kohli took a different approach , releasing himself from the pressure of looking for a score , focussing purely on the bigger target , the total in front of him and the overs remaining . When a batsman such as Kohli is able to take it one ball at a time , it takes something out of the ordinary to hold him back. Try as Australia might , Kohli would not be cowed down. Not one of his cover-drives were mistimed , not one of his pulls misplaced. Not once did Kohli pop a catch towards a fielder and not once did he unintentionally hit the ball in the air . Kohli caught up with Vijay , and before long , the two were keeping pace with each other , matching each other run for run till the time when each needed just a single to reach three figures. Kohli got there first , pushing Ryan Harris wide of mid-off and haring down to the other end. When Kohli celebrated , he may have known that he was the first Indian No. 4 to hit twin centuries , and only the second man in the game , after Greg Chappell , to do so on captaincy debut . Minutes later , Vijay , distinctly more anxious than Kohli to bring up the milestone , played back to Nathan Lyon , trying to work the ball to leg , and missed. Vijay returned to the dressing room on 99 , out lbw . When Kohli and Vijay were together – their stand yielded 185 from 49.5 overs – India was solidly on track. The fact that the Australians were denied a wicket in the entire second session raised hopes. But , there was always the chance that the separation of this pair would trigger a collapse . Before he could get his eye in , Ajinkya Rahane was sent packing , Rohit Sharma popped a catch to leg slip and the collapse was well under way . Wriddhiman Saha crashed Lyon for a mighty six back over the bowler ’ s head , creamed one off drive to the fence and then went for glory , jumping down the pitch to be clean bowled . The adrenaline was well and truly pumping , and when Lyon bowled a rank long hop , Kohli was on the back foot in a flash , launching the ball towards midwicket. It was Lyon ’ s first real bad ball of the day , and Kohli ’ s first mistimed shot and Mitchell Marsh settled under the catch. Kohli ’ s 141 , a masterly innings , ended in profound disappointment , but there was no denying the fact that he had taken this game deeper than many thought possible . From there on , it was a matter of time and the tail folded meekly , with India having lost their last eight wickets for just 73 runs. Lyon , who finished with 12 wickets in the game , had played his part magnificently in a typically Australian win. Please click here to see the full scorecard and follow live ball-by-ball coverage of Australia v India from Adelaide . Similar Articles
