Tweet Lord ’ s set to stage record fifth ICC Cricket World Cup final The tournament should also see Taunton host international men ’ s cricket in 2019 for the first time since the1999 World Cup Lord ’ s Cricket Ground in London has been proposed as the venue for the ICC Cricket World Cup final when the tournament is staged in England and Wales in 2019 – and will also host the ICC Women ’ s World Cup final in 2017 . The England and Wales Cricket Board ( ECB ) will also recommend to ICC that the semi-finals in the 2019 World Cup should be allocated to Old Trafford , Manchester and Warwickshire ’ s home of Edgbaston , with the opening game being staged at The Oval . The tournament should also see Taunton host international men ’ s cricket in 2019 for the first time since the1999 World Cup , when two matches were played at the County Ground . There will also be proposed group matches for Durham , Leeds , Nottingham , Cardiff , Bristol and Southampton. All venue allocations are subject to approval by ICC . Lord ’ s staged the first three ICC Cricket World Cup finals in 1975 , 1979 and 1983. The West Indies won the first two finals – their only World Cup successes – while India recorded the first of their two World Cup triumphs in 1983 . In 1999 Australia won the first of their three consecutive World Cups in the fourth final to be staged at Lord ’ s . Giles Clarke , the ECB chairman , said : ‘ The ICC Cricket World Cup attracts television audiences which have the potential to outstrip all other major international sporting events. As chairman of the ICC ’ s Financial and Commercial Affairs Committee I know that we are anticipating a global television audience of more than two billion for the final . ‘ ECB is extremely proud to be staging the tournament which follows the Olympics and the Rugby World Cup in the list of truly global events being held in this country . ‘ Multi-cultural Britain ensures that all the teams competing in the ICC Cricket World Cup will have generous support in all the games they play in what promises to be a global celebration of cricket. ’ ICC Chief Executive David Richardson said : ‘ The ECB has a long-standing reputation for its ability to host world-class events and the ICC is delighted that the ECB is hosting three global events between 2017 and 2019 , each at quality venues . ‘ Following on from our recently announced global broadcast partnership with Star India / Middle East , we are confident that all three tournaments will generate unprecedented worldwide audiences in what is widely regarded as the traditional home of cricket. ’ Steve Elworthy , ECB Head of Global Events , added : ‘ The tournament will showcase the exceptional facilities which now exist at our leading grounds after a period of sustained investment in everything from stands to drainage to floodlights . ‘ The format of the tournament is also widely considered to be the most exciting with all teams playing each other in a 10-team group which will be followed by two semi-finals and a final at the iconic Lord ’ s ground. It is also fitting that Lord ’ s should be proposed to host the ICC Women ’ s World Cup final in 2017 ’ Lord ’ s staged a Women ’ s World Cup final in 1993 when England beat New Zealand by 67 runs but this was before the tournament came under the auspices of the ICC. The remainder of the venues for the ICC Women ’ s World Cup will be recommended to the ICC by the ECB Board in April .
