Tweet Netherlands , Kenya and Uganda focused on victory in Namibia Opportunity for top two teams to play in the ICC Intercontinental Cup 2015-17 and Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Championship During the eight-day tournament , Canada , Kenya , Namibia , Nepal , Netherlands and Uganda will compete for the opportunity to progress to ICC ’ s Intercontinental Cup 2015-17 and the Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Championship . Netherlands ’ Peter Borren : “ All the participating teams are capable of playing an exciting brand of cricket to a high standard ” Kenya ’ s Rakep Patel : “ We are taking one event at a time we don ’ t want to look too far ahead and lose focus of the present ” Uganda ’ s Frank Nsubuga : “ Everyone is working hard and we are very keen to play at our very best and win the tournament ” Pepsi ICC World Cricket League ( WCL ) Division 2 will see six Associate teams locking horns in Namibia , and Netherlands ’ Peter Borren , Kenya ’ s Rakep Patel and Uganda ’ s Frank Nsubuga say their teams are excited for the tournament to begin . During the eight-day tournament that commences on 17 January , Canada , Kenya , Namibia , Nepal , Netherlands and Uganda will compete for the opportunity to progress to ICC ’ s four-day Intercontinental Cup 2015-17 and the Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Championship . Netherlands ’ Peter Borren is expecting a competitive tournament : “ All the participating teams are capable of playing an exciting brand of cricket to a high standard. We are aware of the competitive nature of the tournament and are looking forward to the challenge. I expect the Netherlands team to perform well and it is our target to win the tournament. ” The Netherlands squad has enjoyed an intensive 10-day camp in Pretoria in early January , 2015 and will be hoping this provide the right preparation for the tournament . Its squad is a mixture of experience and raw talent explains Borren : “ Look out for Stephan Myburgh ; he is an enforcer at the top of the innings and Mudassar Bukhari will once again lead the bowling attack. On his day he is clearly one of associate cricket ’ s top performers and if he has a consistent tournament we will be very hard to beat. ” Uganda skipper , Frank Nsubuga is excited for the tournament to begin : " The team are training hard and the camp is great experience ahead of the tournament. Playing against Zimbabwe in Kampala was good preparation. ” Uganda qualified for WCL Div. 2 after coming second in the WCL Div. 3 , held in Malaysia in October 2014 , and the squad boasts all-rounder Roger Mukasa who was the Player of the Tournament in that event . Kenya captain Rakep Patel is confident for his team ahead of the tournament : “ I think we fancy ourselves doing well in the tournament. Although we didn ’ t get the results in our favour against Pakistan A , I think the tour has definitely helped the boys as they played against opposition of higher standard. ” The African side is seeking to regain its ranking amongst the top Associates by using the tournament as a way back in to the ICC Intercontinental Cup and the Pepsi World Cricket League Championship . Patel is keen to help Kenya climb the international ladder , but he says the side is taking one tournament at a time : “ We are taking one event at a time we don ’ t want to look to far ahead and lose focus of the present. If we start winning games again it will have a positive effect on the team and that in turn would help us climb the ladder slowly but surely. ” The opening day of the tournament will see Namibia take on Kenya at Wanderers , Netherlands lock horns with Canada at United , and Uganda face Nepal at Wanderers Affies .
