Nepal shocks Netherlands in last over thriller Namibia posts its second win of the tournament ; Canada ’ s batting line up secures victory Namibia post its second win of the tournament ; Canada ’ s batting line up secures victory Nepal shocked Netherlands with a two-wicket victory , hosts Namibia secured its second victory against a battling Uganda by 4 wickets , and Canada posted a big target to defeat Kenya by 46 runs on an exciting second day at the Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Division 2 . At United , Nepal chased down the winning target with three balls remaining scoring 159 for eight after Netherlands had posted 158 all out earlier in the day. Namibia secured victory achieving a 189-run target in 46.2 overs beating Uganda by 4 wickets at Wanderers. Canada ’ s batters put on a show reaching 257 for six in its 50 overs , defeating Kenya by 46 runs at Wanderers Affies . Nepal produced a shock on day two taking the match into the last over for the second time in two days , as its game with Netherlands went down to the wire at United. After an impressive start to proceedings on day one , Netherlands got into some early trouble . Winning the toss and batting first it lost early wickets , with the majority of the batting order not getting past single figures , leaving it on 54 runs for 5 wickets. A 50-run partnership from Stephen Myburg ( 36 ) - who had retired hurt , before returning to the middle - and Michael Rippon ( 53 ) stabilised the Dutch innings. Mudassar Bukhari added 19 runs late on before the Dutch finished on 158 all out in its 49.5 overs . Nepal ’ s reply got off to a shaky start losing two early wickets , the 4th-wicket 34-run partnership between captain Paras Khadka ( 19 ) and Binod Bhandari ( 35 ) put the Nepalese back on track. With every wicket momentum shifted , Sharad Vesawkar ( 24 not out ) and Shakti Prasad Gauchan ( 2 not out ) were in the middle for the last over requiring three runs from six balls , Nepal was determined not to fall short again and Vesawkar hit the winning runs . Namibia won its second match of the tournament defeating Uganda by 4 wickets at Wanderers. Uganda put in a good batting performance with the top six contributing 133 runs and wicket-keeper Phillemon Mukobe fell four runs shy of a half century , including five fours and one six. Jonathon Sebanja ( 26 ) , Brian Masaba ( 22 ) and Roger Mukasa ( 22 ) all kept the scoreboard ticking over in the middle part of the innings. Patrick Ochan came in down the order putting on another 21 runs on for the Ugandans , finishing on 188 for nine in 50 overs. The pick of the Namibian bowlers was Bjorn Kotze taking three wickets for 34 runs . The Namibians lost two early wickets in its reply with the openers Stephen Baard ( 10 ) and Gerrie Synman ( 3 ) leaving the hosts on 22 for two. Merwe Erasmus put Namibia in control with a player of the match performance scoring 62 runs including five fours , Craig Williams ( 23 ) and Nicolaas Scholtz ( 22 ) supported the 19-year-old in Namibia ’ s run chase ; before Sarel Burger ( 37 not out ) brought the victory home with 22 balls remaining . Canada achieved a big total on day two of competition , totaling 257 for six in its 50 overs against Kenya at Wanderers Affies . The Canadians started very positively with a 71-run partnership between Rizwan Cheema ( 57 ) and Nitish Kumar ( 15 ) and this was backed-up by the 4th wicket , 107-run partnership between captain Amarbir Hansra ( 43 ) and Navneet Dhaliwal ( 93 ) . Dhaliwal was the lynchpin for the Canadian innings which included six fours and four sixes . Kenya ’ s reply was valiant with strong batting performances from Irfan Karim ( 50 , five fours ) and Collins Obuya ( 78 , seven fours in 111 balls ) , but fell behind the run rate and its innings tailed off. Narenda Patel contribution of 20 took Kenya to a total of 211 all out in 48 overs , with Canada ’ s bowlers closing out victory. Parth Desai took an impressive four wickets for 45 runs , leading Canada to a 46 run victory . Points table as at Sunday , 18 January : TEAM
