Namibia and Netherlands take top two positions in enthralling day Both teams qualify for ICC Intercontinental Cup 2015-17 and Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Championship Ahsan Malik collects his Player of the Match award after taking five wickets Netherlands stun Uganda ; Kenya defeat Nepal by five wickets ; Namibia win to take top spot Photographs available for free download and editorial use through ICC FTP site ; please credit – ICC/H. Schutz It was a tense and exciting penultimate day at the Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Division 2 as Namibia and Netherlands secured the top two positions. Namibia secured an eight-wicket win over Canada , Netherlands downed Uganda by seven wickets and Kenya recorded a five-wicket victory over Nepal . This means that , irrespective of the outcome of the final , which will be contested at Wanderers on Saturday , Namibia and Netherlands will play in the ICC Intercontinental Cup 2015-17 and Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Championship. In contrast , Canada and Uganda have been relegated to Pepsi ICC World Cricket League Division 3 . With four teams battling it out for the top two positions , Netherlands produced a stunning performance against Uganda to secure second position. It bowled out the African side for a paltry 79 in 23.4 overs and chased down the target in only 6.3 overs at Wanderers. Needing victory and by a big margin , the outstanding individual performance was produced by Ahsan Malik who took five wickets for seven runs in 6.4 overs including three maidens . Uganda ’ s innings never really got started with the only contributions from Brian Masaba ( 17 ) and Arthur Kyobe ( 15 ) , as Mudassar Bukhari ( two for 25 ) and Vivian Kingma ( two for 21 ) shared the remaining Uganda wickets . The Netherlands knew it had to improve its net run-rate if it was to be in with a chance of fighting for one of the top two positions , and it most certainly did that. Stephan Myburg ( 14 , one four , one six ) and Mudassar Bukhari ( 12 not out , one four , one six ) helped the Dutch reach the total. Captain Peter Borren scored a quick-fire 29 runs from 16 balls including four sixes and was accompanied by wicketkeeper Wesley Barresi 20 runs from seven balls , including three fours and one six to get the winning runs in just 6.3 overs . Elsewhere , at United , Canada got off to a quick start with Rizwan Cheema ( 28 , seven fours ) , Nitish Kumar ( 43 , three fours ) and Srimantha Wijeratne ( 52 , four fours ) contributing runs . Namibia ’ s Craig Williams was the stand out bowler of the day , taking six wickets for 37 runs in 10 overs as Canada was bowled out for 224 in 50 overs. Satsimranjit Dhindsa scored 43 runs down the order , including two fours and one six ; which allowed the North Americans to reach the final total which at one stage looked impossible following a middle-order collapse . Namibia knew it had to win the game to confirm one of the top two places and it did so with some impressive batting . Openers Stephen Baard ( 79 , eight fours , one six ) and Gerrie Synman ( 83 , eight fours , two sixes ) took Namibia to 133 before the first wicket fell. Merwe Erasmus ( 37 not out ) and Raymond Van Schoor ( 15 not out ) batted the Namibians to victory in 40.3 overs , winning by eight wickets and securing top spot going into the final . In the day ’ s other match at Wanderers Affies , Nepal fighting for one of the top positions started the day in second position were in trouble early on being 18 for three after 7.3 overs , before the middle order fought back. Captain Paras Khadka ( 20 ) and Sharad Vesawkar ( 18 ) helped the scoreboard tick over , but the main run scorer was Gyanedra Malla who scored 91 runs not out from 116 balls including seven fours. The pick of the bowlers was Elijah Asoyo ( 3-47 ) , before Nepal finished on 194 all out in 49.5 overs . Kenya spoiled the Nepalese party with three innings contributing to a five-wicket victory. Opener Alex Auma ( 45 , four fours , one six ) , player of the match Irfan Karim ( 75 not out , eight fours ) and captain Rakep Patel ( 56 , five fours , two sixes ) chased down the victory with relative ease in 35 overs ; with a rematch on Saturdayin third versus fourth place play-off . Namibia and Netherlands will now face each other in the final , Kenya will face Nepal in the play-off for third and fourth , and Canada and Uganda will compete in the fifth and sixth place play-off . Points table as at Friday , 23 January : TEAM
