Tweet Papua New Guinea claims top prize in Pepsi ICC Development Programme Annual Awards 2014 PNG had a tremendous 2014 , with its senior men ’ s team achieving ODI status , while the Women ’ s side qualified for its first ever ICC Women ’ s World T20 Qualifier Argentina picked up the photo of the year award for its photo capturing street cricket being played in Buenos Aires . Papua New Guinea ( PNG ) has taken the top prize in the Pepsi ICC Development Programme Annual Awards 2014 , claiming the Best Overall Cricket Development Programme award. PNG had a tremendous 2014 , with its senior men ’ s team achieving One-Day International ( ODI ) status , while the PNG Women ’ s side qualified for its first ever ICC Women ’ s World T20 Qualifier. This on-field success has , however , been underpinned by a highly successful domestic development programme that has resulted in significant participation growth over the past decade. There are now close to 200,000 cricket participants in PNG. Keith Dennis , former chairman of Jersey Cricket Board , was posthumously awarded the Lifetime Achievement award thanks to his efforts in developing cricket in Jersey dating back to the 1950 ’ s. Mr Dennis sadly passed away during 2014 whilst supporting Jersey in its successful ICC World Cricket League Division 5 campaign. The Spirit of Cricket Award was given to Thailand to acknowledge its work with underprivileged Hill tribe children and orphans in Northern Thailand , providing them with education alongside cricket activities . Argentina picked up the photo of the year award for its photo capturing street cricket being played in Buenos Aires. Other winners were Ahmad Feisal Tajuddin of the Malaysia Cricket Association , who won the Volunteer of the Year award thanks to his work growing cricket at all levels in Malaysia and Habib Mugalula from the Uganda Cricket Association who won the Women ’ s Cricket ‘ Behind the Scenes ’ award for her work developing Women ’ s cricket in Jinja , Uganda . The judging panel featured ICC Chairman Mr Srinivasan and former Presidents Mr Alan Isaac and Mr Mustafa Kamal. ICC ’ s Head of Global Development Tim Anderson said : “ I ’ m pleased to be able to congratulate the 2014 Award winners who have all demonstrated incredible dedication to growing our sport. It ’ s particularly encouraging that PNG ’ s rise is being driven by outstanding local development structures , alongside strong local partnerships. ” “ It ’ s also important to note the diversity of this year ’ s winners , who , together with the Associate Members who recently competed in the ICC Cricket World Cup , are demonstrating the strength of cricket ’ s development outside its traditional territories. ” All Pepsi ICC Development Programme Annual Awards 2014 winners receive a cricket equipment grant to its national cricket body. The prizes are as follows : · Best Overall Cricket Development Programme ( $ 5,000 ) · Lifetime Service Award ( $ 2,000 ) · Volunteer of the Year ( $ 2,000 ) · Women ’ s Cricket Behind the Scenes Award ( $ 2,000 ) · Spirit of Cricket Award ( $ 2,000 ) · Photo of the Year ( $ 1,000 )
