Cricket World Cup 2015 : Brendan Taylor Ca n't Comprehend Pakistan Loss Cricket World Cup 2015 : Brendan Taylor Ca n't Comprehend Pakistan Loss Brendan Taylor said Zimbabwe had targeted this match as one they could win and said they had only done half the job . Last updated on Sunday , 01 March , 2015 21 : 32 IST Total Shares Brendan Taylor said he still believes Zimbabwe could reach the final eight . © Getty Images Brisbane : Zimbabwe wicketkeeper Brendan Taylor said he could n't comprehend his team 's 20-run loss to Pakistan at the World Cup in Brisbane on Sunday . After restricting Pakistan to 235 for seven , Zimbabwe appeared well on track as Hamilton Masakadza ( 29 ) , Taylor ( 50 ) and Sean Williams ( 33 ) dominated the Pakistan attack. ( Match Highlights | Pics | Scorecard | Points Table ) But some soft dismissals handed the momentum back to Pakistan , who went on to record their first win of the tournament and keep their hopes of qualifying for the quarter-finals alive . Taylor said Zimbabwe had targeted this match as one they could win and said they had only done half the job . " We certainly did target this match and we felt that half the job was done particularly well by restricting them to 235 , " he said. ( Misbah Urges Pakistan Batsmen to Shape Up ) " But they came out in the first 15 overs and made it pretty difficult for us ( to score runs ) . " We needed a partnership but unfortunately 50 and 30 run partnerships wo n't get you over the line . " It is extremely difficult to comprehend this loss. " Taylor said the experienced batsmen , including he and Williams , had to shoulder much of the blame . " We both felt like we were cruising nicely but again we found ways to get out at crucial periods -- some soft dismissals as well , " Taylor said . " That 's been a major downfall for us in the last four games , crucial periods when batters have needed to get through those initial periods , then finding ways to get out . " It 's not helping the team 's cause. " The 29-year-old said Zimbabwe still believed they could reach the final eight , despite having to play tournament heavyweights India in their final pool match . " It 's definitely a little more added pressure -- we feel we are 80 per cent there , " he said . " We think if we can close that gap a little bit more I think we are heading in the right direction for a good win against Ireland . " If we can do that , India have been on the road a long time , but we saw what happened at Eden Park the other day ( when New Zealand beat Australia ) . " If we can play some fantastic cricket then there is no reason we ca n't have that self-belief that we can win. " Zimbabwe captain Elton Chigumbura will have scans on his injured quadriceps on Monday . Story first published on : Sunday , 01 March 2015 20 : 23 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
