Wicket ! Out or not ? Akmal given out over dubious decision Hypothetical , but picture this — India need four runs off the last ball of the all-important ICC Cricket World Cup final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on 29 March. MS Dhoni hoicks , doesn ’ t connect properly and fails to find the fence. Dhoni and Ravindra Jadeja run hard between the stumps and collect two but not good enough to defend the title. New Zealand are the new World Champions ! Celebration and joy for a team that has always been the bridesmaid and never the bride . Hold. Rewind. The replays show that Tim Southee overstepped while delivering the last ball. But the umpire has failed to spot it. Else , India would ’ ve got an extra ball , which would have been a ‘ free-hit ’ and an extra run. Everyone across the world has witnessed this epic clash and has also seen that the umpire has erred terribly. To move over this slip-up by the on-field umpire is hard , for it ’ s the World Cup at stake. Fans across the globe are baffled why the third umpire did not intervene. He too saw what the rest of the world did , but unlike the rest of the world , he had the power to change the outcome . Of course , this is an imaginary set-up and it ’ s unlikely to be replayed like this — not until I am gifted with powers of ‘ Paul , the Octopus ’ . Still , no one can deny the fact the umpires missing out on a front-foot no-ball has become quite common. Whenever a wicket falls , it ’ s almost routine for the on-field umpire to ask the third-umpire to check if the bowler has overstepped. A lot of times the line is bang in the centre of the foot and on few occasions , the batsman gets a reprieve because the bowler had indeed overstepped . Now , if the umpire isn ’ t sure even when half the foot is behind the line , chances are that he wasn ’ t even looking down while the front foot had landed. If he ’ s missed a clear overstepping ( a few inches or more ) , once again the chances are that he wasn ’ t looking down. To refer marginal calls is acceptable but if there ’ s no consistency , which there isn ’ t , the umpires aren ’ t really on top of their game. In the game between Pakistan and Zimbabwe , television replays clearly showed as many as four no-balls that the umpires missed while Pakistan were bowling. On one such occasion , the ball following that missed no-ball yielded a wicket too. So , four ‘ unnoticed ’ no-balls would ’ ve meant four extra balls , four free hits and four extra runs. Eventually , Zimbabwe lost the game by just 20 runs. Would the result have been different if the umpire had called those four no balls ? Also , it ’ s only obvious to ask how many no-balls did the umpires actually miss , for broadcasters aren ’ t focusing only on the no-balls. If they missed four in Zimbabwe ’ s innings , chances are that they would ’ ve missed a few in Pakistan ’ s innings too , many of the Pakistani fans said on the social network. During India ’ s tour to England in 2014 , Nasir Hussain observed that umpires have stopped looking down for no-balls as they can refer them if a wicket falls , which they almost always do. If there ’ s merit in Hussain ’ s observations , there ’ s a dire need to address this issue. Umpires have a challenging job to change focus from where the foot has landed ( about five yards away from them ) to follow the trajectory of the ball and finally what the batsman did with it ( about 25 yards away from him ) in less than a second. While umpires have successfully managed this challenge for ages , it seems that things have changed in the last few years. Or perhaps , it was the case of limited broadcasting tools not highlighting the errors of the era gone by. Since cricket has embraced technology in parts , it might not be a bad idea to embrace it completely and let the technology decide the front-foot no balls. Just like it happens while serving in tennis , there could be a loud beep the moment a bowler has overstepped. Batsmen might not be able to hear it and change their shot accordingly , but any batsman worth his salt would confirm that it ’ s almost impossible to hear and change the shot at the last minute anyway. In any case , the following ball is a free-hit and that provides ample chance for the batsman to make good use of it. An argument against the usage of this technology in cricket is that foot in the air on top of the line is not considered a no-ball and is likely to fool the technology. Well , it ’ s only spinners who can land on the toe and stay on it till the release , for fast bowlers must land on the heel first. So , use the technology while the fast bowlers are operating and let the on-field umpire decide for spinners. If an umpire can ’ t see a spinner overstepping then he ’ s in the wrong job. Till then , if the third-umpire has spotted a no-ball that has gone unnoticed , he should intervene and change it immediately. There ’ s no point in not helping the on-field umpire when help is available. Finally , some more food for thought , again conjectural , but waiting to unfold. So imagine what happens if the batting side needs four runs off the last ball of the World Cup final. Batsman is given LBW , the ball gets deflected towards fine-leg , and the fielder in celebratory mood lets the ball go to the fence. The batsman asks for a review and it ’ s established that the ball is missing the stumps. The decision is overturned. Will this be considered four leg-byes and a victory for the batting team ? Or will the ball be declared dead ? Some might argue about the chances of this happening at all , especially on the last ball of a World Cup final . But then , what are the chances of a fast bowler hitting the stumps and the bails not falling. The latter has already happened in this World Cup once. * * *
