Quick Links : Aakash Chopra Former India opener Aakash Chopra is the author of Out of the Blue , which depicts Rajasthan 's 2010-11 Ranji Trophy victory. He tweets @ cricketaakash ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 : What India has done right and where the fault lines lie By Aakash ChopraPublished 16 Mar 2015 RELATED 14 Mar 2015 Who would have thought that India would win all six league games in the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup ? Even if someone had , it ’ s a given that even the most optimistic wouldn ’ t have given Indian bowlers much chance to clean up every single opposition. Taking all 10 wickets in every match in the league phase is an outstanding achievement. As much as it tells us about the quality of Indian bowling , it equally tells us about MS Dhoni ’ s attacking captaincy and the right team selection. So far , there have been many things that have gone right for India in this World Cup. I ’ ll try to look at the most critical ones , and the aspects where India need to be a bit careful for the knockouts . Playing 5 bowlers Ravindra Jadeja and R Ashwin didn ’ t have form going their way before the World Cup. In fact , Jadeja had played only a handful of games and his participation in the World Cup was in some doubt. During the tri-series , Dhoni kept talking about the need to find bowlers who could bat , for the batting wasn ’ t clicking. There must be a huge temptation to play an extra batsman and find 10 overs between Suresh Raina , Rohit Sharma and Virat Kohli. I ’ m so glad that Dhoni resisted this temptation , for what six batsmen can ’ t do , 7-8 won ’ t do either. Also , if India had started playing an extra batsman in place of a frontline bowler , India wouldn ’ t have dismissed every opposition. In the trade-off between saving 20 runs or chasing 25 more , I ’ d always go for the former , and the Indian team has done the same . Attacking captaincy Dhoni was slightly laidback in the tri-series and that was one of the key areas of concern for me. This is Dhoni ’ s Indian team and if he wasn ’ t confident and not attacking enough , the tournament would ’ ve gotten over even before it started. But as you ’ d expect from Dhoni , he raised his game as soon as the real deal started. He has given attacking fields to all his bowlers and encouraged them to take wickets. He ’ s been quick to assess the situation and used Plan B if Plan A wasn ’ t working. In the game against Ireland , he bowled only two overs of Umesh Yadav at the start and got 10 overs out of Raina , for the pitch was slow and Umesh was erratic that day. He could ’ ve taken it easy and given a longer rope to Umesh but World Cups are won only if you ’ re ruthless , and Dhoni has been extremely ruthless . Watch : India vs Bangladesh live streaming on starsports.com Kohli at 3 For the entire home series against Sri Lanka , Kohli dropped himself at number four and talked about how there might be a new role for him in the World Cup. While Ambati Rayudu was getting runs against Sri Lanka , he looked like fish out of water in the tri-series at the same number. There were theories floating about how two new balls in Australian conditions need caution at the start and hence it ’ s only prudent to protect the team ’ s best batsman. I ’ m so glad that Dhoni dropped that experiment as soon as the World Cup began , for the best batsman must get enough balls to play to dictate the flow of play. Yes , new balls are likely to produce a wicket-taking ball every now and then , but batting at four also doesn ’ t guarantee a 100 in every game. Kohli at No. 3 and Rahane at No. 4 have looked as good as gold . Areas to address : Death bowling Death bowling is still a concern for India. Twice its bowling was put under pressure and both times it came up short. The moment Jason Holder went after the bowlers in the game against the West Indies , Indian bowlers had little clue about the length to hit. They were either too full or too short and paid the price. The second time it happened in the last game against Zimbabwe and once again , Indian bowlers weren ’ t up to the mark. Whenever India bat first and posts a 300 + score , it gets easy for the bowlers to maintain a tight leash in slightly helpful conditions under lights. Their real test will be to bowl on a flat deck first up. This area needs immediate attention and I ’ m sure Bharati Arun , India ’ s bowling coach , would ’ ve already started working on the same . Get Live Cricket Score on starsports.com Wobbly in chasing Twice India were asked to chase against Test-playing nations and both times India wobbled a bit. If it weren ’ t for Dhoni ’ s batting on both occasions ( against West Indies and Zimbabwe ) , India would ’ ve ended up on the losing side. Batting is India ’ s strength and the day Dhoni loses the toss , it ’ ll have to stand up and deliver , for most teams are likely to bat first after winning the toss. They say that big players come good on big days and India will need its best player , Kohli , to put his hand up that day and win the game for India .
