James Faulkner Eager to Kickstart World Cup Campaign Against Afghanistan James Faulkner Eager to Kickstart World Cup Campaign Against Afghanistan James Faulkner suffered a side strain while bowling during Australia 's 112-run tri-series final win over England in Perth , earlier this year . Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 16 : 59 IST Total Shares James Faulkner fit to be back against Afghanistan © AFP Perth : Australia all-rounder James Faulkner said Monday he was raring to go against Afghanistan after fearing his World Cup might be over before it had started . Last month , Faulkner suffered a side strain while bowling during Australia 's 112-run tri-series final win over England in Perth -- a match where he smashed a 24-ball 50 not out featuring four fours and as many sixes -- and left the field at the WACA visibly in pain. ( Australian Pacer Pat Cummins Set to Miss Afghanistan Match ) But now the 24-year-old Tasmanian hopes the same ground will witness his 2015 World Cup debut against tournament newcomers Afghanistan on Wednesday . " I 'd be lying to say I was n't frustrated at the start , " Faulkner told a news conference at the WACA on Monday. " Any time you get injured it 's a shocking feeling . " And to do it at the time it happened , it was obviously quite hard to take at the start. ( Glenn Maxwell Mocked for Kiwi 'Choke ' Gesture ) " But it has given me some time to freshen up and get my body feeling good again . " Hopefully it holds me in good shape come the end of this tournament. " Faulkner bowled several overs in the WACA nets on Monday and , provided there are no ill-effects , he should be available to face Afghanistan. ( Starc Wants to Repeat Blistering Form Against Afghanistan ) " I think I was lucky being a left arm bowler and a right arm batsman , it was n't the same side ( bearing the strain ) when I was batting , " he said . Faulkner 's recovery is timely for Australia given fast bowler Pat Cummins is set to miss Wednesday 's match after he suffered a side strain during the thrilling one-wicket Pool A defeat by New Zealand in Auckland last weekend . Fellow paceman Josh Hazlewood looks in line to take Cummins 's place . But with Shane Watson again under pressure after giving his wicket away against New Zealand and Glenn Maxwell not making much of an impression at Eden Park , Faulkner could replace one of his fellow all-rounders . " I 'm not too sure what they want to go in with , that 's purely up to the selectors , " Faulkner said. " All I can control is about getting back out on the park and giving myself a chance of playing again . " The rest is n't my job and it 's not for me to worry about. That 's their decision at the end of the day. " As well as the drama of Saturday 's climax , there was the light relief of Maxwell 's 'choking ' gesture to spectators as New Zealand lost nine wickets chasing a mere 152 for victory . But Kane Williams ensured Black Caps fans in a capacity crowd at Eden Park had the last laugh when he sealed victory with a superb straight six off Cummins . Faulkner insisted Maxwell 's gesture and the loss itself had both been consigned to history by his team-mates . " I saw it from the sidelines , " Faulkner said . " After the game everyone put that aside and we knocked that on the head. " Australia will look to return to winning ways with a full haul of points against Afghanistan , having managed just three from their first three matches after a 111-run win over England was followed by a washout against Bangladesh and last weekend 's loss to New Zealand . Story first published on : Monday , 02 March 2015 15 : 42 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
