MS Dhoni & Co. Are the Complete Team in World Cup : Clive Lloyd MS Dhoni & Co. Are the Complete Team in World Cup : Clive Lloyd Clive Lloyd is impressed with the way India have maintained the perfect balance between a good batting line-up and bowling attack during the World Cup . Last updated on Monday , 02 March , 2015 23 : 01 IST Total Shares India have won 3 out of 3 games in the World Cup . © Getty Images Perth : Praising the Indian team , Former West Indies captain and chairman of selectors Clive Lloyd has said that the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side has " all-round strength " with players like in-form Shikhar Dhawan and the ever-consistent Virat Kohli. ( Dhoni Wants India to Remain 'Mentally Fresh ' ) Lloyd , who led a strong Caribbean outfit with one of the best-ever fast bowling attacks in the history of the game , is impressed with the " variety " of Indian bowling as they take on West Indies in the fourth group league encounter between the teams at the WACA on Friday. ( Shami Gains 14 Places While Dhoni , Kohli Slide ) " It 's nearly the same sort of side. India 's pace bowling seems to be pretty good and you have a good spin bowler in ( Ravichandran ) Ashwin. Overall you have got a good variety and I think India have good all-round strength , " Lloyd expressed his views from the sidelines of the West Indies training session at the Murdoch University ground , here on Monday. ( India go From Butterfingers to Electric Heels ) " India 's middle order is pretty good. Kohli has been excellent for you guys. Dhoni can do anything any time. A good all-round side is the reason why you 've been champions. I 'm sure they want to be there at the end , " said while addressing a gathering that only had Indian journalists save one from the Caribbean islands. ( 'India 's Form a Warning to Other Teams ' ) Lloyd is the latest among the galaxy of former stars , who have showered accolades on Kohli . " Kohli has been a tremendous player over the last two years and now you have the likes of Dhawan coming through. I think India should do well. They 've won three out of three. So we ca n't fault their bowling or their batting. India 's always a formidable side and they 'll continue to be so. But when you set a standard , people expect you to keep that standard all the time. India are doing well but I hope they do n't do too well on Friday , " 70-year-old Lloyd said with a smile . Lloyd though did n't answer whether Indians will find it difficult to handle the Caribbean pace attack on a bouncy WACA strip . " I do n't know. It all depends on the day 's cricket. You have good cricketers and I 'm sure they have played against very pacy bowlers. They will be able to combat anything that is thrown at them. One-day cricket is who plays well on the day and gets their disciplines right . " If we do that , we give them a good run for their money. They 're defending champions and they want to be in this World Cup as long as possible , " said the man , who led West Indies to back-to-back World Cup victories in 1975 and 79 . Story first published on : Monday , 02 March 2015 17 : 36 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
