World Cup 2015 : National Anthem Row Adds to Eoin Morgan 's Woes World Cup 2015 : National Anthem Row Adds to Eoin Morgan 's Woes Thumping defeats by Australia ( 111 runs ) , New Zealand ( eight wickets ) and Sri Lanka ( nine wickets ) have made it a largely miserable World Cup for England , whose lone win of the tournament to date has come against non-Test side Scotland . Last updated on Tuesday , 03 March , 2015 11 : 11 IST Total Shares Morgan has had to battle poor form in the World Cup © AFP Sydney : As if England captain Eoin Morgan did not have enough to worry about leading his stumbling side at the World Cup , he has become caught up in a row over his failure to sing the national anthem. ( Complete World Cup Coverage ) Thumping defeats by Australia ( 111 runs ) , New Zealand ( eight wickets ) and Sri Lanka ( nine wickets ) have made it a largely miserable World Cup for England , whose lone win of the tournament to date has come against non-Test side Scotland . Inevitably there has been widespread criticism of the team 's performance but Dublin-born Morgan has also been criticised in some quarters for failing to bellow out a chorus of " God Save the Queen. " But the 28-year-old batsman , who played for Ireland before making his England debut in 2009 , said he was not making any sort of statement by staying silent during the anthem . " It 's pretty simple. I 've never sung the national anthem whether I 've played for Ireland or England , " Morgan said . " It does n't make me any less proud to be an English cricketer. I 'm extremely proud to be in the position I am in and privileged to be captain of a World Cup side. " Asked to explain his decision , Morgan added : " It 's a long story. It 's a personal thing. " Former England footballer Gary Lineker came to Morgan 's defence by saying : " You show your pride with your performance. You give your all on the field. Singing is for show , an irrelevance. " Story first published on : Tuesday , 03 March 2015 10 : 06 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
