Terms and Conditions Terms and Conditions This document is an electronic record in terms of Information Technology Act , 2000 and rules there under as applicable and the amended provisions pertaining to electronic records in various statutes as amended by the Information Technology Act , 2000. This electronic record is generated by a computer system and does not require any physical or digital signatures. This is a legal agreement between you , the user ( ‘ You ’ ) of the Services , as defined below , and Novi Digital Entertainment Private Limited ( formerly known as Indya Interactive Services Private Limited ) ( “ Novi ” ) stating the terms that govern Your use of the Site , as defined below. If You do not agree to these Terms and Conditions , you are not entitled to use the Services and any use thereafter shall be unauthorized. Description of Service and Acceptance of Terms of Use The www.starsports.com website ( the " Site " ) hosts the online video service offering a selection of sports programming ( including live streaming and highlights of sporting events ) , television shows , movies , clips , and other content , current or as may be added in future ( collectively , the " Content " ) . The Site is maintained and operated by Novi Digital Entertainment Private Limited ( formerly known as Interactive Services Private Limited ) , having its registered office at STAR House , Urmi Estate , 95 Ganpatrao Kadam Marg , Lower Parel , Mumbai - 400 013 , India ( “ Novi ” ) . The video service , the Content , the player for viewing the Content ( the " Video Player " ) and all other features , tools , applications , materials , or other services offered from time to time by Novi in connection with its business , however accessed , are referred to collectively as the " Services " . The Content is available for permissible viewing on or through one or more of the following platforms ( collectively , the " Properties " ) : i. The Site ; ii. Novi 's affiliate and distributor websites ; iii. other websites where website operators are permitted to embed the Video Player ; and iv. any other authorized applications , websites , features or devices launched or operated by Novi and/or its affiliates from time to time . Use of the Services ( including access to the Content ) on the Properties is subject to compliance with these terms of use ( " Terms of Use " or " Terms " or “ Terms and Conditions ” ) and any end user agreement that may , at the discretion of Novi or such affiliate or third party , be required for any such Property . By visiting the Site and or any other Property and/or using any of the Services ( including accessing any Content ) You are agreeing to these Terms and Conditions. Unless otherwise specified , the Service is available only for individuals aged 18 years or older. If You are under the age of 18 , You should review these Terms and Conditions with Your parent or legal guardian to make sure that Your parent or legal guardian understands and agrees to it on Your behalf and further if required You shall perform or undertake such activities which will entitle You to enter into a legally binding agreement with Novi. Your access to and use of the Services is subject to these Terms and Conditions , the Privacy Policy ( as available here http : //www.starsports.com/privacy/index.html and all applicable laws. Novi may at any time revise these Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy by updating this posting. You shall be bound by all such revisions. If You do not agree to the revised Terms and Conditions and/or Privacy Policy at any time , You may cancel your subscription to Services during the notification for renewal . Electronic Communications When You use/avail the Services or access the Properties or send any data , information or communication to Novi , You agree and understand that You are communicating with Novi through electronic records and You consent to receive communications via electronic records from Novi periodically and as and when required. Novi will communicate with You by email and/or any push or other message or electronic records on the email address and/or mobile number You shall submit to Novi at the time of registration for the Services , which will be deemed adequate service of notice / electronic record . Copyright and Trademark Rights The Content which is viewed on the Properties ( including all video , audio , graphics , text , images , photographs , user interface and all other content and the selection , coordination , and arrangement of such Content ) is copyrighted material of Novi and/or Novi ’ s licensors , and You agree not to use the Content or any part thereof except as provided in these Terms and Conditions , without the prior written permission of Novi. You are prohibited from copying , reproducing , modifying , distributing , displaying , performing or transmitting any of the Content comprising the Services for any purposes , and nothing otherwise stated or implied in the Services confers on you any license or right to do so . Novi ( or Novi ’ s affiliates or licensors or third parties ) owns all rights in the product names , company names , trade names , logos , product packaging and designs ( " Trademarks " ) that appear in the Content and Novi or such affiliates or licensors or third parties , as the case may be , owns all Trademarks in their respective products or services , whether or not appearing in large print and with or without the trademark symbol. Unauthorized use of any such Trademarks , including reproduction , imitation , dilution or confusing or misleading uses , is prohibited under applicable law in India and other jurisdictions. You are expressly prohibited from using or misusing any Trademarks , except as expressly provided in these Terms , and nothing otherwise stated or implied in the Services confers on you any license or right to do so . Access and Use of the Services Novi grants You a non-exclusive limited license to use the Services on the Properties , including accessing and viewing the Content on a streaming-only basis through the Video Player , only for personal , non-commercial purposes as set forth in these Terms and Conditions. Any other use , including for any commercial purposes , is strictly prohibited without Novi ’ s express prior written consent. Systematic retrieval of data or other content from the Services , whether to create or compile , directly or indirectly , a collection , compilation , database or directory , is prohibited absent our express prior written consent . Registration may be required for certain portions of the Services. No user will be granted access to any registration-required portions of the Services unless he or she has completed the necessary registration and paid the Subscription Fees , if any , associated with access to such portion of the Services. You may register for the Services using either Your personal email address or through your Facebook account and by following the instructions You receive from Novi pursuant to submitting your details , to complete the registration process. If you choose to register through Facebook , you will be required to enter the details of your Facebook account information on the Site. You agree and represent that the Facebook account information provided by you is true and accurate and that such account relates to you and no other person. Novi and/or its group companies shall be in no way responsible for verifying the accuracy of the personal information submitted by You and You shall at all times continue to remain liable for the same. You agree and confirm that by choosing to register on the Site through your Facebook account , certain information ( including your friend lists and your account information ) shall be accessible to Novi and You consent to Novi ’ s access and use of the such information. By agreeing to use/avail the Services : · You confirm and warrant that all the data and information supplied by You when You register for subscribing the Services and provided by You to Novi and or any Novi ’ s affiliates , distributors ( “ Registration Data ” ) is true , current , complete and accurate in all respects . · At the time of subscribing to the Service , You agree to collection of the Subscription Fee ( as defined below ) by Novi associated with the subscribed Services You select , through any of the Payment Methods using any of the payment gateways ( “ Payment Gateway ( s ) ” ) authorized by Novi ; currently the authorized Payment Gateways are BillDesk and Paypal. “ Payment Methods ” means payment of the Subscription Fees through use of credit card/ debit card/ internet banking/ mobile payment ( IMPs ) or cash cards or any other payment method authorized by the Payment Gateways from time to time. · Upon providing your Registration Data and completing the payment of the Subscription Fees , you will be allowed to generate a unique login username and password ( “ Login ” ) , which will be unique to You and shall be your identity for the purpose of using the Services. You agree to promptly update the Registration Data linked to Your Login , so that Your information remains true , current , complete , and accurate at all times . · You acknowledge and agree that Your Registration Data and all other personal data submitted by you to Novi is subject to Novi ’ s Privacy Policy available here : http : //www.starsports.com/privacy/index.html . For more information , view the full Privacy Policy. Novi may collect information relating to You , including without limitation , occupation , language , zip code , area code , unique device identifier , location and the time zone where You use the Services . · You acknowledge , consent and agree that Novi may access , preserve , and disclose Your account information subject to the Privacy Policy , if required to do so by law or in a good faith belief that such access , preservation , or disclosure is reasonably necessary to : ( a ) comply with legal process ; ( b ) enforce the Terms and Conditions ; ( c ) respond to Your requests for customer service ; or ( d ) protect the rights , property or personal safety of Novi , its users and the public . · By using this Service You acknowledge that the subscribed Services are accessed through a computer , handheld device , mobile device , smart TV or OTT device ( each a “ Device ” ) via telecommunications/ internet connection. You are responsible for the provision of and payment for all telecommunications/ internet services and all other items of hardware or communications equipment necessary to enable You to access the subscribed Services. You are aware that video streaming uses extensive amount of data and additional charges may be levied by Your mobile or internet service provider for such data use. Novi will not be responsible for any such additional data charges incurred by You. Not all features available through the Services ( including but not limited to certain live streaming or high quality audio/video ) will be available to you unless your Device satisfies the minimum technical system requirements that are listed on our FAQ section from time to time. As we make changes to or evolve the Services , the minimum system requirements may change. You are responsible for determining whether Your Device satisfies the minimum technical requirements before You register to access the Services. Moreover , if we change the minimum technical requirements after you initially register to access the Services such that Your Device no longer satisfies the requirements , Your exclusive remedy will be to request termination of your access to the Services. Novi will not be responsible , nor will You be entitled , for any refunds of Subscription Fees , for disruption , unavailability , or failure in Your telecommunications equipment and/or internet connection or services or if Your Device/ other equipment/ hardware system/ internet/ telecommunication service do not conform to the minimum system requirements as stated above . · You may access Content using a single Login on a maximum of two Devices at any given point of time , irrespective of the platform. If You wish to access the Content from a third Device , You have to stop accessing Content through any of the previous two Devices . · You agree that Novi has the right to temporarily suspend access to the whole or any part of the subscribed Services for any technical/operational reason. Novi may , but shall not be obliged to , give You notice of any interruption of access to the subscribed Services , to the extent it is reasonably practicable. Novi will restore access to the subscribed Services as soon as reasonably practicable after temporary suspension. Novi shall not be liable to You for any loss that You may incur as a result of such suspension or delay. If such suspension is for a continuous period of more than ten ( 10 ) days , then upon Your written request , Novi shall refund or cause the refund of the monthly Subscription Fee for the relevant Subscription Period on a pro rata basis in which the aforesaid suspension occurred and this shall be Your sole and exclusive remedy for any suspension of subscribed Services by Novi . · You acknowledge that while Novi shall take all reasonable steps necessary to ensure a high quality video feed , Novi can not control internet network congestion that may occur and affect the quality of the video delivered through the Video Player. You further agree and acknowledge that there might be delays , minor or otherwise , in transmission of the Services as compared to other forms of distribution of the Novi network channels . · You agree that Novi shall be under no liability whatsoever to You in the event of non-availability of any portion of the subscribed Services occasioned by Act of God , war , disease , revolution , riot , civil commotion , strike , lockout , flood , fire , satellite failure , failure of any public utility , man-made disaster , satellite failure or any other cause whatsoever beyond the control of Novi . · You acknowledge that Novi reserves the unrestricted and discretionary right to change , rearrange , add or delete Services offerings , the selections in those offerings/packages , prices , and any other service Novi may offer , at any time. Novi will endeavor to notify You of any such change that is within Novi ’ s reasonable control and its effective date. Unless otherwise specified , Subscriptions Fees once paid are non-refundable. Subscribed Services will automatically lapse once the Subscription Period is over . · You acknowledge and agree not to either directly or through the use of any device , software , internet site , web-based service , or other means remove , alter , bypass , avoid , interfere with , or circumvent any copyright , trademark , or other proprietary notices marked on the Content or any digital rights management mechanism , device , or other content protection or access control measure associated with the Content including geo-filtering mechanisms. Further , You agree not to either directly or through the use of any device , software , internet site , web-based service , or other means copy , download , capture , reproduce , duplicate , archive , distribute , upload , publish , modify , translate , broadcast , perform , display , sell , transmit or retransmit the Content or create any derivative work and/or material based on the Content . · You agree that Novi owns and retains all rights to the Services. You further agree that the Content You access and view as part of the Services is owned or controlled by Novi and or its licensors. The Services and the Content are protected by copyright , trademark , and other intellectual property laws . · You agree that in order to access and use the Services You will choose a unique user ID and password ( the " Password " ) at the time of registration for subscribing the Services. Your user ID and password will be your identity for the purposes of receiving and interacting with the Services and other users through the Services. You are responsible for the security and proper use of Your ID and Password and must take all necessary steps to ensure that they are kept confidential , used properly , and not disclosed to unauthorized people . Subscription Fees · In order to access the Services , a fee shall be charged by Novi ( “ Subscription Fee ” ) for the subscribed Services. The rate at which Subscription Fee will be charged for Specific Services and packages of Services shall be specified on the Site from time to time and will be valid for such period of time as shall be specified against such Services/ packages on the Site ( “ Subscription Period ” ) . At the end of the Subscription Period , You will have the option to continue or cancel with the subscribed Services . · You agree to pay the Subscription Fee through the Payment Gateway authorized by Novi. Even though such Payment Gateway may have the look and feel of the Site , please be aware that such Payment Gateway may be governed by additional terms of use and privacy policies and it will be Your responsibility to read and understand such terms of use and the privacy policy of the Payment Gateway before making any payment. We expressly disclaim any responsibility or liability for any damage , loss or injury arising out of the activities of any Third Party Sales Locations or any product or service provided therein . · You agree that Subscription Fee paid by You for the subscribed Services is territory specific and the subscribed Services shall not be available to You in case You move out of territory. For the sake of clarity it is clarified that territory shall mean the geographical area for which the Services are on the offering . · Novi reserves the right to modify the price of any of the Services/ products offered for purchase through the Site or any other Properties. Your ability to purchase services/products offered for purchase through the Site or other Properties is subject to limits established by Your internet banking account or debit/credit card issuer. You must notify us immediately of any change in Your internet banking account or credit card information , including any change to your home address. By utilizing a credit or debit card for purchase of any of the services/products offered for purchase through the Site , You authorize Novi to charge such card on a periodic basis as specified in the amount described on the Services/products purchase path ( s ) . Termination of Service Novi reserves the right to immediately terminate or restrict Your account or Your use of the Services or access to Content at any time , without notice or liability , if Novi determines in its sole discretion that You have breached these Terms and Conditions , violated any law , rule , or regulation , engaged in other inappropriate conduct , or for any other business reason. You agree and acknowledge that the Subscription Fee shall not be refunded in case of early termination i.e. prior to expiry of Subscription Period for which Subscription Fee has been paid . You hereby acknowledge and agree that once subscribed , until the expiry of the Subscription Period , you shall not be entitled for any reason whatsoever , to make any requests for swapping or changing the offerings and plans subscribed to by you with any other offerings or packages available on the Site or any other Properties and Novi shall not be liable to accept or acknowledge any such requests. User Reviews , Comments and Other Material You may have an opportunity to publish , transmit , submit , or otherwise post ( collectively , " Post " ) only reviews or comments ( collectively , " User Material " ) . You agree that Novi shall have the right but have no obligation , to monitor User Material and to restrict or remove User Material that Novi may determine , in its sole discretion , is inappropriate or for any other business reason. You agree to adhere to the below terms and conditions and not host , display , upload , modify , publish , transmit , update or share any information that : ( a ) belongs to another person and to which You do not have any right to ; ( b ) is grossly harmful , harassing , blasphemous defamatory , obscene , pornographic , pedophilic , libellous , invasive of another 's privacy , hateful , or racially , ethnically objectionable , disparaging , relating or encouraging money laundering or gambling , or otherwise unlawful in any manner whatever ; ( c ) may harm minors in any way ; ( d ) infringes any patent , trademark , copyright or other proprietary rights ; ( e ) violates any law for the time being in force ; ( f ) deceives or misleads the addressee about the origin of such messages or communicates any information which is grossly offensive or menacing in nature ; ( g ) impersonate another person ; ( h ) contains software viruses or any other computer code , files or programs designed to interrupt , destroy or limit the functionality of any computer resource ; ( i ) threatens the unity , integrity , defense , security or sovereignty of India , friendly relations with foreign states , or public order or causes incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence or prevents investigation of any offence or is insulting any other nation . You also represent and warrant that the Posting of your User Material does not violate any right of any party , including privacy rights , publicity rights , and intellectual property rights . You acknowledge that Novi does not guarantee any confidentiality with respect to any User Material . By Posting the User Material , You hereby grant Novi a license to use , display , reproduce , distribute , modify , delete from , add to , prepare derivative works of , publicly perform , and publish such User Material worldwide , including on or through any Property , in perpetuity , in any media formats and any media channels now known or hereinafter created. The license You grant to Novi is non-exclusive , royalty-free , and sub licensable . In no event does Novi assume any responsibility or liability whatsoever for any User Material , and You agree to waive any legal or equitable rights or remedies You may have against Novi with respect to such User Material . If you have any questions or complaints relating to any User Material uploaded on the site , then please contact : hello @ starsports.com Your email , which must bear your digital signature or a signed written complaint should include the following information : I. Details of the objectionable Post ; II. Details of the basis of the objection ; III. Other relevant information required by the Company to assess the complaint . Novi shall take all reasonable measures , including taking down the objectionable Post expeditiously. You agree and acknowledge that the Company ’ s responsibility in relation to objectionable Posts is limited to removing them post receipt of Your objections in accordance with this Terms of Use and the Company shall not be responsible or liable for any other damages or losses incurred by You of any nature whatsoever . Linked Destinations and Advertising If Novi provide links or pointers to other websites or destinations , You should not infer or assume that Novi operates , controls , or is otherwise connected with these other websites or destinations. When You click on a link within the Services , Novi will not warn You that You have left the Services and are subject to the terms and conditions ( including privacy policies ) of another website or destination. In some cases , it may be less obvious than others that you have left the Services and reached another website or destination. Please be careful to read the terms of use and privacy policy of any other website or destination before you provide any confidential information or engage in any transactions. You should not rely on these Terms and Conditions to govern your use of another website or destination . Novi is not responsible for the content or practices of any website or destination other than the Site , even if it links to the Site and even if the website or destination is operated by a company affiliated or otherwise connected with Novi. By using the Services , You acknowledge and agree that Novi is not responsible or liable to You for any content or other materials hosted and served from any website or destination other than the Site . Novi takes no responsibility for advertisements or any third party material Posted on any of the Properties , nor does it take any responsibility for the products or services provided by advertisers. Any dealings You have with advertisers found while using the Services are between You and the advertiser , and You agree that Novi is not liable for any loss or claim that You may have against an advertiser . Support If You have any questions , complaints or claims with respect to any of the Services , then such correspondence should be directed to hello @ starsports.com . Grievance Officer In accordance with the Information Technology Act , 2000 and rules made thereunder , the name and contact details of the Grievance Officer are provided below : Name : Manu Anand Phone Number : 91 22 6173 1009 Disclaimer of Warranties You agree that use of the Services is at Your own risk. The Services including the Site , the Content , the Video Player , user material and any other materials contained on or provided through the Properties are provided “ AS IS ” and , to the fullest extent permitted by law , are provided without warranties of any kind , either express or implied. Without limiting the foregoing , Novi does not make any warranties of fitness for a particular purpose , title , merchantability , completeness , availability , security , compatibility or non-infringement ; or that the Services will be uninterrupted , free of viruses and other harmful components , accurate , error free or reliable Compliance with Laws/Regulations You are required to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in connection with your use of the Services. By using the Services , you represent and warrant that you will not use the Services for any purpose that is either unlawful or prohibited by these Terms. Novi reserves the right to disclose any information about you or your use of the Services in connection with any investigations by us or law enforcement authorities as may be appropriate or necessary to satisfy any applicable law , regulation , legal process or governmental request . Limitation of Liability IN NO CASE SHALL NOVI , ITS DIRECTORS , OFFICERS , EMPLOYEES , AFFILIATES , AGENTS , CONTRACTORS , PRINCIPALS , OR LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT , INDIRECT , INCIDENTAL , PUNITIVE , SPECIAL , OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING FROM YOUR USE OF THE SERVICES OR ANY CONTENT OR MATERIAL THEREOF OR FOR ANY OTHER CLAIM RELATED IN ANY WAY TO YOUR USE OF THE SERVICES OR ANY CONTENT OR MATERIAL THEREOF , INCLUDING , BUT NOT LIMITED TO , ANY ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN ANY CONTENT OR MATERIAL , OR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE OF ANY KIND INCURRED AS A RESULT OF THE USE OF THE SERVICES OR ANY CONTENT OR MATERIAL THEREOF , EVEN IF ADVISED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY. WHERE THE LAWS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR THE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES , IN SUCH JURISDICTIONS , NOVI 'S LIABILITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW AND IF ANY SUCH LAW PROVIDES FOR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY THEN NOVI ’ S MAXIMUM AGREGGATE LIABILITY AND YOUR SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY AGAINST NOVI SHALL BE LIMITED TO SEEKING REFUND OF ONE MONTH ’ S SUBSCRIPTION FEE. YOU AND NOVI AGREE THAT ANY CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THE SUBSCRIBED SERVICE MUST COMMENCE WITHIN ONE ( 1 ) YEAR AFTER THE CAUSE OF ACTION ACCRUES , OTHERWISE , SUCH CAUSE OF ACTION IS PERMANENTLY BARRED . Indemnity You agree to defend , indemnify and hold harmless Novi , its affiliates , officers , directors , employees and agents , from and against any and all claims , damages , obligations , losses , liabilities , costs or debt , and expenses ( including but not limited to attorney 's fees ) arising from : ( i ) Your use of and access to the subscribed Services ; ( ii ) Your violation of any term of these Terms and Conditions ; ( iii ) Your violation of any third party right , including without limitation any copyright , property , or privacy right ; and ( iv ) Your breach of any applicable laws. This indemnification obligation will survive the expiry or termination of Terms and Conditions and Your use of the Service . Governing Law The relationship between You and Novi shall be governed by the laws of India without regard to its conflict of law provisions and for resolution of any dispute arising out of Your use of the Services. Notwithstanding the foregoing , You agree that Novi has the right to bring any proceedings before any court/forum of competent jurisdiction and You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of such courts or forum . Severability If any provision of these Terms and Conditions is held invalid , void , or unenforceable , then that provision shall be considered severable from the remaining provisions , and the remaining provisions given full force and effect . Changes Novi reserves the right , at any time and from time to time , to update , revise , supplement , and otherwise modify this Terms of Use and to impose new or additional rules , policies , terms , or conditions on Your use of the Service. Any material updates , revisions , supplements , modifications , and additional rules , policies , terms , and conditions ( collectively referred to in this Agreement as " Additional Terms " ) will be posted on the Site and will be effective immediately after such posting and thereafter incorporated into this Terms and Conditions. Your continued use of the Services after our posting modifications to these Terms will be deemed to constitute your acceptance of any and all such Additional Terms. If at any time You do not wish to accept these Terms or any Additional Terms , you may not use the Services . Entire Agreement These Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy constitute the entire agreement between You and Novi governing Your use of the Services , superseding any prior agreements between You and Novi regarding such use . TERMS AND CONDITIONS – ‘ # IndvPak ’ Contest The following are the rules for the “ # IndvPak ” contest ( the “ Contest ” ) hosted by Novi Digital Interactive Private Limited and its group companies ( “ STAR ” ) for promotion of content related to live audio visual coverage of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 event ( “ Program ” ) on the platforms and media owned/operated by STAR or its group companies ( “ Channels ” ) to be conducted through the Star Sports India Twitter profile at the URL http : //twitter.com/starsportsindia ( the “ Twitter Page ” ) through the handle @ starsportsindia ( “ Star Sports Handle ” ) . Any personal information gathered pursuant to this Contest shall be subject to the privacy policy available at http : //www.starsports.com/privacy/index.html ( “ Privacy Policy “ ) which is incorporated herein by reference. This Contest shall be subject to the terms and conditions , comprising of the Principal Rules and the General Rules ( the “ Terms and Conditions ” ) as stated hereunder. By participating in the Contest , it is construed that the Participant ( s ) has read and understood these Principle Rules including the General Rules stated below and has agreed to abide by the same : ( I ) Principal Rules 1. The Contest will be conducted on 14th February 2015 during the time period as announced by STAR on the Twitter Page and/or on the Channels. ( “ Contest Period ” ) . The Contest is a game of creativity and skill. An official announcement shall be made on the Star Sports Handle inviting Twitter users to share tweets during the Contest Period containing creative posts in support of team India for its India v. Pakistan match on 15th February 2015. Any person who wishes to participate in the Contest ( “ Participant ” ) shall fulfill all of the following requirements in order to qualify for participation : ( a ) All Participants must be valid users of Twitter accounts and must be residing in India during the Contest Period . ( b ) Each Participant is required to visit the Star Sports India Twitter Page and “ follow ” the Star Sports Handle . ( c ) The Participant should submit their entry in the form of a tweet posted through the Participant ’ s Twitter account ( “ Entry ” ) . Each Entry : ( 1 ) should contain the pre-decided hash-tag for the Contest , i.e. “ # IndvPak ” ; ( 2 ) should contain the Star Sports Handle ( @ starsportsindia ) ; and ( 3 ) should be submitted only during Contest Period. Any Entry which does not contain all of the elements mentioned in this paragraph shall not be considered a valid Entry and shall be deemed null and void without requirement of any intimation by STAR . 2. The editorial team of STAR shall select the 10 ( ten ) Participants among all those Participants that submitted Entries containing the most creative , interesting , and/or popular Entries. Winners shall be selected on the basis of the relevance , popularity and/or creativity of their Entries or other criteria as the editorial team shall deem fit. Winners shall also be selected on the basis of the number of Entries that they submit during the Contest Period. Participants increase their chances of winning by increasing submitting as many Entries as possible during the Contest Period. STAR ’ s decision in this regard and for all other matters relating to the Contest shall be final and binding upon the Participant ( s ) . Winners will be announced on the Twitter Page on any day after the Contest Period , as announced by STAR . 3. All Winners would be awarded prizes ( “ Prizes ” ) . The Prizes shall be as announced by STAR. STAR shall not be liable for non-receipt of any Prize by any Winner , including due to errors or failures or deficiencies in dispatch services or in address details provided by the Winner ( s ) . All Prizes must be claimed in response to messages or telephone calls made to the Winner ( s ) . Any and all taxes and/or levies applicable under the laws of India and any incidental costs direct and/or indirect , in relation to Prizes shall be borne by the respective Winners. Neither SIPL nor any of its group companies shall be responsible or liable for any technical disruption , failure and/or any other difficulties of such nature , due to which the Winner ( s ) is unable to claim the Prize from STAR. After dispatch of a Prize to a Winner , in case any loss/damage etc. is caused to or incurred by the Prize ( s ) during transit or otherwise , STAR will not be liable for any such loss/damage etc. Further , SIPL and/or any of its group companies shall not be held liable for any failure and/or any other defect in or damage to the Prize , if any , whether caused during transit or otherwise . 4. STAR reserves the right to forfeit a Prize in the event it is found by STAR has a reason to believe that any information provided by the Participant/Winner ( s ) is wrong , fraudulent or any misrepresentation is made by the Participant/Winner. STAR shall have the right to declare any other Participant ( s ) as the Winner ( s ) of the Contest , at its discretion and transfer Prize ( s ) to such other Participants. All Prizes are provided on an as-is where-is basis without assurances or warranties of any kind. Neither STAR nor its group companies nor their employees provide any assurances or guarantees regarding Prizes , including quality , merchantability or fitness for purpose. The Winner ( s ) agree not to hold STAR and/or its group companies and/or their respective employees responsible for any delay in receiving Prizes or any inability to enjoy Prize ( s ) due to any failure by manufacturers of the Prizes , or any of their agents , or otherwise for any other problem in relation to a Prize. It is clarified that STAR and/or any of its group companies shall not be responsible for the brand , quality , value etc. in relation to a Prize and the supplier/ manufacturer shall be solely responsible for the same. STAR and/or any of its group companies shall not be held liable for any failure , inaccuracy , and/or any other defect or deficiency in the Contest. Neither STAR nor its group companies shall be liable for any delays or failures in any notifications , or the Contest in general . 5. The Participants agree that Prizes can not be transferred , negotiated , refunded or exchanged. It is clarified that no other gratification , cash equivalent of the Prize or alternative prize will be awarded to the Winner ( s ) and the Winner ( s ) can not exchange the Prize for cash or a gift of similar value. The Contest or the Prize ( s ) can not be combined with any other contest or activity. It is clarified that SIPL has no obligation to record the act of collection of the Prize ( s ) or incorporate it in the Program or mention it in the Program. If the Winner ( s ) refuses to accept the Prize awarded , SIPL and/or its group companies shall be released from all obligations towards the Winner ( s ) in connection to the Prize or otherwise . 6. All Entries must be received during the Contest Period. Entries received before or after a Contest Period will not be considered for the Contest and shall be deemed null and void without requirement of any further intimation by STAR . 7. STAR and/or its group companies shall not be responsible in the event that Entries are not received or the Participant ( s ) is unable to participate or post/tweet his/her entry on Twitter in the Contest due to any network problem , breakdown in machinery or any other technical error of any nature whatsoever. For purposes of the Terms and Conditions , “ receipt ” of an Entry occurs when the website server records the Entry information upon the entrant clicking “ Submit/Post ” button. Any automated receipt confirmation does not constitute proof of actual receipt. For the avoidance of doubt , by submitting the Entry the Participant ( s ) is representing that the Entry or contents thereof are not confidential or comprise any sensitive personal information . 8. The Participant ( s ) shall ensure that the Entry being submitted by them is decent and is not immoral , defamatory , abusive , offensive , insensitive , libelous or blasphemous to any person , religious sect or section of the society , etc. The Participant ( s ) further represents and warrants that the entry being submitted by him/her shall be original and shall not infringe upon and/or contain any material that will infringe upon any third party rights including rights in intellectual property. STAR reserves the right to remove or disqualify any Entries that do not meet these criteria . 9. STAR reserves the right to change the entry system/mechanism and/or cease accepting Entries for the Contest during the Contest Period for any reason or take any other steps in relation to the Contest as it may deem fit in its sole and absolute discretion . 10. STAR reserves the right to disqualify any Participant ( s ) from participating in the Contest without assigning any reason. STAR reserves the absolute right and discretion to reject any Entry or any part thereof at any stage of the Contest , including after declaring the winning Entry , if STAR : ( a ) receives any notice or complaint relating to the Entry not being compliant of the Terms and Conditions including alleged to be infringing any form of rights including rights in any form of intellectual property of any third party ; or ( b ) determines at its sole discretion that the Entry inter alia : , ( i ) belongs to another person and in which the Participant does not have any rights ; ( ii ) is blasphemous , indecent , immoral , abusive , offensive , against the applicable laws or libelous and/or is contrary to any law in force ; ( iii ) is grossly harmful , harassing , defamatory , obscene , pornographic , pedophilic , libelous , invasive of another 's privacy , hateful , or racially , ethnically objectionable , disparaging , relating or encouraging money laundering or gambling , or otherwise unlawful in any manner whatever ; ( iv ) harm minors in any way ; ( v ) infringes any patent , trademark , copyright or other proprietary rights ; ( vi ) violates any law for the time being in force ; ( vii ) deceives or misleads the addressee about the origin of such messages or communicates any information which is grossly offensive or menacing in nature ; ( viii ) impersonates another person ; ( ix ) contains software viruses or any other computer code , files or programs designed to interrupt , destroy or limit the functionality of any computer resource ; or ( x ) threatens the unity , integrity , defense , security or sovereignty of India , friendly relations with foreign states , or public order or causes incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence or prevents investigation of any offence or is insulting any other nation. The decision of STAR in this regard shall be final and binding upon the Participant ( s ) . 11. STAR reserves the right to select and declare the Winners of the Contest and such decision shall be final and binding on the Participant ( s ) and the Winner ( s ) . STAR shall select the winning Entries in accordance with applicable parameters , and the Winners shall be declared by STAR through the Star Sports Handle and any other means announced by STAR . 12. The Winners will be required to submit necessary supporting documentation to establish identity and compliance with contest terms and any applicable laws within timelines specified by STAR to be eligible for any gratification. In the event any person fails to adhere to the instructions , then his/her selection shall be invalidated. In such a case , ( a ) STAR and/or its group companies shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever and ( b ) STAR may , at its sole discretion , by the prescribed selection criteria choose other Winners instead . 13. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) agrees and consents to the use of the Entry and/or any part thereof by STAR or its affiliates as it may deem fit for the purpose of promotion of the Program and/or STAR and/or its group companies and/or any programs on any channels owned or operated by STAR or any of its group companies ( the “ Network ” ) . In consideration of the participation in the Contest , the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) hereby irrevocably , exclusively , perpetually and for the entire universe assigns all rights , titles and interests in the Entry including any rights of Exploitation thereof , to STAR , during or pursuant to the Contest. “ Exploitation/Exploit ” shall mean the exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof including along with its cognate forms and grammatical variations , and includes the exploitation , use , alteration , broadcast , rebroadcast , communication , encryption , transmission , translation adaptation , publication , cutting , editing , and packaging of the Intellectual Property vested in the Entry or any part thereof , either in whole or in part , in any form/format or language , as well as the conversion of the Entry and/or any part thereof from one form/format to another and in relation to the Entry and/or any part thereof , for incorporation in a Cinematograph Film or Sound Recording , Communication to the Public , Broadcast , Performance in Public , adaptation , reprography , reproduction , distribution , sale , commercial rental , assignment , licensing , merchandising rights , remakes , sequels , prequels , versions , translations , dubbing and/or subtitling in any all languages/dialects in the world , converting the Entry in to a film for theatrical Exploitation , including but not limited to the broadcasting thereof by any form of radio , internet and any and all form of television including but not limited to terrestrial , satellite , direct to home , cable , IPTV , any form of video on demand ( including but not limited to Pay-per-View , NVOD , SVOD , PVOD , FVOD made available for being seen or heard or delivered or Exploited through wire or wireless including but not limited to internet , websites including but not limited to social networking websites , blogs , internet or mobile streaming or download services ( whether free , pay or subscription based ) computing and networking devices , mobile /telecommunication system based platforms , mobile TV , theatrical or non-theatrical or any other means whether now known or existing or in commercial use or hereinafter invented or developed in the future in and to the Intellectual Property and all elements thereof. The capitalized terms ‘ Broadcast ’ , ‘ Communication to the Public ’ , ‘ Cinematograph Film ’ , ‘ Performance /Perform in Public ’ , ‘ Sound Recording ’ , ‘ Visual Recording ’ shall have the same meanings as defined in the Indian Copyright Act , 1957 as amended from time to time and all analogous rights subsisting under the laws of each and every jurisdiction throughout the world. ) . To the extent that the assignment of all rights , title and interest in the Entry and/or any part thereof if any subsisting in favor of the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) , in relation to future medium or mode of exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof is not held valid by operation of law , Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) hereby grants an irrevocable , exclusive , sub-licensable , perpetual right to STAR and its affiliates for such future medium or mode of exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof as may be developed in the future , for the entire world. Notwithstanding the above , the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) hereby agrees that the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) shall not assign or in any other manner transfer the Entry including and/or any part thereof for such means and modes of Exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof , which are not mentioned herein and are not presently known or in commercial use and therefore by operation of law are not deemed to have been assigned to STAR without offering for assignment such modes or means of Exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof for the entire world and perpetuity to STAR. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) , agrees and acknowledges that any form of assignment or transfer of any rights , title and interest in any such future modes and mean of Exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof to any third party in breach of the such obligation herein , anywhere in the world shall be null and void. Further , STAR may Exploit the Entry and/or any part thereof at any time it chooses , and it is expressly agreed by the parties that Section 19 ( 4 ) of the Indian Copyright Act , 1957 does not apply to this Agreement. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) waves off his “ Moral Rights ” with respect to the Entry and/or any part thereof as required. The Winner ( s ) shall do all acts and execute all documents in such manner and at such location as may be required by STAR in its sole and absolute discretion to protect , perfect or enforce any of the rights granted or confirmed to STAR herein . ( II ) GENERAL RULES : 1. The Participant ( s ) must be above the age of 18 years and must be residing within the territorial limits of India during the Contest Period. The Participant ( s ) should not have any criminal conviction or an arrangement or a contract that prevents the Participant ( s ) from participating in the Contest. Proof of age , if requested , of the Participant ( s ) , Winner ( s ) , in the Entry must be submitted to STAR ( i.e. , Birth Certificate , 10th Class leaving Certificate/ School certificate/ passport/ an affidavit signed by a magistrate ) as may be required by STAR to confirm the eligibility of the Participant ( s ) . 2. Participant ( s ) shall provide such information as may be required by STAR from time to time. Any incomplete submission will be considered invalid for the purpose of the Contest. STAR also reserves the right to disqualify a Participant ( s ) in case a discrepancy is found to exist in the information furnished/provided/stated by the Participant at any point in time during the Contest Period. 3. STAR reserves all rights to make amendments to the existing Terms and Conditions or withdraw , vary , amend or terminate the Contest , without giving prior notice or reason. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant ( s ) to check the rules and regulations of the Contest on http : //www.starsports.com/terms-conditions/index.html . Non-conformance by the Participant ( s ) to any the Terms and Conditions will make such Participant ’ s Entry/ies null and void . 4. The Participant/ Winner acknowledges that in case the conduct of the Contest and can not be fulfilled due to any reason , including reasons beyond the control of STAR such as war , industrial action , flood or any act of God , then STAR shall not have any liability in this connection . 5. STAR and/or its group companies are in no manner whatsoever responsible and/or shall not be held liable in any manner whatsoever , for any physical injury , death , mental and/or emotional trauma caused to the Participant in any manner whatsoever , in connection to the Contest . 6. The Winner ( s ) /Participant ( s ) shall hold harmless and indemnify STAR , its affiliates , its group companies , their employees , officers , directors and/or any other person from and against any suits , actions , proceedings , causes of action , litigation , injury , damage , harm , loss , damage , liability , award , costs or expenses that may arise in connection with any act of the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) and/or Entry including any third party rights claims with respect to the material submitted by the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) . 7. The Participant ( s ) and/or the Winner ( s ) shall not in any circumstances make any claims against STAR or its group companies , arising out of or relating to any and all costs , injuries , losses or damages of any kind , including , without limitation due to any technical faults ( directly or indirectly ) , to the Participant ( s ) and/or the Winner ( s ) participation or non-participation in the Contest or any related activity. If any Participant or Winner is found to be ineligible , or if he or she has not complied with these Terms and Conditions , the corresponding entries will be disqualified. STAR shall not be liable for any direct , indirect , consequential , special , exemplary or punitive damages or losses in connection with this Contest. 8. Employees of and/ or consultants of STAR and/or persons hired on contract by STAR , the sponsor , and the members of their immediate family , are ineligible to participate in the Contest . 9. By participating in the Contest , it shall be construed that the Participant ( s ) and/or the Winner ( s ) has waived his/her right to raise any dispute with regard to the Contest and/or the Prize , in any manner whatsoever and has understood and accepted these Terms and Conditions and the Privacy Policy incorporated herein by reference and unconditionally accepts and agrees to comply with and abide by the Terms and Conditions. In the event of any fault , misunderstanding or dispute concerning any part of the Contest the decision of STAR shall be final. Each Participant hereby acknowledges and agrees that the relationship between the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) and STAR and its group companies is not a confidential , fiduciary , or any other special relationship . 10. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) of the Contest agrees that if so required by STAR , he/she shall make himself/herself available from time to time and co-operate with STAR and participate in any activity and/or campaign ( " Promotional Activity " ) of any nature and on any platform whatsoever without any money payable to the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) . Further , the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) shall at no point of time refuse or disagree to participate in any such Promotional Activity for any reason whatsoever and shall not do any act either directly or indirectly during such Promotional Activity which may bring STAR or any of its group companies into public disrepute or denigrate any of the preceding , or offend any community or public morals. In all public appearances the Participant/Winner shall use her/his judgment in general demeanor and choice of language to create an atmosphere which would be conducive to the services and/or promotion of the Program and/or the Network and/or any channel on the Network. The Participant ( s ) / Winner ( s ) agrees that the footage/ picture/ photograph of the Participant ( s ) / Winner ( s ) used during the course of the Contest or for the purpose of the Contest shall vest with STAR , including but not limited to all intellectual property rights and any other rights for worldwide and in perpetuity and STAR may exploit the same in any manner and in any media whatsoever at any time throughout the world whether by itself or through its group companies. The Participant agrees and consents to the use of any text and/or information and/or any photograph and/or image and/or visual recording and/or other components of his or her Entry on any platform as STAR may deem fit for the purpose of promotion of the Program and/or the Network and/or any channels forming part of the Network . 11. These Terms and Conditions shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of India and exclusive jurisdiction over all matters arising out of or in relation hereto shall vest in Mumbai , India . TERMS AND CONDITIONS – ‘ # WontGiveItBack ’ Contest The following are the rules for the “ # WontGiveItBack ” contest ( the “ Contest ” ) hosted by Novi Digital Interactive Private Limited and its group companies ( “ STAR ” ) for promotion of content related to cricket ( “ Program ” ) on the platforms and media owned/operated by STAR or its group companies ( “ Channels ” ) to be conducted through the Star Sports India Twitter profile at the URL http : //twitter.com/starsportsindia ( the “ Twitter Page ” ) through the handle @ starsportsindia ( “ Star Sports Handle ” ) . Any personal information gathered pursuant to this Contest shall be subject to the privacy policy available at http : //www.starsports.com/privacy/index.html ( “ Privacy Policy “ ) which is incorporated herein by reference. This Contest shall be subject to the terms and conditions , comprising of the Principal Rules and the General Rules ( the “ Terms and Conditions ” ) as stated hereunder. By participating in the Contest , it is construed that the Participant ( s ) has read and understood these Principle Rules including the General Rules stated below and has agreed to abide by the same : ( I ) Principal Rules 1. The Contest will be conducted between 19th February and 30th March during the time period as announced by STAR on the Twitter Page and/or on the Channels. ( “ Contest Period ” ) . The Contest is a game of knowledge and skill wherein Participants would be invited to answer 3 ( three ) questions in relation to cricket or sports generally. An official announcement shall be made on the Star Sports Handle inviting Twitter users to share posts/tweets during the Contest Period in the manner specified in the announcement and herein below. Any person who wishes to participate in the Contest ( “ Participant ” ) shall fulfill all of the following requirements in order to qualify for participation : ( a ) All Participants must be valid users of Twitter accounts and must be residing in India during the Contest Period . ( b ) Each Participant is required to visit the Star Sports India Twitter Page and “ follow ” the Star Sports Handle . ( c ) The Participant should submit their entry in the form of a tweet posted through the Participant ’ s Twitter account ( “ Entry ” ) . Each Entry : ( 1 ) should contain the pre-decided hash-tag for the Contest , i.e. “ # WontGiveItBack ” ; ( 2 ) should contain the Star Sports Handle ( @ starsportsindia ) ; and ( 3 ) should be submitted only during Contest Period. Any Entry which does not contain all of the elements mentioned in this paragraph shall not be considered a valid Entry and shall be deemed null and void without requirement of any intimation by STAR . 2. The editorial team of STAR shall select the first Participant among all those Participants that submits Entries correct answers to all 3 ( three ) contest questions. Winners shall be selected on the basis of the correctness , relevance , popularity and/or creativity of their Entries or other criteria as the editorial team shall deem fit. STAR ’ s decision in this regard and for all other matters relating to the Contest shall be final and binding upon the Participant ( s ) . Winners will be announced on the Twitter Page on any day after the Contest Period , as announced by STAR . 3. All Winners would be awarded prizes ( “ Prizes ” ) . The Prizes shall be as announced by STAR. STAR shall not be liable for non-receipt of any Prize by any Winner , including due to errors or failures or deficiencies in dispatch services or in address details provided by the Winner ( s ) . All Prizes must be claimed in response to messages or telephone calls made to the Winner ( s ) . Any and all taxes and/or levies applicable under the laws of India and any incidental costs direct and/or indirect , in relation to Prizes shall be borne by the respective Winners. Neither SIPL nor any of its group companies shall be responsible or liable for any technical disruption , failure and/or any other difficulties of such nature , due to which the Winner ( s ) is unable to claim the Prize from STAR. After dispatch of a Prize to a Winner , in case any loss/damage etc. is caused to or incurred by the Prize ( s ) during transit or otherwise , STAR will not be liable for any such loss/damage etc. Further , SIPL and/or any of its group companies shall not be held liable for any failure and/or any other defect in or damage to the Prize , if any , whether caused during transit or otherwise . 4. STAR reserves the right to forfeit a Prize in the event it is found by STAR has a reason to believe that any information provided by the Participant/Winner ( s ) is wrong , fraudulent or any misrepresentation is made by the Participant/Winner. STAR shall have the right to declare any other Participant ( s ) as the Winner ( s ) of the Contest , at its discretion and transfer Prize ( s ) to such other Participants. All Prizes are provided on an as-is where-is basis without assurances or warranties of any kind. Neither STAR nor its group companies nor their employees provide any assurances or guarantees regarding Prizes , including quality , merchantability or fitness for purpose. The Winner ( s ) agree not to hold STAR and/or its group companies and/or their respective employees responsible for any delay in receiving Prizes or any inability to enjoy Prize ( s ) due to any failure by manufacturers of the Prizes , or any of their agents , or otherwise for any other problem in relation to a Prize. It is clarified that STAR and/or any of its group companies shall not be responsible for the brand , quality , value etc. in relation to a Prize and the supplier/ manufacturer shall be solely responsible for the same. STAR and/or any of its group companies shall not be held liable for any failure , inaccuracy , and/or any other defect or deficiency in the Contest. Neither STAR nor its group companies shall be liable for any delays or failures in any notifications , or the Contest in general . 5. The Participants agree that Prizes can not be transferred , negotiated , refunded or exchanged. It is clarified that no other gratification , cash equivalent of the Prize or alternative prize will be awarded to the Winner ( s ) and the Winner ( s ) can not exchange the Prize for cash or a gift of similar value. The Contest or the Prize ( s ) can not be combined with any other contest or activity. It is clarified that SIPL has no obligation to record the act of collection of the Prize ( s ) or incorporate it in the Program or mention it in the Program. If the Winner ( s ) refuses to accept the Prize awarded , SIPL and/or its group companies shall be released from all obligations towards the Winner ( s ) in connection to the Prize or otherwise . 6. All Entries must be received during the Contest Period. Entries received before or after a Contest Period will not be considered for the Contest and shall be deemed null and void without requirement of any further intimation by STAR . 7. STAR and/or its group companies shall not be responsible in the event that Entries are not received or the Participant ( s ) is unable to participate or post/tweet his/her entry on Twitter in the Contest due to any network problem , breakdown in machinery or any other technical error of any nature whatsoever. For purposes of the Terms and Conditions , “ receipt ” of an Entry occurs when the website server records the Entry information upon the entrant clicking “ Submit/Post ” button. Any automated receipt confirmation does not constitute proof of actual receipt. For the avoidance of doubt , by submitting the Entry the Participant ( s ) is representing that the Entry or contents thereof are not confidential or comprise any sensitive personal information . 8. The Participant ( s ) shall ensure that the Entry being submitted by them is decent and is not immoral , defamatory , abusive , offensive , insensitive , libelous or blasphemous to any person , religious sect or section of the society , etc. The Participant ( s ) further represents and warrants that the entry being submitted by him/her shall be original and shall not infringe upon and/or contain any material that will infringe upon any third party rights including rights in intellectual property. STAR reserves the right to remove or disqualify any Entries that do not meet these criteria . 9. STAR reserves the right to change the entry system/mechanism and/or cease accepting Entries for the Contest during the Contest Period for any reason or take any other steps in relation to the Contest as it may deem fit in its sole and absolute discretion . 10. STAR reserves the right to disqualify any Participant ( s ) from participating in the Contest without assigning any reason. STAR reserves the absolute right and discretion to reject any Entry or any part thereof at any stage of the Contest , including after declaring the winning Entry , if STAR : ( a ) receives any notice or complaint relating to the Entry not being compliant of the Terms and Conditions including alleged to be infringing any form of rights including rights in any form of intellectual property of any third party ; or ( b ) determines at its sole discretion that the Entry inter alia : , ( i ) belongs to another person and in which the Participant does not have any rights ; ( ii ) is blasphemous , indecent , immoral , abusive , offensive , against the applicable laws or libelous and/or is contrary to any law in force ; ( iii ) is grossly harmful , harassing , defamatory , obscene , pornographic , pedophilic , libelous , invasive of another 's privacy , hateful , or racially , ethnically objectionable , disparaging , relating or encouraging money laundering or gambling , or otherwise unlawful in any manner whatever ; ( iv ) harm minors in any way ; ( v ) infringes any patent , trademark , copyright or other proprietary rights ; ( vi ) violates any law for the time being in force ; ( vii ) deceives or misleads the addressee about the origin of such messages or communicates any information which is grossly offensive or menacing in nature ; ( viii ) impersonates another person ; ( ix ) contains software viruses or any other computer code , files or programs designed to interrupt , destroy or limit the functionality of any computer resource ; or ( x ) threatens the unity , integrity , defense , security or sovereignty of India , friendly relations with foreign states , or public order or causes incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence or prevents investigation of any offence or is insulting any other nation. The decision of STAR in this regard shall be final and binding upon the Participant ( s ) . 11. STAR reserves the right to select and declare the Winners of the Contest and such decision shall be final and binding on the Participant ( s ) and the Winner ( s ) . STAR shall select the winning Entries in accordance with applicable parameters , and the Winners shall be declared by STAR through the Star Sports Handle and any other means announced by STAR . 12. The Winners will be required to submit necessary supporting documentation to establish identity and compliance with contest terms and any applicable laws within timelines specified by STAR to be eligible for any gratification. In the event any person fails to adhere to the instructions , then his/her selection shall be invalidated. In such a case , ( a ) STAR and/or its group companies shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever and ( b ) STAR may , at its sole discretion , by the prescribed selection criteria choose other Winners instead . 13. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) agrees and consents to the use of the Entry and/or any part thereof by STAR or its affiliates as it may deem fit for the purpose of promotion of the Program and/or STAR and/or its group companies and/or any programs on any channels owned or operated by STAR or any of its group companies ( the “ Network ” ) . In consideration of the participation in the Contest , the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) hereby irrevocably , exclusively , perpetually and for the entire universe assigns all rights , titles and interests in the Entry including any rights of Exploitation thereof , to STAR , during or pursuant to the Contest. “ Exploitation/Exploit ” shall mean the exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof including along with its cognate forms and grammatical variations , and includes the exploitation , use , alteration , broadcast , rebroadcast , communication , encryption , transmission , translation adaptation , publication , cutting , editing , and packaging of the Intellectual Property vested in the Entry or any part thereof , either in whole or in part , in any form/format or language , as well as the conversion of the Entry and/or any part thereof from one form/format to another and in relation to the Entry and/or any part thereof , for incorporation in a Cinematograph Film or Sound Recording , Communication to the Public , Broadcast , Performance in Public , adaptation , reprography , reproduction , distribution , sale , commercial rental , assignment , licensing , merchandising rights , remakes , sequels , prequels , versions , translations , dubbing and/or subtitling in any all languages/dialects in the world , converting the Entry in to a film for theatrical Exploitation , including but not limited to the broadcasting thereof by any form of radio , internet and any and all form of television including but not limited to terrestrial , satellite , direct to home , cable , IPTV , any form of video on demand ( including but not limited to Pay-per-View , NVOD , SVOD , PVOD , FVOD made available for being seen or heard or delivered or Exploited through wire or wireless including but not limited to internet , websites including but not limited to social networking websites , blogs , internet or mobile streaming or download services ( whether free , pay or subscription based ) computing and networking devices , mobile /telecommunication system based platforms , mobile TV , theatrical or non-theatrical or any other means whether now known or existing or in commercial use or hereinafter invented or developed in the future in and to the Intellectual Property and all elements thereof. The capitalized terms ‘ Broadcast ’ , ‘ Communication to the Public ’ , ‘ Cinematograph Film ’ , ‘ Performance /Perform in Public ’ , ‘ Sound Recording ’ , ‘ Visual Recording ’ shall have the same meanings as defined in the Indian Copyright Act , 1957 as amended from time to time and all analogous rights subsisting under the laws of each and every jurisdiction throughout the world. ) . To the extent that the assignment of all rights , title and interest in the Entry and/or any part thereof if any subsisting in favor of the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) , in relation to future medium or mode of exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof is not held valid by operation of law , Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) hereby grants an irrevocable , exclusive , sub-licensable , perpetual right to STAR and its affiliates for such future medium or mode of exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof as may be developed in the future , for the entire world. Notwithstanding the above , the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) hereby agrees that the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) shall not assign or in any other manner transfer the Entry including and/or any part thereof for such means and modes of Exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof , which are not mentioned herein and are not presently known or in commercial use and therefore by operation of law are not deemed to have been assigned to STAR without offering for assignment such modes or means of Exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof for the entire world and perpetuity to STAR. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) , agrees and acknowledges that any form of assignment or transfer of any rights , title and interest in any such future modes and mean of Exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof to any third party in breach of the such obligation herein , anywhere in the world shall be null and void. Further , STAR may Exploit the Entry and/or any part thereof at any time it chooses , and it is expressly agreed by the parties that Section 19 ( 4 ) of the Indian Copyright Act , 1957 does not apply to this Agreement. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) waves off his “ Moral Rights ” with respect to the Entry and/or any part thereof as required. The Winner ( s ) shall do all acts and execute all documents in such manner and at such location as may be required by STAR in its sole and absolute discretion to protect , perfect or enforce any of the rights granted or confirmed to STAR herein . ( II ) GENERAL RULES : 1. The Participant ( s ) must be above the age of 18 years and must be residing within the territorial limits of India during the Contest Period. The Participant ( s ) should not have any criminal conviction or an arrangement or a contract that prevents the Participant ( s ) from participating in the Contest. Proof of age , if requested , of the Participant ( s ) , Winner ( s ) , in the Entry must be submitted to STAR ( i.e. , Birth Certificate , 10th Class leaving Certificate/ School certificate/ passport/ an affidavit signed by a magistrate ) as may be required by STAR to confirm the eligibility of the Participant ( s ) . 2. Participant ( s ) shall provide such information as may be required by STAR from time to time. Any incomplete submission will be considered invalid for the purpose of the Contest. STAR also reserves the right to disqualify a Participant ( s ) in case a discrepancy is found to exist in the information furnished/provided/stated by the Participant at any point in time during the Contest Period. 3. STAR reserves all rights to make amendments to the existing Terms and Conditions or withdraw , vary , amend or terminate the Contest , without giving prior notice or reason. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant ( s ) to check the rules and regulations of the Contest on http : //www.starsports.com/terms-conditions/index.html . Non-conformance by the Participant ( s ) to any the Terms and Conditions will make such Participant ’ s Entry/ies null and void . 4. The Participant/ Winner acknowledges that in case the conduct of the Contest and can not be fulfilled due to any reason , including reasons beyond the control of STAR such as war , industrial action , flood or any act of God , then STAR shall not have any liability in this connection . 5. STAR and/or its group companies are in no manner whatsoever responsible and/or shall not be held liable in any manner whatsoever , for any physical injury , death , mental and/or emotional trauma caused to the Participant in any manner whatsoever , in connection to the Contest . 6. The Winner ( s ) /Participant ( s ) shall hold harmless and indemnify STAR , its affiliates , its group companies , their employees , officers , directors and/or any other person from and against any suits , actions , proceedings , causes of action , litigation , injury , damage , harm , loss , damage , liability , award , costs or expenses that may arise in connection with any act of the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) and/or Entry including any third party rights claims with respect to the material submitted by the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) . 7. The Participant ( s ) and/or the Winner ( s ) shall not in any circumstances make any claims against STAR or its group companies , arising out of or relating to any and all costs , injuries , losses or damages of any kind , including , without limitation due to any technical faults ( directly or indirectly ) , to the Participant ( s ) and/or the Winner ( s ) participation or non-participation in the Contest or any related activity. If any Participant or Winner is found to be ineligible , or if he or she has not complied with these Terms and Conditions , the corresponding entries will be disqualified. STAR shall not be liable for any direct , indirect , consequential , special , exemplary or punitive damages or losses in connection with this Contest. 8. Employees of and/ or consultants of STAR and/or persons hired on contract by STAR , the sponsor , and the members of their immediate family , are ineligible to participate in the Contest . 9. By participating in the Contest , it shall be construed that the Participant ( s ) and/or the Winner ( s ) has waived his/her right to raise any dispute with regard to the Contest and/or the Prize , in any manner whatsoever and has understood and accepted these Terms and Conditions and the Privacy Policy incorporated herein by reference and unconditionally accepts and agrees to comply with and abide by the Terms and Conditions. In the event of any fault , misunderstanding or dispute concerning any part of the Contest the decision of STAR shall be final. Each Participant hereby acknowledges and agrees that the relationship between the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) and STAR and its group companies is not a confidential , fiduciary , or any other special relationship . 10. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) of the Contest agrees that if so required by STAR , he/she shall make himself/herself available from time to time and co-operate with STAR and participate in any activity and/or campaign ( " Promotional Activity " ) of any nature and on any platform whatsoever without any money payable to the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) . Further , the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) shall at no point of time refuse or disagree to participate in any such Promotional Activity for any reason whatsoever and shall not do any act either directly or indirectly during such Promotional Activity which may bring STAR or any of its group companies into public disrepute or denigrate any of the preceding , or offend any community or public morals. In all public appearances the Participant/Winner shall use her/his judgment in general demeanor and choice of language to create an atmosphere which would be conducive to the services and/or promotion of the Program and/or the Network and/or any channel on the Network. The Participant ( s ) / Winner ( s ) agrees that the footage/ picture/ photograph of the Participant ( s ) / Winner ( s ) used during the course of the Contest or for the purpose of the Contest shall vest with STAR , including but not limited to all intellectual property rights and any other rights for worldwide and in perpetuity and STAR may exploit the same in any manner and in any media whatsoever at any time throughout the world whether by itself or through its group companies. The Participant agrees and consents to the use of any text and/or information and/or any photograph and/or image and/or visual recording and/or other components of his or her Entry on any platform as STAR may deem fit for the purpose of promotion of the Program and/or the Network and/or any channels forming part of the Network . 11. These Terms and Conditions shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of India and exclusive jurisdiction over all matters arising out of or in relation hereto shall vest in Mumbai , India . TERMS AND CONDITIONS – ‘ # QUIZSTER ’ CONTEST The following are the rules for the “ # Quizster ” contest ( the “ Contest ” ) hosted by Novi Digital Entertainment Private Limited and its group companies ( “ STAR ” ) for promotion of cricket programming ( “ Program ” ) on the platforms and media owned/operated by STAR or its group companies ( “ Channels ” ) to be conducted through the Star Sports India Twitter profile at the URL http : //twitter.com/STARCricketIN ( the “ Twitter Page ” ) through the handle @ STARCricketIN ( “ Star Sports Handle ” ) . Any personal information gathered pursuant to this Contest shall be subject to the privacy policy available at http : //www.starsports.com/privacy/index.html ( “ Privacy Policy “ ) which is incorporated herein by reference. This Contest shall be subject to the terms and conditions , comprising of the Principal Rules and the General Rules ( the “ Terms and Conditions ” ) as stated hereunder. By participating in the Contest , it is construed that the Participant ( s ) has read and understood these Principle Rules including the General Rules stated below and has agreed to abide by the same : ( I ) Principal Rules 1. The Contest will be conducted from [ 2nd March 2015 ] until the completion of the contest period as announced by STAR on the Twitter Page ( “ Contest Period ” ) . The Contest is a game of knowledge and skill. An official announcement shall be made on the Star Sports Handle inviting Twitter users to enter into participation in the Contest by tweeting the “ # Quizster ” to @ STARCricketIN through their registered Twitter accounts. The first time a user posts a tweet in the aforesaid manner to enter into participation in the Contest , @ STARCricketIN would send a tweet to the respective user ’ s handle a tweet in response confirming the participation of the user by indicating the four different categories of quizzes that the user may participate in , i.e. , ‘ World Cup History ’ , ‘ WC 2011 ’ , ‘ WCIND ’ , and ‘ CRICMASTER ’ . A user that receives the quiz options ( a “ Participant ” ) may follow the instructions provided by @ STARCricketIN to successfully complete all the quizzes . 2. A Participant shall fulfill all of the following requirements , failure to do so would attract disqualification of the Participant : ( a ) All Participants must be valid users of Twitter accounts and must be residing in India during the Contest Period . ( b ) Each Participant is required to visit the Twitter Page and “ follow ” the Star Sports Handle . ( c ) Each entry to the contest should be submitted in the form of a tweet posted through the Participant ’ s Twitter account ( “ Entry ” ) in response to tweets with quiz questions. Each Entry should be submitted only during Contest Period. Any Entry which does not contain all of the elements mentioned in this paragraph shall not be considered a valid Entry and shall be deemed null and void without requirement of any intimation by STAR . 3. The editorial team of STAR shall select the first 5 ( five ) Participants that correctly answered all the questions in the Contest , or the first 5 ( five ) Participants that submitted the most number of correct answers , as Winners ( “ Winners ” ) . Winners shall be selected on the basis of the relevance and correctness of their Entries or other criteria as the editorial team shall deem fit. STAR ’ s decision in this regard and for all other matters relating to the Contest shall be final and binding upon the Participant ( s ) . Winners will be announced on the Twitter Page on any day after the Contest Period , as announced by STAR . 4. All Winners would be awarded prizes ( “ Prizes ” ) . The Prizes shall be as announced by STAR. STAR shall not be liable for non-receipt of any Prize by any Winner , including due to errors or failures or deficiencies in dispatch services or in address details provided by the Winner ( s ) . All Prizes must be claimed in response to messages or telephone calls made to the Winner ( s ) . Any and all taxes and/or levies applicable under the laws of India and any incidental costs direct and/or indirect , in relation to Prizes shall be borne by the respective Winners. Neither STAR nor any of its group companies shall be responsible or liable for any technical disruption , failure and/or any other difficulties of such nature , due to which the Winner ( s ) is unable to claim the Prize from STAR. After dispatch of a Prize to a Winner , in case any loss/damage etc. is caused to or incurred by the Prize ( s ) during transit or otherwise , STAR will not be liable for any such loss/damage etc. Further , Novi Digital Entertainment Private Limited and/or any of its group companies shall not be held liable for any failure and/or any other defect in or damage to the Prize , if any , whether caused during transit or otherwise. STAR is not liable for any medical expenses , travel insurance , or any other expenses except as specifically provided for under these Terms and Conditions . 5. STAR reserves the right to forfeit a Prize in the event it is found by STAR has a reason to believe that any information provided by the Participant/Winner ( s ) is wrong , fraudulent or any misrepresentation is made by the Participant/Winner. STAR shall have the right to declare any other Participant ( s ) as the Winner ( s ) of the Contest , at its discretion and transfer Prize ( s ) to such other Participants. All Prizes are provided on an as-is where-is basis without assurances or warranties of any kind. Neither STAR nor its group companies nor their employees provide any assurances or guarantees regarding Prizes , including quality , merchantability or fitness for purpose. The Winner ( s ) agree not to hold STAR and/or its group companies and/or their respective employees responsible for any delay in receiving Prizes or any inability to enjoy Prize ( s ) due to any failure by manufacturers of the Prizes , or any of their agents , or otherwise for any other problem in relation to a Prize. It is clarified that STAR and/or any of its group companies shall not be responsible for the brand , quality , value etc. in relation to a Prize and the supplier/ manufacturer shall be solely responsible for the same. STAR and/or any of its group companies shall not be held liable for any failure , inaccuracy , and/or any other defect or deficiency in the Contest. Neither STAR nor its group companies shall be liable for any delays or failures in any notifications , or the Contest in general . 6. The Participants agree that Prizes can not be transferred , negotiated , refunded or exchanged. It is clarified that no other gratification , cash equivalent of the Prize or alternative prize will be awarded to the Winner ( s ) and the Winner ( s ) can not exchange the Prize for cash or a gift of similar value. The Contest or the Prize ( s ) can not be combined with any other contest or activity. It is clarified that Novi Digital Entertainment Private Limited has no obligation to record the act of collection of the Prize ( s ) or incorporate it in the Program or mention it in the Program. If the Winner ( s ) refuses to accept the Prize awarded , Novi Digital Entertainment Private Limited and/or its group companies shall be released from all obligations towards the Winner ( s ) in connection to the Prize or otherwise . 7. All Entries must be received during the Contest Period. Entries received before or after a Contest Period will not be considered for the Contest and shall be deemed null and void without requirement of any further intimation by STAR . 8. STAR and/or its group companies shall not be responsible in the event that Entries are not received or the Participant ( s ) is unable to participate or post/tweet his/her entry on Twitter in the Contest due to any network problem , breakdown in machinery or any other technical error of any nature whatsoever. For purposes of the Terms and Conditions , “ receipt ” of an Entry occurs when the website server records the Entry information upon the entrant clicking “ Submit/Post ” button. Any automated receipt confirmation does not constitute proof of actual receipt. For the avoidance of doubt , by submitting the Entry the Participant ( s ) is representing that the Entry or contents thereof are not confidential or comprise any sensitive personal information . 9. The Participant ( s ) shall ensure that the Entry being submitted by them is decent and is not immoral , defamatory , abusive , offensive , insensitive , libelous or blasphemous to any person , religious sect or section of the society , etc. The Participant ( s ) further represents and warrants that the entry being submitted by him/her shall be original and shall not infringe upon and/or contain any material that will infringe upon any third party rights including rights in intellectual property. STAR reserves the right to remove or disqualify any Entries that do not meet these criteria . 10. STAR reserves the right to change the entry system/mechanism and/or cease accepting Entries for the Contest during the Contest Period for any reason or take any other steps in relation to the Contest as it may deem fit in its sole and absolute discretion . 11. STAR reserves the right to disqualify any Participant ( s ) from participating in the Contest without assigning any reason. STAR reserves the absolute right and discretion to reject any Entry or any part thereof at any stage of the Contest , including after declaring the winning Entry , if STAR : ( a ) receives any notice or complaint relating to the Entry not being compliant of the Terms and Conditions including alleged to be infringing any form of rights including rights in any form of intellectual property of any third party ; or ( b ) determines at its sole discretion that the Entry inter alia : , ( i ) belongs to another person and in which the Participant does not have any rights ; ( ii ) is blasphemous , indecent , immoral , abusive , offensive , against the applicable laws or libelous and/or is contrary to any law in force ; ( iii ) is grossly harmful , harassing , defamatory , obscene , pornographic , pedophilic , libelous , invasive of another 's privacy , hateful , or racially , ethnically objectionable , disparaging , relating or encouraging money laundering or gambling , or otherwise unlawful in any manner whatever ; ( iv ) harm minors in any way ; ( v ) infringes any patent , trademark , copyright or other proprietary rights ; ( vi ) violates any law for the time being in force ; ( vii ) deceives or misleads the addressee about the origin of such messages or communicates any information which is grossly offensive or menacing in nature ; ( viii ) impersonates another person ; ( ix ) contains software viruses or any other computer code , files or programs designed to interrupt , destroy or limit the functionality of any computer resource ; or ( x ) threatens the unity , integrity , defense , security or sovereignty of India , friendly relations with foreign states , or public order or causes incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence or prevents investigation of any offence or is insulting any other nation. The decision of STAR in this regard shall be final and binding upon the Participant ( s ) . 12. STAR reserves the right to select and declare the Winners of the Contest and such decision shall be final and binding on the Participant ( s ) and the Winner ( s ) . STAR shall select the winning Entries in accordance with applicable parameters , and the Winners shall be declared by STAR through the Star Sports Handle and any other means announced by STAR . 13. The Winners will be required to submit necessary supporting documentation to establish identity and compliance with contest terms and any applicable laws within timelines specified by STAR to be eligible for any gratification. In the event any person fails to adhere to the instructions , then his/her selection shall be invalidated. In such a case , ( a ) STAR and/or its group companies shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever and ( b ) STAR may , at its sole discretion , by the prescribed selection criteria choose other Winners instead . 14. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) agrees and consents to the use of the Entry and/or any part thereof by STAR or its affiliates as it may deem fit for the purpose of promotion of the Program and/or STAR and/or its group companies and/or any programs on any channels owned or operated by STAR or any of its group companies ( the “ Network ” ) . In consideration of the participation in the Contest , the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) hereby irrevocably , exclusively , perpetually and for the entire universe assigns all rights , titles and interests in the Entry including any rights of Exploitation thereof , to STAR , during or pursuant to the Contest. “ Exploitation/Exploit ” shall mean the exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof including along with its cognate forms and grammatical variations , and includes the exploitation , use , alteration , broadcast , rebroadcast , communication , encryption , transmission , translation adaptation , publication , cutting , editing , and packaging of the Intellectual Property vested in the Entry or any part thereof , either in whole or in part , in any form/format or language , as well as the conversion of the Entry and/or any part thereof from one form/format to another and in relation to the Entry and/or any part thereof , for incorporation in a Cinematograph Film or Sound Recording , Communication to the Public , Broadcast , Performance in Public , adaptation , reprography , reproduction , distribution , sale , commercial rental , assignment , licensing , merchandising rights , remakes , sequels , prequels , versions , translations , dubbing and/or subtitling in any all languages/dialects in the world , converting the Entry in to a film for theatrical Exploitation , including but not limited to the broadcasting thereof by any form of radio , internet and any and all form of television including but not limited to terrestrial , satellite , direct to home , cable , IPTV , any form of video on demand ( including but not limited to Pay-per-View , NVOD , SVOD , PVOD , FVOD made available for being seen or heard or delivered or Exploited through wire or wireless including but not limited to internet , websites including but not limited to social networking websites , blogs , internet or mobile streaming or download services ( whether free , pay or subscription based ) computing and networking devices , mobile /telecommunication system based platforms , mobile TV , theatrical or non-theatrical or any other means whether now known or existing or in commercial use or hereinafter invented or developed in the future in and to the Intellectual Property and all elements thereof. The capitalized terms ‘ Broadcast ’ , ‘ Communication to the Public ’ , ‘ Cinematograph Film ’ , ‘ Performance /Perform in Public ’ , ‘ Sound Recording ’ , ‘ Visual Recording ’ shall have the same meanings as defined in the Indian Copyright Act , 1957 as amended from time to time and all analogous rights subsisting under the laws of each and every jurisdiction throughout the world. ) . To the extent that the assignment of all rights , title and interest in the Entry and/or any part thereof if any subsisting in favor of the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) , in relation to future medium or mode of exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof is not held valid by operation of law , Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) hereby grants an irrevocable , exclusive , sub-licensable , perpetual right to STAR and its affiliates for such future medium or mode of exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof as may be developed in the future , for the entire world. Notwithstanding the above , the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) hereby agrees that the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) shall not assign or in any other manner transfer the Entry including and/or any part thereof for such means and modes of Exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof , which are not mentioned herein and are not presently known or in commercial use and therefore by operation of law are not deemed to have been assigned to STAR without offering for assignment such modes or means of Exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof for the entire world and perpetuity to STAR. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) , agrees and acknowledges that any form of assignment or transfer of any rights , title and interest in any such future modes and mean of Exploitation of the Entry and/or any part thereof to any third party in breach of the such obligation herein , anywhere in the world shall be null and void. Further , STAR may Exploit the Entry and/or any part thereof at any time it chooses , and it is expressly agreed by the parties that Section 19 ( 4 ) of the Indian Copyright Act , 1957 does not apply to this Agreement. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) waves off his “ Moral Rights ” with respect to the Entry and/or any part thereof as required. The Winner ( s ) shall do all acts and execute all documents in such manner and at such location as may be required by STAR in its sole and absolute discretion to protect , perfect or enforce any of the rights granted or confirmed to STAR herein . ( II ) GENERAL RULES : 1. The Participant ( s ) must be above the age of 18 years and must be residing within the territorial limits of India during the Contest Period. The Participant ( s ) should not have any criminal conviction or an arrangement or a contract that prevents the Participant ( s ) from participating in the Contest. Proof of age , if requested , of the Participant ( s ) , Winner ( s ) , in the Entry must be submitted to STAR ( i.e. , Birth Certificate , 10th Class leaving Certificate/ School certificate/ passport/ an affidavit signed by a magistrate ) as may be required by STAR to confirm the eligibility of the Participant ( s ) . 2. Participant ( s ) shall provide such information as may be required by STAR from time to time. Any incomplete submission will be considered invalid for the purpose of the Contest. STAR also reserves the right to disqualify a Participant ( s ) in case a discrepancy is found to exist in the information furnished/provided/stated by the Participant at any point in time during the Contest Period. 3. STAR reserves all rights to make amendments to the existing Terms and Conditions or withdraw , vary , amend or terminate the Contest , without giving prior notice or reason. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant ( s ) to check the rules and regulations of the Contest on http : //www.starsports.com/terms-conditions/index.html . Non-conformance by the Participant ( s ) to any the Terms and Conditions will make such Participant ’ s Entry/ies null and void . 4. The Participant/ Winner acknowledges that in case the conduct of the Contest and can not be fulfilled due to any reason , including reasons beyond the control of STAR such as war , industrial action , flood or any act of God , then STAR shall not have any liability in this connection . 5. STAR and/or its group companies are in no manner whatsoever responsible and/or shall not be held liable in any manner whatsoever , for any physical injury , death , mental and/or emotional trauma caused to the Participant in any manner whatsoever , in connection to the Contest . 6. The Winner ( s ) /Participant ( s ) shall hold harmless and indemnify STAR , its affiliates , its group companies , their employees , officers , directors and/or any other person from and against any suits , actions , proceedings , causes of action , litigation , injury , damage , harm , loss , damage , liability , award , costs or expenses that may arise in connection with any act of the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) and/or Entry including any third party rights claims with respect to the material submitted by the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) . 7. The Participant ( s ) and/or the Winner ( s ) shall not in any circumstances make any claims against STAR or its group companies , arising out of or relating to any and all costs , injuries , losses or damages of any kind , including , without limitation due to any technical faults ( directly or indirectly ) , to the Participant ( s ) and/or the Winner ( s ) participation or non-participation in the Contest or any related activity. If any Participant or Winner is found to be ineligible , or if he or she has not complied with these Terms and Conditions , the corresponding entries will be disqualified. STAR shall not be liable for any direct , indirect , consequential , special , exemplary or punitive damages or losses in connection with this Contest. 8. Employees of and/ or consultants of STAR and/or persons hired on contract by STAR , the sponsor , and the members of their immediate family , are ineligible to participate in the Contest . 9. By participating in the Contest , it shall be construed that the Participant ( s ) and/or the Winner ( s ) has waived his/her right to raise any dispute with regard to the Contest and/or the Prize , in any manner whatsoever and has understood and accepted these Terms and Conditions and the Privacy Policy incorporated herein by reference and unconditionally accepts and agrees to comply with and abide by the Terms and Conditions. In the event of any fault , misunderstanding or dispute concerning any part of the Contest the decision of STAR shall be final. Each Participant hereby acknowledges and agrees that the relationship between the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) and STAR and its group companies is not a confidential , fiduciary , or any other special relationship . 10. The Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) of the Contest agrees that if so required by STAR , he/she shall make himself/herself available from time to time and co-operate with STAR and participate in any activity and/or campaign ( " Promotional Activity " ) of any nature and on any platform whatsoever without any money payable to the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) . Further , the Participant ( s ) /Winner ( s ) shall at no point of time refuse or disagree to participate in any such Promotional Activity for any reason whatsoever and shall not do any act either directly or indirectly during such Promotional Activity which may bring STAR or any of its group companies into public disrepute or denigrate any of the preceding , or offend any community or public morals. In all public appearances the Participant/Winner shall use her/his judgment in general demeanor and choice of language to create an atmosphere which would be conducive to the services and/or promotion of the Program and/or the Network and/or any channel on the Network. The Participant ( s ) / Winner ( s ) agrees that the footage/ picture/ photograph of the Participant ( s ) / Winner ( s ) used during the course of the Contest or for the purpose of the Contest shall vest with STAR , including but not limited to all intellectual property rights and any other rights for worldwide and in perpetuity and STAR may exploit the same in any manner and in any media whatsoever at any time throughout the world whether by itself or through its group companies. The Participant agrees and consents to the use of any text and/or information and/or any photograph and/or image and/or visual recording and/or other components of his or her Entry on any platform as STAR may deem fit for the purpose of promotion of the Program and/or the Network and/or any channels forming part of the Network . 11. These Terms and Conditions shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of India and exclusive jurisdiction over all matters arising out of or in relation hereto shall vest in Mumbai , India .
