Thirlmere Sydney is one of the world ’ s most loved cities and it has a lively and vibrant buzz that makes it the ultimate winter destination. There are always plenty of things to do in Sydney during the cooler months – from sightseeing and world-class dining , to great walks and fun in the sand at one of Sydney 's idyllic beaches . On our site you ’ ll find Up-to-date information on the events and experiences in and around Sydney Suggestions on itineraries for your stay here Plenty of recommendations for summer activities Be in town for the city 's memorable Vivid Sydney festival , an 18-day celebration of music , lights and ideas that transforms the city , including sails of the Sydney Opera House which are lit up with dazzling colours. Sport enthusiasts can see English Premier League icons play local club Sydney FC in an exclusive visit to the city in May. Cheer on netball ’ s elite in August during the 2015 Netball World Cup with Australia and New Zealand going head to head in the preliminary rounds . For those who love shopping , a visit to the Queen Victoria Building in the heart of Sydney ’ s CBD is a must – providing the opportunity to shop for designer brands in one of Australia 's most beautiful and historic buildings. If you 're looking for unique souvenirs , spend some time at one of Sydney 's markets , which happen every weekend throughout the city and surrounding suburbs . Of course , no visit to Sydney is complete without a trip to the beach. Bondi Beach is a popular tourist destination not just because of its crisp white sand and stunning setting , but because it showcases the city ’ s urban beach lifestyle. Manly Beach is a scenic ferry ride across the harbour and a great place to learn how to surf . To get a feel for the rich history behind Sydney , a guided tour is a great place to start. You can even tour the Sydney Harbour Bridge – by climbing it ! Sydney is also home to some of the world 's best restaurants , many of which are located near the harbour , offering picturesque outdoor-dining options. So after an exciting day of checking out Sydney ’ s top attractions , treat your tastebuds while enjoying stunning harbour views . Accommodation is easy to find in Sydney – with options to suit all budgets. Whether you 're looking for a five-star luxury hotel in Sydney , a family-friendly apartment or a cheap backpacker hostel , there is no shortage of quality accommodation options in Sydney . Experience for yourself how beautiful , interesting and exciting a Sydney winter can be .
