Virat Kohli Abuses Scribe Over Story on Anushka , Team India Plays it Down Virat Kohli Abuses Scribe Over Story on Anushka , Team India Plays it Down Virat Kohli , in a case of mistaken identity , abused a senior journalist of a leading national newspaper for a story on girlfriend Anushka Sharma. Team India says Kohli has apologised for the incident . Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 13 : 21 IST Total Shares Virat Kohli was in an angry mood during training at Perth on Tuesday. He abused a scribe for a story on girlfriend Anushka Sharma . © Getty Images Perth : India 's premier batsman and team 's vice-captain Virat Kohli suddenly lost his cool after the training session here on Tuesday as he hurled abuses at a journalist before the side 's group league game against West Indies at the WACA on Friday. ( 'Kohli Will Bring Purpose to Indian Captaincy ' ) It did n't occur to anybody that something of this sort will happen. Once Kohli was done with his training and was returning to the dressing room , he saw a scribe of a national daily in front of him. ( Kohli , Anushka Relax Ahead of Sydney Test ) To the horror of that journalist , Kohli started using the filthiest of language and it went on for some time before he stormed off , and some of the Indian team members looked amazed as to what exactly had happened. ( Kohli May get Close to Sachin 's Record : Ganguly ) On Wednesday , the Indian team media manager Dr Baba issued a one-line press statement saying , " There was a misunderstanding and no abusive language was used. Virat has spoken to the concerned gentlemen immediately and matter ends. " The particular journalist also seemed clueless but once Kohli cooled down , he told someone about an article that had appeared about him and his girlfriend Anushka Sharma in a national daily and he thought that it was that particular journalist , who had written the story. ( 'Ca n't Compare Kohli to Sachin Yet ' ) When he was told that he has mistaken this particular reporter as someone else , Kohli called one of the journalists and through him apologised for the incident. ( Why Anushka Wo n't Cheer for Virat in World Cup From the Stands ) According to reliable sources , Team Director Ravi Shastri has personally spoken to Kohli and advised him to keep his cool as it is unbecoming of a future India captain to behave in this manner publicly . Story first published on : Tuesday , 03 March 2015 16 : 53 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
