State of Origin Game 1 Winter sporting events in Sydney The Sydney Motorsport Park will fill with the roar of motor engines as television favourites Jeremy Clarkson , Richard Hammond , James May and the Stig host the fatest and loudest Top Gear Festival Sydney . This exhilarating event is all about non-stop action and excitement , with amazing stunts , races and challenges scheduled across the weekend of April 18-19 For horseracing fans , check out the race days at Rose Hill and Royal Randwick Racecourse , including The Championships which feature a dazzling array of time-honoured races across each age and distance category on April 4 and 11 . The Star Badminton Australian Open is the most prestigious event on the Australian Badminton calendar taking place between May 26 - 31. Fans will treated to a star-studded line-up of players competing in all five disciplines of the sport - men 's and women 's singles and doubles , and mixed doubles . Fought between NSW and Queensland , the State of Origin is considered one of the greatest rivalries in Australian sport and this year 's Rugby League marquee event promises to be more electrifying than ever. Game 1 of the 2015 State of Origin series takes place on May 27 - be there to witness state pitted against state to secure the coveted crown. Netball 's pinnacle event is returning to Sydney for the first time in more than two decades. The Netball World Cup Sydney will take place from August 7 - 19 and features a revamped competition format in which fans will watch top nations such as Australia and New Zealand play head-to-head in the preliminary rounds. Competition matches will be staged in the newly opened Netball Central at Sydney Olympic Park . The ultimate trans-Tasman battle culminates on August 8 , when the Qantas Wallabies face off against arch rivals the All Blacks to try to win back the Bledisloe Cup . To celebrate the annual battle , a four-day Sydney-based festival of rugby will include a lunch , golf day and Australian Turf Club event at Royal Randwick Racecourse . More than 36,000 runners will take to one of the most scenic courses in Australia during the Blackmores Sydney Running Festival on September 20. Consisting of four events , the marathon will start in Milsons Point and finish at the Royal Botanical Gardens near Sydney Opera House , providing competitors with spectacular views as they cross the Sydney Harbour Bridge . Finals fever will be at an all-time high when the NRL season culminates with the biggest kick-off of all , the Telstra Premiership Grand Final on October 4 at ANZ Stadium. Following 26 rounds , and the Finals Series , the Grand Final is preceded by a week of celebratory action . Vivid Sydney 2015 Vivid Sydney is set to shine even more brightly in 2015 when the country ’ s best festival delivers its biggest program yet . For 18 nights , from 22 May – 8 June , Vivid Sydney will once again transform the city and harbour .
