Shot Stories Right , said the Freds In 1965 , South Africa 's first series win in England in 30 years began with a close-run draw at Lord 's January 2015 Tweet Graeme Pollock : On his only tour of England , the 21-year-old Pollock scored two fifties and a spectacular hundred and became the youngest player to make 1000 Test runs. He was named one of Wisden 's Five Cricketers of the Year ; the accompanying article ended with : " ... probably the best of Graeme Pollock is still to come " . Fred Rumsey : England had been set a target of 191 with just under four hours remaining in the Test. When John Edrich retired hurt after he was hit on the head by Peter Pollock , it became a question of just hanging on. No. 10 batsman Rumsey survived this leg-before appeal and batted up to the close to draw the Test. It was the last of his five Tests . Fred Titmus : Just a few months earlier , on England 's tour of South Africa , offspinner Titmus had dismissed Graeme Pollock for 5 and a first-ball duck in a huge win in Durban. Here , in the 100th Test between the two teams , he got Pollock again , but only after the batsman had rescued his side with a half-century. Titmus also made 59 in England 's first innings . Denis Lindsay : Lindsay struggled with the bat in England after being pushed up to No. 3 , scoring one hundred in 15 first-class matches. In the second Test , at Trent Bridge - South Africa 's first victory in England in ten years - he batted over an hour for nine runs , after he opened in place of Eddie Barlow , who had injured a toe . Eddie Barlow : Barlow had come off a productive home series against England , but one that was n't without animosity. In the third Test , in Cape Town , England appealed for a catch off Barlow 's bat at short leg but it was turned down. Barlow and the bowler , Titmus , exchanged angry words and the fielders refused to applaud when Barlow reached his hundred. In the Trent Bridge Test on this tour , an injured Barlow batted over three hours for 76 . Ali Bacher : After making 4 and 37 on debut in this match , Bacher batted for three hours and added 99 with Barlow in the second Test. In 1970 , Bacher was preferred over Barlow as South Africa 's captain in their historic series against Australia because it was thought that he would be able to handle the senior players better than the feisty Bunter. But there were no hard feelings between the two : Barlow once sent his captain a telegram on the field during that Australia series , saying , " Please Doc , give me a bowl ! " Bacher obliged and Barlow took 3 for 4 . © PA Photos
