3 Dear Cricket Monthly, Although I 'm writing from the damp and cricketless depths of an English winter , those of you in sunnier , cricket-blessed climes should know that in these dark months of football and rugby it is your game that provides - much in the same way a sun-starved Scandinavian takes doses of UV light - a bright fantasy of hope. And particularly for the optimistic England fan whose team has yet to step off a plane in Australia . Unfortunately it is a clich é d truth that the English winter can be a grim ordeal. Yet this is the time for dreams of summer to be indulged by a lack of cricketing reality - both professional and amateur. The club player , without the weekly failures on his village green , can spend the off season embellishing his abilities , convinced that the following season will be the one in which he scores that hundred or , like some players I know , finally takes a catch . And because the chock-a-block summer of professional cricket fills our airwaves and televisions with fixtures both riveting and pointless , there is no better place to sit and read one of the many fine tomes of cricket literature than in an armchair by the fire. Last winter , I time-travelled to 1859 by reading Fred Lillywhite 's The English Cricketers ' Trip to Canada and the United States , voyaging with these pioneer tourists on a paddle steamer across the Atlantic , before fast-forwarding into the 20th century 's most famous series with Duncan Hamilton 's masterly biography of Harold Larwood. With Hamilton as guide , we journey from the barracking stands of the MCG to the quiet Sydney suburbs 50 years on , where the noble presence of Harold himself seems to lift from the page . An English cricket fan 's more immediate dose of sunshine arrives by radio , TV , newspaper or internet. That pre-dawn rise to pull on a pair of work boots or knot a tie is brightened by a Test-match commentary team describing the sea in Galle , or the way a gull rides the breeze in Perth. Or better still , hearing the rattle and hum of a crowd at Eden Gardens , the clatter of frenetically beaten drums enlivening a dark walk to the office and relieving that gloomy introversion that many of us suffer from in these northern climes. I hope southern fans know what therapy their cheers offer to the shuffling commuter on a wet and windy platform at London Bridge station . Cricket down under in the summer is not always this boring © Getty Images This winter we have the 2015 World Cup , shining in the dark like a crystal palace on the plains of Mordor. Aged 13 , watching the 1987 tournament was an awakening. Literally. I was forbidden to get up in the middle of the night , and had to creep down a creaking staircase to switch on the TV. Perhaps it was the radiation from sitting so close to the screen - I had to be ready to hit the off button should my stepfather rouse - but watching England live was a near out-of-body experience . In the dark of my lounge , the only glow in the world was a bright green outfield in Pakistan or India , and Mike Gatting taking guard at a dusty crease , or Graham Gooch sweeping us to victory in the semi-final. I was transported. I was no longer a boy in a cold house on an estate in Leicester. Instead I was a fan in the crowd in Calcutta , one of the multitude in the dust and the heat and the sweat , certain that England were cruising to glory in the final , before Gatting derailed the England train by botching a reverse sweep. The ball ricocheted off his shoulder and into Greg Dyer 's gloves. And England were done , despite Allan Lamb 's late heroics . I was 17 years old for the next tournament in 1992 , and although TV access was easier and I now had a black-and-white portable set in my bedroom , for some reason the games were less memorable - at least from an England fan 's perspective. Still , I have flashbulb moments of Pakistan from the final : Imran Khan crashing Richard Illingworth high into the stands , and Wasim Akram skittling Lamb and Chris Lewis in consecutive balls. It 's hardly a surprise that both Imran and Wasim would become my role models ; the dashing allrounder and the lethal swing bowler were the players I wanted to emulate . This World Cup I wo n't have to sneak downstairs like a ninja. And I can eat all the sweets I want. But will , like in 1987 and 1992 , England be there to compete in the final ? I wo n't answer that question , because optimism shines bright , and I still have a month of rain and dark before the men in white light up my winter . Nicholas Hogg Nicholas Hogg is vice-captain of the Authors Cricket Club , a team of cricket-playing writers. His next novel , Tokyo , is published summer 2015. @ nicholas_hogg © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
