Editorial Life goes on But it 's not quite the same , as cricket 's profound grief at the death of Phillip Hughes showed Rahul Bhattacharya Tweet 1 On the morning Phillip Hughes ' death was announced I met a gynaecologist , who was distraught after having told a couple of a miscarriage. " I give good news so often , " he said , " I do n't know how to deal with bad news. " So it is with sportswriters and broadcasters , who enrol as conveyors of something essentially vital , life-affirming , where bad news is usually trivially bad. Tragedies in sport are tragedies in the dramatic sense : within the stage created for them. The death of Phillip Hughes made a mockery of the dramatic artifice. There 's a famous scene in the classic Hindi film Anand , where dialogue from a play within the movie is reprised powerfully at the end. " We are all puppets on a stage , whose strings are tied to the fingers of the man upstairs. When , how , who will be lifted up nobody can tell. " But Anand the film was itself a stage , whereas Phillip Hughes is dead at 25 . The death of Hughes stayed lodged inside me , as it did for millions of others , a grief one was not even fully aware of. For several days it dulled my mood or amplified my anxieties , sometimes made me tear up when I did n't know I was thinking about it. If this was us , who had never known Hughes and only followed his career in a fuzzy way , it would be hard to understand what it meant to his team-mates and opponents and companions , to say nothing of his family and beloved. Yet everybody understood. The bats beautifully put out , the matches cancelled , the personal milestones foregone for PH milestones , the messages and tributes from around the world , said as much . We were grieving for Phillip Hughes and maybe something more too. Maybe we were grieving for the fallibility of our sport , our constant misestimation and misappropriation of it , we who spend silly amounts of our time on earth contemplating its strange comforts and betrayals. And its capacity to recover , engage , enthral , inspire. As much as Michael Clarke 's in Macksville , the Test match in Adelaide was a brilliant eulogy . We were grieving for Phillip Hughes and maybe something more too. Maybe we were grieving for the fallibility of our sport I write this about a fortnight after Hughes and it is difficult to introduce the issue in other terms. Two of our regulars , Simon Barnes and the photo feature , address Hughes ' passing in different ways , but the echoes can be heard even in pieces that were commissioned long before Hughes was hit . Our cover story is Sidharth Monga 's immersion into Afghan cricket and the team 's incredible ascent to the World Cup ; he reports from in and around Kabul , where death can collide with cricket as easily as it can with anything else. Our Talking Cricket is a crackling conversation on fast bowling , full of wit , between a dream pair - Michael Holding and Wasim Akram. Yet as they speak of sensing a batsman 's fear , the mind pauses to wonder about the bowler 's fear. Gideon Haigh , in the first of what we hope are several long essays for the magazine , quotes Harold Larwood on the blow he inflicted upon Bert Oldfield : " Critics and spectators had been prophesying that bodyline would kill someone sooner or later. It seemed that dark moment had arrived. " Abhishek Purohit 's profile of the impressive and industrious Ajinkya Rahane begins with a crack on the helmet and concerned elders converging around a felled kid. Sharda Ugra 's study on the slow assimilation of immigrants in Australian cricket demonstrates frictions , but also the sense of community so apparent during the national grieving for Hughes. The theme for this month 's Jury 's Out is : the biggest unfulfilled talent . This is what the Indian bowling great Jhulan Goswami tells Niyantha Shekar : " And I enjoyed. I truly enjoyed. That is the beauty of my life. " And that perhaps is the best way to think of a talented young man who lived a great deal on a cricket field and died almost on it . Rahul Bhattacharya is the author of the cricket tour book Pundits from Pakistan and the novel The Sly Company of People Who Care © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
