Hate to Love Charmingly villainous It was hard to resist Imran Khan 's allure. Even if he was making a mess of your team Mudar Patherya | January 2015 Tweet 38 Imran Khan brought out my ambivalence as a journalist. The patriot in me wanted to see Imran 's team defeated ; the critic in me conceded that he was a visionary. We often see people as black or white ; Imran I saw as black and white. Quite like the boy Cardus , who prayed that England should bowl Australia out for 137 but that Victor Trumper should get a brilliant century . I saw Imran up close during the 1982-83 series between Pakistan and India. Normally Imran would have delivered a pre-series overview of how India could not be taken lightly , and how Pakistan would enjoy an upper hand on home turf . He did n't . Instead , he launched an offensive a month before the series. He flew to Delhi and Kolkata on a " private visit " , got himself interviewed by select media outlets , and told the second-most populous country in the world how Pakistan was going to beat them comprehensively. He was deliberately psyching India out ; it was done with such finesse - the Kolkata Telegraph carried a subdued black-and-white picture of a dashing 30-year-old with his arm along the backrest of a sofa , with a soft lampshade in the corner - that a country was awestruck and perplexed as to what this debonair gent was going to do to its cricket team . This was n't like him. He was always beyond the Pakistan label. He was supposed to be the counter-Miandad , the non-enemy. And suddenly , here was a new dimension ; he was the enemy after all . I was privileged to watch him up close during the series that followed. As a 20-year-old reporter dispatched by the Ananda Bazar Patrika Group , my express assignment was to be Imran 's ghostwriter for a column for Sportsworld magazine. Imran had instructed me to be at the dressing-room door within five minutes of the umpires calling stumps each day. Khwaja , the bouncer , would let me in , Imran would detach himself from his team and within 15 minutes , even as the others were in varying states of undress , would ensure that " our work " was professionally done . Unlike the others , he was n't someone who would backslap team-mates while drinking Pepsi and singing Hindi songs Over the weeks I developed an Imran understanding : he gave the Indian media ten times more time than he did the Pakistan media , which was largely vernacular and condescended to. He would dictate his day 's analysis paragraph by paragraph ( interspersed with a high drawl , " Okay , next para ! " ) ; he never read the transcript ; he was friendly but never " hail fellow , well met " ; he seethed in expressive vernacular when players misfielded ( Saleem Malik , usually ) ; unlike the others , he was n't someone who would backslap team-mates while drinking Pepsi and singing Hindi songs ; he once used the word " ruly " while describing an Indian crowd and I almost said , " Wow " ; he remembered interview commitments and would look for you after he stepped out of the dressing room , though the appointment had been set a few days earlier . There was counter-evidence to compensate for my weak-in-the-knees stenography : one of the Indian openers said that Imran overstepped on a number of occasions without being called , to the point that the said opener drew the crease with the edge of his bat. When even that made no difference , the umpire took the opener aside and explained : " When you are in the flow of things , such things happen. " All this made sense under the crooked convention of the times : the country desired to see Pakistan beat India on home soil , and the entire Pakistani wheel colluded with its captain , the all-knowing cog . The looks did n't hurt © Getty Images The next time I perceived a divergence was during the Bangalore Test of 1987. This was a thrilling low-scorer on a wicket that had begun to turn even before lunch on the first day. The Pakistanis showed open dissent when umpiring decisions went against them. You had several instances of the entire Pakistan team circling the Indian umpires , like a trade union led by a vocal call to arms from Saleem Yousuf and Imran himself ( cap temporarily off his head as he stood , arms on his hips , as if wondering , " How the hell ! " ) . I mentioned this to him , with the word " overdone " , while walking up the steps of Taj Palace in Delhi. He stopped. I turned to look down the stairs where he was frozen with an expression that said : " How could you even say this ? " Indians saw the Pakistan team 's behaviour as pretty deplorable ; he did n't . The remarkable thing is how faithful a product he was of a dictatorial environment. And how , unlike those in power in Pakistan , he could use that to his country 's and the game 's benefit. He brought a mothballed Abdul Qadir out of the wilderness for the 1982 tour of England ( after the selectors had voted against the move ) and helped revive the art of legspin. He was the principal driver of the concept of neutral umpiring when India toured Pakistan in 1989 , convinced that his team needed to demonstrate its superiority without a trace of suspicion. He was one of the first players from the subcontinent ( along with Sunil Gavaskar ) to take a vocal anti-colonial stance , and laid the foundation for a deeply unapologetic subcontinental pride . Following retirement , Imran could have slipped into a life of easeful wastefulness. On the contrary , he dipped his hands in the political bucket , engaged at the grass roots , and showed he intended to do with a troubled country of millions what he once did with a team of 11. There is a word for the emotion people like him evoke : admiration . Once a professional cricket writer , Mudar Patherya is now a communications consultant based in Kolkata © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . Imran was at the heart of shaping modern-day Pakistan cricket , and all we love about the team and their play can be traced back to him LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email FEATURED 1 POSTED BY AGHAPASHA on | January 28 , 2015 , 9 : 47 GMT He started as a batsmen in school in Lahore,near my home and then during his studies in England and later on he opted to bowl , which resulted him better reasults as a lear , bowler and batmsman . POSTED BY arvindnandan on | January 28 , 2015 , 7 : 51 GMT People from our time can not stress enough the great fortune of having seen Imran - live in action. He was the best cricketer that I saw. Not for his bowling , batting , or any one particular skill. He was the package that one does n't find even with a lot of talent-hunt. Being an Indian , I have very often borne the brunt of being a Pakistani cricketer 's die-hard fan , but the truth remains that he had always been my topmost cricketer - at least among those that I saw playing . POSTED BY cccric on | January 27 , 2015 , 2 : 51 GMT This echoes my sentiments as well. Always admired even though there was a time ( 1986 till 1992 ) when I used to wish of Imran 's retirement so that we can be escaped from his surprise captain-ship tactics and defeat his team. Such a wonderful captain apart from being one of the best all rounders of all time and possessing charming personality . POSTED BY Shahid Khan on | January 26 , 2015 , 6 : 33 GMT Imran Khan was the only factor of Pakistan winning the World Cup 92 . POSTED BY Jasemkhan on | January 26 , 2015 , 5 : 26 GMT His captaincy void has yet to be filled , it will never be filled as he was a unique born leader . POSTED BY Sulman Ahmed on | January 26 , 2015 , 2 : 28 GMT fantastic captain ; and someone who could bring out the best in people. A truely gifted leader . POSTED BY UziePalozie on | January 25 , 2015 , 5 : 59 GMT Great column.....Imran was a true visionary............A legend like him are rare............ . POSTED BY Mudabir on | January 23 , 2015 , 20 : 14 GMT Great column , though we have n't watched him play its amazing how many followers of modern cricket love his achievements and contributions to Pakistan cricket , a man who brought great cricketers like Wasim and Inzaman . POSTED BY Bhanu Srinivas on | January 23 , 2015 , 12 : 01 GMT his run up to the wicket , when he used to play Test matches especially , one of the most beautiful sights I have ever seen in cricket..... . POSTED BY Khalid on | January 23 , 2015 , 2 : 12 GMT I am also a tennis Fan and Imran was like a mix of Maria Sharapova , Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi . POSTED BY Arijit on | January 22 , 2015 , 18 : 10 GMT Manic hyperbole aside , an exceptional captain whom I rate alongside Mark Taylor as the best I have seen since the 1970s in being able to coax the best performances out of their respective sides with a combination of tactical nous , psychology , charisma and inspiration . POSTED BY farfront on | January 21 , 2015 , 17 : 34 GMT IK is inspiration from head to toe , not only for Pakistanis.But , all around the cricket loving nations . POSTED BY zulfiqar on | January 21 , 2015 , 7 : 53 GMT Unruffled stance on matters of principles is his hallmark. At least till the time he was playing cricket . POSTED BY Zain-Khan94 on | January 21 , 2015 , 3 : 17 GMT He singly handily raised the standard of Pakistani cricket and made them , play the game without fear of losing. His contribution to the game is immense but personally , I respect for his charity work ; building university and cancer hospital for the underprivileged . POSTED BY Mas1992 on | January 20 , 2015 , 20 : 34 GMT A truly inspirational read he really was special and put Pakistan amongst the big boys , perhaps not as naturally talented as the other all rounders of that period. However , self discipline , belief and intellect helped mould him into a great leader . POSTED BY philqazi on | January 20 , 2015 , 15 : 35 GMT imran khan rules and he is the best among others POSTED BY 2241 on | January 20 , 2015 , 10 : 41 GMT one of the best captain you will ever see in cricket. . POSTED BY Mazhar Nasim Abbasi on | January 20 , 2015 , 9 : 51 GMT The most beautiful thing that ever happened to the gentleman 's game POSTED BY SHK1 on | January 20 , 2015 , 5 : 14 GMT So proud to say that he is my countryman ! POSTED BY Gopez on | January 20 , 2015 , 4 : 42 GMT As a Indian I am a fan of this Great guy for pure cricket on the field , batting or bowling , leading from the front POSTED BY Smasherman on | January 19 , 2015 , 22 : 02 GMT Absolutely brilliant article. The writer grasp of facts is great. Well Done Sir . POSTED BY Amna Anis on | January 19 , 2015 , 19 : 47 GMT ... enjoyed the article... well said such people can only be admired and admired... more and more.... a gifted hero... and before that , an honest man... . POSTED BY JonPlaire on | January 19 , 2015 , 18 : 25 GMT Simply fabulous piece Mr. Mudar Patherya. Imran was certainly a one-of-a-kind sportsman without a doubt , who still enjoys immense respect and a huge fan following world over even after so many years of retirement. Not many are in the same league. I still remember replicating his bowling & batting action when I used to play the game in the 90s. Imran 's contributions to Pakistan & international cricket have been phenomenal. Though , I have serious doubts about his abilities as a politician , but overall , his accomplishments in the game and outside of it have just been remarkable . POSTED BY Usman on | January 19 , 2015 , 15 : 52 GMT Fantastic read , people like Imran , I believe , only pop out in nations which are deeply divided , as they take is upon themselves to show their countrymen the values they should be espousing in themselves. He is a rare gem , and that is no overstatement. Pakistan , if the country 's cricket team and the public pays attention to him , there is no limit to what they can acheive . POSTED BY Desihungama on | January 19 , 2015 , 5 : 00 GMT " Successful people are fearless , they fight their fears , they are not scared of failure , they do not care what people say because people change what they think all the time. Do not allow your lives to be driven by what people say , go by what your objectives are , what your passions are , what your ideals are , and never ever downgrade your ideals in the movements of weakness , when you suffered a setback , that really is the time to reflect why you have suffered a setback and correct the mistake and keep going towards that ideal. It 's not a defeat that destroys you , being demoralized by defeat that destroys you. As long as you keep learning from defeats you will always keep coming back and get stronger all the time. I was not the most talented but it was this ability to come back that I succeeded. " Words of Great Khan. Thank you Mr. Mudar Patherya for such an inspirational piece . POSTED BY EmadKhan on | January 16 , 2015 , 22 : 06 GMT Confidence and charisma personified . POSTED BY gojjo on | January 16 , 2015 , 8 : 14 GMT The 1982 series against India was followed by a long layoff from cricket due to a stress fracture when Imran was supposed to be at the peak of his bowling prowess. His aloofness was misconstrued as arrogance. The 1979 tour to India was full of stories some of which were cooked up by the Indian media especially about him Although Pak cricket flourished under the military leader Zia 's rule and Imran 's captaincy , the political cricket scene was aloso being set by grooming of Zia 's other future 'capitan ' i.e Nawaz Sharif who was a also a big Imran Khan fan. Sadly cricket and politics go hand in hand in Pakistan . POSTED BY salman_0902 on | January 16 , 2015 , 1 : 10 GMT I would like to mention that before coming to politics he built a cancer hospital . POSTED BY krik8crazy on | January 15 , 2015 , 19 : 44 GMT Mudar Patherya - the name is a blast from the past ! I remember reading his articles way back when - during the 1989 West Indies tour. I urge everyone who is a cricket lover to read his article named " lessons from a middle aged cricketer " . It is the best cricket article I have read , dripping with nothing but sheer love for the game. Now , coming back to the subject of this article - Imran Khan is someone who even opponents respect , perhaps begrudgingly. His best cricketing achievement in my opinion is not the 1992 world cup but the 1988 series against the West Indies in the West Indies. He came out of retirement and nearly led his team to victory over the most feared team in the world , on their turf. That series was one for the ages . POSTED BY smalishah84 on | January 15 , 2015 , 19 : 16 GMT great article. Brings back good memories of a bygone era. Imran , what a legend . POSTED BY Powerblaster on | January 15 , 2015 , 10 : 57 GMT Imran a complete Cricketer ,athlete , moderator , Captain , a true leader in his own . His contribution to the game is very high. Specially when you see the modern day Umpiring highly controversial subject in the 70s and 80s. Cricket should be thankful for him to raising the standards . POSTED BY ziddu on | January 15 , 2015 , 6 : 50 GMT Great charmer. Had a lot of fans ( not necessarily cricket fans ) in India . POSTED BY SamRoy on | January 14 , 2015 , 4 : 29 GMT Easily the best looking cricketer to have played the game and also the best cricketer from South Asia . POSTED BY Asim on | January 13 , 2015 , 19 : 24 GMT Terrific article...great tribute to a great man . POSTED BY SupportTestCricket on | January 12 , 2015 , 10 : 29 GMT Mudar Patherya ! ! What a pleasure to read him again after so many years ! His reports for Sportsworld magazine used to be fantastic and I still remember the interview he did with Vengsarkar , who was captaining India on the tour of West Indies. India were losing badly and Vengsarkar came down hard on his batsmen ( specially Azhar ) and it was a big story for those days. Much later we came to know that he was a young cub reporter whom Pataudi ( who edited Sportsworld ) sent on important assignments . POSTED BY Robski on | January 8 , 2015 , 19 : 26 GMT Many thanks for a splendid tribute to such a perplexing , contradictory , yet ultimately admirable man. And I say this as a journalist who once did similar duty in Imran 's Mayfair flat , where lavish decor collided with unfeasible arrogance but I still emerged thinking he would go on to bigger , better things . POSTED BY Abid on | January 7 , 2015 , 16 : 55 GMT Brilliant ! ! ! Could n't see this legend in 80s ( was too young ) so thanks a lot for these words. . POSTED BY Shayan Khan on | January 7 , 2015 , 7 : 18 GMT In a league of his own ! !
