Match That Changed My Life Spinner , interrupted A promise to his father disrupted Erapalli Prasanna 's career , but he returned better than ever January 2015 1967 : South Zone v West Indies In 1962 I went on my first overseas trip , to the West Indies. It was a very successful tour for me since I finished as the second-highest wicket-taker on the tour ( 20 wickets ) even though I played just one Test. On my return I lost my father , in May. I had promised him that I would complete my engineering degree , which I was studying for before I went to the Caribbean. He was reluctant to let me go on tour because he thought my passion to play cricket might get in the way of finishing my studies . So I took a little step back from international cricket , gave up my place in the Indian team and focused on finishing my education. Once I completed my degree , I actively started to focus on cricket. And one of the first games , for South Zone against the West Indians on my home ground in Bangalore , proved to be the game that changed the course of my life. What I am today , the reputation I enjoy , is because of that match , where I took 8 for 87 in the first innings . Though I had switched my focus back to studies in the years out of the Indian dressing room , I kept myself match-fit by playing for Karnataka. There was a lot of competition in South Zone , including S Venkataraghavan , who was one of the best offspinners around. But I was confident against the West Indians . People talk to me as an authority on spin. From where did it originate ? From this match Their batsmen could not play me. They read me , but I bowled better. Rohan Kanhai tried to drive me through mid-on against a flighted offbreak. The ball took the leading edge and I moved about ten yards to my left and took the return catch. I was anticipating that. Then Basil Butcher charged halfway down the pitch - he was close enough to shake hands with me - and he was bowled. The West Indies offspinner Lance Gibbs complimented me , saying I had been excellent . People talk to me as an authority on spin. From where did it originate ? From this match. The selectors were impressed and included me in the Test squad and that started my comeback. A week after this match , I was playing for India. I was proud to be back and proud to be playing against Garry Sobers ' West Indies. Through that tour match I reminded the Indian board and selectors that I was probably the best offspinner in the country. I stamped my authority . The prime period for a cricketer is when he is around 27 or 28 years old. When my dad passed away , I was 22. If I had played for India in those five years in between , I do n't know how many wickets I would have finished with . Erapalli Prasanna played 49 Tests for India between 1962 and 1978. He was speaking to Nagraj Gollapudi © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
