Thank you , Graham : Mike Smith ended his Test career wicketless after this costly drop © Getty Images Drop it like it 's hot Records , redemption and ramifications : the consequences of five dropped catches that can not be forgotten Daniel Brigham | January 2015 12 Kiran More , England v India , Lord 's 1990 I did n't see the drop. Kiran More 's , that is , when Graham Gooch was on 36 , still 297 runs off his daddy destiny. I was half-watching in my parents ' living room. Here was Gooch , pristine whites and an even whiter helmet giving him the look of a moustachioed polar bear , and making a sport suddenly bloom into life . I did n't see the drop. Perhaps I had scuttled to the kitchen for a sandwich. Perhaps it happened during a toilet break. But I do remember the runs that followed , runs that turned Gooch 's score from something achievable in playgrounds into something otherworldly. It became a thing to tell friends , a reason to drag my parents to the sports shop . I did n't see the drop. But from then on , cricket had shifted in my mind from something dull and grey like teachers , porridge and suits , to something full of possibility and unimaginable numbers. Without More 's drop , England would still be searching for their first triple-centurion since 1965 and I would have been lost to the game . Unknown fielder , Essex v Hampshire , Chelmsford 1992 I was at Chelmsford , my first day of county cricket. Essex , my recently acquired county , were taking on Hampshire. A win for Essex would secure them the Championship. Beyond the boundary was the polar bear , Graham Gooch , and Mark Ilott , who bowled left-arm quick like my new hero Wasim Akram . There were others but most thrillingly there was Malcolm Marshall bowling for Hampshire. Essex 's last pair , the crotchety spinners Peter Such and John Childs , had awoken a murmuring crowd with a squall of miscued sixes and fours. One thumped Marshall towards the midwicket boundary in front of me. The fielder - perhaps Kevin Shine , perhaps Shaun Udal - stood under it , waiting. The crowd barracked. The ball fell in but bounced out from his hands. The crowd cheered. Dropped . Kiran More 's spill made Graham Gooch richer by 297 runs © Getty Images Marshall , who should have been in the dressing room , then took his place on the midwicket boundary. I felt sad and as he turned around , I waved , keen for contact. Marshall caught my eye , nodded and waved back. Childs and Such put on 79 comedy runs and Essex won , but for this star-struck ten-year-old , the wave meant more than anything . Graham Thorpe , England v Australia , Headingley 1997 Australia 's dominance over England coincided with my cricketing awakening. Four successive Ashes defeats had left adolescent scars . Yet here was hope. Australia were 50 for 3 in reply to England 's 172 , with the series tied at 1-1. Mark Taylor , Greg Blewett and Mark Waugh were gone. On came debutant Mike Smith. In his third over he found Matthew Elliott 's edge and it carried at a nice height to Graham Thorpe , the one player the Aussies feared , at first slip. Down went the catch. Down went the hope . Elliott , on 29 , made 199 , Australia won by an innings. After the spill , Mike Atherton said to Thorpe , " Do n't worry Thorpey , you 've only cost us the Ashes. " It cost more. It was a drop that showed even England 's best players could be sucked into the quagmire , a drop to remind fans that however well the team looked like it was doing , it was a fleeting mirage. It was a drop that confirmed that with England , despair was always on the coat tails of hope . Monty Panesar , India v England , Mumbai 2006 It is a lonely world , waiting for a ball to reach its peak trajectory , hover , then drop , hurtling towards you. Is pain heading your way ? Glory ? Humiliation ? Will the cheers be real or ironic ? Palms pointing up or down ? Not Jonty , it 's Monty : Panesar did n't have to live with the humiliation of his Wankhede 2006 drop for too long © AFP For the crowd it is the Pinter pause , the moment before the song kicks back in. For Monty Panesar , these moments must have sent him dizzy. Boorishly patronised for his fielding , he was an unusually jerky mover until it looked as if , standing under a high catch , he was a puppet , the ball his puppeteer. In Mumbai , with England closing on a famous series-levelling win , Panesar found himself underneath an MS Dhoni miscue. His limbs fought to settle , but all he could do was spin like a dog chasing its tail. He knew what was coming , the crowd knew. The ball , inevitably , landed safely . Panesar was n't safe yet. Oh , no. Two balls later , history repeated itself. An edge , a ball plunging from the sky. This time Panesar was still , no juddering , no spinning. The ball crashed into his huge hands and did n't burst through. The cheers were real. Panesar , offered sport 's special brand of redemption , had taken it . Andrew Strauss , England v Australia , Old Trafford 2005 Like batsmen and bowlers , fielders get lucky too. Sometimes that luck can show which way a series is headed. In 2005 , with the Ashes locked at 1-1 , England were pushing for victory at Old Trafford in the third Test. Andrew Strauss had scored a second-innings hundred to put England in command and Australia were struggling . With ten overs remaining England needed three wickets. Andrew Flintoff - always Flintoff - found Shane Warne 's edge and the ball flew to Safe-Hands Strauss at second slip. It cannoned back off his thigh. Dropped. Thorpe 1997 all over. But hold on , what 's this ? The deflection whizzed past Marcus Trescothick at first slip and wicketkeeper Geraint Jones flew full length to his right to grab the catch of his life . " In the air , oh he 's dropped him , oh no he 's got him , what a good catch ! " was Tony Greig 's cry. The ghost of Thorpe erased , one man 's drop is another man 's catch , and England 's Ashes luck transformed . Daniel Brigham is a journalist and editor. @ dan_brigham © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
