Profile Fast train from Chakdaha From small-town Bengal to one of India 's greatest cricketers , Jhulan Goswami has come a long way. We return to where her journey began Niyantha Shekar | January 2015 Tweet 6 This train goes to Chakdaha ? " I ask , as I grab a seat. An idol of the goddess Lakshmi obscures the face of the man sitting across from me. He moves it to the side , nods , and then places the idol back on his lap , hiding his face again. The Sealdah-Gede local shakes to a start and slowly rumbles past Kolkata 's Sealdah Station. I am on my way to Jhulan Goswami 's home town . Over the next hour and a half , passengers fill the train at every stop. Those lucky to get a seat squeeze against their neighbours to accommodate others. " It is n't that crowded today , " the man I am squashed against tells me matter-of-factly. He points out that it is a government holiday because of Lakshmi Puja. " Usually , it is so crowded that getting out feels impossible. " I wonder how Jhulan contended with the crowds as a teenager ; at 15 she was travelling by herself to Kolkata for cricket practice . It is almost noon when the train halts at Chakdaha , a town of about 100,000 that serves as a marketplace for green vegetables cultivated in the fertile fields of the Nadia district. The goddess Durga is everywhere in Bengal , and I see her as soon as I get off the train. A fence separates a temple from the platform , and a priest waits across the divide with a steel pot of holy water and prasad ( food offered to God ) . I ask him the way to Lalpur , the area in Chakdaha where Jhulan grew up. He gives me a generous helping of the prasad , which tastes like banana-rice pudding , and points me in the right direction . Truth is , I do n't know who I am looking for. Jhulan now lives in Kolkata but I have n't been able to get in touch with her for a week. She had warned me , though. " You 're coming here in October ? " she had said when I called her from Chennai. " That 's the busiest time for us Bengalis ! " Jhulan 's family lives in Chakdaha but I do n't want to show up unannounced at their doorstep. So I decide to walk to the Friends ' Club ground where Jhulan once played tennis-ball cricket. I ask a young man , Kaushik , for directions. It turns out he belongs to the Friends ' Club , and he readily leads me to the ground . Never a dull moment at Chakdaha Station © Niyantha Shekar When we get there , Kaushik makes a call on his cellphone. He talks in Bengali but sprinkles in a few Hindi words for my benefit. " There 's someone here from Chennai. He wants to write about Jhulan didi , " he says. I step on to the uneven ground in front of me , where patches of dry earth coexist with clumps of grass. A pandal stripped of its decoration , just bamboo poles and wooden planks , rests in the centre of the field - a remnant of the recently concluded Durga Puja . " Kunal bhai is coming to meet you , " Kaushik tells me with a triumphant smile . " Who is Kunal ? " " Jhulan didi 's brother. " Kunal is Jhulan 's youngest sibling and looks far younger than his 27 years. They grew up in a middle-class home on a street that , like many others in Chakdaha , is used for gully cricket. He says how proud his family is of Jhulan : " She has made such a big name , coming from such a small place. " Has he ever faced Jhulan 's bowling ? " Yes , on this ground. " " How did you play her ? " " Not too bad. Not too good either , " he says with a laugh. " On this small ground , anyone can hit fours and sixes ! " In interviews , Jhulan has spoken about how the local boys did n't think her bowling was fast enough. When I mention this to Kunal , he reminds me that it is hard to generate speed with a light tennis ball. It was only in Kolkata that Jhulan started practising with a hard " deuce ball " , local slang for the Dukes brand of leather balls . Jhulan practised and practised with a deuce ball , and gathered speed. " Slowly , you can achieve , whether it be speed , accuracy , line or length , " her brother says. In 2007 , when she was the ICC Women 's Cricketer of the Year , Jhulan was the fastest bowler in all women 's cricket . Jhulan would commute two hours each way , three times a week. Cricket practice started at 7 : 30am. If she was even a minute late her coach would bar her from practice for the day " You must have seen the crowd on the train when you came here , " Kunal says when I ask about Jhulan 's early struggles. In her time , the nearest women 's cricket academy was almost 80km away , at Kolkata 's Vivekananda Park. Jhulan would commute two hours each way , three times a week. She caught a train from Chakdaha to Sealdah at 5am , and then took a bus from Sealdah to Vivekananda Park. Her cricket practice started at 7 : 30am. If she was even a minute late her coach would bar her from practice for the day. Once done with practice , at around 9 : 30am , she would rush back to Chakdaha the way she came ; she still had school to attend . " Initially she was scared of travelling by herself , " Kunal says. " Our mother or father used to go with her. But she realised that our father had work all day , and our mother had to take care of the home. So she built up the courage to say , 'I 'll go by myself , and I 'll come back by myself. ' " I ask Kunal if he can introduce me to other family members or friends of Jhulan. He is firm but polite when he turns me down. " Most people are either out of town or are preparing for the Lakshmi Puja tonight. " It begins to rain as I reach the station at 2 : 30pm , and I suddenly realise the platform roof is riddled with holes. One of the commuters warns me that my train wo n't stop for long. When it does stop , the alighting crowd pushes me back. I see a man shove his way through the rush , and I hold on to his shoulder. Unbeknownst to him , he drags me into the jam-packed compartment . Speed thrills : Goswami is recognised as one of the fastest bowlers in the women 's game © Getty Images A couple of days later I am sitting at a tea stall behind the Chakdaha train station , sipping matka chai. Subhasish Chaudhuri , a journalist , sits next to me , cellphone to ear. He has lived in Chakdaha almost all his life , and has written about Jhulan for newsfromnadia.com . He gets off the phone. " Jhumpa said we can come over. " Jhulan 's younger sister meets us by a Ramakrishna temple and leads us down a narrow lane of brick houses. As we enter the modest home I see a tiny garden to the right , dashes of green against once-whitewashed walls. I follow Jhumpa and Subhasish into a small room ; there is a bed to one side and a television in the centre. A shelf , doubling up as a TV stand , holds match balls and trophies. I spot Jhulan 's Arjuna Award and her Padma Shri , the country 's fourth-highest civilian award. The room 's pink walls are adorned with photographs of her major triumphs. I recognise one immediately : it is of a delighted 24-year-old receiving the ICC Cricketer of the Year award from MS Dhoni . The photo was taken on September 10 , 2007 , a Monday night , in Johannesburg. Chakdaha got the news early the next morning. Television channels celebrated Jhulan 's achievement , and rickshaw pullers broadcast the news across town. Residents lit up the lanes of the town with crackers , decorated the outsides of their homes with flowers , and distributed boxes of sweets. Journalists thronged the Goswami home. A civic body set up a stage in the Ramakrishna temple and gave Jhulan a big public reception when she returned four days later. The festivities lasted for nearly a week . " It was just a few days before the Durga Puja , " Jhumpa tells me. " But the celebrations began on that day ! " Goswami receives the 2007 ICC 's Women 's Cricketer of the Year award from MS Dhoni © Getty Images Chakdaha has eagerly tracked Jhulan ever since. During the 2013 Women 's World Cup , " everybody watched on TV when Jhulan played , " Subhasish says. " Everybody. I personally went around and looked at the reaction. Everybody was watching. " " We have only one grievance , " Jhumpa says. " No television channel broadcasts their games regularly. If the matches are telecast , the local girls will be encouraged to think , 'If I play well , people will watch me on TV. ' There is a big shortage of this sort of encouragement. " Jhulan 's success is even more incredible considering she emerged in the late 1990s , a time when people in Chakdaha did n't know professional women 's cricket existed. I ask Jhumpa if a young Jhulan faced any opposition from her family or society . " There was nothing like , 'A girl can not play. ' There were no societal pressures. " " A lot of sportswomen have come up from here , " Subhasish says. " Prior to Jhulan , there was Rama Sarkar , who was an Arjuna awardee in kabaddi and the captain of India. Soma Biswas [ a track-and-field athlete from Nadia district ] is also an Arjuna awardee. " He tells me that boys and girls in the villages play contact games like kushti [ a form of wrestling ] and kabaddi. " There is no social taboo. The boys are n't told to not play with the girls. The girls are n't told to not play with the boys. " But though the region has produced quality sportswomen , Subhasish is keen to emphasise that Jhulan 's success is exceptional. There was no women 's cricket culture in Chakdaha when she started. " You catch a train in the wee hours , go to Kolkata... it is almost impossible for any girl. It is almost absurd. " About a girl : the trophy cabinet in Goswami 's room © Niyantha Shekar There was a time when Jhulan nearly gave up. Jhumpa remembers her sister coming home late one night after a selection trial for the Bengal team in Kolkata. There was one more session to attend the next morning , but Jhulan was exhausted and unwilling. Standing on the verge of her first major break , she was burnt out . Her mother would have none of it . " This is your duty. You 've chosen this. You need to go. " With her mother by her side , Jhulan caught a train to Kolkata the next morning. By that afternoon , she had bowled her way into the Bengal women 's team . It is half past 12 on a Saturday afternoon in mid-October. I am at a cricket ground in Kolkata 's Salt Lake suburb , where a junior boys ' match is underway. This is an unexpected stopover. With my Kolkata trip almost at its end , I had given up on meeting Jhulan and had chosen to wander around the cramped streets of Barabazar market instead. That 's when my phone rang. " Can you meet me at the Jadavpur University Second Campus Ground ? " she asked . Behind the boundary rope , I see a series of practice nets and a group of women cricketers from the Bengal team. They are early for their practice session ; I 'm on time to meet one of India 's greatest cricketers. I catch Jhulan by the practice area , and she is immediately apologetic for not getting back to me sooner. She requests one of the ground attendants to bring us a couple of chairs and something to drink : " He wo n't mind coffee , " she says. " He is from Chennai. " I do n't know how much time I have with her , but as we start talking , my concern fades. She is happy to discuss her journey , and is particularly excited to recount the day she realised she wanted to become a cricketer . Television channels celebrated Jhulan 's achievement , rickshaw pullers broadcast the news across town. Residents lit up their lanes with crackers In 1997 , Australia were playing New Zealand in the Women 's World Cup final at Eden Gardens. Fifteen-year-old Jhulan was one of a number of schoolgirls from all over Bengal who had received complimentary passes. It was the first time she had watched a women 's cricket match in a stadium and the details are still vivid in her mind. She even makes it a point to tell me that Hero Honda was the title sponsor . " After I saw the game , I thought that if I took this sport as a profession , one day I could play for India. " She would soon find out about Swapan Sadhu , who conducted cricket coaching for girls at Kolkata 's Vivekananda Park. Her parents were hesitant : Jhulan was young , the distance she had to travel was significant , and they did n't know what the future held for women 's cricket. That was when Sadhu took the lead . " One day he came to my house , talked to my parents , and explained everything. And then my parents agreed. " I wonder how many talented women from small-town Bengal have missed out on cricket over the years. Jhulan says there has been plenty of progress. Inter-district tournaments and cricket academies for girls in small towns have paved the way. " If you are from Chakdaha , there 's an academy in Kalyani or Krishnanagar. So you save time. You can study. You can practise. That 's the beauty of district cricket. Nowadays even parents say , 'Our daughters can also play cricket. ' " I ask her what it was like to travel solo in the local trains when she was a teenager . " It was not easy. It was so crowded. But because of that I became mentally very strong. Whenever tough times come , I know how to handle them. " There is no bitterness in her voice , just a quiet thrill with the way her life has panned out . " If you have passion and love for the game , if you have the desire to do well on the field , this small distance hardly matters. And I enjoyed. I truly enjoyed. That is the beauty of my life. " Niyantha Shekar is a writer currently travelling in India. His writing can be seen at niyantha.com © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
