Refresh ! Man of the Match goes to David Warner for his fantastic 178. That is it from us. Hope you enjoyed our coverage. Do join us tomorrow for the game between Bangladesh and Scotland at 0300 IST. Till then , goodbye ! ! Then came Clarke and Maxwell who chipped in with a wicket each. Starc then struck twice in one over and eventually Johnson and Hazlewood ran through the lower order. It was always about survival for the Afghans and they somewhat did survive against this harrowing Aussie bowling line up. In the end it is Australia 's biggest margin of victory in ODIs and the biggest margin in World Cups . ! Australia have crushed their opponents after scoring a mammoth total. It was a top performance by the Aussie top order as Warner , Smith and Maxwell flayed the Afghan bowlers all over the park. They managed to score the highest total in World Cups , 417/6. The visitors started on a decent note , did not give away wickets initially but once the first wicket fell , it was mayhem. Johnson ran through the top order and Hazlewood too got a wicket . 37.3 W mitchell johnson to hamid hassan OUT ! Done and dusted ! Short on off , Hassan tries to pull that one but does not get the timing right and the ball balloons to mid on where Warner takes a sitter. AUSTRALIA WIN BY 275 RUNS . 37.2 mitchell johnson to hamid hassan Pitched up on off , driven through covers for a couple . 37.1 mitchell johnson to hamid hassan Short on off , cut to point where the fielder stops it with a diving effort . 36.6 josh hazlewood to shapoor zadran Short and outside off , left alone . 36.5 josh hazlewood to shapoor zadran Full and just outside off , pushed to covers . 36.4 0 josh hazlewood to shapoor zadran DROPPED ! Yorker length just outside off , Zadran squeezes it towards the third slip where Smith puts a one-handed effort but fails to pouch it . 36.3 josh hazlewood to shapoor zadran Short and just outside off , left alone . load more Story first published on : Wednesday , 04 March 2015 07 : 00 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
