The Zaltzmeister Cricket 's renaissance man Two hundred years before the laws of the game were codified , Leonardo da Vinci was a fan Andy Zaltzman | January 2015 No. 6 : LD da Vinci Tuscany C.C.C. , Medici All-Stars XI , Italy LHB ; LF , LFM , LM , SLA , SLC , RMF , LBG Leonardo da Vinci , the left-handed Renaissance art celeb with staggering natural all-round talents and a natural personal charisma , was unquestionably the Garfield Sobers of the late-15th and early-16th centuries. Arguably , the Tuscan Tearaway possessed an even greater range of skills than his 20th-century Caribbean counterpart , and could have had a similar impact on the sport , if only he had been a professional cricketer rather than a painter , sculptor , architect , polymath , poet , musician , engineer , award-winning procrastinator , mathematician , inventor , writer , anatomist , geologist , notebook scribbler , helicopter aficionado , botanist , cartographer , arms manufacturer and incorrigible beard-grower who died almost 500 years ago . Some have argued that Leonardo ( or Lennie Scribbles , as he was known to his friends ) would have struggled to conform to the demands of the 21st-century cricket calendar. Indeed , his spectacular range of jobs and hobbies perhaps led to his artwork going the same way as Stuart Broad 's batting - increasingly sketchy . Nevertheless , not only does his prodigious spectrum of abilities suggest that da Vinci would have been a major all-round cricketer in any era , there is ample evidence from within his remarkable oeuvre to show that Big Len was , in fact , so far ahead of his time that he was a massive cricket fan more than 200 years before the laws of the game were even codified . Da Vinci 's reputed first surviving complete work , The Annunciation , clearly shows the Archangel Gabriel demonstrating to the Virgin Mary the grip for a perfect outswinger. Most art pundits consider his defining masterpiece , The Last Supper , to be the quintessential lads'-night-out painting. However , given the array of concerned faces , raised fingers , outstretched arms and uneaten bread rolls , the more logical conclusion is that the picture is in fact a depiction of a heated tea-interval discussion among a disgruntled cricket team that has just been skittled out for less than 100 in a flurry of controversial umpiring decisions. And at the centre of it all , is that a skipper who has " lost the dressing room " after questionably choosing to bat first on an obviously spicy surface ? Some critics believe that The Mona Lisa exhibits a woman crossing her hands in preparation for signalling " dead ball " - which gives a convincing explanation for her rather ambivalent look In fact , da Vinci appears to have taken a keen interest in umpiring. His John The Baptist displays a man decisively giving an unseen batsman out , whilst his Vitruvian Man sketch unmistakably demonstrates a characteristically futuristic proposal for a new umpiring signal for a two-run bouncer-wide , in which the umpire would jump from the conventional " wide " gesture to an arms-raised , legs-akimbo pose , signalling that the ball was not only unreachably wide but also excessively high . This drawing of a clothesless umpire has also led to speculation that da Vinci was involved in the clandestine Tuscan Naked Cricket League , which flourished briefly in the late 1480s and formed the basis for the many cricketing scenes cleverly hidden on the Sistine Chapel ceiling by Lennie 's arty contemporary Michelangelo , when he did his famous stint of interior decoration for the Pope some years later . Some critics even believe that Leonardo 's multimillion-pound-rated smash-hit portrait The Mona Lisa exhibits a woman crossing her hands in preparation for signalling " dead ball " , an analysis which gives the most convincing explanation yet proffered for the rather ambivalent look in her eyes . A renowned engineering whiz as well as being more than handy with a paintbrush , Leonardo is now thought by most reputable historians to have provided a prototype for a bowling machine with his catapult , capable of flinging down missiles at anything up to 189mph. With his intimate knowledge of physiology , da Vinci calculated that this was the maximum bowling speed theoretically possible with the human body and a Kookaburra ball less than ten overs old ( an estimation that a peak-confidence Shoaib Akhtar considered " unduly conservative " ) . Moreover , da Vinci 's own notes , if wrongly translated , suggest that his renowned helicopter design was intended for the aircraft to be flown above cricket grounds , trailing banners offering tactical advice to the fielding captain . Described by his 16th-century biographer Giorgio Vasari as being " so lovable that he commanded everyone 's affection " , Leonardo would have been a positive dressing-room presence who could even have acted as a middle man in the irreconcilable three-cornered battle between Kevin Pietersen , the England board , and reality. Being " a sparkling conversationalist " , in Vasari 's words , da Vinci would also have slotted seamlessly into any commentary box , especially one containing Ravi Shastri , another allrounder and visionary who has shaped humanity 's understanding of what it can achieve . Andy Zaltzman is a stand-up comedian , a regular on BBC Radio 4 , and a writer © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
