Shot Stories Swing and swish Gary Gilmour took Australia to the first World Cup final , starring with the ball and then the bat at Headingley February 2015 Tweet John Snow : This was Snow 's final ODI. Never far from controversy , he had been left out of the 1974-75 Ashes tour , which England lost 4-1. While bowling in the first game of the World Cup , against India at Lord 's , he said to Sunil Gavaskar , " Do n't try those singles " , alluding to the 1971 incident at the same venue , where he had collided with the batsman. Off the field the two were friends. " His run-up was short … rhythmic , smooth and … ended with a lovely action , " Gavaskar wrote about him . Tony Greig : With Australia needing under 20 runs with four wickets in hand , Greig , at second slip , dropped a difficult catch off a slash by Gilmour. This was Greig 's only World Cup. He took wickets against New Zealand , but did n't make it past single figures with the bat. However , he was appointed England 's Test captain during the Ashes that followed , after Mike Denness was sacked for an innings defeat in the first match . Gary Gilmour : Under grey skies and on a green pitch , the 23-year-old had been unplayable with his swing and seam , taking 6 for 14 and bowling England out for 93. Now , with Australia in trouble , having lost six wickets for 39 runs , Gilmour ensured they made it to the final with a run-a-ball 28. Three days later , in the final , he took a five-for , but Australia lost. Two months later , in a Test at Headingley , Gilmour took another six-for , but this time England managed a draw . Doug Walters : Walters never did exceptionally well in England , in Tests or ODIs. But there were two shots , off Geoff Arnold , in his 55-run stand with Gilmour that stood out. One was a fierce drive to the long-on boundary that zoomed through a leaping Gilmour 's legs , and one that was described as a " princely " cut by the commentator . Alan Knott : The England wicketkeeper broke his left middle finger in the first match of the World Cup and struggled through the rest. About Gilmour 's four lbws in his spell , Knott said : " He bowled well but it was ridiculous that there was no sightscreen at the end from which he was bowling … it was very difficult to pick up his deliveries. " © Getty Images LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
