Hate to love Pretty hate machine Few players get so much derision thrown their way as Shane Watson. Few respond with such aplomb Geoff Lemon | February 2015 11 " Hey Shane Watson ! " I say. " Let 's go over the rules of the DRS. " I 'm outside the MCC Members ' gate at Lord 's. Shane Watson is n't. I have a video camera jammed in my face as the crowd streams out after stumps . " You 've got two reviews and 11 batsmen. Mathematically that works out to less than one review per batsman. " It 's a lovely golden evening , the last of the sunlight slipping down the street. We 've had two days of the second Test. Australia are crashing and burning in the 2013 Ashes . " You know when 's a good time to use DRS ? When you get out , but you know that you 're not out. You know when 's a bad time to use DRS ? When you 're out but you just kind of wish that you were n't. " I gain momentum as we go , face gradually assuming the red of my shirt. Talking swells to shouting. Conversations trail off as people assess the commotion . " Stop acting like it 's beach cricket , Shane ! Stop acting like it 's a centre-wicket practice for your benefit ! Stop acting like … Shane Watson ! " A small crowd has gathered. Some applaud. London coppers eye us warily. Lord 's members , too dignified for the spectacle , turn their snouts toward distant champagne. I am suddenly uncomfortably aware of the attention . " Great , " grins Cam the cameraman. " Let 's do it again. " Turns out it was n't Watson 's call. Chris Rogers at the other end told him to review the decision. But people loved a good Watto-bashing. Of all the Ashes videos we shot for The Roar , that improvised two-minute bit was passed around more than any. Australians did most of the sharing , though even the occasional Englishman stopped us throughout the tour to say , " Hey , it 's the Shane Watson guy ! " More than any Australian player , Watson is the one who a slice of home fans love to hate. The hate is ostensibly pantomime but still tends to the vitriolic. Passionate Watson-baggers revel in their work. Mad at his selection ? We 're pigs in a trough . For a Watson-basher , the idea of him selfishly burning a DRS review hit home with the sweet kiss of endorphins in an opioid receptor The antipathy is part personal , part professional. Back then , I never questioned the perception that Watson was selfish and soft. On the field he pouted , got petulant , took the game too personally. When he got out he looked like someone had shot his dog. When he could n't get someone else out he looked betrayed. When a hundred beckoned he looked like he 'd seen a ghost. On his first England tour he thought he had. He publicly coveted batting spots that were n't his. He left a tour of India in a huff. For a Watson-basher , the idea of him selfishly burning a DRS review hit home with the sweet kiss of endorphins in an opioid receptor . Looking at it now , I put part of this perception down to conventional Australian notions of masculinity. You could write a thesis on our cultural construction of the " pretty boy " , and Watson 's floppy blond hair and He-Man jaw match the concept. Resentful of a certain kind of handsomeness , broader masculine culture finds a way to denigrate it. So good looks become equated with vanity , vapidity and stupidity. They imply preening instead of practice. To this way of thinking , masculinity requires a rugged plainness that should be reflected in appearance as much as in personality. Pretty boys are associated with qualities designated feminine , and femininity is associated with weakness. It 's a corrosively powerful mental twitch , so unevolved that it barely crests the subliminal . But all this would have faded had Watson been a dominant player. Frustration with his game kept the rest simmering. He 'd look great for 30 runs , then play a dumb shot. He 'd go through phases of replicating a dismissal. His bowling remained a support act. In the view from the couch , Watson was an ongoing investment that never paid off. His best was exceptional but inconsistent , and cricket fans are an impatient lot. We even started resenting his injuries. More rationally , we resented the way he walked back into the team afterwards. That was what really chafed the upper thigh of the Watson anti-fan club : we thought he was anointed by the cricketing establishment , and we thought he felt entitled to it . Fronting up : Watson keeps turning up to take the punches © Getty Images During that Ashes things began to change. It was my first tour as a writer , down among the workings of the game rather than trash-talking at a distance. You jump in a lift with a player and suddenly you 're faced with the reality that he 's a normal person , and you just hope he has never read your articles. You start to get a sense of who these men are , rather than what you 've projected . Like seeing Australia 's players board the bus after a tough day at Trent Bridge , while Watson approached the green-and-gold diehards at the exit. " Hey guys , " he said. " Just wanted to say thanks for coming all the way to support us. We really appreciate it. " He shook the requisite hands , gave the signatures , looked remorseful about the match , then headed back. No one else had offered more than a wave . Like a reception at the Australian High Commission , when an official told Watson that his young daughter was a fan. While team-mates went for the refreshments , Watson took several minutes to write her a letter on the back of a programme . Or the clincher , after his 176 in the final Test at The Oval. It was one of the most enjoyable innings I 've seen live : clean hitting , fearless tempo , the feel of a man venting all his frustrations when he sensed his moment. He even overturned an lbw on review. His press conference was good-natured , courteous , and all but an apology , less celebrating his innings than lamenting that it had come after the series was lost . Even in the afterglow of success came a reflex to pre-empt the criticism that he , more than anyone , would attract. Here was an intense desire to do well. Scrutiny can bear down on players , bowing their shoulders and tucking their heads. At that Oval press conference , at the barricades outside Trent Bridge , I 've never seen a big man look so small . Despite the knocks Watson keeps on going out there , considering it an honour to represent a nation that disparages him in return My assessment of his game was changing too , thanks to Darren Lehmann 's straightforward approach. I had been one of a legion obsessed with Watson 's batting average , forgetting that these numbers are imprecise markers. Said Lehmann , " He 's a pretty good bowler , I would have thought. So as an allrounder I 've got no dramas. " For the coach , the flexibility of support for his pace attack was worth slightly lower batting returns. Watson was good enough to bat top six , but did n't need to be judged as a pure batsman . And in fact , Watson has done a solid job. He does get out after making starts : as of December 14 last year , 34 % of his dismissals had come between 20 and 49 runs , 8 % more than Michael Clarke. But those starts are n't worthless. In the binary view of spectators a half-century is an achievement worth applause but anything less is a failure. There has to be a middle ground. Take Watson 's 33 in the 2014 Adelaide Test : he put on 102 with David Warner and batted through two hours to help set India a target. It might not be rated , but that 's a valuable contribution . Watson makes a 50-plus score in about 26 % of his innings , close behind Clarke 's 30 % . It 's true that he has n't turned many into hundreds , but if we redistributed one innings of 30 across his five near-misses , he would have nine centuries with the same average and aggregate. Would it make him a better player ? Would it change anyone 's opinion ? Come the return Ashes in 2013-14 , I found myself in the unfamiliar position of cheering Watson on. I got to enjoy the 51 in Adelaide , stare disbelievingly at the 103 in Perth that ended Graeme Swann 's career , and feel quietly satisfied at the 83 not out that sealed a tricky chase in Melbourne. Nor did he have one bad innings with the ball . Beyond any day 's achievement , though , what I have come to admire is that despite the knocks Watson keeps on going out there , considering it an honour to represent a nation that disparages him in return. He could long since have eased back to a T20 career with all of the money and a fraction of the pressure , but fronts up each time for rehab and training to play a game that has rarely been kind. For all the accusations of fragility , there is an incredible resilience to that . Geoff Lemon is a writer and radio broadcaster on history , sport and politics. He edits the Australian literary publication Going Down Swinging © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
