Match That Changed My Life For county or country ? Mushtaq Mohammad faced a tough choice in 1963 , which resulted in the best decision he ever made Nagraj Gollapudi | February 2015 1963 Northamptonshire v Pakistan Eaglets In 1963 I toured England with the Pakistan Eaglets side , which was a precursor to A teams. The tour proved to be the turning point of my career . Specifically , the catalyst was a match against Northamptonshire at Peterborough. Conditions were very English - overcast , and in fact the first day was rained off. Pitches in those days were left uncovered . I got a duck in the first innings and we folded up cheaply. But in the second innings I managed to crack a century and it was this that got me attention . Immediately after that match , Northants secretary Ken Turner and head coach Dennis Brooks approached me with an offer to play for the county. They said they were looking to find a replacement for Donald Ramsamooj , a batsman from the West Indies , as the overseas player. My success during Pakistan 's tour of England the previous year , where I was the team 's highest run-maker in the five Tests , had attracted their interest as well . Although I was keen to play for Northants , there was a hurdle. At the time if you wanted to play county cricket you had to qualify , which meant you had to reside in England for nearly two years. The terms of qualification meant I could not reside outside the UK for more than 30 days in that period , and I could n't play first-class cricket for any other team , including my domestic side in Pakistan , Pakistan International Airlines ( PIA ) . Personally I had a few things to consider. I would be away from home for two years and I was courting my wife at the time. And if I were to play county cricket I might be forgotten by Pakistan cricket : out of sight , out of mind. I said to Northants that I needed time . On January 11 , 1964 I got married. The next day I was awarded the Pride of Performance by Pakistan 's president Ayub Khan and I took the opportunity to raise the issue of the county offer. He said he would look into the matter. Air Marshal Nur Khan , the PIA chairman , called me and said my salary had been increased by Rs 100 , which would take my monthly salary to Rs 600. But I felt it was time to go . Northants offered me a five-year contract. The remuneration was £ 800 in the first two seasons and an increase to £ 1000 for the following three years. I was in my early 20s and although I missed out on playing Tests for Pakistan before I returned in 1967 , I learned a lot at Northants . The experience taught me a lot about batting in difficult conditions , by playing on wet wickets and uncovered pitches. I became a better player and I was also better off financially . Incidentally , the qualification rule came to an end in 1967. By then I had already decided to head back to Pakistan. In the end I played for both PIA and Northants , but I still regret missing out not playing two years for Pakistan when I was at my peak . Mushtaq Mohammad played 57 Tests and ten ODIs for Pakistan between 1959 and 1979. He was speaking to Nagraj Gollapudi © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
