ICC World Cup 2015 Highlights : Ahmed Shezad , Misbah-ul-Haq Star as Pakistan Down UAE by 129 Runs ICC World Cup 2015 Highlights : Ahmed Shezad , Misbah-ul-Haq Star as Pakistan Down UAE by 129 Runs Pakistan thrash United Arab Emirates by 129 runs to keep their last-eight hopes alive. Catch all the highlights of the match here . Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 15 : 49 IST Total Shares Umar Akmal celebrates with teammates . © Getty Images Pakistan now have four points from four matches matches. But they still lag behind West Indies and Ireland in the fifth place in Pool B. The win over UAE will certainly boost their confidence. Catch all the highlights of the match here. ( Complete World Cup 2015 coverage | Live Scorecard | Photos | Points Table ) 14 : 28 ( IST ) : QUOTES ! Misbah-ul-Haq : It was much-needed win for us. We won by a big margin. So , now we can relax a bit . Mohammad Tauqir : Definitely , 340 something was difficult for us. But , there were some positives. We managed to bat out the 50 overs. We wanted to put up a decent performance. We had a few good games against Zimbabwe and Ireland and wanted to do the same . Ahmed Shehzad : Pretty much satisfied before the big game. Everybody took the responsibility and I pushed myself up. I worked hard with the batting coach and other coaches as well. Everybody has been very supportive. I am very happy to see the way Haris Sohail batted and in the end the way Misbah and Sohaib Maqsood finished the innings. I am very pleased to see them , you know getting the momentum at the right time before the big game against South Africa. We have got no other choice , we need to stand up as a team and we need to show character there . 14 : 15 ( IST ) : That 's the end of the match. Pakistan have crushed United Arab Emirates by 129 runs. Bowlers toiled hard but they failed to grab all 10 UAE wickets. However , the margin of victory will boost the confidence of the Misbah-ul-Haq 's side in the remaining matches. Shahid Afridi , Sohail Khan and Wahab Riaz picked up two wickets apiece. Shaiman Anwar struck 62 to become the leading run-getter in the tournament. Amjad Javed ( 40 ) and Khurram Khan ( 43 ) also enjoyed their day with the bat . 13 : 36 ( IST ) : Amjad Javed is entertaining his fans with some lusty blows. Hammers Sohail Khan for a two fours and as many sixes . 13 : 21 ( IST ) : WICKETS ! Shahid Afridi gets a couple of wickets in his ninth over. After getting Shaiman Anwar caught at long off , Afridi removes Rohan Mustafa. Anwar played beautifully and was certainly undone by the mounting pressure . 13 : 10 ( IST ) : Shaiman Anwar goes past Kumar Sangakara ( 268 ) as leading run-getter in the World Cup 2015 . 12 : 55 ( IST ) : FIFTY ! Shaiman Anwar continues with his good form as he brings up his third ODI fifty. But still a long way to go . 12 : 49 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Sohaib Maqsood breaks the growing and threatening partnership as he removes Khurram Khan in his second over. Khurram goes down on his knees to sweep it straight to Wahab Riaz at backward square leg. He played well for his 43 . Shaimam Anwar plays a shot against Pakistan . © Getty Images 12 : 22 ( IST ) : PARTNERSHIP ! Shaiman Anwar and Khurram Khan have stitched together 56 runs for the fourth wicket . 12 : 06 ( IST ) : Shaiman Anwar and Khurram Khan have added 28 runs for 4th wicket . Sohail Khan celebrates with teammates . © Getty Images 11 : 30 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Sohail gets his second and this time it 's Krishna Chandran , who falls without disturbing the scoreboard. UAE are in deep deep trouble. All eyes on Shaimam Anwar. Can he turn the table ? 11 : 20 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Andri Berenger departs. Sohail Khan bowls a fuller delivery outside off and Berenger plays the wrong line. He gets a thick outside edge to keeper Umar Akmal . 11 : 16 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Amjad Ali gone. Rahat Ali , who came in bowl after Irfan walked off the pitch , gets the breakthrough. Rahat bowls a widish delivery on off Ali gets a bit late in pulling his bat . 11 : 12 ( IST ) : Mohammad Irfan has walked off the field. May have pulled his hamstring . 11 : 00 ( IST ) : Pakistan pacers Mohammad Irfand and Sohail Khan have kept things tight and tidy and have given away nothing. However , they are yet to get a breakthrough . Pakistan and the UAE players received a traditional maori greeting prior to the match . © Getty Images — Mohandas Menon ( @ mohanstatsman ) March 4 , 2015 10 : 18 ( IST ) : That 's the end of first innings. Shahid Afridi hit a quick-fire 21 off 7 balls to power Pakistan to a huge 339 for six. Afridi also becomes fourth Pakistani batsman to complete 8000 runs in ODIs. Ahmed Shehzad ( 93 ) and Haris Sohail ( 70 ) laid the platform for Misbah-ul-haq & Co. to play freely as other Pakistani batsmen showed good signs with the bat . 10 : 08 ( IST ) : WICKETS ! Manjula Guruge bags two wickets in two deliveries. He was on a hat-trick but Shahid Afridi survived. First he removed Umar Akmal and then got rid of Misbah-ul-Haq . 09 : 57 ( IST ) : FIFTY ! Misbah-ul-Haq has slammed his second consecutive half-century - his 41st in ODIs. Pakistan have also gone past 300 . 09 : 38 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Sohaib Maqsood 's entertaining 45-run knock off 31 balls comes to an end. He hit 4 fours and a couple of sixes before falling victim to Manjula Guruge. He was also involved in 75-run stand with Misbah for the fourth wicket . 09 : 20 ( IST ) : STAT ! Average first innings score in last 10 ODIs at Napier is 304. Can Pakistan go past 300 ? 09 : 05 ( IST ) : Stat ! Misbah-ul-Haq needs 66 runs to become the 12th player to score 5,000 ODI runs for Pakistan . Ahmed Shehzad scored 93 . © Getty Images 09 : 01 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Ahmed Shehzad ( 93 ) falls short of his seventh century. He plays to third man and returns for his second run , but is not quick enough to beat Shaiman Anwar. Pakistan lose two in quick succession , can UAE make a comeback ? 08 : 51 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Haris Sohail ( 70 ) pays the price for playing a poor shot. He looks for a big shot but fails to get past Shaiman Anwar at mid on. Mohammad Naveed breaks the solid 160-run stand . 08 : 40 ( IST ) : Haris Sohail and Ahmed Shehzad have taken batting powerplay - 31-35 overs . 08 : 20 ( IST ) : FIFTY ! Haris Sohail brings up his third half-century. It is also a hundred-run stand between Sohail and Shehzad . 08 : 05 ( IST ) : FIFTY ! Ahmed Shehzad slams his 11th half-cenrtury. He was earlier dropped on 8 and 11 in consecutive overs . 07 : 40 ( IST ) : PARTNERSHIP ! Haris Sohail and Ahmed Shehzad have added 54 runs for 2nd wicket . 07 : 13 ( IST ) : DROPPED ! Ahmed Shehzad is living dangerously. This time he cuts it backward point but Andri Berenger spills it . 07 : 04 ( IST ) : DROPPED ! Ahmed Shehzad survives but what an attempt by Khurram Khan at mid off. Shehzad looks to clear mid off , Khurram jumps and gets his left hand to it but fails to hold on to it. Difficult change though. Manjula Guruge almost got his second . Manjula Guruge celebrates with teammates . © Getty Images 06 : 48 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Nasir Jamshed 's woeful form continues as he departs after scoring only four runs. He looks to pull Manjula Guruge but mistimes it to mid on. Khurram Khan takes an easy catch . 06 : 36 ( IST ) : Pakistan openers are off the mark. Nasir Jamshed scores his first run of the tournament as he plays towards third man. Mohammad Naveed opens the attack for UAE . 06 : 11 ( IST ) : Playing XIs : Pakistan : Nasir Jamshed , Ahmed Shehzad , Haris Sohail , Misbah-ul-Haq , Umar Akmal ) , Sohaib Maqsood , Shahid Afridi , Wahab Riaz , Sohail Khan , Rahat Ali , Mohammad Irfan United Arab Emirates : Amjad Ali , Andri Berenger , Krishnachandran Karate , Khurram Khan , Shaiman Anwar , Swapnil Patil , Rohan Mustafa , Amjad Javed , Mohammad Naveed , Mohammad Tauqir , Manjula Guruge 06 : 04 ( IST ) : TOSS ! United Arab Emirates elect to bowl against Pakistan at Napier. The 1992 champions lead UAE 2-0 in ODIs Mission Quarterfinal in jeopardy ? Pakistan batsmen need to step up ! © Getty Images Pakistan eye batting improvement Pakistan will target a huge improvement in batting to boost their net run-rate in the World Cup Pool B match against minnows United Arab Emirates in Napier on Wednesday. Pakistan 's long standing batting woes have continued in the tournament as they lost their opening game against arch-rivals India by 76 runs and went down by a big 150-run margin in their second to the West Indies. ( Read more ) UAE Ready for Pakistan 's Giant Mohammad Irfan United Arab Emirates allrounder Amjad Javed said his batsmen will not fear facing giant Pakistan fast bowler Mohammad Irfan. rfan , international cricket 's tallest-ever player at a towering 7 feet one inch , tore apart Zimbabwe in Pakistan 's first win of the tournament in Brisbane with figures of 4-30 , bowling a series of fierce , short-pitched deliveries in a 20-run win. ( Read more ) Pakistan Players Need to Wake up First : Brian Lara Brian Lara felt comparisons between the Pakistani teams of 1992 and 2015 were irrelevant. This team has not looked cohesive , there are barely any match-winners and the batting revolves around Misbah-ul-Haq , who despite the best intentions , is miles away from the best in the world. The likes of Virat Kohli , AB de Villiers , David Warner and Brendon McCullum have taken ODI batting to a different level - Pakistan do n't have one youngster who could bat like any of these four gentlemen. ( Read more ) Story first published on : Tuesday , 03 March 2015 21 : 52 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
