Winners West Indies By Tony Cozier " Perhaps the boldest and most ambitious innovation the game has known since the legalisation of overarm bowling. " In hindsight , my immediate assessment of the inaugural World Cup in England appears somewhat hyperbolic , influenced perhaps by an excess of euphoria over West Indies as champions , but in spite of the game 's spectacular transformation over the intervening 40 years , I 'm sticking to my guns . As 14 teams prepare for the 11th tournament , contesting 49 matches at 14 venues , over six weeks in two countries , with $ 4 million as first prize ( as against £ 4000 back then ) , 1975 is , indeed , an unrecognisable anachronism. For all that , it added a new dimension to the most traditional of all sports. The unequivocal success of its prototype guaranteed its future , much as so many of the rudimentary inventions of the 19th century have led to the technological wizardry of the 21st . Not to put too fine a point on it , the inaugural World Cup was effectively one-day Test cricket. England had pioneered domestic limited-overs competitions , experience of which gave West Indies a considerable advantage ; their entire XI in the final had got the hang of it through their time with various counties. India were so clueless about its contrasts , they eked out 132 for 3 from 60 overs in their opening match , against England ; the great Sunil Gavaskar batted through the innings for 36. There were 60 overs an innings , ten more than the 50 that were standard by the time the Cup moved out of England to India in 1987. The ball was red , team kits were white , helmets were a couple of years away , floodlights a fantasy. Players were not adorned with tattoos , shiny gold chains and designer sunglasses. Stud earrings would have immediately prompted speculation about a player 's sexuality . Happy days : the 1975 World Cup is remembered as much for the unrestrained celebrations of the West Indian immigrants at Lord 's and The Oval as for the heroics of the team they supported © PA Photos Just eight teams competed. Africa was represented not by its strongest - white-ruled South Africa and Rhodesia , as Zimbabwe then was - but by East Africa , an amalgamation of outclassed weekend club cricketers from Kenya , Uganda , Tanzania and Zambia. Bangladesh was a long way from recognition as worthy of international cricket . England , with its short distances , its long summer days and its large immigrant populations from the cricket-playing Commonwealth , was the obvious venue. Its notoriously capricious weather was a worrying factor that never materialised. It remained gloriously warm and sunny throughout ; not an over was lost. West Indies ' triumph over Australia in an unforgettable final at Lord 's was completed at 8.43pm on the longest day of the year - also among the hottest. It was a fitting climax . The memories of the highlights of the day and the tournament remain strong after 40 years. The video footage through the wonder of YouTube reinforces them. For me , fortunate to be one of the BBC 's radio commentators , the most vivid are not so much the outstanding matches and individual performances , as plentiful as they were , as the typically joyous , uninhibited celebrations of thousands of immigrant West Indians at Lord 's and The Oval , in the very heart of London 's Caribbean community . As Alvin Kallicharran assaulted the feared Dennis Lillee in the first encounter with the Aussies at The Oval , seemingly every West Indian from south London banged a drum At the game 's revered home of cricket , they cleared the perimeter ropes at every boundary and every wicket to cavort across the hallowed outfield as their champions advanced to their title on captain Clive Lloyd 's 85-ball 102 and young Viv Richards ' athleticism and laser-sharp accuracy , which ran out three of the top four Australians , among them the dangerous Chappell brothers. As Alvin Kallicharran assaulted the feared Dennis Lillee in the first encounter with the Aussies at The Oval , seemingly every West Indian from south London banged a drum and bellowed advice and support in an unmistakable Caribbean accent. The absence of such expressiveness , thanks to security-obsessed regulations , would devalue the spirit of future tournaments . According to captain Ian Chappell , what interested the Australians more than the newfangled game was the four-Test Ashes series that followed. They might not have liked single-innings cricket ; they liked losing less. Most satisfying was their low-scoring semi-final victory over England on a brute of a Headingley pitch ; they came mightily close in the final . It was all over in two weeks , to unanimous acclaim , not least from the initiators , the ICC , who swiftly scheduled a repeat in England four years on. Since then , it has become the game 's main event : 1975 was its genesis . Tony Cozier has written about and commentated on cricket in the Caribbean for 50 years * * * * Hosts India , Pakistan , Sri Lanka Winners Sri Lanka By Telford Vice Galle Railway Station is steam-powered nostalgia , from its " Retiring Room " to the sluggish chug and pained squeal of ancient steel to the wooden board on which hand-painted names of destinations are set beside clock faces fitted with static hands denoting departure times. On these platforms , heavy with still , sticky air , time itself feels static. Just where in the past it is stuck is difficult to fix - somewhere between 1505 , when the Portuguese arrived and declared the place theirs , to January 22 , 1901 , when Victoria , faraway queen and coloniser , died . At the Sinhalese Sports Club in Colombo , no such uncertainty prevails. As such places do , it creaks with heavily varnished Anglophilia. Moth-eaten waiters somnambulate between tables in smart waistcoats and shabby shoes. No male top lip , whether in the paintings and photographs on the walls or under a living , breathing nose , is without its regulation-issue moustache. The ground staff live in dormitories too easily visible to reporters climbing many , many stairs to reach the press box. Modernity seems almost as far away from this place as it is from the 426-year-old Galle Fort , much less the railway station. But here the past has nailed its number to the mast. Here it is always March 17 , 1996 . The Eastenders : Perceived as less talented little brothers to India and Pakistan , Sri Lanka were unfashionable winners in 1996 © Getty Images It is impossible to walk more than a few steps inside these corridors and offices without being beamed at by Arjuna or Aravinda - or both , or someone else - getting cosy with a certain trophy in photographs. The trophy itself is also there : the 1996 World Cup is alive and gleaming in a glass case at the SSC . Before the 1996 World Cup , Sri Lanka had won only 61 of their 210 one-day internationals. They had played 25 World Cup games and lost 20. They had never beaten Australia , West Indies or Pakistan in the tournament. This time , Pakistan were not in their group and West Indies forfeited their match out of concern for their players ' safety. On March 17 , 1996 in Lahore , in the World Cup final , Arjuna , Aravinda , Sanath , Romesh , Asanka , Hashan , Roshan , Kumar , Chaminda , Pramodya and Murali conquered Australia - by seven wickets. In other words , properly . Sachin Tendulkar and Mark Waugh scored more runs than anyone else in the tournament , but they also scored them more slowly than Sanath Jayasuriya , Arjuna Ranatunga and Aravinda de Silva. Sri Lanka 's bowling was not as flashy - 14 bowlers took more wickets than Muttiah Muralitharan 's and Jayasuriya 's seven each , most of them at better averages - but there was no buckling a bridle on the wild horse that was their batting . 1996 marks the spot on the map of cricket 's journey where East looked West in the eye and did not blink. Instead , East winked and said , " Try to keep up " For the first time , the World Cup champions were not West Indies , India , Australia or Pakistan. Not for the first time , the winners surprised many. India and Australia won in 1983 and 1987 in defiance of the ebb in their general cricketing fortunes. In 1992 , Pakistan won from the brink of elimination . But in 1996 the winners were different. They had played their first Test just 14 years previously. Sri Lanka were unfashionable : from a Western perspective , they were not as skilled as India and not as explosive as Pakistan. From an Eastern perspective , they were little brothers . This was the World Cup that turned the game on its head - the best thing that has happened to it since Kerry Packer. It marks the spot on the map of cricket 's journey through history where East looked West in the eye and did not blink. Instead , East winked and said , " Try to keep up. " Before the tournament , whether two often-at-odds ( sometimes at war ) countries and a smaller , less regarded third could host it successfully was doubted. India , Pakistan and Sri Lanka did so with plenty of the Asian verve that to other eyes looks like chaos. And then the wrong team went and won the damned thing. How dare they . Telford Vice is a freelance cricket writer in South Africa © ESPN Sports Media Ltd .
