Essay Starman , countryman The World Cup is the end of the two-decade career of a unique ODI cricket icon. What has Shahid Afridi shown Pakistan about itself in that time ? Ahmer Naqvi | February 2015 58 What makes Shahid Afridi popular ? What makes Afridi popular is what makes a eunuch 's bawdy joke popular ; it 's what makes slapstick popular ; it 's what makes us enjoy the cheap and the risqu é . Whatever makes Afridi popular is an impulse - a primordial , preprogrammed reaction - that people with expensive educations are embarrassed about experiencing. What makes Afridi popular is not something you 'll ever have to teach your children , though you 'll probably be tempted to teach them to forget it . What makes Afridi popular is as vast as the sky , and just as obvious . Maybe we can answer what makes Afridi popular - in Pakistan. That is more specific and , perhaps , trickier. What if we say that Afridi was the first star of a Pakistani Pax Cricketannica - the first star born in the era where cricket alone represented the nation 's fantasy , no longer having to compete with hockey , squash or cinema as sources of a public 's interest and adulation ? What if we say that Afridi was popular because his arrival was foretold in the myth of Pakistan cricket , like Neo in The Matrix ? What if we say that he was the apparent embodiment of The Promised One - a fresh-faced teenager plucked from obscurity who conquers the world at the first time of asking ? What if we say that Afridi 's first innings was his only innings in the popular imagination - that the untelevised record that lasted almost two decades was played out a million times over in between ? What if we say that he exists as the lowest common denominator ? What if we say that Afridi is popular in Pakistan because he represents uncompromised innocence ? Well , if you say that , you 'd have to be spectacularly na ï ve to only see innocence . Afridi 's intrinsic genius only flickers when the stars align and he is overtaken by a transcendental sense of responsibility Consider this. On his watch as PCB president , Ijaz Butt survived a touring team being attacked by terrorists. Butt even survived subsequently calling the survivors liars. He survived the spot-fixing scandal. He even survived accusing the opposition of fixing right after it. He survived banning almost half the team. He survived letting them back in. But when Afridi said he was going to retire from cricket and not return until Butt was removed , guess who was left standing ? But a bumbling chairman is hardly the extent of Afridi 's true influence. Here 's another story. For the past few decades , the man who heads Pakistan 's army lands without fail in various lists of the most influential people in the world. When Raheel Sharif , the current chief , found out - perhaps through his incredibly influential spy agency - that Afridi was in town , he cancelled his schedule to have Lala over for tea and a photo op . Or how about this ? Imran Khan - Pakistan 's erstwhile Adonis , striving to become its Zeus - recently held a long-running protest in Islamabad against the sitting government , where every day a new celebrity or influential would join him on stage to pledge his support. When he invited Afridi , Imran went to the extent of saying that people of their mutual ethnicity would never forgive him if he were to refuse. Afridi never joined Imran on stage. Pathans still love him . Then there 's my favourite. Pakistan has long been in the grip of frightful militancy. Just one of its many consequences has been that working-class women working on a pittance to inoculate children against polio are shot dead all over the country. The motivation of the killers has its roots in tribal insecurities and religious obfuscation. Associating oneself with the vaccination campaign carries huge stigma and maybe danger. Yet Afridi 's ambassadorship of it seems to have avoided controversy . What all this means is that we might not have an answer for what makes Afridi popular , but we do know that the popularity makes him very , very powerful . Afridi thrills and infuriates in equal measure , and dances a merry fandango on the ashes of the rule books © AFP It is popular these days to view Afridi and Misbah-ul-Haq as antitheses of each other , which is a disservice to both. It is also a reflection of the fact that Afridi is still not understood on his own terms and that we need to define him in terms of what he is not. Either that or we reduce him to absolute simplicity. For example , someone said to me that Afridi is a perfect random-number generator ; like with the universe , or a thousand monkeys on a thousand typewriters , eventually patterns begin to emerge . What is the randomness in his approach ? I mean , we all know the innings he plays , because they are almost always the same. There is an attempted slog off the first , or at the latest second , ball , and cross-batted so as to make purists wince. When he 's in the mood , he adds the dab to third man to his repertoire. And even if he 's in the mood , he gets it all wrong at some point soon. There is no finesse , and there is nothing unpredictable. There is no great effort , if there is any at all , to adapt and evolve , to learn and develop. This is how it is each time - a duck or a hundred . But this would be to exclude his memorable , largely late-career antithetical innings , which show a rarely seen grasp of the game 's requirements : the 65-ball 75 in Sharjah against Sri Lanka in 2011 ; the back-to-back fifties in the final two games of the 2009 World T20. Those are just two among a bigger handful that echo the sense and sensibility he showed in the 141 in Chennai 16 years ago . These innings could be the reason why those who do n't immediately think of him as an idiot go for the idiot-savant theory instead. Afridi has an intrinsic genius but one that only flickers when the stars align and he is overtaken by a transcendental sense of responsibility. It is a view , I suspect , Afridi subscribes to himself , albeit hidden behind his defence that he is primarily a bowler and batting is some sort of seance that he does n't have control over . No one - not the braying TV anchors , not the effigy-burning protesters , not even Sarfraz Nawaz , accuses Afridi of fixing But a closer look at his batting statistics makes you wonder. In researching his numbers , I was surprised to see some strange patterns appear , particularly in ODIs. For someone whose batting performances are thought to be random , a graphical representation of his average across time is almost entirely a straight line . By his 30th ODI , his batting average was 23.5 , and during the next 350-plus matches it has never changed by more than three runs either side. Given that Afridi 's innings are inevitably boom ( boom ) or bust , this suggests that he follows each good innings with a series of failures : only once in his career , for example , has he ever had three consecutive scores of more than 40. It almost seems as if Afridi knows just how much he has in the bank , and when he needs to replenish his account . Of course , the longer one plays the more likely the average will plateau , which is why it is important to compare his batting average with his bowling figures. If his batting average soon found a level and stayed there , his bowling average has spent much of his career hopping about. Despite being originally selected for his bowling , three years into his career it was over 50. Not until his 159th ODI , six years into his career , did his average drop permanently below 40. Only since 2011 , 300 matches into his career , has it found residence in the low 30s . The contrast is significant. Afridi managed to effect change - or improvement - in his bowling till late in his career , but his batting has actually remained consistent. Different parts of the brain are probably used for the two skills , but it is still difficult to reconcile the professed lack of control over batting with the clear application shown in bowling. It is almost as if his bowling has existed to prop up the luxuries his batting took. Afridi the batsman has always seemed content to turn it on just before even his supporters become mutinous ; Afridi the bowler has worked extremely hard to make sure he competes . Lala land : Afridi 's superstar status has n't dimmed over 18 years as an international © AFP That feeling is accentuated by those atypical innings. Afridi protests that he just is n't a good batsman , but those innings are the clearest proof that it is almost certainly a question of will. When he wants to , when he needs to , when he can block out the crowds he says are baying for him to hit sixes ( sometimes , as of late , with earplugs ) , Afridi finds his feet working faster , his bat swinging smoother , and his brain recognising when to take singles. Then you never feel he 's simply a poor batsman getting lucky but someone judiciously exploiting his obvious talent , someone who has learnt the meaning of patience . In a way , these innings evoke the final years of Afridi 's Test career. As a bowler his numbers in Tests , even at their worst , were almost always better than those in ODIs. As a batsman , his average shot past 30 after 11 matches , and continued to rise steadily thereafter. In his final season and a half in Tests , only the triumvirate of Inzamam-ul-Haq , Younis Khan and Mohammad Yousuf averaged more . But then , at an apparent peak , he abruptly decided to retire from the format so that he could concentrate on ODIs , with the 2007 World Cup his main focus. Given that he had slowly begun to find a role for himself in the Test side , he seemed to be sacrificing a potential future in the grandest format. But Afridi cited the immense pressure of expectations when he made his decision , and though he reversed it later , he only played one more Test . You can detect a certain logic in the decision : ten years in and playing the biggest tournament of his career , Afridi wanted to focus on what he thought was his main strength. Yet I think now that he faced a dilemma that men often create for themselves : that when the chance arrives to become something beyond who we are , we instead cling to the idealised , simpler versions of ourselves we created in the past . Afridi is titillation , not seduction ; a cheap thrill rather than profound exhilaration - a tawdry , bawdy , tasteless experience Just as he seemed to be transitioning into a player who could have an impact in both formats , Afridi ditched the more draining one for the one that had brought him fame. In that insatiable chase for Afridi the ODI batsman , the Test allrounder was sacrificed , while the ODI bowler was made to work harder. It remains among the most intriguing yet least examined decisions in a long career full of them. The futility of that decision , both in an immediate and a general sense , was laid bare when an altercation with a fan led to Afridi being banned for the first two matches of the 2007 World Cup. By the time he got to play , in the third match , his team was already booked on a flight home . But if Afridi was like many in being afraid to aspire , and to explore his own potential , then he has mastered at least the rebirth. That same year , 2007 , brought with it the inaugural World T20 , a format Afridi says he was born for. He was Man of the Tournament , even though he failed in the final against India. But when the next tournament came around , in 2009 , he reached some sort of platonic ideal of himself. Though in fabulous form with the ball and in the field , he had only scored three fifties across all formats in the preceding three years when he came out to bat in the semi-final. He knocked off a cool , controlled fifty and followed it up with another in the final. As the central catalyst for a world triumph , it locked in his legacy for all time . And then he became lazy . The bowling lost its mojo , the batting became more difficult to trust , though he never let things get too far out of hand. Each time it looked like slipping away , he dragged it back. Take a look at his ODI numbers since 2009 , which have yo-yo-ed wildly. His year-end bowling average was 45.05 in 2010 , 20.82 in 2011 , 43.13 in 2012 , 31.92 in 2013 and 41.56 in 2014. His annual batting averages since 2010 have fluctuated too , dropping from 33.38 to 22 to 15.16 , but then rising to 23.21 and 27.23. Save for a terrible 2012 , one skill has always seemed to click when the other one fails. The formula by which Afridi lives , in other words , is that he fails until he feels he has to succeed . What makes Afridi popular ? Ask the ever-increasing tribe of his female fans © Associated Press So , instead of a fool , Afridi actually comes across as a conspirator , a player who knows just when to turn it on to be redeemed , but perhaps has never had the ambition to sustain himself . If we are no closer to knowing what makes Afridi popular , we at least have the numbers to understand why he has been around for nearly 20 years - a remarkable longevity given the kind of game he is perceived to have . Of course , numbers never do justice to the Afridi experience , but many might counter that we do n't need art to explain him either. After all , Afridi is titillation rather than seduction ; a cheap thrill rather than profound exhilaration. But in this tawdry , bawdy , ribald , tasteless experience , there is a fascinating , almost unbelievable realisation. If Afridi can always be relied upon to give his wicket away in scarcely believable ways , and if this same Afridi has also been seen to play sensibly and with patience , then why is it that he has never been seriously accused of fixing ? ( He was mentioned once in the Qayyum report , as the subject of a mysterious call made to coach Javed Miandad during a Sharjah game in 1999 , in which Afridi , along with several other players , was accused of being in on a fix. Justice Qayyum found no evidence of any untoward behavior , and Afridi has never since been accused , not even by Sarfraz Nawaz. ) Take a second to think about this , because in the modern context of Pakistan cricket it is almost unprecedented. Everyone from Wasim to Waqar to Inzi to Javed to Imran to Saqlain has been accused by someone or the other. Every disastrous loss for Pakistan leads to winks and nudges , insinuations if not outright accusations. And yet in this hotbed of paranoia and intrigue , no one - not the braying TV anchors , nor their sycophantic guests , not the effigy-burning protesters or the eloquent columnists , not even your conspiratorial uncle or his superstitious mother , ever accuses Afridi of fixing . The formula by which Afridi lives is that he fails until he feels he has to succeed We abuse and accuse other players for letting us down , yet we find a way to reconcile ourselves to an Afridi failure without ever resorting to that kind of cynicism . Why ? Perhaps because Afridi is what this nation sees itself as. In an effort to explain the Pakistani psyche , cricket writer and neurologist Saad Shafqat referred to three inherent tendencies : " … laziness , impatience and latent brilliance. Since we 're lazy , we do n't get engaged until we sense an opportunity. But once we do get engaged , our impatience drives us to get the job done quickly , and our latent capacity for brilliance makes it all happen. " Can there ever have been a lazier , more impatient and more latently brilliant cricketer than Shahid Afridi ? You see the ordinary Pakistani in Afridi 's stupidest actions , the moments where he ( like all of us ) pretends to be smarter than he is ( doctoring the pitch in full view of the cameras and Kevin Pietersen in late 2005 , for instance ) . He is Pakistani when he resorts to being a moron to help out his own - how else would biting the ball make sense ? He is Pakistani in how magnificent he is when he covets power - his form when chasing the captaincy is phenomenal - and how meek he becomes when he actually has power. He is Pakistani in a way that is reassuring and uncomfortable , both at the same time . There are other countries who find themselves in their cricketers ; Bradman with Australia , or India with Tendulkar. These are players who express the aspirations of a people , who come to exist as the omnibeings who give birth to monomyths. Afridi is not that sort of player . He is revered not for his achievements but for his promise. Afridi is the last folk hero , a man loved by his people because he does n't live how they should but rather how they do. In him we saw the best and the worst we have to offer , and with him we rose and we fell . What makes Afridi popular is Afridi. All else is meaningless . Ahmer Naqvi is a journalist , writer and teacher. He writes on cricket for various publications , and co-hosts the online cricket show Pace is Pace Yaar . @ karachikhatmal © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . Shahid Afridi 's on-field persona and off-field drama have distracted us from the fact that he is essentially a game-changing wristspinner 'I am not perfect and I do have my limitations' The burden of Afridi Fast , furious , at the same time frustrating , Afridi can give you hope and has the ability to snatch it in one breath with his foibles. In an interview with Nagraj Gollapudi , Shahid Afridi tries to explain his journey so far and when and why he is emotiona LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email FEATURED 0 POSTED BY Abdul Sameeh Khan on | April 6 , 2015 , 15 : 59 GMT @ PRIYAM remember the Asia cup 2014 where he won the game when it seemed to be out of reach ? POSTED BY LleytonHewitt on | February 26 , 2015 , 1 : 13 GMT Well said Sir. Though the column has so beautifully chastised Afridi and truly so , most of the comments here have come in support and love of Afridi..and that just says it all. I do n't know who else in this world is worshiped so much for not being a hero for 18 years ! ! POSTED BY Sachin Jhunjhunwala on | February 25 , 2015 , 0 : 37 GMT I have read couple of your other articles Ahmed including the one about 1992 world cup being the best. Most of your articles come very pro pakistani and are not really based in reality. 1992 world cup was not the best in terms of fervor or actual competition ( maybe popular in pakistan bcz you won it ! ) . Similarly afridi is not even close to being one of the best all rounders in the world. He is very inconsistent like the pakistan team and him being showered with accolades is exactly the reason pakistan hasnt improved as a team in the past few years ( reliance on skilled players of the past ! ) . Bias has no place in journalism and I hope your writing can incorporate that going forward . POSTED BY Priyam on | February 23 , 2015 , 20 : 29 GMT @ KRAIJU : Really one of the best all rounders ? If so , how will you describe the likes of Kallis , Pollock , Flintoff , Shakib ? I am not going back to even 80 's , 90s where the world was fortunate enough to see some really great all rounders. No matter how much fascination Pakistani players have with Afridi,truth is he never was a world class player. The amount of trust and time PCB invested in him with so much inconsistent performance , one has to ask why did n't they do it with some other players ? He is a great entertainer but by no means great match winner . POSTED BY Kunal Sen on | February 23 , 2015 , 19 : 51 GMT It 's an extraordinarily well-written article ! The use of corollaries and adjectives is both inventive and incisive.. . POSTED BY Kraiju on | February 23 , 2015 , 14 : 01 GMT One of the best all rounders the game has seen. An irreplaceable character. If he had got a chance to play under the likes of Imran or for any other captain in another country , he would have owned a lot of batting records by now. Not taking away his exploits as a bowler. As they say in Pakistan , he does n't play for himself nor for the team,he plays for the people. He will remain a people 's cricketer for not only the people of his country but all cricket lovers over the world . POSTED BY DARKLORD91 on | February 22 , 2015 , 16 : 32 GMT brilliant article ,loved your description of shahid POSTED BY Basit Dar on | February 19 , 2015 , 10 : 20 GMT excellent article..indeed afridi is most popular specially in pakistan POSTED BY Chintak on | February 17 , 2015 , 14 : 29 GMT Superb Article. By reading this I feel that Afridi is more powerful in Pakistan than Sachin is in India . POSTED BY Amjad Jklf on | February 13 , 2015 , 4 : 58 GMT One of THE best cricket articles I have read ! Thank you Ahmer Naqvi ; ) POSTED BY elvis57 on | February 13 , 2015 , 2 : 53 GMT His bowling economy rate and batting strike rate need greater prominence. Afridi is a match winner and one of the great entertainers POSTED BY Latif Shinwari on | February 13 , 2015 , 2 : 43 GMT Excellent article by Naqvi , you can guess how much Afridi is popular amongst the cricket lovers if his team mate makes a century and Afridi comes at the end of innings and scores even a fifty with his boom boom style by hitting a few sixes , the people will forget the other player century and will remember Afridi 's innings.... and it has happened in so many occasions.... We love you boom boom , the pride of Pakistan and the pride of Pathans.. Long live Lala-the boom boom POSTED BY afridi123456 on | February 13 , 2015 , 0 : 19 GMT Sportsman 's job is to entertain... Afridi is entertaining , come along and enjoy ! Are you not entertained ! POSTED BY Ayaz Hussain on | February 12 , 2015 , 21 : 05 GMT Well write ... We Love you Boom Boom ? ? ? no cricket without you even i ca n't imagine cricket without you . . long live Boom Boom ? ? ? ? ? ? ? POSTED BY Zia on | February 12 , 2015 , 19 : 11 GMT Good article in some areas regarding the power he yields but I think Afridi suffers from too high expectations. With a bowling average of 34 and Strike Rate of 44 to go along with a batting average of 24 he has always been an automatic candidate for selection. We expect him to be a greater batsman but forget that he was selected as a bowler initially so he was not groomed as a batsman at club level. He does n't have the batting technique or temperament to perform greater than what he has done. Every article focuses on how he performs once in a blue moon in batting while forgetting that he performs consistently in bowling and is usually in top 10 of bowling and all-rounders rankings for long periods . POSTED BY Sai Shenoy on | February 12 , 2015 , 17 : 55 GMT Unorthodox , effortless and honest. The uncomplicated manner in which he goes about his game : If I 'm in good nick , I 'll win the game , if not , I 'll not waste any time , is extremely refreshing. One of the greatest cricketers to ever play the game . POSTED BY ESPNuser on | February 12 , 2015 , 16 : 51 GMT One of the best I have ever read... Excellent article , bravo POSTED BY Naveed Ur Rehman on | February 12 , 2015 , 16 : 49 GMT Every player in a match wants to change the game and do something better for his side. But majority of players are dependent on the circumstances and on his other team-mates. If the situation is favorable for one 's side , every one will do something special just like recent Pakistan 's UAE tour. Younas khan making hundreds on one side , so on the other hand every body is dancing with the same tune , even Misbah made his fastest fifty and then hundred in tests. Similarly If a collapse happens , no body has the power to resist. But Afridi is different every time. Cricket fans know that he can change the game and he did it several times. In Asia cup two consecutive matches , he did by his this behavior. Currently he is the best player of his side but he has to retire because one day he have to be retired. So it will be a best moment for him and it will be an emotional moment for his fans. Hope he do something more better in this world cup than he did in his full career . POSTED BY dhanyalraja on | February 12 , 2015 , 15 : 26 GMT Well , a wonderful article about Afridi The Cricket-Maniac. How well has Mr. Naqvi Depicted Afridi as a folk Hero for Pakistanis. The Three inherent tendencies are amazingly true about us as a nation as well as individuals. I have never been a fan of Afridi though I do believe that he is well talented and capable of turning things around if and only if he feels that way. I wish , Pray and hope that a player with such reputation , all-round performance , entertainment having lots of fans all over the world must be inducted into the Hall of Fame . POSTED BY Qaswar Nawaz Warraich on | February 12 , 2015 , 14 : 48 GMT Woowww Thank you Ahmar Naqvi..... Finally a very deserving appreciation for The one and only Lala... . POSTED BY Awais Tanveer on | February 12 , 2015 , 14 : 38 GMT Afridi is flag bearer of non professionalism liked by a nation who savours non professionalism. He is a juggler and a masquerader , who has disguised himself for Pakistan cricket fans for some thing that he is not. After 18 years , he is not a legendary batsman nor a legendary bowler and a waste of space for Pakistan team for good part of two decades. In the end , output of investment on him by Pak cricket is a building in which no body wants to live. He is like a Govt. department is Pakistan which survives solely on Tax payer 's money but provides NIL services or at best half cooked solutions. Pak cricket could have invested on a much better project instead of Afridi . POSTED BY Skunny Cricket on | February 12 , 2015 , 14 : 37 GMT Excellent job describing an icon of Pakistani cricket Mr. Naqvi. As someone who has followed Pak cricket for over half a century and admired and loved players like Sarfraz , Bari , Majid , Asif , Zaheer , Saqlain , Mushi , Saeed Amed and Anwar , Yousif and Younis and most of all Imran and Wasim Afridi still tops my list of best sportsman entertainer of my life and only Karim Abdul Jabbar. Larry Bird , and Michael Jordan rank with him in my world of sports. Pakistan as the dark horse to take this world cup on the back of this great player , Inshallah ! ! ! ! ! POSTED BY cricl0ver on | February 12 , 2015 , 14 : 28 GMT and the reason which makes this article popular...is afridi...my hero POSTED BY MAPD on | February 12 , 2015 , 9 : 25 GMT Excellent article. Sums up Afridi and us all POSTED BY Kashif on | February 12 , 2015 , 6 : 39 GMT Shahid Afridi is Famous , He is a Big Star. He can produce match turning point either with his bowling or batting no matter whom is batting or bowling in front of lala.No matter whats the run rate required like He Smashed 2 Sixes to Ashwin In Asia Cup & Won the match. There are number of records in His book so Its easy to say Afridi is only 1 & No replacement . POSTED BY jass_23 on | February 12 , 2015 , 5 : 45 GMT He is a great player , no doubts POSTED BY Asim Zaheer on | February 12 , 2015 , 5 : 27 GMT Excellent article written by ahmer naqvi POSTED BY i_amVIVA on | February 12 , 2015 , 1 : 29 GMT magnificant article. a true portrait of the nation pak and it 's fame cricketer afridi . POSTED BY t20cric on | February 12 , 2015 , 0 : 22 GMT I think you 're right to say that Afridi is like the typica Pakistani. He is extremely talented but is not consistent. When he does play to his potential then he gets things done. The rest of the time he is simply to lazy , its only when he 's in the mood that he gets stuff done & plays to his potential. By potential I do n't mean all his 40-50 + scores but just the ones where he plays sensibly then explodes. An example of this is one of the ODIs against NZ in UAE that Pak won where he shared a good stand with Sohail to make Pakistan win. He is an exceptional all round talent which he shows by being the all rounder with the most instances of scoring 50 + and getting 5 wicket haul. He even scored 75 & took 7 wickets against WI in 2013 . POSTED BY shahzaibq on | February 11 , 2015 , 22 : 34 GMT Well written article... I do have a distinction to make between the different types of fans that Afridi has : 1 ) The fan girls who are as enchanted by his good looks as his batting. There are Beliebers , Directioners , and then there are Afridi'ites ! 2 ) Those who blame everything on what happens in an Afridi innings on others ( the top order did n't do enough for him , the captain should 've sent him earlier , not enough overs left for Afridi to make a difference , etc. ) , and ; 3 ) Those who love watching Afridi bat , but understand that he has to be a flawed genius , with weaknesses and shortcomings ; that he will fail more often than not , and that only adds to the romanticism that his career has come to signify . I still remember how he was preferred over Yousuf Youhanna , as he was then known , for the '99 World Cup final . I do have one question : Was n't the Qayyum report published BEFORE 1999 ? How was Afridi mentioned in that ? Or am I missing something here ? POSTED BY android_user on | February 11 , 2015 , 20 : 32 GMT Be Afridi Be very very Afridi The history of the great game of cricket dose not and will not complete without him. He marked his very deep impression in the world of cricket as a entertainer , as a leggie , as a record maker , as a hard hitter etc. people will not forget him in all around the world. Best of luck for his last worldcup POSTED BY aztecs on | February 11 , 2015 , 19 : 59 GMT The fact that it was about afridi is what makes this article interesting....what makes Afridi popular is Afridi taking control of the red mist on rare occasions and to show how he belittles the opposition with his brutal hits......very simple without the unnecessary padding . PS this article actually gave me a headache to the extent i felt like a chicken being plucked . POSTED BY Sahal Khan Afridi on | February 11 , 2015 , 19 : 18 GMT Never read better ! This is the exact Afridi I and many fans want to see , he is " hope " itself and as long as he is there anything is possible ! POSTED BY Ammar on | February 11 , 2015 , 18 : 32 GMT Best piece of cricket writing I 've read this year . POSTED BY Ammar on | February 11 , 2015 , 17 : 48 GMT Easily the best piece on cricket I 've read all year. YOU should write a book on cricket Mr. Naqvi . POSTED BY Oxley11 on | February 11 , 2015 , 15 : 18 GMT Brilliant piece of writing , was a joy reading this. I love the reference to finding a Pakistani within Afridi - ingenious ! POSTED BY android_user on | February 11 , 2015 , 14 : 21 GMT Brilliant piece of writing.Afridi is like a super hero he makes you feel that he can do miracles every time whether with the bat or ball.As long as he is there you always feel Pakist á n has a chance either when he is bowling or batting.He brings excitement to the game thats why his fans expect excitement. .hope he is instrumental in taking the trophy this wc2015 it would be his biggest accomplishment POSTED BY IrfanBajwaPakistan on | February 11 , 2015 , 14 : 18 GMT Very comprehensive look into what Afridi really is. Good work ! POSTED BY TILA10 on | February 11 , 2015 , 13 : 17 GMT wow ! brilliant article.enjoyed it . POSTED BY AfgPak on | February 11 , 2015 , 8 : 48 GMT Loved it. Today I went through a phsycological test ( posted on a Pakistani news web ) to decide if my personlity was like Misbah or Afridi and the result turned to Afiridi. that time I thought the results of 80 % Pakistanies would go that way and the same way the writers has mentioned. I just want to see him playing no matter how he plays and without any logic , and still it has a logic , he is a useful cricketer and delivers it one way or the other , even his mare presence on the field makes a difference . POSTED BY cricket4shafiq on | February 11 , 2015 , 8 : 45 GMT love u lala...wish u become the hero of 2015 and get back fastest 100 record POSTED BY KarachiKid on | February 11 , 2015 , 8 : 19 GMT Very good article indeed. Though I believe only Afridi does not reflect typical Pakistanis. We have hard workers like Imran , Javed , Wasim and Younus. We had sublime brilliance in Anwar , Yousuf , Waqar , Inzi and Zaheer. Afridi epitomizes a particular set of traits a full throttle. The more you see Afridi bat , the more you feel that he could have achieved much more - only if he had taken some responsibility - but over years , he has left the responsibility part to his bowling ( as writer also mentions ) . If he could do this in his bowling , he could have done the same in his batting. Perhaps we needed some forceful captains or coaches to handle him in a better manner. Like when Miandad was coach , Afridi performed quite well in the tests . POSTED BY 03009193434 on | February 11 , 2015 , 8 : 03 GMT Brilliant Article Man for A Player of Brilliance . POSTED BY Asad on | February 11 , 2015 , 7 : 47 GMT Very sad to see him go after this World Cup. Though he 'll play a couple of years more . POSTED BY Zaid Farooq on | February 11 , 2015 , 7 : 21 GMT Wow. Brilliant article and a terrific entertainer ! Hats off to both of you ( Afridi and the person who wrote this masterpiece ) ! POSTED BY Ahmed Hasan on | February 11 , 2015 , 6 : 21 GMT Great article explaining Afridi yet not able to explained him : ) POSTED BY Muhammad HAssan Yahya on | February 11 , 2015 , 5 : 47 GMT Man , you have nailed it ! I have no words to praise this gem ! But just listen to that Afridi MoM presentation talk where he once said , WOW WOW WOW ! and that would be a good way to describe this article with that same excitement ! : D POSTED BY NidBid on | February 11 , 2015 , 5 : 17 GMT Excellent article ! POSTED BY Asad150 on | February 8 , 2015 , 13 : 32 GMT # weluvafridi. This article is not enough to define the fan following , brilliance , class , beauty of Shahid khan Afridi POSTED BY Thirucumaran Ratnavadivel on | February 7 , 2015 , 11 : 55 GMT Thank you very much , Ahmer Naqvi , for this wonderful tribute to Lala ! Even though I am a Sri Lankan , and our country produces so many fantastic and delightful cricketers , such as Murali , Dilshan , Sangakkara , et al , I have never lost my fascination with Lala ever since I was a kid. His carefree abandon at times , and dead-eyed seriousness at other times , always reminds me of myself ; most often lazy , but very serious when the situation demands it. When it comes to his batting , there is a method to his madness which numbers fail to reveal , which is the reason why he is the subject of contempt by many cricket fans. There is a naked aggression to his bowling , a thrill arising from those fizzling leg breaks , those 125 kmph arm-balls , which no other spinner has ever managed to reproduce , not Shane Warne , not Murali , not anyone ! This article has just given me the motivation to plan a trip to India to see Lala perform for one-last time in the format he was born to play , T20s ! POSTED BY KhiljiF on | February 7 , 2015 , 4 : 50 GMT Brilliant writing , but no , he 's not lazy. The 2011 WC was his , but for those several dropped catches. Anyways love you Afridi , the batsman , the bowler and the fielder. A true Pakistani. . POSTED BY AFanOfGoodCricket on | February 6 , 2015 , 14 : 11 GMT Afridi is to Pakistan what Dhoni is to India. Magicians who can pull things out of the hat , usually who happen to be the last hope. Respect from a Dhoni fan. Nice writing Mr. Naqvi. Enjoyed the article POSTED BY Stieprox on | February 6 , 2015 , 8 : 15 GMT Superb article.i love Afridi for being Afridi . POSTED BY Omair on | February 5 , 2015 , 17 : 53 GMT Wow man. I think I 'm going to at least shed a tear when he retires from ODI . POSTED BY GHANSHYAM on | February 4 , 2015 , 16 : 50 GMT that ijaz butt - shahid afridi was a briliant start up , but you went too overboard with statistics. the ending was brilliant too . POSTED BY Khan Elie Gohar Durrani on | February 4 , 2015 , 14 : 56 GMT A very well written piece . POSTED BY alirazamw on | February 4 , 2015 , 12 : 16 GMT Excellent , Perhaps cricket will never produce like him. A man whom people love all around the world . A True Pakistani. We all love him and wants to watch him till the W.C 2019. Good luck to him in W.C 2015 POSTED BY Aayjkay on | February 4 , 2015 , 10 : 15 GMT Excellent , this write up is good enough to claim a doctorate in sports psychology
