World Cup 2015 : No Secrets as Bangladesh Target Two From Three World Cup 2015 : No Secrets as Bangladesh Target Two From Three Bangladesh 's focus is purely on beating Scotland and then facing England in a likely showdown for a quarter-final spot . Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 12 : 31 IST Total Shares Bangladesh supporters have been at the forefront in cheering their team this World Cup. Can the national side advance to quarters despite a rather lackluster showing so far ? © Getty Images Nelson : Bangladesh refused to be sidetracked Wednesday by news that former coach Shane Jurgensen was mentoring Scotland on the eve of their crunch World Cup clash in Nelson. ( Complete coverage of World Cup 2015 ) The focus was purely on beating Scotland and then facing England in a likely showdown for a quarter-final spot , captain Mushrafe Mortaza said . Jurgensen linked up with the Scottish camp this week and Scots ' skipper Preston Mommsen said he had immediately " added some valuable information and insight " into the Bangladeshis . But the Bangladesh players dismissed talk of secrets exposed and emphasised that winning two of their remaining three pool games was their target to make the quarter-finals . " We expect to win , " Mortaza said of Thursday 's encounter against Scotland at Saxton Oval , playing down the impact of the 92-run hiding inflicted by Sri Lanka in their last outing . " Definitely when you lose , you lose a bit of confidence , so this is a great opportunity for us to win this match and go with some confidence against England , " he said . Vice captain Shakib Al Hasan added Bangladesh had no secrets for Jurgensen to share . " Everyone knows about each other in world cricket these days. Most matches are televised so everyone is being analysed , " he said . " If planning was everything , people would have just planned and not played. What happens in the middle is more important. " Scotland have yet to register a point in the tournament while Bangladesh have beaten Afghanistan and picked up another point from their washed-out match against Australia before the loss to Sri Lanka . Mortaza said a comprehensive performance against Scotland would set them up for the crucial March 9 game in Adelaide against an England side who have one win from four matches . " If we can play better cricket here , hopefully the confidence we can take into the England match. I think England is a better team , and they have a great chance , as well. " The confident Mortaza also ruled out Scotland having an advantage having played their three matches so far in New Zealand and were more accustomed to the conditions which are more suited to the Scots pace bowlers than Bangladesh 's spin . " On a particular day if you play your best cricket , wherever you 're playing , it can be your day. We are really thinking how we can play our best cricket and let 's win this match and go through the next match. " Bangladesh have never lost to Scotland in three completed matches although the last of those , which featured both Mortaza and Hasan , was nine years ago . Story first published on : Wednesday , 04 March 2015 11 : 24 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
