Match That Changed My Life Massive in Adelaide Graeme Pollock took part in one of the great partnerships in 1964. Then , he went on to become one of the game 's greats Nagraj Gollapudi | March 2015 1964 : Australia v South Africa January , 1964 : Neil Adcock and Jackie McGlew had retired. It was the first tour of Australia for most of the South African players , and my debut series. By the time we arrived in Adelaide for the fourth Test , we were one down in the series , having lost the second match in Melbourne . We won the Adelaide Test by ten wickets mainly because of the 341-run partnership between Eddie Barlow and myself for the third wicket. The amazing thing about that partnership was the time it took. We went at easily over a run per minute and took just 270 minutes for it. We made 180 runs in the last session on Saturday , the second day of the Test , and it just turned things around not only for South Africa but for my career. Barlow made 201 and I scored 175 . I was only 19 at the time. I had not started all that well in Brisbane and Melbourne . I got my maiden Test century in Sydney , but the Adelaide hundred was special because we won the match . Adelaide was a good batting pitch where the square boundaries were pretty short. The Australian bowling attack was a pretty formidable one , with Graham McKenzie , who dismissed me a few times on the tour , Neil Hawke and Richie Benaud. The main reason I pick Adelaide over the 122 in Sydney is simply because I think I played better. We were totally in control and the game just transformed so unbelievably in our favour . Even today , to get a hundred against Australia is every batsman 's dream , and I believe if a batsman can get two hundreds against them then he can play Australia were back then , and still are , a great cricketing nation , and as a youngster I looked up to Australian cricket. Neil Harvey , a left-hander like me , was my hero. Everything about Australia stood out , so to have that sort of success and win by such a big margin told a story and gave young guys like me , who were just starting their careers , greater belief in themselves . Even today , to get a hundred against Australia is every batsman 's dream , and I believe if a batsman can get two hundreds against them then he can play . A year and a half later , I made 125 in the first innings at Trent Bridge , on a pitch that was giving the bowlers a lot of assistance ( nobody else passed 38 in the innings ) . There were low scores but we won that Test against England and it was probably a better achievement overall. But 1964 in Adelaide just seemed to stand out as the one that transformed South African cricket. There were a lot of young guys and to play Australia in Australia was not easy. And to then come out with a drawn series was fantastic. It was the start of a really good period for us , a period where we played with a positive and attacking attitude and which carried on till our isolation began seven years later . Graeme Pollock played 23 Tests for South African between 1963 and 1970. He was speaking to Nagraj Gollapudi © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
