World Cup 2015 : Darren Sammy Unfazed by 'Unbeatable ' Team India World Cup 2015 : Darren Sammy Unfazed by 'Unbeatable ' Team India West Indies still have a chance of making it to the quarterfinal but face the Indians who have won all their three World Cup 2015 matches so far . Last updated on Wednesday , 04 March , 2015 13 : 56 IST Total Shares Having played India in the recent past , feels Darren Sammy , may helps West Indies when the team takes on Men in Blue in their Pool B World Cup match . © Getty Images Perth : All-rounder Darren Sammy has said the West Indies are not daunted by the prospect of facing an unbeaten India when the two teams clash in the cricket World Cup Pool B fixture at the WACA here on Friday. ( All eyes on Kohli vs Gayle ) The West Indies remain in contention for a quarterfinal berth , having won and lost two matches each and two more to play before the knockouts start. Jason Holders ’ men are in fourth place in the standings behind India , who have won all three of their matches , followed by South Africa and Ireland. ( Also read : Virat Kohli abuses scribes , Team India plays down incident ) “ We go out on the cricket field looking to win matches. It would be good to get a win against India. The Indian team is good but we are not going to focus solely on them. We are going to focus on what we could do. Once we do what we could do , we are going to defeat teams , " said Sammy . The last time the two teams battled it out in a World Cup match was in 2011 when India emerged victorious . “ We will compete and give ourselves a chance of winning. We have shown when we get it right we compete with the best in the world. It ’ s about putting our focus on the things we do well consistently over a longer period of time in the match. The team which absorbs the most pressure normally tends to win cricket matches , " said Sammy . Captain Holder is again leading the Windies , who desperately need a win to keep alive their chances of securing a last eight berth. The 23-year-old , who top-scored with 56 off 48 balls , the highest score of his One-Day International ( ODI ) career , against South Africa , has been under intense scrutiny since accepting the position to lead the Caribbean side . “ He is a strong character and strong characters when they go through tough times they always come back stronger. But it is important that we as a team support him and help him through the tough times , " he said . Story first published on : Wednesday , 04 March 2015 12 : 44 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
