Match That Changed My Life Building block Graham Gooch ended up as the most prolific run scorer in England 's history. This is how he began Nagraj Gollapudi | April 2015 1979 : Essex v Surrey Lord 's , the 1979 final of the Benson & Hedges Cup. We won that match by 35 runs and it was the first trophy Essex had ever won ( since it started in 1876 ) and I was fortunate enough to have an influence on it . Everyone wants to score a hundred but to do that in a limited-overs match at the best cricket ground in the world was especially memorable. Incidentally it was my first Man-of-the-Match award at Lord 's . I started playing for Essex in 1973 as an amateur , and a year later I signed up as a professional. Even as I made my Test debut in 1975 I was involved in the development of the Essex squad as a young player. Essex were building the team that would go on to be one of the most dominant and successful county sides between 1979 and 1992 , when we won six County Championships. But until then we had always been the bridesmaid , which is why I pick this match as the most significant one of my career . That year was a pivotal one for me. I made a significant change in my technique that summer , choosing to stand erect and hold the bat aloft. I had returned to the England Test squad in 1978 , having been out three years , and then had a good World Cup in 1979. In fact , a month before this final , I had played in the World Cup final against West Indies at Lord 's. This time at least I finished on the winning side . It was a magnificent occasion for those Essex supporters who were part of the full house that witnessed a historic moment for their county. For me to go out there and perform under the pressure of a final and help Essex get a pretty sizeable total was amazing . What that performance taught me above all is , you have to be an innings builder. The skill of scoring runs lies in being able to compose an innings , whether it is an ODI or a Test match. It is not just a case of you going out and that day happening to be the day where everything goes right. That happens occasionally . You have to learn to control your emotions. You learn to construct a score. There is a difference between scoring a hundred and making a hundred. Scoring a hundred is when all things go right. It all just falls into place - the edges go into the ground , the fielders miss the ball or drop you. But then , many times you have to make a hundred. That means you have to think it through. You have to work at it. These hundreds , which you make , are generally the ones that influence matches , and that day against Surrey , I made a hundred . Graham Gooch played 118 Tests and 125 ODIs for England between 1975 and 1995. He was speaking to Nagraj Gollapudi © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
