A captain like no other Selfless , brave , humble , but also infuriatingly complex : Misbah-ul-Haq offers joys and contradictions in equal measure Osman Samiuddin Tweet 2 In the 14th over of Australia 's innings , as Shahid Afridi came on to bowl , Misbah-ul-Haq undertook one last act that can be said to embody his ODI captaincy. Pakistan were putting some serious heat on the hosts in their World Cup quarter-final in Adelaide . Afridi had been poor with the ball all tournament but as he got ready , there was a sense he could yet help Pakistan pull off something sensational . Through the tournament Misbah had batted like Misbah , in constipated style , but captained as if on laxatives ; like a latter-day Ian Chappell , he was overseeing but barely restraining a pack of hungry fast bowlers. Now , as he and Afridi set the field for Shane Watson , with a slip already in place , they decided on a short leg. Out came the helmet and , as per cricket 's norm , it went to one of the younger guys . Except Sohaib Maqsood indicated a general unwillingness to field there. Nobody else , young or old , seemed especially keen , so with a barely discernible shake of the head , Misbah took it upon himself. In what would turn out to be his last ODI , the captain of Pakistan , fielding at short leg ? The only thing more remarkable would be if he dropped himself from the XI , which , incidentally , he did a few months ago in another ODI against Australia . It was a selfless and brave act from a selfless and brave man , a heroic act. As with his batting , everyone around him had failed and so he chose to take on the responsibility. But as with every move Misbah made , it was n't quite as simple as that. Even this decision had the infuriating duality of his batting , career and captaincy . It emerged that the helmet was too small for Maqsood and he did , in later overs , eventually field there. But why did no other younger player offer to field in his stead , especially just for an over ? In that less sparkling light , the scene felt equally illustrative. Misbah has led Pakistan and led them well , but has he inspired players , especially the younger ones ? Has he transformed them ? Has he been a captain they looked up to , drew strength from or were ready to lay down their bodies in front of ? Misbah has led Pakistan and led them well , but has he inspired players , especially the younger ones ? Has he transformed them ? He has been more secure than any captain in Pakistan history , an equal in that sense of Imran Khan and Abdul Hafeez Kardar. That , and his own humility , is what enabled him to drop himself from an ODI. But he has been curiously unwilling - or unable - to exercise the kind of power and influence that come with that status. Imagine a younger player refusing , even briefly , Inzamam-ul-Haq , Wasim Akram , Javed Miandad , or even Waqar Younis , let alone Imran or Kardar - it 's impossible . Unexpectedly Misbah has become one of Pakistan 's most fascinating characters - and competition is tough. Considerable light is shed in this issue of the Cricket Monthly on how this came to be , in an expansive and probing profile of Misbah the man , the captain and the batsman by Hassan Cheema. In Lahore , Cheema finds Misbah in an unusually frank mood - keep an eye out for , in particular , some zingers at the board that employs him , and at the cricket-watching public of Pakistan. Truly , he has been unique . A Misbah profile feels right in place in what could be our most eclectic issue yet. As complex as the story of Misbah is , it has nothing on that of cricket in the Kashmir Valley , where often it is not a game as much as it is a conflict between individual ambition and collective loyalty. The unsteady fortunes of their domestic side and the rise of Parvez Rasool has been an intriguing modern story in Indian cricket , far more compelling than the headline-making politicking and corruption of the BCCI. Sharda Ugra tells it with a lightness and warmth that belies its thorniness . A personal favourite is this month 's Jury 's Out on cricket 's most significant number , which combines adeptly the sport 's two great loves - for good writing and for statistics. But there is , ultimately , something for all tastes : a little papare music from Sri Lanka , the struggle for a museum in South Africa , some heated debate on the Indian Premier League , and last but never least , a freewheeling chat about the fast bowling life with Shoaib Akhtar , a man who polarises opinion almost as much as Misbah does . Osman Samiuddin is a sportswriter at the National and the author of The Unquiet Ones : A History of Pakistan Cricket © ESPN Sports Media Ltd . LOGIN TO POST YOUR COMMENTS SIGN IN Please log in or register to access full content . Email
