Share on WhatsApp The astounding innings from AB de Villiers that reduced West Indies ’ bowlers to rubble is just the latest , if the most violent , in a sequence that is taking fast scoring in all formats to a different level . In November Rohit Sharma scored 264 from 173 balls for India against Sri Lanka , obliterating by 45 runs the ODI record set by Virender Sehwag. Then shortly after Christmas , in Christchurch , and also against Sri Lanka , Brendon McCullum , with 195 from 134 balls , was within a couple of yards of beating by a distance his compatriot Nathan Astle ’ s already remarkable 154-ball record for the fastest Test match double hundred. And now De Villiers scores 149 from 44 balls , sweeping the board with all sorts of ODI records including fastest 100 , from 31 balls. It almost needs a second look to make sure that a digit has not been omitted from the front . That it happened at the Wanderers in Johannesburg ought to be no great surprise. In July 2006 Sri Lanka made 443 for nine against Netherlands in Amstelveen , still the record ODI score , but the highest between full members had been at the Wanderers a few months earlier when Australia made 434 for four ( with Ricky Ponting hitting 164 from 105 balls ) . “ It ’ s a 450 pitch – they are short , ” joked Jacques Kallis during the interval and , sure enough , South Africa replied with 438 for nine to win the match. Now De Villiers hits 16 sixes , equalling Sharma ’ s record , as South Africa made 439 for two . The Wanderers is habitually high-scoring , with a fine pitch , short boundaries and , at almost 1,800m elevation , it is the highest international ground. Golfers who play on the Wanderers course behind the stand at one end will say that you can take 10 % from distances for clubbing purposes ( see metres and think in yards ) . The average ODI score in the past four years is 363 . This tells only part of the story , however. Techniques , innovations and a spirit of adventure gained from Twenty20 cricket have found their way into the longer forms of the game. Gym work pays dividends. Strokes that have been around for decades – reverse sweep , switch hit , even the ramp ( I played at school with a fellow who could stand square on and flip a length delivery over his head ; he became a senior policeman ) – have graduated from being declared outrageous and an affront to mainstream . The biggest development has been the capacity to deal with yorkers , once the go-to response , upsetting length either by hanging back deep in the crease or by stepping forward and using bat-speed ( which sounds like a superpower ) , bottom hand and muscle. Fielding restrictions , the draconian rule on wides and the limit on bouncers , have hampered bowlers almost to an unfair degree so that damage limitation becomes a default position all too readily . Boundary ropes have crept in , first to prevent injury from perimeter fences , then to provide camera positions and , more insidiously , to ensure that the game produces an ever-increasing number of sixes. When a competition such as the IPL actually has sixes sponsored , then clearly there is a commercial imperative : the more sixes , the more exposure , the more television airtime and thus more income. No one there is going to advocate a reduction . Should India bat first when they play Zimbabwe in Auckland next month , given the ludicrously small straight boundaries , 500 is a real possibility . Always , though , the debate returns to bats. Modern high-end blades bear little relation to those of even a decade ago. The bludgeons in use now are habitually described as “ heavy ” and that is a misnomer. These blades have volume but reduced density whether through the absence of moisture , a lack of pressing or both. They are disposable implements , produced for effectiveness rather than durability . The propensity for genuinely heavy bats , up to three and a half pounds , as used by some in the 1970s and 80s , came about – I was told – as a consequence of the absence of sufficient properly seasoned cricket bat willow , so that the only way to make a bat that “ went ” was to give it weight. That has changed. The modern bat is perhaps half a pound and more lighter than these – around 2lb 8oz – but is volumetrically greater , as evidenced by the edges which serve as effectively as the middle on occasions . I would contest the notion that as a rule bigger sixes are being hit ( in my playing days , I saw three hits to the very top of the Lord ’ s pavilion but heard of none since ) but the massive expansion of the sweet spot ensures that what were once mis-hits now also carry , so there are almost exponentially more year on year . A solution , if there needs to be one , is clear : rein the bats in through legislation , in terms not of weight but of dimension , so that the edges have a maximum thickness and there is a maximum depth. It is simple really but will never happen. Firstly , those who are counselled lack true empathy for bowlers. The ICC cricket committee is chaired by a spinner , Anil Kumble , and currently Ottis Gibson also sits. But of 14 members of the trumpeted MCC World Cricket Committee , nine are or were batsmen , two are wicketkeepers and one an umpire. Tim May , a spinner , and Shaun Pollock , a pace bowler , fight a lone battle. There are as many women or umpires as seamers on it and twice as many keepers. As MCC itself is custodian of the laws , which govern the specifications of bats , it is not hard to see the implications . Above all , though , those who run the game , both at international and at domestic level , do not see a problem but rather an asset. Close , low-scoring contests are all very well but nothing beats a run-fest .
