World Cup 2015 : Beach Volleyball and a Visit to Vineyard , India in High Spirits Before Windies Tie World Cup 2015 : Beach Volleyball and a Visit to Vineyard , India in High Spirits Before Windies Tie After hiking trips and silent dinners , MS Dhoni and his Team India boys paid a visit to the Aravina Vineyard , 250 kms away from the city of Perth . Last updated on Thursday , 05 March , 2015 00 : 08 IST Total Shares Sun , sand and shades - Dhoni and his boys playing volleyball © BCCI All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy -- MS Dhoni and Team India believe strongly in the proverb. They have played some tough cricket on-field during the ICC World Cup but off it , they have also found some very innovative ways to relax during their day offs. ( India Clash With West Indies on Holi Again ) After the hiking trips and silent team dinners , the next destination was a vineyard and a beach. On Monday , MS Dhoni and his boys paid a visit to the Aravina Vineyards , 250 kilometers away from the city of Perth. Located near the Margaret River , the way to the vineyard is filled with greens fields and natural habitat that acted as a balm for sore eyes and tired minds. ( Kohli Faces Media Backlash ) The Indian team surrendered themselves to the picturesque landscapes and slipped into their beach gear , applied sunscreen , put on their shades and got down to play football. Then , they squared up for game of beach volleyball. The fun and frolic on sun and sand was followed by a wholesome lunch. The team also took a trip into the vines and found out the basics of wine production . This Indian team has been in Australia since November last year. After a rigorous Test series and a forgettable ODI tri-series , the men in blue needed a break. Dhoni , the captain , has been vocal about 'excess cricket ' and the management seems to have found unique ways to deal with the stress of the World Cup . India take on West Indies next on March 5 at Perth . Story first published on : Wednesday , 04 March 2015 19 : 38 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
