Refresh ! Kyle Coetzer is adjudged the Man of the Match for his brilliant batting. Bangladesh get the all important 2 points today and they will now challenge England for a quarter-final berth. That 's it from us today. Join us back tomorrow at 1130 IST for the mega clash between India and West Indies. Until then , it 's goodbye ! ! Scotland on the other hand just could not create enough pressure. They allowed partnerships to flourish and lost the plot there. Overall they will be happy with their performance out in the park today as they batted brilliantly and again came close to getting their first win World Cups. A lots of positives to built on for them . ! Bangladesh have done it ! They have chased this total down with supreme ease ! Tamim Iqbal got back in form with a good knock of 95. He however missed out on being the first Bangladeshi to get a century in the World Cup. Barring Soumya Sarkar everyone got to 40 's. Tamim Iqbal and Mahmudullah set the tone for the chase and Rahim and Shakib accelerated to get them close. In the end Shakib and Rahman ensured they crossed the line . 48.1 4 iain wardlaw to shakib al hasan FOUR ! FIFTY FOR SHAKIB ! VICTORY FOR BANGLADESH ! Full outside off , Shakib slashes it over point for a boundary to win it for the team. BANGLADESH WIN BY 6 WICKETS . 47.6 alasdair evans to mohammad sabbir rahman Back of a length , defends it off the back foot . 47.5 alasdair evans to mohammad sabbir rahman On a length on off , defends it off the front foot . 47.4 alasdair evans to mohammad sabbir rahman FOUR ! Quality shot ! Full on off , Rahman drives it beautifully through covers for a boundary . 47.3 alasdair evans to mohammad sabbir rahman The batsman has played it towards mid-wicket 47.2 alasdair evans to shakib al hasan Short delivery pulled away to fine leg for a single . 47.1 alasdair evans to shakib al hasan FOUR ! Full outside off , Shakib drives it with ease through covers for another boundary . load more Story first published on : Wednesday , 04 March 2015 21 : 12 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
