Transport details Thursday 26 March - transport update If you 're heading to the match after 17 : 00 , catch a regular Sydney Buses route 338 , 374 or 376 service from Eddy Avenue at Central Station . Buses will stop on the Moore Park Bus roadway near the stadium . Remember , your match ticket also includes travel on regular bus services . Special information A valid pre-purchased match ticket includes travel to and from the SCG on : Train services ( bounded by Bomaderry , Goulburn , Bathurst and Dungog stations ) . Moore Park special event shuttle buses . Regular bus services . Sydney Ferries services . Light Rail services . Remember to keep your match ticket safe for your journey home , as you must have a valid ticket when travelling on public transport . Your event ticket is valid for travel on public transport until 05 : 00 on the morning immediately following the event . Note : A station access fee applies for travel to and from Domestic and International Airport stations. Your match ticket does not include the access fee , so if you 're travelling from these stations you 'll need to buy a GatePass . ICC Cricket World Cup volunteers wearing the official uniform and carrying their accreditation pass are also entitled to access public transport services . Entitlement applies between 14 February and 30 March inclusive , for travel between selected locations. See ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 travel conditions . Walking route The Albert ( Tibby ) Cotter Walkway over Anzac Parade is now open , providing safer and more direct access to major events at Moore Park . Give the new bridge a try if you 're walking to the ground and need to cross Anzac Parade . Bus Sydney Buses will be running express Moore Park shuttle buses to Moore Park from Central Station and Circular Quay : Route 1 buses run from Chalmers Street at Central Station between midday and 17 : 00 . Route 3 buses run from Circular Quay between midday and 16 : 00 . Return services will run from the Moore Park Bus Station to Central Station and Circular Quay between 20 : 30 and 23 : 30 . Sydney Buses services are running to a regular weekday timetable . Train The closest station to Moore Park is Central . At Central , you can catch a Moore Park shuttle bus which will depart regularly from Chalmers Street to the Sydney Cricket Ground . For train information , visit Sydney Trains timetables . Trackwork Trackwork is planned to take place during the event and may affect how you travel : On the Blue Mountains Line , some trains towards Central may run up to 15 minutes late due to trackwork between St Mary 's and Blacktown from 20 : 50 to 23 : 31 Thursday 26 March. Buses will not be replacing train services for this trackwork . On the Central Coast and Newcastle Line buses replace trains between Broadmeadow and Hamilton and continue to Newcastle from Thursday 26 March 23 : 50 to Friday 27 March 02 : 40 . On the Hunter Line buses replace trains between Broadmeadow and Hamilton and continue to Newcastle from Thursday 26 March 23 : 50 to Friday 27 March 03 : 50 . For the latest information , check trackwork service updates or use the Trip Planner . Scheduled reserve day Due to poor weather conditions or unforeseen circumstances , ICC Cricket World Cup finals matches may have a secondary day of play . If this semi final match is postponed , the scheduled reserve day will be on the following day - Friday 27 March with a 2 : 30pm start time . Match tickets will still be valid for the reserve day and will include travel on public transport. Moore Park shuttle buses will also still be running . Ferry Sydney Ferries services are running to a regular weekday timetable . Road Traffic may be heavy on roads approaching the Sydney Cricket Ground , particularly Anzac Parade and Moore Park Road . Special event clearways will be in place in Moore Park and surrounding areas between midday and midnight . Check signs before parking as vehicles left in special event clearways will be towed and a towing fee applies . Parts of Driver Avenue may be closed to traffic before , during and after the game and will reopen to traffic once crowds have left the area . For the latest traffic information , visit Live Traffic NSW , download a real-time traffic app from the App Store or Google Play , or call 132 701 . Taxi A taxi rank is located on Errol Flynn Boulevard ( near the Hordern Pavilion ) . For details of taxi networks servicing the Sydney area , visit NSW Taxi Council . Parking Parking at Moore Park is limited and special event clearways will be in place on surrounding streets . Visit Live Traffic NSW to view special event clearway locations Parking is available at : The Entertainment Quarter , entry via Lang Road . The MP1 car park , ( Cricket World Cup Vehicle Access Passes only ) . EP2 - Kippax Park , entry via northern end of Driver Avenue . EP3 - Moore Park Car Park , entry via southern end of Driver Avenue . Make sure you arrive early if you 're planning on parking near the venue , as spaces will fill up quickly and traffic will be heavy on roads approaching the car parks . Each car park has spaces for Roads and Maritime Services ( RMS ) Mobility Parking permit holders . Accessibility Accessible transport options can be found on the Trip Planner by checking ‘ Mobility options ’ . Only trip plans with accessible train platforms , ferry wharves and buses will be presented. See accessible travel in NSW . Trains Many Sydney Trains stations are wheelchair accessible , including Central and Town Hall. See accessible trains and stations . Buses Many of Sydney Buses ’ services are wheelchair accessible. Features of wheelchair accessible buses include wider doors and aisles , and space for two mobility aids such as wheelchairs , some ride-on scooters and prams or strollers. See travel on accessible buses . Ferries The entire Sydney Ferries fleet is wheelchair accessible via accessible ferry wharves ( pending tidal and safety conditions ) . See accessible ferries and wharves . Light Rail Light rail services have accessible stops and there is dedicated space on board each vehicle for a wheelchair , pram or other mobility device. See accessible light rail . Taxis Wheelchair accessible taxis operate in NSW. For information on travelling by wheelchair accessible taxis and how to book , see wheelchair accessible taxis .
