World Cup 2015 : Chris Gayle Force Keeps India on Toes World Cup 2015 : Chris Gayle Force Keeps India on Toes Chris Gayle has already smashed the fastest double century ever in the ongoing tournament. His unpredictable batting is precisely what makes him the man to watch out for when West Indies clash with India in World Cup 2015 . Last updated on Thursday , 05 March , 2015 17 : 33 IST Total Shares All eyes would be on Chris Gayle when West Indies take on India in their Pool B match of World Cup 2015 . © Getty Images Perth : Defending champions India will look to continue their recent success against Chris Gayle when they clash with the West Indies in the World Cup at the WACA ground in Perth on Friday. ( Also read : Dhoni admits hard to contain Gayle , de Villiers when they lash out ) The explosive left-hander has not passed 50 in his last 10 one-day innings against India and not hit a century against them since 2006 , but Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's men know that does not guarantee another cheap wicket. ( Related : India unbeatable but Sammy is hardly worried ) Just last week , Gayle hammered a record World Cup score of 215 off 147 balls against Zimbabwe in Canberra , demolishing the bowling attack like only he or South Africa 's AB de Villiers can do . De Villiers gave Gayle a taste of his own medicine a few days later in Sydney , smashing a glorious unbeaten 162 off 66 balls that drew warm applause even from the awestruck Jamaican. ( Must read : Team India prepares for WI by playing volleyball , visit to vineyard ) Dhoni conceded it was tough to have a bowling plan or set fields for batsmen like Gayle and De Villiers. ( Time for Gayle vs Kohli ! ) " If the individual is hitting sixes , you ca n't have fields for that , " the Indian captain said. " There 's not much you can do. You certainly ca n't have a fixed plan for something like that. " ( Is Team India inconsistent like Bollywood stars ? ) India can draw comfort from the unpredictable game of the West Indies , where highs and lows mingle so frequently that is leaves even the most passionate Caribbean supporter exasperated . In their first three matches of the ongoing World Cup , the West Indies posted 304-7 in losing to Ireland , 310-6 against Pakistan and 372-2 versus Zimbabwe in a grand show of their batting prowess . But they crashed to 151 in their next game trying to chase South Africa 's 408-5 with leg-spinner Imran Tahir returning with five wickets . In contrast , India have played consistently to record three consecutive wins , including a 76-run defeat of old foes Pakistan and a stunning 130-run win over the mighty South Africans . A nine-wicket hammering of minnows United Arab Emirates at the WACA ground last week provided Dhoni 's team a chance to adjust to the hot weather in Perth and the challenges the hard pitch poses . With six full points in the bag and matches in hand against the West Indies , Ireland and Zimbabwe , India will eye the top spot in Pool B to ensure they do n't face either of the co-hosts , Australia and New Zealand , in the quarter-finals . But the West Indies , who have two wins from four games and both Ireland and Pakistan breathing down their necks , must defeat India and the UAE in their last two matches to confirm a knock-out berth . The West Indies have brought in attacking batsman Johnson Charles to replace the injured Darren Bravo , but former captain Darren Sammy said the key to his side 's success lay with the fast bowlers . " Any fast bowler would be excited to bowl at the WACA as it is one of the quickest wickets in the world , " said Sammy , " But India are playing well and our quick bowlers ca n't just come and blast the batsmen out . " They have to put the ball in the right areas. " It was on the same wicket that Australia piled up a record World Cup total of 417-6 against hapless Afghanistan on Wednesday , which should encourage both Indian and West Indies batsmen . Sammy brushed aside injury worries for Gayle , who missed a few training sessions apparently resting a sore back . " As far as I know , everybody is fit , " he said. " We have a full squad to choose from. Gayle 's back has been same for the last three years. Still , he continues to win matches for us. " Story first published on : Thursday , 05 March 2015 10 : 08 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
