World Cup 2015 : Winning 'Non-Negotiable ' for Zimbabwe World Cup 2015 : Winning 'Non-Negotiable ' for Zimbabwe Zimbabwe play Ireland , a non-Test side , in Hobart on Saturday in what is an important Pool B clash for both sides . Last updated on Friday , 06 March , 2015 11 : 28 IST Total Shares Zimbabwe have shown they can be a dangerous limited-overs side © Getty Images Zimbabwe 's Brendan Taylor has said winning against Ireland is " non-negotiable " for his side if they are to qualify for the World Cup quarter-finals. ( Full World Cup Coverage ) The Africans play the Irish , a non-Test side , in Hobart on Saturday in what is an important Pool B clash for both sides . Ireland are currently fifth in the seven-strong pool , with two wins from three games giving them a total of four points . By contrast Zimbabwe are sixth , with just one win -- and a hard-fought one at that over the amateurs from the UAE -- in four games and a total of two points . Only the top four teams in each of the two pools will reach the last eight . Asked about the importance of this weekend 's match , Taylor said Friday : " That 's non-negotiable for us . " We want to turn up tomorrow and we want to win. We want to win convincingly and we feel we 're good enough to do that. " Zimbabwe 's most recent defeat , a 20-run reverse against Pakistan , was especially disappointing as they did a lot of the hard work in restricting their opponents to 235 for seven only to be bowled out for 215 themselves . But wicketkeeper/batsman Taylor , who made exactly 50 against Pakistan , said Zimbabwe 's mood remained positive . " It 's surprisingly upbeat. We know we need to win this game. There are no grey areas there . " But they ( Ireland ) are a good side. We 're very much aware of that . " The more demoralising one ( loss ) was Pakistan , not getting over the line at 230 . " Guys need to just put their heads down -- 30s and 40s are n't going to win us games. We need to carry on , kick on , and get that hundred. So that is the focus. " Zimbabwe will be without captain Elton Chigumbura at Bellerive Oval after the all-rounder suffered a hamstring tear fielding against Pakistan . " From what I understand , he has a grade three tear , " said Taylor. " I do n't understand in terms of how long that will put him out . " I know he 's working day and night with the physio trying to get him ready for the India game . " He 's got some great striking ability in terms of hitting boundaries , so he 's a big loss there. But we 've got to hit with the batters that are batting tomorrow. " Whatever happens on Saturday is unlikely to be quite as dramatic as the teams ' previous World Cup meeting when they played out a tie in Kingston , Jamaica , during the 2007 edition . Zimbabwe were 212 for six , chasing 222 to win , but lost their last four wickets for nine runs in 15 balls as Ireland grabbed a last-ball tie . " I remember that very well , " said Taylor. " I remember the last ball. Stuart ( Matsikenyeri ) was 70-odd not out and he got a low toss and he missed it. I 'm sure he 's kicking himself. We all kicked ourselves . " There was a chance for Ireland to win , and there was a chance for us to win . " But it 's a new day ( on Saturday ) . We 'll both be up for it , " Taylor added . Story first published on : Friday , 06 March 2015 10 : 21 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
