World Cup 2015 : Mahendra Singh Dhoni Demands More From All-Rounder Ravindra Jadeja World Cup 2015 : Mahendra Singh Dhoni Demands More From All-Rounder Ravindra Jadeja Left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja has three triple centuries in India 's first-class cricket , but has scored 3 , 2 and 13 in his three outings with the bat in the ongoing World Cup Down Under . Last updated on Friday , 06 March , 2015 23 : 22 IST Total Shares Ravindra Jadeja has scored 3 , 2 and 13 in his three outings with the bat in the tournament . © Getty Images Perth : Holders India marched into the quarter-finals of the World Cup with their fourth consecutive win but all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja 's form with the bat has left captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni a worried man . Left-arm spinner Jadeja has three triple centuries in India 's first-class cricket , but has scored 3 , 2 and 13 in his three outings with the bat in the tournament . The 26-year-old walked into bat at number seven on Friday with India tottering at 107-5 against West Indies chasing 183 for victory but his innings ended with a miscued hook shot off Andre Russell after a 27-run stand with Dhoni. ( Highlights | Scorecard | Pics | Points Table ) Dhoni , who took India home with an unbeaten 45 , was not amused and told Jadeja it is time to step up . " He needs to improve and needs to step up really. We have a lot of faith in him but at the end of the day you ca n't really play with hope , " Dhoni told reporters at the WACA. " What you want is actual performance on the field . " He has that capability , he is definitely talented. He needs to keep believing in himself . " Every batsman is tested in a few areas. They will bowl short-pitched deliveries to him , he will have to find a way in which he can tackle it. " ( Dhoni Keeps Wickets Without Pads ) India also have Akshar Patel in their squad , who bowls left-arm spin and bats in the lower order. Jadeja has been preferred over him because of his batting . Yet Dhoni said another option for India would be to move Jadeja , who has taken six wickets in the tournament , higher up the batting order . " The second option will be we try to give him a platform where he does n't have to worry , " Dhoni said. " He goes and freely plays his big shots . " We 'll have to assess all of that and we 'll have to give him a bit more liberty to play his big shots. " ( Surviving Windies Scare Good for Team India , Says Dhoni ) India 's bowling was considered to be their weakest link before the World Cup , but they have managed to dismiss all their opponents in their four matches , including top sides like South Africa and Pakistan . The fast bowlers have bowled with good pace and have managed to peg back the batsmen with their short deliveries . " What the bowlers are doing really well right now is they are hunting in packs , " Dhoni added. " We are backing one good over followed by another good over . " That actually increases the pressure , and finally you get a wicket out of it. " ( Dhoni Beats Ganguly for Most Overseas Win ) Story first published on : Friday , 06 March 2015 22 : 06 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
