Refresh ! William Porterfield says that they managed to get across the line in the end. It was a great catch by Mooney but ca n't say anything as he has n't seen the replays , he adds. That is it from our side. Hope you enjoyed the coverage. Catch us tomorrow for the double-header. First one between New Zealand and Afghanistan at 0300 IST and the second one between Australia and Sri Lanka at 0900 IST. Goodbye , until then ! ! Brendan Taylor says that it is pretty frustrating to lose such games. Ireland were more hungry for a win than them. Adds that the fielding was very poor. Only one game remaining and they need to play well in it. It 's going to be a tough one against India at Eden Park . ! The Man of the Match goes to Ed Joyce for his century. He says that , it was very hard to defend on this ground. Also adds that Alex Cusack is a great guy and he kept calm under pressure towards the end. Andrew Balirnie has been fantastic for Ireland , he adds . ! During the run chase , Zimbabwe lost four quick wickets but later on Taylor and Williams shared a partnership of 149 runs for the fifth wicket. Brendan Taylor got a brilliant hundred. Williams took the match down to the wire but failed to keep calm towards the end. Alex Cusack bowled an amazing last over and got two wickets in it. All together he took four wickets and was economical at the same time. A classic thriller we got to witness today ! ! A nail-biting finish to the game ! What a match , what a win ! Talking about the game , batting first Ireland got a massive total of 331 on the board. Ed Joyce got a century and Andrew Balbirnie scored a quick knock of 97. The other batsmen also chipped in with useful contributions at the end of the Irish innings . 49.3 W alex cusack to tawanda mupariwa OUT ! IRELAND HAVE WON A THRILLER ! A slower delivery around middle and off , Mupariwa plays this one only with one hand and hits it up in the air to long on. The skipper , Porterfield comes running in keeps his calm and takes a fine catch , the deciding moment of the game. IRELAND WIN BY 5 RUNS ! 49.2 1 alex cusack to tendai chatara Length ball around off , Chatara gets an inside edge to the leg side for a single . ! Tendai Chatara is the last man in . 49.1 W alex cusack to regis chakabva OUT ! Bowled 'em ! On a length around off , Chakabva looks to slog this but gets an inside edge onto the stumps. A poor shot by Chakabva. What a thriller ! What a match ! ! 7 required of the last over ! load more Story first published on : Saturday , 07 March 2015 09 : 03 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
