ICC World Cup : Sachin Tendulkar Superfan Sudhir Gautam 's Flag Pole is Too Long ICC World Cup : Sachin Tendulkar Superfan Sudhir Gautam 's Flag Pole is Too Long Crazy Indian fan Sudhir Gautam uses longer-than-prescribed length flag pole despite promising WACA authorities that he wo n't use it in stands . Last updated on Monday , 09 March , 2015 13 : 44 IST Total Shares Sudhir Gautam during India 's match against West Indies at WACA . © Getty Images Perth : Sudhir Gautam is a well known face to cricket fans the world over thanks to his impeccable body paint and the huge Indian flag he furiously waves throughout the duration of a match . However , the WACA authorities were not too happy about the length of the flagpole that the Bihar-born Gautam carried yesterday. He was even carrying an extension that would fit into the two metre pole to make it longer . Safety issues WACA security manager Wayne Reynolds pulled up Gautam before the start of yesterday 's India vs West Indies match . " The prescribed limit for a pole is one metre to 1.2 metres but this one is over two metres. This could not only obstruct the view of other spectators in the stands , it could also be unsafe for the others who wave around their flags , " Reynolds said . Gautam , however , kept pleading that he be allowed with his pole. " I come for all the matches with this. I was here for the India vs UAE game too and no one stopped me so why now ? 'Please allow me' " I will not create any problem. All the players and even the team manager know me , you can ask them. Please let me go , " pleaded Gautam . The heated discussion between the duo continued for a while before Gautam assured the security staff that he would n't use the pole and hurried away . Reynolds later told mid-day that Gautam had sneaked in the pole without the knowledge of the security staff at the gates. " He was stopped at a couple of gates by our security officers because of the length of the pole , but he tried his luck at other gates and managed to sneak in . " Even now he says he wo n't use the pole , but I 'm sure he will do so when he gets to the other end of the ground. I do n't want to be a spoilsport , but in the interest of safety and security , this is incorrect , " said Reynolds . Just like Reynolds predicted , Gautam was seen later waving the flag at the far end as the match progressed . Story first published on : Saturday , 07 March 2015 10 : 21 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
