World Cup 2015 : Pakistan Edge Past South Africa in a Thriller , Keep Knockout Hopes Alive World Cup 2015 : Pakistan Edge Past South Africa in a Thriller , Keep Knockout Hopes Alive In a rain-curtailed World Cup match , South Africa faltered repeatedly chasing a revised target of 232 in 47 overs. Pakistan eventually managed to seal the match by 29 runs in what was a nail-biting ODI contest . Last updated on Saturday , 07 March , 2015 16 : 46 IST Total Shares Pakistan 's Wahab Riaz ( L ) and Ahmad Shahzad celebrate a South African wicket . © Getty Images Auckland : Pakistan 's trio of left-arm pacemen bowled their team to a thrilling 29-run win over South Africa on the Duckworth/Lewis method as they revived their bid for a World Cup quarter-final place in Auckland on Saturday. ( Scorecard | Highlights ) Rahat Ali grabbed a career-best three for 40 , while Mohammad Irfan ( three for 52 ) and Wahab Riaz ( three for 45 ) were also in the wickets as South Africa , chasing a revised target of 232 in 47 overs , were dismissed for 202 in 33.3 overs. ( Points Table ) South Africa captain AB de Villiers hit a brilliant 58-ball 77 with five sixes and seven boundaries but failed to stop Pakistan from registering their third win in five matches -- and their first victory over the Proteas in all World Cups . Pakistan were all out in 46.4 overs after two rain interruptions which reduced the match to 47-over-a-side. Skipper Misbah-ul-Haq scored 56 while Sarfraz Ahmed made run-a-ball 49 . De Villiers , who completed 1000 World Cup runs , was dismissed by Sohail Khan in the 33rd over for wicketkeeper Sarfraz Ahmed 's sixth catch in the match -- equalling the world record for most catches behind the stumps in a one-day international . AB de Villiers scored 77 off 58 but his wicket came at a crucial stage for Pakistan . © Getty Images South Africa were off to a disastrous start as opener Quinton de Kock was dismissed in Irfan 's first over of the innings . Hashim Amla , who hit nine boundaries in his 38 , steadied the innings during his 67-run second wicket stand with Faf du Plessis before Pakistan hit back . Ali removed Du Plessis and David Miller ( nought ) while Riaz dismissed Amla and Rilee Rossouw ( six ) as South Africa lost four wickets for just 10 runs in the space of 39 balls . Irfan returned for his second spell to dismiss JP Duminy for 12 as South Africa , who would have been in the quarter-finals had they won this match , were left reeling at 102 for six . De Villiers took the fight to the Pakistani bowlers adding 36 with Dale Steyn ( 16 ) and another invaluable 33 for the eighth with Kyle Abbott who made 12 . He hit two sixes in one Shahid Afridi over to reach his fifty off just 45 balls before Pakistan staged a late comeback . It was Misbah who steadied Pakistan 's innings with a determined 86-ball knock -- his fourth half-century in five World Cup matches . The Pakistan captain also completed 5,000 one-day international runs when on seven in his 160th match. ( Read more here ) He was the 12th Pakistani to reach the landmark but the first from any country to do so without scoring an individual hundred . Misbah hit four boundaries before he holed out at third man off fast bowler Steyn who finished with three for 30 . Afridi made a 15-ball 22 with two sixes and a boundary as he went to 8,000 ODI runs . Ahmed put on a confident 30-run opening stand with Ahmed Shehzad ( 18 ) -- the best opening stand for Pakistan in this tournament -- before Steyn held a smart diving catch to give South Africa the breakthrough . Shehzad hit Abbott towards long-on where Steyn , on the run , held a low chance . Ahmed , who did not play in Pakistan 's first four pool matches , hit three sixes in one Duminy over before he ran himself out while taking a second run in a bid to reach his fifty . He also hit five boundaries in his run-a-ball knock . Younis Khan , dropped after poor run of scores in the first three matches , made an attractive 44-ball 37 with four boundaries before falling to soft dismissal off the part-time bowling of de Villiers . But South Africa 's lack of a genuine fifth bowler proved costly , with de Villiers and Duminy conceding 77 runs between them in a combined nine overs . Story first published on : Saturday , 07 March 2015 14 : 46 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
