Refresh ! That 's all we have for today. Continue following the coverage of the Australia and Sri Lanka match going on currently. Until then goodbye and take care . ! DANIEL VETTORI ( Man of the Match ) - Says it was good out there , there was a bit on the Napier wicket. Says it is normally pristine here but he was a bit more excited coming in here today to bowl. Adds that he is pretty used to bowling upfront and anytime is a good time to bowl for him . ! The bowlers looked off colour today and did not bother the batsmen much. Shapoor and Nabi picked up one wicket each. Earlier in the day the Afghanistan batsmen disappointed yet again as they crumbled to a total of 186. Shenwari and Najibullah were the lone rangers who put some fight in the innings. In the end the Kiwis have got another convincing win under their belt. Vettori was brilliant and so was Boult who kept picking wickets regularly and wrapped up the Afghan innings . ! The Kiwis notch up their fifth successive win of this World Cup. Chasing 187 , the Kiwis got it done with ease and were never put under any pressure. McCullum got them off to a flier before he got bowled out in an unusual manner. Williamson and Guptill put on a 50-run stand as Guptill brought up his fifty as well. Good contributions from the middle order made sure the Kiwis got home without any hassles. . 36.1 4 mohammad nabi to corey anderson FOUR ! Anderson gets the winning runs ! Floated on middle , Anderson gets down on one knee and sweeps it to the mid-wicket fence for a boundary. NEW ZEALAND HAVE A COMFORTABLE 6-WICKET WIN . 35.6 dawlat zadran to ross taylor Short ball outside off , left alone by Taylor . 35.5 4 dawlat zadran to ross taylor FOUR ! Taylor gets his birthday gift as the ball is slided down leg side , Taylor helps it to the fine leg fence for a boundary . 35.4 dawlat zadran to ross taylor Taylor gets an inside edge to mid-wicket . 35.3 dawlat zadran to ross taylor Pitched up on off , played back to the bowler . 35.2 dawlat zadran to corey anderson Fullish outside off , reaches for it and plays it to deep covers for a run . load more Story first published on : Sunday , 08 March 2015 01 : 41 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
