Refresh ! That 's all we have for today. Join us back tomorrow for the match between India and Ireland at Seddon Park , Hamilton at 0630 IST. Until then , goodbye and take care . ! MASHRAFE MORTAZA - Says that the team management has put a good effort and they were backing the players. Adds that Mahmudullah was tremendous and so was Rahim. Further adds that it felt nice for him to pick up wickets and Rubel also was really good. Says that his knee is okay but calf is a bit caught up . ! EOIN MORGAN - Says that they bowled reasonably well but were not upto the mark. Also says that they struggled since they arrived but they tried to fight their way and it was n't meant to be. They made changes when necessary as that was what they needed from a player in that position. They did not perform as a unit. Their expectations are a lot higher than how they performed. Says he has no idea what happens next. Adds that they picked guys who could play at the highest platform . ! MAHMUDULLAH ( Man of the Match ) - Says he is very impressed by the attitude of the boys. Everyone chipped in. Says that he batted well and Rahim too did a great job. Says they thought they were short by 15 runs. Back home it 's a big thing. Tamim is one of the best fielders they have and catches are put down and that 's how it is. Rubel bowled brilliantly and took us home . ! The middle order suffered a collapse but then Buttler and Woakes put on a 75-run stand to keep their hopes alive. Taskin scalped the all important wicket of Buttler and from there on everything went Bangladesh 's way. The seamers bowled well as they picked wickets at crucial junctures. Hossain was the pick of the bowlers picking up four wickets. Taskin and Mortaza played a brilliant hand as well as both of them picked two wickets each. Earlier is was a good batting effort from Bangladesh as they posted a good total on board courtesy Mahmudullah and Rahim and a decent contribution from Sarkar as well . ! What a win for Bangladesh as they clinch a last minute thriller to get through to the quarters. Chasing 276 , Bell started off fluently and so did Ali but Ali got run out and England suffered a setback there. Hales and Bell build on some momentum but that did not last long as Bangladesh came right back as they kept taking regular wickets in the middle overs . 48.3 W rubel hossain to james anderson OUT ! It 's all over ! Angles a full ball on middle and off , Anderson commits the same mistake as he looks to go on side and misses. The ball goes onto slam the off stump and all chances of England are also come to an end with that. Bangladesh through to the quarters and what a win they have achieved here. THEY WIN BY 15 RUNS . 48.2 0 rubel hossain to james anderson Fullish ball around off , Anderson looks to drive but gets an outside edge to second slip . ! James Anderson walks out to bat . 48.1 W rubel hossain to stuart broad OUT ! Castled ! Rubel gets hit third ! Angles a pitched up ball on middle and off , Broad looks to tuck it to the on side but is beaten completely by the line as the ball rockets through his off stump. 16 more required of 11 balls . load more Story first published on : Sunday , 08 March 2015 23 : 53 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
