World Cup 2015 : India Pacer Mohit Sharma Wary of 'Slog Overs ' Pressure World Cup 2015 : India Pacer Mohit Sharma Wary of 'Slog Overs ' Pressure India have already qualified for the quarter-finals after seeing off Pakistan , South Africa , the UAE and West Indies and a win over Ireland at Seddon Park on Tuesday will guarantee top spot in Pool B . Last updated on Monday , 09 March , 2015 09 : 32 IST Total Shares Mohit Sharma in action during World Cup 2015 . © Getty Images Hamilton : India seamer Mohit Sharma warned Monday that the defending World Cup champions ' razor-sharp attack will only be judged fully once they are exposed to a desperate , late innings assault . India have already qualified for the quarter-finals after seeing off Pakistan , South Africa , the UAE and West Indies and a win over Ireland at Seddon Park on Tuesday will guarantee top spot in Pool B . The pace trio of Mohammad Shami ( nine wickets ) , Umesh Yadav ( six ) and Sharma ( six ) have been instrumental in their team 's success , but Sharma is still braced for potential run gluts in the closing overs of matches . " We have performed well as a unit , " said the 26-year-old right-arm fast bowler . " But there is no limit to doing well , I feel that we have not faced the pressure of the slog overs and there is a lot to do. " Sharma said the shorter boundaries in New Zealand will not be a concern despite India having played all four games so far in Australia , at the major Test venues of Adelaide , Melbourne and twice in Perth . " It makes a little bit of difference in the mindset of the bowlers , " said Sharma . " You have to adjust your line and length but it 's the same for both teams. We do n't want to disturb our momentum by thinking that , so we will concentrate on our strengths. " Sharma is being utilised by captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni as a first change bowler once Shami and Yadav have had the early overs . " Shami and Umesh are bowling well with the new ball and putting on a lot of pressure. My job is to maintain that pressure . " I keep that pressure on so that spinners ( Ravichandran ) Ashwin and ( Ravindra ) Jadeja can take them on , " said the bowler , who was a late call-up to the squad to replace experienced paceman Ishant Sharma . Mohit , who has played just 16 ODIs , was generous in his praise of Ishant . " When I came in , Ishant helped me a lot. He told me what length to bowl with the new ball and then with the old ball. All of us share experiences with each other. " Sharma admitted India will have to play well to beat Ireland , who have six points from four matches and are also well-placed to make the quarter-finals , with the non-Test nation concluding their pool campaign against Pakistan in Adelaide on Sunday . " They played good games earlier , " said Sharma . South Africa , Pakistan and the West Indies are also in the hunt for a last-eight place from Pool B . Pakistan and South Africa have six points each from five games while the West Indies have four in five . " Ireland have a chance to qualify. They have a good team , " said Sharma. " We will have to play well to beat them , and we 'll try to do it. " Story first published on : Monday , 09 March 2015 07 : 15 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
