World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh Knock England Out , May Face India in Quarters World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh Knock England Out , May Face India in Quarters Bangladesh have knocked England out of the World Cup after registering a thrilling 15-run win at Adelaide. Bangladesh may now face India in quarters . Last updated on Monday , 09 March , 2015 18 : 34 IST Total Shares Mahmudullah scored his first ODI ton © Getty Images Adelaide : Bangladesh knocked England out of the World Cup with a sensational 15-run Pool A victory at the Adelaide Oval on Monday to make the quarter-finals. There is a good chance that they may face defending champions India in the next round. ( Scorecard | Highlights ) Mahmudullah scored 103 and brother-in-law Mushfiqur Rahim made 89 as the Tigers recovered from eight for two to post a challenging 275 for seven after being sent in to bat in overcast conditions. ( Standings ) England , needing a win to stay afloat after winning just one of their previous four Pool A matches , were bowled out for 260 as seamer Rubel Hossain claimed four wickets and wicket-keeper Rahim held four catches. ( India Aim for World Cup Record vs Ireland ) Ian Bell made 63 but England slipped to 163 for six before Jos Buttler ( 65 off 52 balls ) and Chris Woakes ( 42 not out ) briefly revived their hoped with a 75-run stand for the seventh wicket . But the dismissals of Buttler and Chris Jordan off successive balls in the 46th over turned the match Bangladesh 's way . " It was pretty poor , to be knocked out of the World Cup is unbelievably disappointing , " said England captain Eoin Morgan , whose side will bow out having failed to beat a Test nation at the tournament with their only win thus far against Scotland . " I 'm gutted , we 've struggled and fallen away since we arrived here. We wanted to get to the quarter-finals and from there fight through three games. " - Mortaza pride - Bangladesh players celebrate the fall of an English wicket . © Getty Images This was Bangladesh 's third win over England in their last four one-day internationals , including the two-wicket success in Chittagong during the previous World Cup four years ago . " I feel very proud , " said Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza , who led his side superbly in the field . " Mahmudullah scored his first hundred for Bangladesh , and Mushfiqur was also brilliant at the end . " I think Rubel Hossain will be very happy now as he picked up four crucial wickets. I 'm really happy for all those people back home who have wanted us to make it this far . " We had a good combination today , especially with the seven batsmen. They showed their guts today , and the bowlers then did a very good job. " Victory meant Bangladesh assured themselves of a place in the knockout phase even before their last pool match against co-hosts New Zealand , only the second time in five attempts they have moved beyond the first round , with the Tigers stunning India to move to the Super Eights at the 2007 edition in the Caribbean . England will return home after their closing 'dead ' league match against Afghanistan in Sydney on Friday . Mahmudullah and Rahim , who are brothers-in-law , put on 141 off 144 balls for the fifth wicket after Bangladesh were struggling at 99 for four in the 22nd over . Mahmudullah , who hit seven fours and a six in his maiden one-day international century , surpassed the previous highest individual Bangladesh score at a World Cup of 95 by team-mate Tamim Iqbal against Scotland in Nelson last week . Rahim 's 77-ball knock contained eight boundaries and a six . Soumya Sarkar , a 22-year-old left-hander playing only his fifth ODI , teamed up with Mahmudullah to retrieve the situation with an 86-run stand for the third wicket. He made 40 . Bell and Moeen Ali gave England a flying start with an opening stand of 43 off 44 balls when a messy run out cost them a wicket . Bell turned his back at the non-striker 's end as Ali charged down the wicket for a sharp single and failed to beat Sarkar 's throw to the wicket-keeper from mid-on . Alex Hales marked his first appearance in the tournament by helping Bell add 52 for the second wicket , before he was caught behind off skipper Mashrafe Mortaza for 27 . Rubel , returning for a second spell , broke England 's back with the wickets of Bell and Morgan ( nought ) in four deliveries to make it 121 for four in the 27th over . Bell 's 82-ball vigil , in which he hit seven fours , ended when he edged a catch to Rahim aiming towards cover . Morgan 's poor form in a tournament in where he managed just 90 runs in four previous games continued as he hooked Rubel to fine-leg where Shakib Al Hasan took a well-judged catch . England lost their third wicket in the space of 22 balls when James Taylor edged seamer Taskin Ahmed to Imrul Kayes in the slips after scoring just one run . The fourth ball at the start of the batting powerplay in the 36th over produced a wicket for Mortaza , who had a settled Joe Root ( 29 ) caught behind by Rahim . Story first published on : Monday , 09 March 2015 08 : 01 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
