World Cup : Punchbag Misbah-ul-Haq Rises Above Pakistan Trouble and Strife World Cup : Punchbag Misbah-ul-Haq Rises Above Pakistan Trouble and Strife Passionate fans demanding wins makes Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq 's job enormously tough. While defeats hurt , Misbah continues to be one of the leading figures in international cricket . Last updated on Tuesday , 10 March , 2015 10 : 25 IST Total Shares Misbah in action during World Cup 2015 . © Getty Images Auckland : What 's the toughest job in sport ? Managing the Brazil or England football team or coaching England 's cricket squad , for that matter ? For Pakistan 's Misbah-ul-Haq , the answer is simple -- it 's his position as captain of a team already dubbed " predictably unpredictable " by a rival coach at the World Cup . As well as two heavy defeats in their opening games in Australia and New Zealand , eight Pakistan players were fined for breaking a curfew , there were claims of a training ground bust-up while chief selector Moin Khan was sent home for visiting a Christchurch casino . Then there are the team 's millions of demanding fans back home . Frustrated by the absence of international cricket in the country because of the 2009 attack on the touring Sri Lanka team , and then embarrassed by the jailing in England of three players for corruption in 2011 , the captain is the punchbag of the Pakistan team . But in his five years in charge , 40-year-old Misbah has become Pakistan 's most successful Test captain . In one-day internationals , he has overseen victories over arch-rivals India -- in India -- and South Africa on their home turf . But if he scores runs and the team fails , he is the go-to target. If he does n't score and the team does well he is still the target . When Pakistan lost their opening games at the World Cup to India and West Indies , effigies of Misbah were burned in Lahore while , in the south-eastern city of Multan , a mock funeral was held for the team . " It 's one of the top five toughest jobs in the sporting world , " Misbah told AFP . " There are lots of expectations and when they are not fulfilled you get criticised , at times unnecessarily . " Every other day you suffer and it has a negative effect on the team as players get hurt , their families are affected and the team 's focus is distracted. " Captaining the Pakistan cricket team has always appeared to be mission impossible . When Javed Miandad was appointed captain in 1980 he faced a revolt from senior players who complained they had been over-looked. The same fate befell Wasim Akram in 1994 . Even Imran Khan , born in the same Punjab city of Mianwali as Misbah , was forced to leave after leading Pakistan to their one and only World Cup title in 1992 . In 1998 , Aamer Sohail did n't even turn up on the morning of a Test after differences with the Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) . Saeed Anwar was replaced as captain mid-way through a series two years later . - Toughest period - The pre-World Cup period was the toughest for Misbah , as his form slumped so badly that he withdrew from the third one-day international against Australia last October . Despite the PCB 's support -- announcing him captain until the World Cup -- there were doubts over whether or not Misbah would lead Pakistan at the tournament . " That was the toughest period of all , " recalled Misbah. " I was n't scoring runs and then I got injured. " Misbah 's position was threatened by the more popular Shahid Afridi , who he had replaced as one-day captain in 2011 , a year after his appointment as Test skipper in the post spot-fixing saga . That calamitous episode , on Pakistan 's tour of England in 2010 , saw Test captain Salman Butt and pace bowlers Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Aamer banned for five years. All were jailed . " I have always tried to avoid conflicts. After the spot-fixing fiasco , we needed stability and to avoid controversies. Obviously every player has his own mindset and a captain needs to be flexible to deal with that , " Misbah told AFP . " We needed solutions rather than leaving things unresolved and making them more complicated. My cool nature helped me otherwise it was tough to survive just for two days. " Apart from Misbah 's captaincy style , his slow batting in one-dayers once earned him the mocking nickname of " tuk-tuk " -- ( the Urdu phrase for the sound made when the ball comes off the bat when a defensive stroke is played ) . " I needed to stay at the wicket so I did n't play to my strengths. Whenever I went in to bat the team was under pressure , " said Misbah . The perception of Misbah as a pragmatic batsman was shattered with his 56-ball hundred in a Test against Australia in October -- equalling the record for the fastest hundred . Story first published on : Tuesday , 10 March 2015 09 : 22 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
