World Cup 2015 : India On Course to Retain the World Cup , Says Ravi Shastri World Cup 2015 : India On Course to Retain the World Cup , Says Ravi Shastri Five successive wins and India is brimming with confidence. Ravi Shastri believes that Team India is all set to retain the World Cup . Last updated on Tuesday , 10 March , 2015 16 : 02 IST Total Shares Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni after beating Ireland © Getty Images Hamilton : Pumped up by a remarkable unbeaten streak , the Indian cricket team 's Director Ravi Shastri today said the defending champions are well on course to lift the World Cup trophy for a second successive time . India thrashed Ireland by eight wickets to record their ninth consecutive win in the World Cup overall and fifth on the trot in the current edition to top pool B. ( Match Report ) " It 's a good position to be in especially given that from now on , every game is a knockout. Once you start winning , you enjoy and feel relaxed , it 's when you lose that you want to stay locked in the dressing room. Right now , the team is enjoying , they are playing football , they are a happy unit , " Shastri said. ( Dhoni Overtakes Ganguly ) Former Indian captain Sunil Gavaskar echoed Shastri 's views and credited the team 's bowlers for raising their game at the big platform . " The bowlers deserve all the credit. 50 wickets in five matches , it is a wonderful achievement. Lot of times , the batsmen tend to overshadow them and they do n't get credit but it is nice to see the bowlers getting some credit , " he said . Talking about India 's campaign , Shastri said said the side , which came into the tournament after a disastrous bilateral series against Australia , is quite confident of clinching the top honours . " We were never here to fill in the numbers. We are not going to give any chances to any of our opponents and we are going to lift the trophy , " he said . Story first published on : Tuesday , 10 March 2015 14 : 53 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
