Refresh ! That is all from this game. Do join us tomorrow for game 36 between South Africa and UAE from Westpac Stadium , Wellington at 0630 IST. Goodbye for now ! ! Sangakkara says that it was a pretty good game and it was important that they finished strong. The Scots fought hard but they managed to do the job in the end. He says he is happy to be doing what he is and when it is going well , it comes out nice. Sometimes , things fall into place and everything happens. Maybe he is doing some things right , making better decisions , being positive and whatever it is he is doing , he would like to hold on to it. He thinks that his boys are doing all the right things and they need to stay positive to continue with the results. The squad has been different from the start and it has been a strange World Cup for them with injuries and different people on the team. Would love to see his team on the last hurrah and he hopes it happens. He says he 'll concentrate on making it through to the semis and if he does that , he will have a bigger smile on his face . ! It has been a record-breaking match for Kumar Sangakkara. He became the first batsman to score 4 successive ODI hundreds. The first man to score 4 hundreds in a single World Cup , record number of dismissals for a keeper in a World Cups and maximum dismissals as a fielder in ODIs. Undoubtedly , the Man of the Match has to be KUMAR SANGAKKARA . ! A comprehensive win for Sri Lanka who have now moved to the second spot at least for the moment. This win was set up on the back of two brilliant hundreds from Dilshan and Sangakkara. Under lights , Malinga started the chase with a wicket in his very first over deceiving Coetzer with a slower ball. The scoring rate was always going to be an issue for Scotland who never got going. Preston Mommsen and Freddie Coleman showed some resistance with an 118-run stand but once that was broken , the Lankans finished the Scots pretty quickly to seal the deal . 43.1 W pathira vasan dushmantha chameera to josh davey OUT ! Edged and taken ! Back of a length on off , moves away and takes the outside edge of the bat that carries comfortably to Thirimanne who makes no mistake whatsoever. SRI LANKA WIN BY 148 RUNS . 42.6 lasith malinga to alasdair evans A slower full toss on middle , bunted straight to mid on . 42.5 lasith malinga to josh davey The batsman works it down the leg side. They pick up a single . 42.4 lasith malinga to josh davey Slower yorker on middle , Davey just about squeezes it back to Malinga . 42.3 lasith malinga to josh davey The batsman has lofted it over covers. Two runs added to the total . 42.2 lasith malinga to josh davey Drives it through the covers . load more Story first published on : Tuesday , 10 March 2015 23 : 39 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
