World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh Happy to Prove Critics Wrong World Cup 2015 : Bangladesh Happy to Prove Critics Wrong Bangladesh dumped England out of the World Cup 2015 to book their quarters berth . Last updated on Wednesday , 11 March , 2015 10 : 28 IST Total Shares Can Bangladesh upset another team in World Cup 2015 ? © Getty Images Bangladesh assistant coach Ruwan Kalpage believes his team have proved a point by reaching the World Cup quarter-finals and they now have Pool A winners New Zealand in their sights in Hamilton on Friday. ( Complete World Cup coverage | History | Stats | Schedule | Points Table ) The Tigers knocked England out of the World Cup with a hard-fought 15-run win in Adelaide on Monday and are likely to come up against defending champions India in the last-eight. ( South Africa still best team of the tournament , says AB de Villiers ) " When we arrived every game was important for us and I am pleased to see that we are already in the quarter-finals , " said Kalpage , a former Sri Lanka all-rounder. ( World Cup exit shines the light on England 's ODI woes ) " We have proved something and I think the boys have done their homework so we want to go unbeaten into the quarter-finals from the last game. " ( Rape claim against Bangladesh World Cup hero dropped ) But Kalpage admitted that New Zealand , who have five wins in five games , will be another major challenge. ( ' Bangladesh showed they have depth in team ' ) " The Black Caps are unbeaten at the moment but the boys are confident and ready. " ( Mahmudullah elated after 'special victory ' vs England ) Kalpage , himself a former off-break bowler , hoped the Seddon Park pitch will help the slow bowlers. ( Hobbling Mashrafe Mortaza inspires Bangladesh 's World Cup dream ) " In the sub-continent the wickets help spin and with some new talent coming into the Bangladesh team they are doing well in spin . " I played my second one-dayer and got my first wicket here so I am sure spinners will do well , " said Kalpage , who took 73 wickets in 86 one-day internationals for Sri Lanka . Kalpage admitted the current tournament was tough for bowlers as totals over 300 are becoming a regular occurrence . " Not only for Bangladeshi bowlers but it has been tough for all bowlers in this tournament , " said Kalpage . " We already have totals of 300 and more so I think when you come to watch cricket people like to see big scores and the top four score big hundreds. Only in some matches have the bowlers done well. " Kalpage agreed that removing New Zealand skipper and opener Brendon McCullum , who has three fifties in five games so far , will be key . " It will be tough for our bowlers but we have a plan for him. We want to see Brendon and Kane ( Williamson ) get out early , " said Kalpage , who also singled out left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori as a dangerman . " He ( Vettori ) has proved that he is the best spin bowler in the world , he has got 300 wickets so New Zealand are very happy to have him in the team after injury . " He is more effective against right-handers and we have a combination of left and right so it will be a good test for him going into the quarter-finals. " Story first published on : Wednesday , 11 March 2015 09 : 19 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
