ICC World Cup : Pakistanis Call me a Traitor as I Love Dhoni , says New Chacha ICC World Cup : Pakistanis Call me a Traitor as I Love Dhoni , says New Chacha The Pakistan-born and Chicago-settled new Chacha supports his country of birth whenever they are in action , but also has a sweet spot in his heart for India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni. And he is having to cop flak from Pakistani fans Down Under for this reason . Last updated on Wednesday , 11 March , 2015 11 : 29 IST Total Shares 'Chacha ' , a Pakistan cricket fan ( second from right ) is also a big admirer of Indian captain MS Dhoni. He has often been spotted in India 's matches . © Getty Images The original Chacha of Pakistan , Abdul Jalil Choudhry , has not been able to make it to this World Cup due to financial constraints , and his lookalike replacement here Mohammad Basheer , is almost wishing he 'd not come . The Pakistan-born and Chicago-settled new Chacha supports his country of birth whenever they are in action , but also has a sweet spot in his heart for India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni. And he is having to cop flak from Pakistani fans Down Under for this reason . Abused by countrymen " During the India vs Pakistan match in Adelaide , many Pakistani fans heckled me as I made my affinity for Dhoni public. Some of them even went on to abuse me and call me a traitor. That was very sad and depressing and made me wish I had not come here in the first place , " Basheer told mid-day at Seddon Park here just before the start of the India vs Ireland clash . Basheer has continued his World Cup tour only for the sake of Dhoni. " I love Dhoni because he is a wonderful human being. I was in India for the 2011 World Cup , and was struggling to get my hands on a ticket for the blockbuster India vs Pakistan semi-final. One Indian journalist , on learning of my predicament , sent a message to Dhoni , and the captain without even knowing who I am or meeting me , promptly sent me a match ticket , and I belonged to the 'opposition ' camp. Dhoni won me over with that gesture , " added Basheer , dressed in a special kurta and cap that has the Indian captain 's pictures all over it . 'Girls bring good luck' Basheer 's wife hails from Hyderabad , so he has an India connection there too. But Dhoni supercedes everything else . " Dhoni was recently blessed with a baby girl , and in our religion we believe that when a girl comes to your house , she brings a lot of good fortune. So , when I met Dhoni yesterday , just as he alighted from the team bus , I told him that , and he smiled and thanked me. Today 's match is also a sell-out and I did n't have a ticket but I did n't ask Dhoni . He found out and promptly sent across today 's match ticket through Mane Kaka ( Indian team masseur Ramesh Mane ) . He 's a gem of a human being and a good human being transcends all boundaries of caste , creed and nationality. India deserves to win this World Cup because of Dhoni , " added Basheer as he ran off to pose for a photograph with another India cricket legend , Sunil Gavaskar . Story first published on : Wednesday , 11 March 2015 09 : 57 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
