World Cup 2015 : New Zealand 's Middle Order Batting is a Weakness , Says Ricky Ponting World Cup 2015 : New Zealand 's Middle Order Batting is a Weakness , Says Ricky Ponting New Zealand are in smashing form and on home soil are favourites to win the World Cup. However , they have a few weakness that they need to cover for . Last updated on Wednesday , 11 March , 2015 13 : 33 IST Total Shares New Zealand 's middle order is weak : Ponting © Getty Images Hamilton : New Zealand 's rampaging performances at the World Cup have made them one of the favourites for the title but a host of former greats insist it wo n't be an easy ride . Former Australian captain Ricky Ponting , West Indian great Viv Richards and ex-England allrounder Ian Botham believe there are weaknesses in the co-hosts ' line-up which could be exploited in the knockout rounds . Ponting , who won the 2003 and 2007 World Cup titles as captain , sees a final on March 29 in Melbourne between New Zealand and Australia. ( Bring on the Beer , Says Brendon McCullum ) " New Zealand are a confident and well-balanced team and their record at home , as we know , is very good , they rarely lose here. They 're in good shape right now but if there 's any weakness at all it might be the middle-order batting , " said Ponting . Ponting , who retired from the game in 2012 , singled out Brendon McCullum and Kane Williamson as the men who matter for New Zealand . " If Brendon and Kane ( Williamson ) do n't get them off to a really good start there may be some chinks in the armour in the middle order. " ( Williamson Laid low by Gastro ) Ponting , whose 13,704 ODI runs are third behind India 's Sachin Tendulkar and Sri Lanka 's Kumar Sangakkara , praised McCullum 's captaincy , which he thinks , has helped New Zealand 's impressive progress in all cricket . " I think they have come a long way since Brendon has taken over , they seem a more confident and aggressive team. Anyone who knows Brendon knows what he 's like as a character so his leadership is rubbing off on the rest of the team. " Botham , playing alongside Ponting and Richards at a pro-am golf tournament on Wednesday , said New Zealand will face a stiff test if they come up against Australia in the final . " New Zealand are an excellent team , " said Botham. " I expect them to make the final and then they will play probably Australia at their home , which will be the real test for them . " But I do n't see why they ca n't go on and win it. Brendon is dynamic , he leads by example up front with not just his captaincy and his batting , but also his fielding. And that does have an effect on the rest of the team. They are more than capable of winning the World Cup. " Richards , who won the inaugural two World Cups with the West Indies in 1975 and 1979 , said New Zealand not having had any serious problems in the first round could hurt them . " I 've always felt that when you are in the preliminary rounds it 's important to have a little hiccup here and there to get back on the right track , " said Richards , who hit a hundred in the 1979 final . " You do n't want things to start going astray in the knockout stages. At the moment , though , the more you play and the more you win , that also helps to create confidence. With that , they could go and have a clean sweep as well. " Story first published on : Wednesday , 11 March 2015 12 : 25 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
