Glenn Maxwell Using World Cup as Gateway to Test Team Glenn Maxwell Using World Cup as Gateway to Test Team Glenn Maxwell , who has played one Test for Australia , says his rollicking form in the World Cup will take him closer to his dream . Last updated on Wednesday , 11 March , 2015 19 : 38 IST Total Shares Glenn Maxwell hit the fastest ton of World Cup 2015 - off 51 balls . © Getty Images Sydney : Having turned out in only one Test last year , Australia 's swashbuckling batsman Glenn Maxwell feels a successful World Cup campaign would help him get back his lost spot in the five-day format . The right hander 's only Test match outing in 2014 was against Pakistan in the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) . But he is now confident of a recall in the upcoming tours to the West Indies and England on the strength of his rollicking World Cup form . " The way I thought I was going to get back into the Test team was by playing really well during this World Cup and I am happy that I am going the right way , " Maxwell was quoted as saying by news.com.au on Wednesday. ( Maxwell Glad to Get Monkey Off Back ) Maxwell feels quite a bit of work is left to be done before he regains his place in the Test side. But Athe Victoria-born is quite sure that his current form will take him closer to his dream . " I still think I 've got a fair bit of work to do to prove I 'm ready to have another crack at Test cricket again. But when you 're not playing a lot of Shield cricket you 've just got to play as well as you can whenever you get the opportunity to play for Australia , " Maxwell said . Maxwell , however , said he has nothing to prove to the Australian public . " I have nothing to prove to my countrymen. The trust I have from my teammates is what I 'm looking to gain , and I 'm hopefully making big strides towards getting that. " The 26-year-old has been the standout batsman for so far this World Cup. His spectacular 51-ball century against Sri Lanka last week was the second fastest ton in the mega event . Story first published on : Wednesday , 11 March 2015 18 : 32 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
