Refresh ! That 's all we have for today. Join us back tomorrow for the matches between India and Zimbabwe at Auckland and Australia and Scotland at Hobart. Until then it 's goodbye and take care from us . ! EOIN MORGAN - Says it 's nice that they got a win. They have got a good squad of players and it 's important to realize they have n't clicked as a unit. Adds that for a couple of months now , when they have been poor , they have been very poor. They did not have that consistency that is required. Learnt a lot from the coach. They will sit down and would review as to why things have gone wrong . ! MOHAMMAD NABI - Says it was quite a task against the English bowlers and especially with the ball doing quite a bit. They bowled brilliantly. Adds that they have learnt a lot , how to play and how to cope with pressure. The win against Scotland is a good memory for the whole team. Lack of experience at the international circuit worked against them. Maybe some more matches during the year would have helped them . ! CHRIS JORDAN ( Man of the Match ) - Says that Jimmy and Broady set the platform for him. It was helpful as he got a bit of swing and assistance from the pitch. Not the best memories the other night ( the match against Bangladesh ) but nonetheless a win is a win today. Adds that if he can get his full game back on track he will play more games for England . ! The bowlers did not have much to bowl at. They were steaming in with pace and looked to bother them early on. A few dropped chances and sloppy work in the field did not help their cause as they were defending a low total. Hassan took the lone wicket of Hales. Early on , there was a brilliant display of bowling from the entire bowling unit as all of them came to the fore. Jordan was the pick of the bowlers as he scalped two wickets . ! England end their campaign with a consolation win. The openers started fluently and played some fearless shots upfront in the Powerplay. They scored at a brisk pace and kept playing their shots. Hales and Bell stitched up an 83-run stand before Hales got out to a beauty from Hassan. Bell went onto score his 35th half century and he along with Taylor took them home with ease . 18.1 1 mohammad nabi to ian bell Fullish ball on middle , Bell flicks it to mid-wicket and they cross for the winning run. England win comfortably by 9 wickets . 17.6 dawlat zadran to james taylor Back of a length ball on off , slapped to the off side . 17.5 2 dawlat zadran to james taylor Around off , Taylor slashes his bat as he gets an outside edge to third man for a couple . 17.4 dawlat zadran to james taylor Good length ball on off , Taylor gets in line and defends . load more Story first published on : Thursday , 12 March 2015 23 : 34 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS Related Articles
