World Cup 2015 : Magnificent Mahmudullah , the Heart of Bangladesh World Cup 2015 : Magnificent Mahmudullah , the Heart of Bangladesh Mahmudullah followed up his maiden ODI ton against England with an even better knock against New Zealand in a World Cup 2015 match on Friday. Passion defines Mahmudullah 's batting . Last updated on Friday , 13 March , 2015 14 : 57 IST Total Shares Mahmudullah celebrates after scoring a ton vs New Zealand in Hamilton . © Getty Images Kumar Sangakkara , AB de Villiers and Tillakaratne Dilshan are the top World Cup scorers so far. These are names that one usually associates with batting laurels. The fourth name on the list is not as famous but then sports has this uncanny habit of throwing up new heroes. Mahmudullah 's bat has done most of the talking for Bangladesh in 2015 World Cup. And how ! The only Bangladeshi batsman to score a century in a World Cup , Mahmudullah on Friday , bettered his own 103 against England by slamming 128 * against a determined New Zealand bowling attack in Hamilton. That this Kiwi attack was almost the same that ran through Australia and England in the tournament mattered very little to the 29-year-old gangling Mahmudullah , who can send the game 's best all-rounders green with envy on his day. ( Also read : Match report - Kiwis win nervy battle ; it 's India vs Bangladesh in quarters ) Coming in at No. 4 under an overcast sky in Hamilton , Mahmudullah had to endure the pace and bounce of Tim Southee and Trent Boult. While Southee had cut off the run flow from his end , Boult was running amok and had reduced Bangladesh to 27 for 2 inside 10 overs. Bangladesh , as expected , were reeling. In other words , Mahmudullah arrived in a pressure cooker situation . That he has a sensible head over broad and strong shoulders was evident once again. The Kiwis did everything pressure Mahmudullah. He took off where he left against England began his innings on a watchful note. He studied the gaps , worked out his singles and with Soumya Sarkar ( 51 ) , kept the scoreboard ticking. The pressure was easing off . Even when Sarkar pushed and pulled for the occasional boundary , Mahmudullah kept his natural instinct to attack in check for a while. All of that changes in the 14th over when he punished Boult for three boundaries - each shot more complete than the one before. As it turned out , the fours were only a sign of bigger things to come . While Mahmudullah hit five fours en route to a 63-ball 50 , he shifted gears thereafter and raced to a ton off just 111 balls. By then , he had dispatched another three fours , two sixes and a flying kiss towards fans , a bit like Virat Kohli ! The innings was a cornerstone in Bangladesh 's hunt for a respectable total not just because of the fluency shown but also because wickets kept tumbling at the other end. Once Sarkar left , Bangladesh lost Shakib-al-Hasan ( 23 ) and Mushfiqur Rahim ( 15 ) to brash shots. The eventual support of Sabbir Rehman ( 40 off 23 ) was crucial as it took the pressure of scoring quick away from Mahmudullah . His unbeaten knock eventually propelled Mahmudullah into the record books. Not only did he become only the second Bangladeshi to score back-to-back tons after Shahriar Nafees ( 2006 ) , he also became the team 's highest scorer in World Cup -- obliterating his own score against England . Mahmudullah also became only the third Bangladeshi batsman to post a hundred vs New Zealand in ODIs , joining Shakib ( 106 at Dhaka on October 14 , 2010 ) and Imrul Kayes ( 101 at Christchurch on February 11 , 2010 ) . His prowess is further described by the fact that he is the only Bangladeshi now to score in excess of 300 in a single edition of World Cup . With a spot in quarters assured , the Mymensingh-born cricketer can only improve further from here. It is a chance to not just sit with the greats of the game but even surpass them for more glory than what has already been achieved . Story first published on : Friday , 13 March 2015 11 : 29 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
