Eoin Morgan has 'No Regrets ' Over England World Cup Failure , Wants to Continue as Captain Eoin Morgan has 'No Regrets ' Over England World Cup Failure , Wants to Continue as Captain England lost four of six World Cup pool matches and failed to qualify for the quarter-finals . Last updated on Friday , 13 March , 2015 19 : 18 IST Total Shares Eoin Morgan-led England finished fifth in Pool A . Sydney : © Getty Images England captain Eoin Morgan said he had no regrets after his side failed to qualify for the quarter-finals of the World Cup and insisted he wanted to remain in charge. ( Full World Cup Coverage | Points Table ) Friday 's nine-wicket win over Afghanistan in a rain-marred match at the Sydney Cricket Ground came too late to get England into the knockout phase , with Monday 's 15-run defeat by Bangladesh in Adelaide ending their last-eight hopes . " There are no regrets , " Morgan said . " Absolutely not. We 've given it everything and certainly I have , " added the former Ireland batsman , whose last 11 ODI innings have yielded five ducks . Morgan was n't required to bat on Friday with England , after he won the toss in overcast conditions ideal for seam bowling , restricting Afghanistan to 111 for seven . They were then set a revised target of 101 to win in 25 overs and finished on 101 for one in 18.1 for the loss of opener Alex Hales , with Ian Bell unbeaten on 52 at the finish . Morgan , only appointed to the one-day captaincy on a full-time basis shortly before the tournament after England axed Test skipper Alastair Cook from their World Cup squad , said he wanted to continue as the team 's 50-over leader . " The hunger 's still there to captain , " said Morgan . " My experience as captain has made me a better player and better person. I 've learnt a lot about the team and my own performance , " he added . " There will be a review from here so , with regards the captaincy , the decision is out of my hands. " As for the quality of his squad , Morgan said : " The personnel we have are the right personnel. I 've no regrets , we 've given it everything. " - 'Right calibre ' - Asked if hew knew if any of the squad were planning to announce their ODI retirement , Morgan said : " I 've absolutely no idea . " We have n't got guys coming towards the end of their careers. I do n't see a reason to . " I think we have the right calibre of squad. The guys on the outside need to be banging down the door. " " It 's an easy thing to sit here while we are not doing well and say somebody outside the squad is better . " We considered everybody when selecting the squad. I still believe we had the right group of players here , " the 28-year-old added . England coach Peter Moores has come under fire for his role in the team 's latest World Cup debacle but Morgan said the players were the ones to blame . " It 's not fair , " said Morgan. " All the responsibility should fall on the players , particularly when we have performed so badly. " Friday 's victory in a 'meaningless ' match meant England finished the tournament having failed to defeat a Test nation , with their only other win coming against Scotland . " When we 've been poor , we 've been really poor , " admitted Morgan , with England having suffered thumping Pool A defeats by Australia ( 111 runs ) , New Zealand ( eight wickets ) and Sri Lanka ( nine wickets ) . " We need to find a way of scrapping to stay in the game. " Story first published on : Friday , 13 March 2015 18 : 04 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
