Australia 's Form Ahead of World Cup Quarters Pleases Michael Clarke Australia 's Form Ahead of World Cup Quarters Pleases Michael Clarke In what was a last Pool A match for both teams , Australia dismissed Scotland for just 130 at Bellerive Oval after Michael Clarke won the toss , with Mitchell Starc taking four for 14 to leave the left-arm paceman top of the tournament bowling charts with 16 wickets . Last updated on Saturday , 14 March , 2015 18 : 44 IST Total Shares Clarke is happy his team is shaping up well ahead of the quarters . © Getty Images Hobart : Australia captain Michael Clarke was a happy man after his side warmed up for next week 's World Cup quarter-final in Adelaide with a straightforward seven-wicket win over Scotland in Hobart on Saturday. ( Full Coverage ) In what was a last Pool A match for both teams , Australia dismissed Scotland for just 130 at Bellerive Oval after Clarke won the toss , with Mitchell Starc taking four for 14 to leave the left-arm paceman top of the tournament bowling charts with 16 wickets. ( Australia , India Win ; Now it 's Knife-Edge Sunday ) Australia , with Clarke making a run-a--ball 47 after he promoted himself to open in order to have some batting practice , finished on 133 for three in just 15.2 overs. ( Australia Rout Scotland to Take Second Place in Pool A ) " Our bowlers did a great job to bowl Scotland out , and our batters put the team first , " said Clarke . " It 's always nice to win -- I do n't think there 's any better preparation than winning. " ( Starc Looks to Carry on Sparkling Form ) As for Australia 's chances of winning a fifth World Cup title and first on home soil , Clarke added : " Now it 's the knockout stages. We need to play at our best and I think if we do , we can win. " For Scotland , their sixth straight loss of this tournament meant they 'd now been beaten in all 14 of their World Cup matches , a run spanning three editions . " We knew it was always going to be a tough game for us , and unfortunately it was n't to be , " said Scotland captain Preston Mommsen . " We take a huge amount of positives from the past six games , and we leave the World Cup a better team. " There was some consolation for the non-Test side in that Scotland seamer Josh Davey bowed out with an impressive 15 wickets at an average of just over 20 apiece . " We 're very proud of Josh Davey -- taking 15 wickets is an awesome achievement , " added Mommsen. " Our focus now turns to qualifying for the World T20. " Story first published on : Saturday , 14 March 2015 17 : 34 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
