MS Dhoni and Suresh Raina , India 's Super-Saver Combo MS Dhoni and Suresh Raina , India 's Super-Saver Combo Dhoni and Raina are both supremely talented batsmen , with very different styles and techniques , but put them together , when the team is under pressure and they become India 's 'super saver combo' . Last updated on Saturday , 14 March , 2015 20 : 44 IST Total Shares Suresh Raina and put on MS Dhoni an unbeaten 196 runs for the fifth wicket . © Getty Images On Saturday when India , chasing a stiff 288 were reduced to 92/4 , with the likes of Shikhar , Rohit and Virat back in the hut , some Indian fans might have felt a little uncomfortable , but not those who have been following Indian cricket for a while. After all , the next two names on the batting list were Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni - two of the best finishers in the modern era. When the team is in trouble , more often than not , you can expect either one of these batsmen to play a responsible knock or at least give it a good shot. Did you know that going by averages , Dhoni and Raina are the most successful batting pair ever in ODI chases ? They average a phenomenal 102.6. Dhoni and Raina have scored over 1000 runs in 18 successful run chases while batting together. ( Full World Cup Coverage | Points Table ) Individually , they are both supremely talented batsmen , with very different styles and techniques. Put them together , when the team is under pressure and they become India 's 'super saver combo. ' NDTV World Cup expert and former India captain Sunil Gavaskar had this to say about Raina after the 28 year old scored his first World Cup century on Saturday , " When he bats with Dhoni he is a different player. You can actually see him bulk up in the company of MS Dhoni. " ( Dhoni Hails India 's Ability to Handle Pressure ) The two are also very close friends and an integral part of the Chennai Super Kings franchise , for which they have also put on multiple match winning partnerships. When Dhoni and Raina came together on Saturday in Auckland , India still needed 196 runs in 27.2 overs vs Zimbabwe , but no one was really worried. Not just because their opponents fall in the 'minnows ' category , but also because , as long as these two are in the middle , India are in with more than a chance to win the game. ( Highlights | Match in Pics ) Their unbeaten 196 run stand ( Raina 100 * and Dhoni 85 * ) that took India home on Saturday was the highest stand for any wicket for India in a successful chase in a World Cup match. In the post match press conference , Dhoni said , " The knock by Raina was very crucial. Coming at number 5 , more often than not , you do n't get an opportunity. You go into bat in the 38th or 39th over if your top order is batting well and you have to slog it out , you play the big shots and you get out and you do n't score too many runs. " Gavaskar echoed that sentiment , saying , " It was good to see that he ( Raina ) carried on right till the end. Lots of times when you get a 100 , you are savouring the moment and you lose your focus a little and you get out , but Raina got his focus back very quickly and they finished the match off which is so important. " ( Dhoni 's Aura Bigger Than Sachin 's in Team India ) As a captain , Dhoni 's average is over 58 in World Cups and he has now completed a staggering 5000 runs in a winning cause in 145 matches. Raina 's average in World Cups is 71.5. Incidentally , his 110 * on Tuesday is his 2nd highest ODI score ever. Out of the 5 ODI centuries he has scored , four have been in a winning cause. Talking about the importance of getting runs under the belt Dhoni said , " When you get into the knockout stages , you want to have runs under your belt. Once you get going , it just gives you that good feeling which I feel is important in the knockout stages. " Dhoni 's finishing abilities of course have never been questioned. His knock of 91 not out and the stylish finish with a big six in the 2011 World Cup final will never be forgotten. However , what makes Dhoni 's presence in the middle all the more important is the effect he has on the others , whether while fielding or batting. NDTV World Cup expert and former Australian captain Ian Chappell said , " The team has great belief in Dhoni. He 's done this sort of thing , like he did in Auckland so many times before. He stays so calm and I think that just rubs off on the rest of the team who believe in the captain and when the players believe in the captain , good things happen. " 6 matches , 6 wins. All 6 opposition teams bowled out. Almost every key batsman in relatively good form , pacers firing. Just 3 wins now separate India from their 3rd ODI World Cup triumph. Good things have already begun to happen . Story first published on : Saturday , 14 March 2015 19 : 28 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
