World Cup 2015 : West Indies Crush UAE by 6 Wickets to Enter Quarters World Cup 2015 : West Indies Crush UAE by 6 Wickets to Enter Quarters Jason Holder took 4 for 27 as West Indies reduced UAE to 46/6 before they recovered to 175. West Indies chased down the target with almost 20 overs to spare . Last updated on Sunday , 15 March , 2015 16 : 44 IST Total Shares Jason Holder celebrates a wicket vs UAE in the World Cup © Getty Images Napier : West Indies made heavy work of their push for a World Cup quarter-final place before seeing off the UAE by six wickets as the group stage headed for a thrilling conclusion with three teams battling for the two remaining spots in the knockout round. ( Scorecard | Highlights ) They lost four wickets chasing their modest target of 176 , with Johnson Charles ( 55 ) and Jonathan Carter ( 50 not out ) the major contributors as the Test side sealed victory in the 31st over of their innings at Napier 's McLean Park . West Indies will now go through to the knockout phase after Pakistan beat Ireland comprehensively by 7 wickets at Adelaide . " I 'm extremely pleased with the way the guys came out and played , " said West Indies captain Jason Holder . " We needed to win by a certain margin. We had to show positive intent. We knew we had to finish the game inside 36 overs and we did it. " Earlier , a stubborn century partnership by Amjad Javed ( 56 ) and Nasir Aziz ( 60 ) guided the United Arab Emirates to 175 . Javed and Aziz put on 107 for the seventh wicket after the UAE were struggling at 46-6 . The West Indies , without injured opener Chris Gayle who failed to shake off a back injury , were indebted to Holder who took four for 27 , while Jerome Taylor had figures of three for 63 . But once Holder had used up his 10 overs , Javed and Aziz found the middle overs attack of Kemar Roach much to their liking . Aziz , in only his third ODI and not required to bat in the first two , looked very accomplished as he smacked eight fours in his 60 off 86 deliveries . Javed topped his previous best of 42 as he reached his first half-century and with Aziz he posted the equal fourth-highest partnership in the UAE 's ODI history after also putting on 107 with Shaiman Anwar earlier in the World Cup against Ireland . But once Aziz and Javed were dismissed the innings folded quickly with the last three wickets falling for eight runs . West Indies are now in line to face tournament co-hosts New Zealand at Wellington in a March 21 quarter-final . The winners of the Ireland-Pakistan match will be guaranteed a quarter-final spot in a fixture taking place almost eight years to the day since the Irish knocked Pakistan out of the 2007 World Cup . - Woolmer memories - It will be an emotional occasion for Misbah-ul-Haq 's team as that defeat in Jamaica was followed the day after by the death of their coach Bob Woolmer . " I remember Bob a lot , he contributed so much to Pakistan cricket , " said veteran batsman Younis Khan of the former England international . " I hope we can win this game and some more in the World Cup. There would be nothing better to dedicate to Bob 's memory. " Pakistan are on a roll after three straight wins , including a defeat of highly-fancied South Africa , after starting the tournament with two straight losses . Ireland have already beaten two Test nations at this World Cup in the West Indies and Zimbabwe but skipper William Porterfield tried to ease the pressure on his team by saying : " It 's just another game of the group . " Obviously result-wise it 's a key match , but you are still going to prepare like you do for each match. " Ireland produced a major upset with their three-wicket victory over Pakistan at Jamaica 's Sabina Park in 2007 but Porterfield , who played in that match , said another win on Sunday would be no shock . " Over the last eight years we 've obviously grown massively as a cricket-playing nation , " he said . " So I do n't think it will be as big surprise if we do go out there and win tomorrow as it would have been back in 2007. " Story first published on : Sunday , 15 March 2015 03 : 48 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
