World Cup 2015 : Jason Holder Looking Forward to Quarter-Final Clash with New Zealand World Cup 2015 : Jason Holder Looking Forward to Quarter-Final Clash with New Zealand The West Indies grabbed the fourth spot from Pool B with six points -- the same as Ireland. But the Caribbean side went through to the final-eight stage on better run-rate. They will face Pool A toppers New Zealand at the Westpac Stadium in Wellington . Last updated on Sunday , 15 March , 2015 20 : 28 IST Total Shares Ready to face the Kiwis : Jason Holder © Getty Images Napier : Following their cricket World Cup Pool B game win over the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) on Sunday , West Indies skipper Jason Holder is looking forward to their quarterfinal clash against New Zealand on March 21. ( Match Report ) The West Indies grabbed the fourth spot from Pool B with six points -- the same as Ireland. But the Caribbean side went through to the final-eight stage on better run-rate. They will face Pool A toppers New Zealand at the Westpac Stadium in Wellington. ( Holder Dismisses Talks of Rift in Team ) " New Zealand is obviously playing some very good cricket. We are looking forward to the clash against them , " he added. ( Windies Have the Team to Beat New Zealand : Lara ) Opting to bowl first on Sunday , the West Indies started with a bang as man-of-the-match Holder struck thrice in quick succession , removing UAE 's Andri Berrenger , Krishanchandran Karate and Amjad Ali . " I am extremely pleased with our boys about how we played the game. It was a must-win situation for us and we were able to accomplish it , " Holder said at the post-match presentation ceremony . " The ball came out really well for me at the start , also got some good bounce. I just concentrated on bowling in the right areas and that paid off pretty well , " the 23-year-old said after finishing with figures of 4/27 . Speaking about how the pitch behaved at the start of the innings , he said : " It was a bit slow , but I was happy to get some movement. " The skipper was well supported by pacer Jerome Taylor who claimed three for 36 . Story first published on : Sunday , 15 March 2015 19 : 19 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
