Angelo Mathews Banks on 'Home Support ' in World Cup 2015 Quarters Angelo Mathews Banks on 'Home Support ' in World Cup 2015 Quarters When Sri Lanka played tournament co-hosts Australia at the SCG during the pool stages , the vast number of supporters from local expatriate communities , as well as travelling fans , generated so much noise and colour it made the match seem like a home game for the Islanders . Last updated on Tuesday , 17 March , 2015 11 : 35 IST Total Shares Can Sri Lanka fans cheer their side to victory over South Africa in quarters ? © Getty Images Sydney : Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews hopes his side can feed off yet more passionate support from their fans come Wednesday 's World Cup quarter-final against South Africa in Sydney. ( Complete World Cup 2015 coverage | Who plays whom in quarters | Pics | Stats ) When Sri Lanka played tournament co-hosts Australia at the SCG during the pool stages , the vast number of supporters from local expatriate communities , as well as travelling fans , generated so much noise and colour it made the match seem like a home game for the Islanders . " If you play at the MCG ( Melbourne Cricket Ground ) or SCG it 's like playing at home , " Mathews told reporters at the SCG on Tuesday. ( Jayasuriya hails 'unbelievable ' Sangakkara ) " Most of the Sri Lankans across Australia or across the world , they fly into Sydney with immense support for us , and we really enjoy playing in Sydney. We 've been getting tremendous support wherever we played. " ( Sangakkara firm on retirement plans ) Sri Lanka have a fine record in knockout matches. The reigning World Twenty20 champions , they 've also appeared in the last two World Cup finals and won the tournament back in 1996 . By contrast , South Africa have yet to win a knockout match at the World Cup . Mathews said the key was to remain positive and not be overwhelmed by the fear of failure -- a criticism that has been levelled against South Africa . " I think that when you come to the knockout stages most of the things , most of the teams will think that you ca n't afford to do mistakes or you 'll be out of the tournament . " That kind of attitude is hard to get rid of. You have to play good cricket back ourselves and go out there and enjoy ourselves. " - 'History is history ' - Turning to the Proteas , he said : " We all know that South Africa are a very hard team to beat , especially in this tournament . " So the history , it 's history. You ca n't really take anything from it. " Should Sri Lanka lose on Wednesday it promises to be the last one-day international for batting greats Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara . Wicketkeeper-batsman Sangakkara has been in sensational form this World Cup and comes into the quarter-final having made a record four successive ODI hundreds . Jayawardene , who scored a hundred in a losing cause during the 2011 World Cup final against India , has had few chances this tournament since making 100 against Afghanistan . " We 've seen Kumar Sangakkara hitting four centuries in a row , and I hope and pray he gets the fifth one tomorrow , while Mahela is a big-match player , " said Mathews . " So hopefully we can win , go into the semis again , the final and win to make it an historic tournament for two legends. " But South Africa have an in-form batsman of their own in skipper AB de Villiers , whose last appearance at the SCG saw him score 162 not out -- off just 66 balls -- against the West Indies in the pool phase . " We all know he 's a destructive player , " said Mathews . " When he gets going , it 's really hard to stop him. So we 'll look to attack him early on. " Sri Lanka remain uncertain over the fitness of Rangana Herath , who suffered a finger injury against England , with the bowler 's left-arm spin likely to be effective on a SCG pitch renowned for taking turn . " He 's still fifty-fifty , " said Mathews. " He has n't had a bowl yet. The physio has to have a look at him once again today . " If he bowls at practice today he 'll be in contention for selection. If not , he wo n't be playing. " Story first published on : Tuesday , 17 March 2015 09 : 34 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
