Mohammad Irfan Exit From World Cup " Huge Setback " : Misbah-ul-Haq Mohammad Irfan Exit From World Cup " Huge Setback " : Misbah-ul-Haq Pakistan fast bowler Mohammad Irfan first felt the hip injury in the 129-run win over the United Arab Emirates two weeks ago when he bowled just three overs. On Tuesday , he was ruled out of the World Cup , days before the quarter-final against co-hosts Australia . Last updated on Tuesday , 17 March , 2015 14 : 39 IST Total Shares Mohammad Irfan in action for Pakistan during World Cup 2015 . © AFP Adelaide : Giant Pakistan fast bowler Mohammad Irfan was ruled out of the World Cup Tuesday because of a stress fracture to his pelvis , an injury which captain Misbah-ul-Haq described as a " huge setback " . ( Full World Cup Coverage ) The 32-year-old first felt the hip injury in the 129-run win over the United Arab Emirates two weeks ago when he bowled just three overs. ( Irfan Ruled out of World Cup With Hip Injury ) The seven-foot one-inch fast bowler played in the crucial victory against South Africa , taking three wickets , before missing Sunday 's game against Ireland which Pakistan won to secure their place in the last-eight . The injury is a major blow to the 1992 champions ' chances of defeating four-time winners Australia in the quarter-final at the Adelaide Oval on Friday. ( Standings ) " Irfan was one bowler who was different to all the others in the competition , " Misbah told AFP. " It is a huge setback for us but we have to live with it. " Irfan , at seven-feet one inch , the tallest man to play international cricket , took eight wickets in the five matches he played at the World Cup . His injury is the latest in a series of devastating setbacks suffered by Pakistan who have been stripped of an entire first-choice attack . " It 's difficult because we lost two bowlers to suspension before the World Cup , " said Misbah of ace spinner Saeed Ajmal and spinning all-rounder Mohammad Hafeez . " We also lost two good quality pacemen -- Umar Gul and Junaid Khan -- also to injury. Now just when we have started to perform well this injury hits us badly . " It 's a worrying sign for a captain but we have to find a way to handle this. " Junaid was announced in the 15-man squad for the World Cup but injured his leg at a training camp and was replaced by Rahat Ali . If Pakistan wins the quarter-final , it 's understood that Junaid will be called up as a replacement for Irfan . Before Irfan was ruled out of the rest of the tournament , former captain Wasim Akram told AFP that the player needed to work on his fitness . " Irfan is different , " said Wasim. " His body stretches more and needs careful handling . The Pakistan Cricket Board ( PCB ) earlier confirmed Irfan 's injury . " Irfan underwent an MRI scan on Monday afternoon and the radiologist 's report showed a stress injury of the pelvis but was inconclusive , " said a PCB release . Brad Robinson , the Pakistan team 's physiotherapist , ordered a more detailed scan , which was carried out Tuesday afternoon , and it reconfirmed a stress fracture in the pelvis . " This injury rules Irfan out of the World Cup , " said Robinson . Story first published on : Tuesday , 17 March 2015 13 : 31 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
