Virat Kohli 'Blown Away ' by 'his Love ' Anushka Sharma 's Performance in NH10 Virat Kohli 'Blown Away ' by 'his Love ' Anushka Sharma 's Performance in NH10 Virat Kohli perhaps got the right boost ahead of India 's World Cup 2015 quarter-final match against Bangladesh in Melbourne on Thursday by watching lady-love Anushka Sharma in NH10 . Last updated on Tuesday , 17 March , 2015 22 : 59 IST Total Shares Anushka went on cruise with Kohli and Team India ( Image courtsey www.indianlink.com.au ) © Facebook Virat Kohli took time off to watch girlfriend Anushka Sharma 's recently released film NH10 and was 'blown away ' by her 'outstanding performance'. Team India , which is preparing for Thursday 's World Cup 2015 quarter-final vs Bangladesh in Melbourne , will be eager for a similar show from Kohli with the bat . Kohli , known for his expression and passion for performance , was full of praise for Anushka , who he has been dating for sometime. Kohli expressed his thoughts over social media on Tuesday . Just watched # NH10 and i am blown away. What a brilliant film and specially an outstanding performance by my love @ AnushkaSharma . SO PROUD : ) — Virat Kohli ( @ imVkohli ) March 17 , 2015 Kohli and Anushka have openly talked about their relationship and want to excel in their respective fields. Kohli , in particular , has even got some bad press after he recently abused a journalist , apparently angry on a report involving him and Anushka. Kohli was reprimanded by the Board . ( Anushka , Kohli in Cruise Mode ) In an exclusive interview with NDTV , the Bollywood actress said it was " primitive " to call her a distraction for the Indian vice-captain 's poor performances in England last summer . " Why should I be responsible for Virat 's performance on the field ? " Anushka said while speaking to NDTV on March 9 . " It 's primitive to call me a distraction , " she added. ( Read Full Story ) Kohli will certainly like to emulate Anushka 's reel-life performance on the cricket field as India aim to defend the World Cup . Story first published on : Tuesday , 17 March 2015 21 : 07 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
