World Cup : Australia Count on Steep Bounce to Trouble Pakistan in Quarters World Cup : Australia Count on Steep Bounce to Trouble Pakistan in Quarters Australia coach Darren Lehmann said the four-time world champions will target the Pakistani batsmen with bouncers . Last updated on Wednesday , 18 March , 2015 16 : 48 IST Total Shares Lehmann said spearhead Mitchell Starc ( in pic ) has been outstanding and Mitchell Johnson is slowly inching towards his best . © AFP Adelaide : Ahead of their cricket World Cup quarter-final against Pakistan on Friday , Australia coach Darren Lehmann said it will be a " different story " for the Asians as they will face steep bounce at the Adelaide Oval wicket unlike those in the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) where they had beaten the four-time champions last year. ( Full World Cup Coverage | Fixtures ) " The wicket did not bounce at all in Dubai so you can say we will have three times as much bounce in Adelaide as Dubai where it did n't bounce above knee height. It is a totally different story which we are looking forward to , " Lehmann was quoted as saying by news.com.au on Wednesday. ( Pakistan Ready to Cope Without Irfan ) The comments were made after Pakistan cited the 2-0 Test series win , saying they know how to beat Australia. Pakistan opener Sarfraz Ahmed had said they are stocked with left-arm pacers and would not fear the opposition who have been conquered before. ( Ajmal Option Open Pakistan Reach Semis ) Lehmann countered by saying that spearhead Mitchell Starc has been outstanding and Mitchell Johnson is slowly inching towards his best . " Mitchell Starc has been outstanding and the bowler of the tournament and I have been really happy with Mitchell Johnson , the way he has come back. He is starting to hit his straps at the right time and looking good. Our attack is looking as good as theirs , " said Lehmann. ( Misbah Wo n't Reconsider Plans to Retire ) The 45-year-old , who had hit the winning runs in the 1999 World Cup final , said it will be a tough game on Friday and urged the fans to fill the stadium . " It will be a tough game. We are looking forward to some support , we want a packed house obviously and we need to bring our A-game as you do. The batting performances from both sides will be the key. " ( Afridi Wants Happy Ending to 19 Years of Ups and Downs ) He added the match would prove to be a fascinating contest as two good attacks will clash head-on . " They are going to be a really good side , have lots of tricks in their cupboard as we have. We are looking forward to two good attacks going at it. When you reach the knockout stages you have to perform well. Hopefully , the result goes our way against a quality side and we move on to Sydney , " he said. ( Australia vs Pakistan : Top-Five Battles ) Story first published on : Wednesday , 18 March 2015 15 : 36 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
