Wahab Riaz Spell was 'Nasty ' , Says Shane Watson After World Cup Clash with Pakistan Wahab Riaz Spell was 'Nasty ' , Says Shane Watson After World Cup Clash with Pakistan Wahab Riaz had a head-to-head fight with Shane Watson as Pakistan aimed to defend 213. The Australian all-rounder considered himself 'lucky ' to have survived the spell . Last updated on Friday , 20 March , 2015 20 : 35 IST Total Shares The Wahab Riaz - Shane Watson duel © Getty Images Adelaide : Shane Watson admitted he was fortunate to escape Wahab Riaz 's classic spell of intimidatory , eyeball-to-eyeball fast bowling in Friday 's World Cup quarter-final between Australia and Pakistan . Watson ended the game on an unbeaten 64 off 66 balls but he was dropped on four by Rahat Ali at fine leg off a 145kmh Riaz bouncer as the veteran Australian all-rounder was under physical siege. ( Australia Beat Pakistan ) Riaz charged in , peppering the batsman with a series of short-pitched deliveries and sarcastically applauding and even blowing the 33-year-old a kiss at one stage . " Wahab gave it everything , he was right on the money and there were some really nasty balls in there , " said Watson , after his team 's six-wicket win at the Adelaide Oval which set up a semi-final clash against defending champions India. ( Vulnerable Australian Batting Good Sign for India : Laxman ) " I was lucky to get through that spell. " Riaz finished with two for 54 but he should have had more wickets , with Sohail Khan displaying similar butter-fingers to Rahat when he dropped Glenn Maxwell late in the innings . " ( Rahat Ali 's dropped catch ) was a crucial moment. We would have had Watson and a wicket to put more pressure on Australia , " Riaz told Sky Sports. ( Wahab Riaz Spell Australia Gasping ) " We watched how the Australia guys play and had a chat before the game and put plans in place. I knew Watson was not so good with short balls so I knew I had to attack. The plans were successful at times but unfortunately we could not win the game. " Pakistan skipper Misbah-ul-Haq hailed the fiery Riaz . " He bowled his heart out and was a different kind of bowler throughout this tournament. I have never seen a bowler bowling like that and if that catch had been taken who knows what could have happened ? , " said Misbah . Story first published on : Friday , 20 March 2015 19 : 27 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
