World Cup 2015 : Rohit Sharma is a Beautiful Player , Says Martin Crowe World Cup 2015 : Rohit Sharma is a Beautiful Player , Says Martin Crowe Rohit Sharma , who had just managed 159 runs in six ICC World Cup 2015 games before the quarterfinal , stroked a calculative 137 to help India thrash Bangladesh by 109 runs . Last updated on Friday , 20 March , 2015 22 : 24 IST Total Shares Rohit Sharma slammed his 7th ODI ton at MCG vs Bangladesh . © Getty Images Sydney : Impressed with Rohit Sharma 's match-winning ton against Bangladesh , former New Zealand captain Martin Crowe said that the top-order batsman is a beautiful player who did the basics right at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Rohit , who had just managed 159 runs in six ICC World Cup 2015 games before the quarterfinal , stroked a calculative 137 to help India thrash Bangladesh by 109 runs . Crowe was mesmerized with the batsman 's maiden World Cup century . " I liked the way he played straight , he did play a solid hand. Shikhar Dhawan has been the one that 's playing more aggressive through this campaign , we 've talked about Rohit , who 's unclear and he delivered because he laid a foundation. He 's a beautiful player , he did basics very well and then he was able to capitalise when the field obviously started to spread , " Crowe said in an interview. ( Vulnerable Australian Batting a Good Sign for India , Says Laxman ) Rohit paced his 126-ball knock beautifully to help India manage 302 for six after electing to bat first. Crowe , who led a memorable New Zealand campaign in the 1992 World Cup when they lost steam in the semi-finals , was impressed with Rohit 's " assured " knock . " I mean he stroll up by playing straight , I thought his feet moved nicely , he was looking obviously to check it out maybe to get the run rate going . " But once those three wickets fell and he hit ( Suresh ) Raina at the other end he really lifted the energy , he just got better and better , in fact he went through the gears beautifully , got on to sixth gear at the end and that 's what you 've got to do when you 're an opening batsman , you get in , you 've got to make the most of it , " he said. ( Australia Firm Favourites vs India in Semis ) Talking about the controversial no-ball that gave Rohit a life on 90 runs , Crowe was clear that technology 's help should have been sought by on-field umpires Aleem Dar , who was at the striker 's end and gave the call , and Ian Gould at square leg . " Well I think as a batsman , you know , your reaction to the ball on a split second , so you know , Rohit Sharma was obviously trying to capitalize on what looked like a juicy full toss , but the fact is that he was caught on it , was below the waist and all it would take was for the umpire to say - " Can we just check this ? " , " opined the classy batsman , who is now fighting a brave battle with cancer. ( Dhoni 's Brave Captaincy Key to India 's Success in World Cup 2015 , Says Kapil Dev ) " There is nothing wrong with making the decision square leg or indicating to Ian Gould at the striker 's end that he thinks it is a no ball but try and check , takes five seconds and to me that could be 15 , 20 runs went , " he added. ( We Will Have to Bat Better vs India in Semis , Says Clarke ) Story first published on : Friday , 20 March 2015 21 : 19 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
