World Cup 2015 : Inzamam-ul-Haq Labels Misbah-ul-Haq as 'Defensive ' Skipper World Cup 2015 : Inzamam-ul-Haq Labels Misbah-ul-Haq as 'Defensive ' Skipper Pakistan went down by six wickets against Australia in Adelaide , a defeat which exposed the weaknesses of the players and the domestic system . Last updated on Saturday , 21 March , 2015 17 : 23 IST Total Shares Misbah was defensive as a captain : Inzamam © Getty Images Adelaide : Former Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq on Saturday said that Misbah-ul-Haq was a defensive skipper in their entire cricket World Cup campaign and lacked aggression like the legendary Imran Khan . " For Misbah , it was a disappointing ending to his One-Day International ( ODI ) career. He remained a defensive captain and seldom showed aggression. He consumed too much time to take decisions like ignoring Sarfraz Ahmed for the first four successive pool matches , " Inzaman wrote in a column for International Cricket Council 's ( ICC ) website. ( Pakistan Batting vs Australia Awful ) " Had he showed some more aggression , like Imran Khan did in the twilight of his career , it would have been more beneficial for Pakistan. " A spirited Australian side on Friday beat Pakistan by six wickets to book a place in the semifinals where they will face India at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Thursday. ( Pakistan Pin Hopes on Struggling Next Generation ) Inzamam said the only consolation for Pakistan against Australia was a magnificent spell of fast bowling by Wahab Riaz . " The only consolation for Pakistan was a magnificent spell of fast bowling by Wahab Riaz who bowled one of the most lethal spells of left-arm fast bowling I have seen for a long time in international cricket , " Inzaman said . " The way Wahab tested Shane Watson with a barrage of short-pitched deliveries , it reminded me the fiery days of Wasim Akram , Waqar Younis and Shoaib Akhtar. Who knows what the result could have been had Rahat Ali caught Watson and Sohail Khan did n't drop Maxwell. " ( Fantastic Four of Cricket World Cup ) The 45-year-old pointed out that " if a team 's batting line-up crumbles on a batting paradise , do n't expect bowlers to bail you out in big matches " . " It was painful to watch the irresponsible attitude of Pakistan batsmen. After playing so many years of international cricket , they still do n't understand the meaning of 'rotating the strike ' , it simply hurts a lot. Our batsmen play so many dot balls that in sheer frustration they go for airy shots and good fielding units like Australia does n't miss out on its catching chances , " the former skipper said . " Misbah , Haris Sohail , Umar Akmal , Shahid Afridi and Sohaib Maqsood all fell to rash strokes and the blame squarely lies on them rather than the brilliance of the bowlers. " The right-handed batsman also felt sorry for Shahid Afridi who also played his last ODI. Afridi took just two wickets and scored 116 runs in seven Cup games . " I feel sorry for Shahid Afridi playing in his last World Cup. Afridi seemed to have lost bite in his bowling and those leg-spinners , which used to trouble batsmen around the world when he was at his best , were hard to spot out in this World Cup , " Inzamam said . Story first published on : Saturday , 21 March 2015 16 : 15 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
