Cricket World Cup : West Indies Pay Price for Inconsistency , says Jason Holder Cricket World Cup : West Indies Pay Price for Inconsistency , says Jason Holder The class of 2015 fell well short of the standards set by proud West Indies teams of the past which have twice won the World Cup. The Jason Holder-led team crashed out of the tournament after a sound defeat in the hands of New Zealand on Saturday . Last updated on Saturday , 21 March , 2015 17 : 25 IST Total Shares Holder was left ruing his team 's inconsistent performance . © Getty Images Wellington : West Indies have their own inconsistencies to blame for being bundled out of the World Cup in the quarter-finals , captain Jason Holder said following their 143-run trouncing by New Zealand. ( Full Coverage ) The class of 2015 fell well short of the standards set by proud West Indies teams of the past which have twice won the World Cup. ( Hplder Wants to Remain West Indies Captain ) They were the last team to qualify for the play-offs and in their first sudden-death match in Wellington on Saturday they were all out for 250 in the 31st over after New Zealand had posted an imposing 393 for six . The New Zealand innings was set up by a remarkable World Cup record 237 not out by Martin Guptill , the second highest ODI score ever , but Holder said that would not have happened under a better West Indies side . " It was obviously a good innings. He took the game away from us. But we put him down early and we had a few half chances which we could probably have taken , " Holder said after seeing Marlon Samuels drop Guptill when the opener had made just four . " I think we need to respond a little bit better when we 're bowling at the death. We did n't really land our yorkers and we paid for it. " Holder said the performance was typical of the way the West Indies had played throughout the tournament , winning three and losing three pool games . " We 've had some good games , we 've had some bad games. Our bowlers have to be a lot more consistent than they are at the moment. " The 23-year-old Holder was a surprise choice to lead the West Indies , taking over from Dwayne Bravo who along with Kieron Pollard was dropped for the World Cup following the players ' strike during their India tour last year . Throughout the tournament he was dogged by suggestions that he did not have the support of senior players Against New Zealand former captain Darren Sammy and the experienced Suleiman Benn appeared to be giving directions on the field which Holder dismissed as being part of a team effort to achieve a breakthrough . " Sammy 's obviously a senior player , Benn is also a senior player. We always try to get input from everybody and just try to get the best field for the batsmen at a particular stage of the game . " I 've been through a lot. There 's been a lot of criticism thrown left right and centre , all over the place . " I 'm proud of myself for the way I stood up. I 'm not one to shy away from responsibility or dip my head when things get tough. I expected it was a tough job when I accepted the captaincy . " But we 've had some good times and I 've learned a lot in how to manage our players and get the best out of them. " Story first published on : Saturday , 21 March 2015 16 : 15 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
