West Indies Bowling Rubbish of World Cricket , Brian Lara Fumes After World Cup Exit West Indies Bowling Rubbish of World Cricket , Brian Lara Fumes After World Cup Exit The West Indian bowling was ransacked by Martin Guptill who went on to record an unbeaten double hundred. The lackluster show from Jason Holder 's men has left their former great Brian Lara fuming . Last updated on Saturday , 21 March , 2015 19 : 17 IST Total Shares Lara and Chappell were critical of West Indies ' bowling . © Getty Images West Indies crashed out of the World Cup after slumping to a heavy defeat to New Zealand at Wellington on Saturday. Martin Guptill scored a record unbeaten 237 to pile up 393 for six and put the Windies out of cricket 's mega event. ( Full Coverage ) The West Indian bowling was ransacked by Guptill and their lackluster show has left their former great Brian Lara furious. ( Holder Blames Windies Inconsistency for Exit ) Talking exclusively to NDTV , Lara expressed his disgust and said , " The West Indies bowling is the rubbish of world cricket. " The former Windies skipper acknowledged that New Zealand were too strong for them but questioned West Indies ' mentality for giving up so early in the contest . " New Zealand were very strong but West Indies never showed up " , said Lara , " the minute things got tough , the team threw in the towel. " Ian Chappell too , was saddened by the fall of the West Indies team . " It is sad to see the West Indies playing like this " , said the former Australian skipper , " Over the years every team has taken a hammering from the Windies but now , everyone is sad to see them go down. " Lara though , was furious with the entire team. He pointed out that three of the six double hundreds in ODI cricket have come against the West Indian bowling attack and recently , even the fastest hundred was slammed by AB de Villiers against them . Not only the bowlers , Lara was equally critical of the batsmen . " The batsmen played terrible shots , " said the Trinidadian , " none of the senior players stepped up. I am very disappointed with the effort. " Talking about Guptill 's effort , Chappell too pointed fingers at the West Indian bowling , " Full credit to Guptill for playing such a knock but you ca n't score so many unless the opposition bowling helps you. " West Indies cricket has been in the doldrums for some time now. There 's a serious lack of quality and the West Indian board has done precious little to revive the waning super-power in world cricket. The players and the board have been at logger-heads for some time now and this World Cup exit has raised some difficult questions about the future of the men from the Caribbean . Story first published on : Saturday , 21 March 2015 18 : 09 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
