India vs Australia , World Cup Semifinal : Glenn Maxwell Wants SCG to be Green and Mean India vs Australia , World Cup Semifinal : Glenn Maxwell Wants SCG to be Green and Mean Glenn Maxwell believes home field advantage could be key as co-hosts Australia look to end India 's seven-match winning streak in World Cup 2015 , an impressive run which has seen them bowl out the opposition in every match . Last updated on Sunday , 22 March , 2015 08 : 45 IST Total Shares Glenn Maxwell wants fans in Sydney to back home team against India in the World Cup semifinal . © Getty Images Sydney : Australia batting star Glenn Maxwell wants the Sydney Cricket Ground to be mean and green for Thursday 's World Cup semi-final against India despite the pitch 's reputation as a spinners ' paradise. ( Complete coverage of World Cup 2015 ) Maxwell believes home field advantage could be key as the co-hosts look to end the defending champions ' seven-match winning streak at the tournament , an impressive run which has seen them bowl out the opposition in every match. ( All eyes on Mitchell Starc in Australia vs India battle ) " Hopefully we get a fast one ( pitch ) . It has been a pretty good wicket this year and hopefully there is a bit of grass there as well , " said Maxwell , who is desperate for a track which will play into the hands of an attack which boasts fast bowlers Mitchell Starc , Mitchell Johnson and Josh Hazlewood. ( Related : Clarke wary of resurgent India ) India have a woeful record at the SCG where they have triumphed just once in 14 ODIs against Australia -- with their only win coming back in 2008. ( Related : Do Aussies lack a world-class spinner ? Yes , says Ian Chappell ) " They have n't won a game against us all summer , hopefully we can make the most of that , " said Maxwell in reference to Australia 's dominance in the Test and ODI series which preceded the World Cup . " Hopefully that is pretty clear in their memories. We 've been dominant all summer in the ODI format. Hopefully we can continue that. " Story first published on : Sunday , 22 March 2015 07 : 36 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
