World Cup 2015 : New Zealand Coach Mike Hesson Says Best Four Deserve to be in Semis World Cup 2015 : New Zealand Coach Mike Hesson Says Best Four Deserve to be in Semis New Zealand were the last confirmed semi-finalists and will face South Africa in the semis. India will take on Australia in the second semifinal of World Cup 2015 . Last updated on Sunday , 22 March , 2015 11 : 30 IST Total Shares New Zealand coach Mike Hesson during a training session for his players . © Getty Images Auckland : There can be no argument about the make up of the World Cup semi-finals , with the best four teams still alive , New Zealand coach Mike Hesson declared Sunday . New Zealand were the last confirmed semi-finalists when Martin Guptill 's stunning 237 not out set up a lop-sided 143-run victory over the West Indies in Wellington on Saturday . They meet South Africa in Auckland on Tuesday in the first semi-final with Australia playing India in the second semi-final two days later in Sydney . New Zealand 's demolition of the West Indies was hailed in the local news media , led by calls from one radio station for a national holiday next Tuesday so the whole nation can watch their semi-final against South Africa . But while the New Zealand fans celebrated their side getting through to the semis , and extending their unbeaten run to nine matches , coach Hesson said they deserved to be among cricket 's ODI elite . " The best four teams are in the semi-finals and I do n't think many people could disagree with that , " he said Sunday as New Zealand flew to Auckland for their showdown with South Africa . " South Africa on their day are exceptional , ( but ) put them under pressure and see what happens . " The two sides are playing good cricket and it 's going to be a heck of a show. " Hesson said New Zealand were " confident as a group " and he rated Guptill 's heroics with the bat against the West Indies as one of the finest innings he had seen . " The way he paced the innings by setting the tone early , playing straight , adapting to the conditions and timing everything from ball 30 on. It was pretty surreal , " he said . " There were a lot of high fives and huddles ( in the team room ) . It was an amazing innings which we were immensely proud to watch. " In addition to Guptill 's 237 , the highest score ever in a World Cup match , a four-wicket haul for Trent Boult and an outstanding leaping catch by Daniel Vettori were significant elements in the win over the West Indies . Vettori , the elder statesman of the New Zealand side , had to take a lot of ribbing from his teammates for the way he hurled his 1.91 metre ( 6ft 3in ) frame into the air to pull off a remarkable one-handed catch that removed Marlon Samuels . " I did n't think 36-year-olds could jump that high , " Hesson quipped . " From our point of view , I thought it was going over ( the boundary ) and he 'd made a bit of a token jump , but obviously there was more to it. " Story first published on : Sunday , 22 March 2015 10 : 23 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
