News World Cup 2015 Semi-finals , SWOT Analysis of Team New Zealand : The Kiwis Set to Fly into the Finals World Cup 2015 Semi-finals , SWOT Analysis of Team New Zealand : The Kiwis Set to Fly into the Finals New Zealand are in red hot form and look all set to make their first entry to the ICC World Cup finals. However , against a strong South African side , the job wo n't be that easy . Last updated on Sunday , 22 March , 2015 14 : 58 IST Total Shares Black Caps believe they can win © Getty Images New Zealand are the flavour of the season. The entire cricket world has been smitten by the fire-brand cricket they have put on display this World Cup. They have been in supreme form and have stormed their way into the World Cup semi-final - the sixth time in World Cup history ! ( India , New Zealand Level With Seven Wins ) However , the Kiwis have never gone past the semi-finals ever and this time against South Africa , it would be a tall order. AB de Villiers and his men are in sound form and after registering their first win in a World Cup knockout game , look charged to wipe out the disappointments of their past. ( Guptill Calm About Ease of Kiwi Win ) The teams are of equal strength but there are a few cracks in both teams that could be the decisive factors in such a evenly matched game . Here 's a SWOT analysis of Team New Zealand. ( Job 's Not Over Yet : Martin Guptill ) Strengths New-ball bowling The new-ball bowling has to be New Zealand 's biggest strength. The duo of Tim Southee and Trent Boult have combined brilliantly and their opening bursts have left the opposition reeling. They can swing the ball at pace , both ways , and with two new balls at each end , the right and left hand combination has been a nightmare for the opponent top order. ( Guptill Stuns Rahul Dravid ) Opening batting McCullum and Guptill : The opening threat © Getty Images Up top , Brendon McCullum and Martin Guptill have been devastating. If Southee and Boult have wreaked havoc with the new ball , McCullum and Guptill have got the Kiwis off-the-block with blazing starts. McCullum has been his attacking self while , Guptill has found a new dimension to his batting. He has struck form at the correct time and with a record-breaking double ton against West Indies , looks to be a serious threat . Leadership Brendon McCullum is n't just the captain of this side , he 's a leader and that has been New Zealand 's biggest strength. McCullum has galvanized a solid Black Caps unit into a world-beating one. He 's not only their leader , but also the real box-office player in the team - the player with the x-factor for the big matches. He believes in leading from the front and his philosophy is simple - attack ! He has instilled his attacking instincts with the bat into his captaincy and that has rubbed off onto his team. Result - New Zealand look a lethal unit . Weakness Kane Williamson has n't set the stage on fire © Getty Images Kane Williamson was supposed to be the star of this World Cup but up until now , he has n't set the stage on fire. He has played the odd good innings. He has been in good touch and got the starts but has failed to convert them into substantial scores . Ross Taylor , as usual , has n't lived up to his billing. Batting at four , he has been involved in a few partnerships but individually has n't produced the 'big one'. Grant Elliot has been played a few entertaining cameos while Luke Ronchi and Corey Anderson have been big letdowns . The third seamer Here 's a major weakness for New Zealand. After the opening bursts from Southee and Boult , Adam Milne has failed to keep the pressure on. Even Mitchell McCleneghan , who played an odd game , failed to provide the same thrust as that of the opening bowlers . None of the teams have been able to take advantage of this weakness because they have lost way too many wickets up front. If the South African top-order can see through the opening spell of Boult and Southee , New Zealand might find themselves with a real job in hand during the middle overs . Opportunity South Africa 's middle order has n't clicked © Getty Images Although , South Africa have posted a few big totals , their batting has shown scary vulnerabilities against top bowling units. India had them fending while against Pakistan , they crumbled like a cookie. New Zealand will look to remove Hashim Amla early and get into that middle order that has often floundered. Quinton de Kock , despite his fifty against Sri Lanka , is out of sorts , while David Miller and JP Duminy are yet to become the pillars in that middle-order. The South Africans are heavily dependent on Hashim Amla and AB de Villiers and if the captain misfires , they look lost especially while chasing a big target . Home ground advantage Another massive opportunity for New Zealand lies in their making the most of home ground advantage. The Kiwis have played all their games in their backyard and are used to the conditions better than anyone. At Eden Park in Auckland , the Kiwis can actually blunt South Africa 's biggest weapon - Imran Tahir. The Pakistan-born leg-spinner has been in prime form but on a ground with short boundaries , McCullum and Anderson could take him to the cleaners . Threats Imran Tahir will be South Africa 's key man © Getty Images AB de Villiers Playing against a South African side is always a tough ask. However , this Proteas unit is not as well balanced as it used to be over the years. However , they do have AB de Villiers in their ranks. With the bat the South African captain can change the course of any game , at any time , single-handedly. His captaincy was under the scanner after the initial setbacks against India and Pakistan , but now , after breaking the World Cup jinx , AB seems to have rejuvenated this Proteas unit . Imran Tahir South Africa have a fabulous pace attack with Dale Steyn , Morne Morkel and Kyle Abbott running in at 140 clicks an hour. But the Kiwis can handle pace and so can a few other teams. That 's why this World Cup , their secret weapon has been a leggie. Imran Tahir has provided the Proteas with the edge that they have always lacked at major competitions for years. All this while , the Proteas used their spinners to stifle the runs but with Tahir , they are looking for wickets . New Zealand 's middle-order is a touch wobbly and is not known to be great players of wrist spin. Although , the smaller ground might go against him but Tahir has to be the key man for AB de Villiers if the Proteas want to brush aside this extremely efficient Kiwi unit to make it to their first World Cup final . Story first published on : Sunday , 22 March 2015 13 : 33 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
