Cricket World Cup : New Zealand , South Africa Eye End to Years of Pain Cricket World Cup : New Zealand , South Africa Eye End to Years of Pain New Zealand have lost all six of their previous World Cup semi-finals , with South Africa falling at the same hurdle on three occasions . Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 16 : 50 IST Total Shares New Zealand team in action during World Cup 2015 . © Getty Images Auckland : New Zealand and South Africa clash in the World Cup semi-finals at Auckland 's Eden Park on Tuesday hoping to end years of pain and near-misses. ( Full World Cup Coverage ) Both sides , who between them have appeared in nine semi-finals without reaching the final , have met expectations by making the last four . Lying in wait will be the winner of Thursday 's second semi-final in Sydney between India , defending the title they won in 2011 , and Australia , who lifted the three preceding World Cups . New Zealand have lost all six of their previous World Cup semi-finals , with South Africa falling at the same hurdle on three occasions . But New Zealand coach Mike Hesson said he did not expect either side to be weighed down by past failures . " I do n't think there 's any baggage with anyone , " he insisted. " It 's a one-off game and we 're all desperate to be at the big party and I 'm sure we 'll both turn up . " Two sides are playing good cricket and it 's going to be a heck of a show . " Their one common opponent in the tournament has been the West Indies , who South Africa clobbered in pool play by 257 runs after batting first and posting 408 for five . New Zealand beat the West Indies by 143 runs in a Wellington quarter-final on Saturday after scoring 393 for six on the back of Martin Guptill 's World Cup record 237 not out . South Africa emerged from their quarter-final against Sri Lanka with an overwhelming nine-wicket victory as they moved to dispel talk they are " chokers " . ( World Cup 2015 Semi-finals , SWOT Analysis of Team New Zealand : The Kiwis Set to Fly into the Finals ) Afterwards , defiant Proteas skipper AB de Villiers said : " I think we like being called chokers. We 'll just keep that tag and move along , as long as we keep winning. " And the star batsman was adamant that , whatever else happened , his side would not crack under pressure . " We are committed to the fact that we 're not going to show any weakness , " he said . Will Imran Tahir 's spin be South Africa 's weapon against New Zealand ? © AFP Proteas leg-spinner Imran Tahir 's four for 26 against Sri Lanka should raise a red flag for New Zealand 's talismanic opener and captain Brendon McCullum , whose swash-buckling reputation carries a postscript that he is vulnerable to leggies . - 'Match-hardened ' - When New Zealand and South Africa met in a pre-tournament hit out , Trent Boult took five for 51 in a 134-run win over a Proteas side without key figures Hashim Amla and Dale Steyn . South Africa won an one-day international series 2-0 against New Zealand without Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor late last year , and Hesson said that result was further skewed by South Africa being in full flight while New Zealand were just gearing up for the season . " In September and October the pitches are different , we 'd come out of a winter , they 'd come out of a campaign , " said Hesson. " They hit us hard early and we did n't respond well. We 're more match-hardened now. " It was the start of a build-up that has seen New Zealand hit form at the right time with wins in their past nine games -- they have never won 10 in a row -- while South Africa were beaten by Pakistan in World Cup pool play . Their crunch showdown takes place at Eden Park , whose drop-in pitch and short boundaries ought to favour batsmen , but where results show the 300 mark has been bettered only six times in ODIs . Between them , New Zealand and South Africa provide half of the top 10 bowlers at this World Cup . Boult is the leading wicket-taker with 19 and is joined by fellow Kiwis Daniel Vettori and Tim Southee with 15 scalps , the same as Tahir , while South Africa fast bowler Morne Morkel has 14 . Guptill , coming into form with back-to-back centuries is the second-highest run scorer with 498 , with de Villiers in fourth place , a further 81 runs further back . Although the bookmakers have South Africa as favourites , New Zealand have come out on top the last three times the teams have clashed at a World Cup . Late call-up Matt Henry will duel with seasoned international Kyle Mills and Mitchell McClenaghan to take Milne 's place . Story first published on : Monday , 23 March 2015 08 : 34 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
