India vs Australia : A History of Over-Heated Battles India vs Australia : A History of Over-Heated Battles There is no shortage of mutual respect between Australia and India but as the two most powerful nations in contemporary cricket , they are also the fiercest of rivals . Last updated on Monday , 23 March , 2015 19 : 28 IST Total Shares Australia and India shared some heated moments on the field all summer . © Reuters Sydney : The love-hate relationship between Australia and India has guaranteed mega-match status to Thursday 's World Cup semi-final at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) . ( Full World Cup Coverage ) There is no shortage of mutual respect between the two teams but as the two most powerful nations in contemporary cricket , they are also the fiercest of rivals . With players on neither side willing to give any ground , their battle for global supremacy has led to some tense battles on and off the pitch , which have occasionally overheated. ( Srinivasan , Anurag Thakur to Attend Semi-Final Between India and Australia ) The most infamous clash was during the second match of their 2007-8 series , played at the Sydney Cricket Ground. India lost the match in the final moments of the last day , but that was only the start of the drama. ( Glenn Maxwell Reminds India of Their Recent Dismal Record vs Australia ) The Indians were furious that a number of key umpiring decisions had gone against them. Then their spinner Harbhajan Singh was charged with racially abusing Australia 's Andrew Symonds in what became known as the 'Monkeygate ' scandal. ( Top 5 Reasons Why India Can 'Stun ' Aussies in Their Own Backyard ) Harbhajan was banned for three matches , further upsetting the Indians , who responded by saying they were abandoning the tour and heading home. The International Cricket Council intervened , the charges were later downgraded and the team agreed to stay . But the rivalry has remained to this day . In the lead-up to the World Cup , the teams played each other in a Test and one-day series where tensions again threatened to boil over. ( Is India vs Australia Semi-Final a 50-50 Bet ? ) The Australian batsman David Warner and the Indian pair of Virat Kohli and Shikhar Dhawan were all fined by the ICC after a row during the Test series while Australian fast bowler Mitchell Starc was given a warning. ( Rameez Raja Urges India to Learn From Wahab Riaz , Use Pace to Attack Aussies ) When the teams switched to One Day Internationals after the Test series , Warner was slapped with another fine after telling Indian opener Rohit Sharma to " speak English " . ( Indian Bowlers Deserve Credit for Their Patience and Resilience : Ian Chappell ) With the match sold out and hundreds of millions of people expected to watch on television as the teams fight for a place in the World Cup final , all the ingredients are there for another explosive battle . The players on both teams have already been warned about their behaviour but have shown no signs of backing down with so much at stake. ( Indian Fans Set to Outnumber Aussies at SCG ) " It 's the nature of the game , it 's a semi-final , it 's cut-throat , there 's going to be words said. It 's going to be a really tough contest and both teams wo n't be backing down , " Australian all-rounder James Faulkner told a news conference before team training on Monday . Story first published on : Monday , 23 March 2015 12 : 15 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
