New Zealand vs South Africa , Highlights : Grant Elliott Guides Kiwis to Maiden World Cup Final New Zealand vs South Africa , Highlights : Grant Elliott Guides Kiwis to Maiden World Cup Final New Zealand qualify for the final for the first time. Catch all the highlights here . Last updated on Tuesday , 24 March , 2015 16 : 13 IST Total Shares Grant Elliott celebrates after guiding New Zealand to the final . © Getty Images Grant Elliott hit a match-winning 84 to guide New Zealand to a 4-wicket win over South Africa in the semi-final in Auckland. Catch all the highlights of the match here : ( Scorecard | Stats | Schedule ) I must confess there was a big part of me that wanted South Africa to do it today. I admire New Zealand but just too much sentiment with SA — Harsha Bhogle ( @ bhogleharsha ) March 24 , 2015 Woohoo. Who 's coming to Melbourne ? ? ? ? — Ross Taylor ( @ RossLTaylor ) March 24 , 2015 What a game of cricket in NZ , please hold your heads high South Africa , you 've done everyone proud as you gave it absolutely everything ! !  — Shane Warne ( @ ShaneWarne ) March 24 , 2015 South Africa DID NOT CHOKE ! They got beaten by a better team today...AB led the team wonderfully well ! But , well done NZ ! See you in Sydney ! — Kevin Pietersen ( @ KP24 ) March 24 , 2015 Having played all their matches on small home grounds , New Zealand may not find it that easy at the huge MCG with a hostile crowd . — Vikram Chandra ( @ vikramchandra ) March 24 , 2015 15 : 46 ( IST ) : Brendon McCullum : South Africa gave us a tough fight. Really proud of the boys. What a great innings from ( Grant ) Elliott. He 's played a match-winning innings in the semi-final and the partnership he had with Corey ( Anderson ) was amazing. This is the greatest time of our lives as players. The brand of cricket we have been playing is phenominanl. Hopefully we 'll win it in a few days time. We know that if we play good cricket we will have a great chance in the final. We 've got an outstanding management with us . AB de Villiers : It has been an amazing game of cricket , this is probably the most electric crowd I 've ever heard in my life. It 's hurting that we are going out. That 's probably the worst thing of all. The passion did make a big difference , I hope the people back home will be proud of us . Grant Elliott : This win is for the fans not for me or the team. It 's absolute pleasure to play at Eden Park. The supporters have been amazing. I think we timed the pace of the innings to perfection. We have had a good run. It is the first final we have been in. We are a very level team , we will approach it as any other game . 15 : 30 ( IST ) : Grant Elliott seals it with a huge six over long on off Dale Steyn. Elliott held his nerves with a crucial 84 not out off 73 to guide New Zealand to their maiden World Cup final. South African players are in tears , including their captain AB de Villiers. Corey Anderson also scored a crucial fifty ( 58 ) after Brendon McCullum provided a solid start with his quick-fire 59 off 32 balls. Morne Morkel picked up three wickets to keep Proteas in the game but lacked support from the other end . 15 : 11 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Luke Ronchi 's short knock has come to an end and Dale Steyn gets a wicket. He pulls it straight to Rilee Rossouw at deep square leg . 15 : 05 ( IST ) : If the match is tied then New Zealand will qualify for the final because they finished higher in the pool stage . 14 : 57 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Morne Morkel gets the big man. Can this be the moment for South Africa ? Morkel bowls a short one again and Corey Anderson ( 58 ) top edges pull to square leg. it goes high in the air and Faf du Plessis makes no mistake as he takes a clean catch . Anderson in action during New Zealand 's run chase vs South Africa . © Getty Images 14 : 48 ( IST ) : Corey Anderson and Grant Elliott have batted beautifully so far. While Anderson has scored his fourth fifty , Elliott has notched up his eighth . What a miss by one of the greatest athletes in cricket today ! Did AB just er...choke... under pressure ? — Vikram Chandra ( @ vikramchandra ) March 24 , 2015 14 : 22 ( IST ) : Corey Anderson survives on 33 as AB de Villiers misses an easy run out chance. Is pressure taking a toll on the Proteas captain ? 14 : 16 ( IST ) : FIFTY STAND ! Corey Anderson and Grant Elliott have added an all-important 55 runs for the the fifth wicket. They require another 94 in 70 balls . 13 : 55 ( IST ) : All eyes are on Corey Anderson as Kiwis still need 124 in 17 overs. New Zealand have lost four wickets but are still in the game with Anderson and Grant Elliott in the middle . 13 : 37 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Ross Taylor departs after scoring 30. Part-time bowler Jean-Paul Duminy strikes and Kiwis lose their fourth wicket. Taylor goes across to play it on the leg side but ends up edging it to keeper Quinton de Kock , who takes a brilliant catch . Martin Guptill was run out for 34 . © Getty Images 13 : 16 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Martin Guptill is run out for 34 and New Zealand lose their third wicket. Ross Taylor plays it straight to Hashim Amla at backward point. He first hesitates but still calls for a single. Guptill reacts late and fails to beat Amla , who quickly picks the ball and throws it to Quinton de Kock who removes the bails in a flash . 13 : 11 ( IST ) : Every run is being cheered at Eden Park as New Zealand require another 170 to win. Ross Taylor and Martin Guptill have played sensibly so far . Morne Morkel celebrates with teammates . © Getty Images Good sensible batting going on right now from @ RossLTaylor and @ Martyguptill as they work the ball and look for the odd boundary. # nzvsa ^ PT Dale Steyn celebrates with teammates after taking McCullum 's catch . © Getty Images 12 : 39 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Morne Morkel gets his second. Morkel bowls a short ball , Kane Williamson pulls it but ends up edging it onto stumps . Standing ovation for McCullum after that innings : https : //t.co/DUHNEwkWAC # NZvSA — Cricket World Cup ( @ cricketworldcup ) March 24 , 2015 Brendon McCullum hit eight fours and four sixes in his 26-ball knock . © Getty Images 12 : 27 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Morne Morkel gets the much-needed breakthrough and it 's Brendon McCullum who will have to make a long way back. The Kiwi skipper goes down the track to hit a short-pitched delivery over mid-on but fails to get the elevation. Dale Steyn takes a simple catch to end McCullum 's 59-run knock off 26 balls , laced with eight fours and four sixes . Just sit back for a second and realise that Baz just did that to one of the top 5 fast bowlers in the history of the game . — Jimmy Neesham ( @ JimmyNeesh ) March 24 , 2015 12 : 18 ( IST ) : FIFTY ! Brendon McCullum races to his 31st ODI half-century off just 22 balls. He has also completed 3000 runs in New Zealand. McCullum has hit eight fours and four sixes so far . Three overs in and the BLACKCAPS are 32-0 in pursuit of 298. DL at this point is 20 # nzvsa # cwc15 ^ CE 12 : 06 ( IST ) : Skipper Brendon McCullum is leading from the front as New Zealand chase a massive 298 in rain-curtailed 43 overs-a-side. He has hit 26 off 14 balls with three fours and two massive sixes . David Miller hit 49 off 18 . © Getty Images 11 : 43 ( IST ) : That 's it ! South Africa post a daunting 281 for five. The DL target for New Zealand is 298 in 43 overs. Faf du Plessis top scored with 82 while AB de Villiers hit 65 not out off 45 balls. David Miller missed out on a record-equalling fastest fifty. He scored 49 off 18 balls. Corey Anderson picked up three wickets while Trent Boult bagged two . 11 : 28 ( IST ) : David Miller scores 17 runs in Tim Southee 's over. Hammers him for four fours. Three more overs left . 11 : 16 ( IST ) : WICKET ! Corey Anderson gets Faf du Plessis for 82. Du Plessis goes for pull , but misses it. Ball kisses his glove and is caught by Luke Ronchi. Anderson appeals for caught behind but umpire Ian Gould gives it a wide down the leg side. Kiwis take the review and it goes in their favour. Proteas lose their fourth. David Miller joins AB de Villiers . 11 : 00 ( IST ) : South Africa had two more overs of Powerplay left but that has been cancelled. New Zealand will have a mandatory PP of nine overs and the batting PP of four overs instead of 10 and 5 , respectively. Three bowlers can bowl nine overs while two can bowl eight . 10 : 58 ( IST ) : Covers are off and play will resume soon. Match has been reduced to 43 overs-a-side. South Africa were 216 for three in 38 overs. They have five more overs to bat . Loud cheer from the crowd at Eden Park as the covers are being removed . © Getty Images — BLACKCAPS ( @ BLACKCAPS ) March 24 , 2015 10 : 47 ( IST ) : Rain has stopped at Eden Park and the groundsmen are removing the covers. Overs will be deducted . Everything possible will be done to get a completed match today , although there is a reserve day in the schedule ( 2/2 ) # NZvSA # cwc15
