World Cup 2015 : Shikhar Dhawan 's Dismissal was the Turning Point , says Mahendra Singh Dhoni World Cup 2015 : Shikhar Dhawan 's Dismissal was the Turning Point , says Mahendra Singh Dhoni Mahendra Singh Dhoni 's Team India lost to Australia by 95 runs and crashed out of the World Cup 2015 semifinal . Last updated on Thursday , 26 March , 2015 20 : 44 IST Total Shares Dhawan walks off after being dismissed by Australia in World Cup 2015 semifinal © AFP A crestfallen Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni said opener Shikhar Dhawan 's dismissal was the turning point in the cricket World Cup semi-final against Australia , which his team lost by 95 runs at the Sydney Cricket Ground ( SCG ) on Thursday. ( Dhoni Pokes Fun at ODI Retirement ) Dhoni said Dhawan was settled in the middle and stroking the ball well till during India 's 329-run chase his dismissal for 45 in the 13th over. India were 76/1 after his dismissal but then quickly got reduced to 108/4 in the 23rd over. ( Anushka Should Not be Blamed : Ganguly ) " We got off to a very good start , Shikhar 's dismissal was slightly on the softer side , at a time when we could have had the bowling under pressure. He did n't really need to play a big shot , " Dhoni said at the post-match presentation ceremony . " But you get pressure chasing 300 plus , makes you do things you do n't want to do. " ( Dhoni Goes Down Fighting ) Dhawan was striking the ball superbly and had raced to 45 off 41 deliveries , but then fell to right-arm pacer Josh Hazlewood as he chipped down the track to hit him over mid-off , the ball took slice off the bat and landed in the hands Glenn Maxwell in the deep . The skipper said the pacers could have bowled much better as they conceded a huge total of 328 for seven after Australia won the toss and chose to bat . " They were looking as if they will score 340 or maybe 350 but we came back quite well. But I felt we could have still bowled well. The reason being , in the afternoon , we got a bit of reverse swing going. I felt the fast bowlers could have done slightly better. " Dhoni also expressed his concern about the lower batting order failing to cope with the conditions and the Australian quicks . " I do n't think they ( lower order ) can contribute as much in these conditions. So it makes it further difficult ( to chase a huge score ) . But overall , I think it 's a good exposure for them. Maybe next time when you are playing in other conditions , they 'll know how to bat in these conditions and they 'll do much better , " he said . " So our lower-order really needs to work slightly hard on their batting , because most of the good teams , they bat quite deep and we have seen , especially in the knockout stages , you need to do that. " Asked about his plans of retiring from international cricket , Dhoni , who got a brisk 65 in the chase , said : " I am 33 , I 'm still running , I 'm still fit. I will have a year 's time. Maybe close to next year during the T20 World Cup will be the time when I will decide whether I can continue till the 2019 World Cup or not. " The captain also thanked the fans for supporting them throughout but stressed that there can only be one winner at the end of the day . " We have been here for over four months. Thanks to the Indian fans , who were travelling all over from India , England and all the different places. It 's a bit disappointing for them , but at the same time when you play a sport , only one team can win , " the skipper signed off . Story first published on : Thursday , 26 March 2015 19 : 27 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
