MS Dhoni Defends Virat Kohli after Dismal Show Against Australia in Sydney MS Dhoni Defends Virat Kohli after Dismal Show Against Australia in Sydney Virat Kohli has come under heavy criticism after failing against Australia but Indian captain MS Dhoni defended his star batsman . Last updated on Friday , 27 March , 2015 09 : 31 IST Total Shares MS Dhoni defends his star batsman 's loss of form © Getty Images Sydney : Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni today defended an under-fire Virat Kohli for his indiscreet shot selection in the lost semi-final clash against Australia in the ICC Cricket World Cup , here today. ( Match Report ) Chasing an imposing 329 for a win , India were bundled out for 233 in 46.5 overs with Dhoni top-scoring with a run-a-ball 65 as the batting was guilty of buckling under pressure , including Kohli ( 1 ) . Asked if Kohli 's shot selection was reflective of the pressure on him , Dhoni batted strongly for his deputy. ( Anushka Should Not be Blamed for Kohli 's Poor Form : Ganguly ) " Pehli baat yeh hai ki til ka taad nahin banate hain ( Let 's not make a mountain out of a mole hill ) . Let 's accept the fact that he played a shot that did n't pay off. It happens and it happens to a lot of batsmen , " Dhoni said in the post-match conference. ( India Crumbled Under Pressure : Gavaskar ) " Once the opposition puts over 300 runs on the board and once they have quality bowlers , at some point of time you have to take that risk. If it pays off , if it clicks , all of a sudden everything changes. He played a shot , it did n't pay off and that 's it. I would say it happens in cricket , " he added . The skipper did admit that there were a few niggles as far as bowlers were concerned but at the same time said that it was n't anything alarming . " About fitness , a few of them ( bowlers ) had a few niggles , but the whole unit was 100 per cent fit. Fast bowlers had a bit of niggle , but nothing that really stops them from playing , so there were no fitness issues as such. " Asked as to when did he think that the chase was becoming difficult and probably they were n't going to win it , the wicketkeeper-batsman answered , " I think after the fall of third wicket , I somehow sensed that it would be difficult from here on. " With the fast bowlers having done well throughout , Dhoni was n't harsh on them for their flop show on the day , stating that they could have done " slightly better " . " When we lost the toss , I was a bit worried as I thought maybe the spinners would n't get as much purchase. But I feel ( Ravindra ) Jadeja and ( Ravichandran ) Ashwin , both bowled well. There was possibility of reverse swing going , so I felt our fast bowlers could have slightly better as there would n't be much of a reverse swing. But once we came back into the game and restricted them to 328 , I felt it was a good score . " Yes , there was pressure , but at the same time it needed some good batting and good partnership , so it was a gettable score , but it needed some really hard work to get the runs on the board , " the skipper said . Story first published on : Thursday , 26 March 2015 19 : 36 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
