Is Mahendra Singh Dhoni Losing his Midas Touch ? Is Mahendra Singh Dhoni Losing his Midas Touch ? Mahendra Singh Dhoni may still be regarded as India 's best limited-overs player but his uncanny ability to conjure wins in major tournaments seems to have deserted him . Last updated on Friday , 27 March , 2015 09 : 28 IST Total Shares File photo of MS Dhoni . © Reuters Melbourne : When Mahendra Singh Dhoni was surprisingly named India 's captain in 2007 as senior players backed out of the inaugural World Twenty20 , he responded by leading his team to the title. ( Australian Media Criticises India ) Two years later , Dhoni was at the helm when India topped the Test rankings and , another two years later , he captained the nation to their second World Cup triumph in front of adoring home crowds in Mumbai . But the Dhoni magic was too good to last. He may still be regarded as India 's best limited-overs player but his uncanny ability to conjure wins in major tournaments seems to have deserted him . India were beaten by Sri Lanka in the final of the World Twenty20 in Bangladesh last year despite enjoying an unbeaten run in the tournament till then. ( India Outplayed by Better Team : Ganguly ) On Thursday , India succumbed to a 95-run World Cup semi-final loss to Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground after six straight wins in the league and one more against Bangladesh in the quarter-final . But it was once again Australia , the top-ranked one-day team , who got in the way as the tournament co-hosts built on their success over Dhoni 's men in the Tests and one-day tri-series which preceded the World Cup . As the Indians trudged off from the SCG after the match , the question asked was whether Dhoni will give up the captaincy -- or quit playing one-day cricket altogether. ( India 's Reign as World Champions Ends ) In late December , Dhoni made a shock retirement from Test cricket after the third Test of the four-match series against Australia , with the decision being announced by the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) through a media release . This time , Dhoni was more forthcoming at the post-match presentation , saying he would rethink his long-term future after next year 's World Twenty20 that India are due to host . Asked if he will play in another 50-over World Cup , Dhoni said : " I 'm not sure about it. I 'm 33 , I 'm still running , I 'm still fit. " ( Dhoni Pokes Fun at Retirement Talks ) Australian captain Michael Clarke said Dhoni 's time was not over yet . - Proud bunch - " I heard you ask if it is going to be his last World Cup , " Clarke told the presenter. " I 'm pretty sure it 's not going to be , there 's a lot of cricket left in his body yet. " ( Angry Fans Burn Team India Posters , Smash TV Sets After World Cup Exit ) Dhoni hit a run-a-ball 65 in the semi-final , but could not prevent India from being dismissed for 233 in reply to Australia 's 328 for seven . Despite the loss , Dhoni 's men will return home a proud bunch who made a creditable comeback after the dismal bilateral tour . Former batting great Sunil Gavaskar attributed the defeat to the pressure of chasing down a 300-plus target , but conceded Australia outplayed India with both bat and ball . " India succumbed under the pressure of big finals , " said Gavaskar. " The batsmen played irresponsibly and got out to some sloppy shots. " India won in 2011 with an established line-up that included batting record-holder Sachin Tendulkar and other seasoned players like Virender Sehwag , Gautam Gambhir , Yuvraj Singh , Zaheer Khan and Harbhajan Singh . In this edition , Dhoni was the elder statesman of a relatively young team that will form the nucleus of the side till the next World Cup in England in four years ' time . In Shikhar Dhawan , who scored 412 runs in the tournament , and Rohit Sharma , with 330 runs , India have a stable opening pair at the top of a talented batting line-up . Star batsman Virat Kohli failed to live up to his own lofty standards after scoring a match-winning century in the first match against Pakistan , but remains one of the most prolific batsmen in the modern game. ( Dhoni Defends Kohli After Dismal Show ) The surprise packet was a heart-warming display of the much-maligned fast bowlers with Umesh Yadav ( 18 wickets ) and Mohammad Shami ( 17 ) leading the way and third seamer Mohit Sharma 's 13 wickets matching the haul of leading spinner Ravichandran Ashwin . " Keep faith in this team , they will win you many matches in future , " said former captain Sourav Ganguly. " Indian cricket has a bright future. " ( Do n't Blame Anushka for Kohli 's Poor Form , Says Ganguly ) Story first published on : Friday , 27 March 2015 08 : 13 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
