N. Srinivasan Defends 10-Team World Cup in 2019 N. Srinivasan Defends 10-Team World Cup in 2019 As per the new qualifying system while hosts England and the top seven teams will be assured of a place in the World Cup , the Associates will have to fight it out against the sides outside the top-eight of ICC rankings in the qualifiers . Last updated on Sunday , 29 March , 2015 11 : 58 IST Total Shares The ICC 's decision to reduce the number of teams from 14 to 10 in the next World in England has been lambasted by the associate nations . © Getty Images Melbourne : The Associate cricket nations might be fuming at the prospect of a 10-team World Cup in 2019 , but ICC chief N. Srinivasan on Sunday said they had no reason to feel left out as the format gives them a good chance at qualifying for the mega-event. ( World Cup Final Blog | Scorecard ) The ICC 's decision to reduce the number of teams from 14 to 10 in the next World in England has been lambasted by the associate nations . The world body has also drawn criticism from some of the most prominent voices in international cricket , including Indian icon Sachin Tendulkar , who has gone to the extent of saying that the idea is detrimental to the goal of making cricket a global game. ( Fans Paint MCG Yellow and Black ) But Srinivasan said there is not much to be concerned about . " If you look at the next World Cup , the top eight will qualify while for the ninth and 10th team , there will be competition between six associates. So , the Associates will have a reasonably good chance at playing the World Cup. The success of the Associates is actually because of the ICC 's development program , " Srinivasan told 'STAR Sports ' here. ( World Cup 2015 Most Followed Cricket Event : ICC ) As per the new qualifying system while hosts England and the top seven teams will be assured of a place in the World Cup , the Associates will have to fight it out against the sides outside the top-eight of ICC rankings in the qualifiers . This could well mean that not a single associate nation would make the showpiece event . The decision has expectedly not gone down well with well-performing Associates like Ireland , who enthralled one and all with some terrific performances in this World Cup , missing the quarterfinal berth by a whisker . Irish captain William Porterfield has hardly minced words in expressing his displeasure towards the move . " Everyone wants to know what their ( ICC ) vision for the game is , because if they cut the teams in world competitions , why not just have 10 teams playing cricket and every other country in the world does n't bother ? " he had asked. ( Reducing No.of Teams in World is a Backward Step : Sachin Tendulkar ) Story first published on : Sunday , 29 March 2015 10 : 42 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
