World Cup Triumph Perfect Farewell for Michael Clarke World Cup Triumph Perfect Farewell for Michael Clarke It was a fitting finale for Michael Clarke , who played his 245th and last one-day international to lead Australia to a comprehensive seven-wicket over New Zealand in Sunday 's World Cup final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Last updated on Sunday , 29 March , 2015 20 : 01 IST Total Shares Michael Clarke bids goodbye to the MCG . © Getty Images Melbourne : Skipper Michael Clarke shrugged off fitness fears , talk of rifts with team-mates , coach and selectors to spearhead Australia to a fifth World Cup crown . It was a fitting finale for Clarke , who played his 245th and last one-day international to lead Australia to a comprehensive seven-wicket over New Zealand in Sunday 's final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Clarke , 33 , went out on a high , finishing with 74 off 72 balls -- taking his career total to 7,981 runs -- after being largely a peripheral figure for the Australian team in the tournament scoring two half-centuries in six knocks although his leadership and on-field strategy have not been questioned . Clarke was stung when asked at his media conference following the 95-win semi-final victory over India if his batting style had become redundant for the modern game now stacked up against the audacious shotmakers in his side -- David Warner , Steve Smith , Glenn Maxwell and Aaron Finch . " I think I 'm doing all right. I think my record is pretty good up against anybody in the world. I think my record holds its place. I 'm not concerned at all , " retorted Clarke . Yet his last ODI century came against England in Manchester in September 2013 and up to the World Cup Clarke had played in only six ODIs in the previous year . Speculation over the state of his fitness also annoyed him after recent battles with hamstring and back problems . " I think everybody is sick of talking about my injury , my old injury , I should say , " said Clarke , who turns 34 next week . While Clarke was on the sidelines , Steve Smith successfully filled in as captain to lead Australia to a 2-0 Test series victory in the three remaining Tests against India and is expected to take over the ODI role full-time . Reports at the time suggested the team had taken to Smith 's style , while speculation that Clarke wanted to have a strong say in when he was ready to return to the team from injury had caused friction with Cricket Australia . " It seems like some people in particular are going to write what they want to write , " he scowled . " I 'm really happy and comfortable with my relationship with Cricket Australia firstly , certainly with my teammates . " It 's water off a duck 's back for me , I 've copped it my whole career. It 's another day , another newspaper sold. I do n't really care. " There was even talk of a fall-out with coach Darren Lehmann and chief selector Rod Marsh over a deadline imposed on him to confirm his place in the World cup squad . " You wo n't get headlines out of me , " Clarke told reporters . Sunday 's World Cup final triumph was a career pinnacle for Clarke , who won 50 of his 74 ODIs as Australia 's skipper . " It 's been an honour and a privilege to represent my country , the time is right for to walk away from one-day cricket , " Clarke . But he is n't finished . He will continue to play Test cricket looking to add to his 108 matches so far which have yielded 8,432 runs and a highest score of an undefeated 329 . And he will keep honouring former teammate Phillip Hughes who died last year by wearing a black armband in every match he plays . " The band has got PH on it. I will wear it every game I play for Australia....this victory is dedicated to our little brother Phillip Hughes. " Story first published on : Sunday , 29 March 2015 18 : 55 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
