Virat Kohli has Been Sensational in Australia , says Rahul Dravid Virat Kohli has Been Sensational in Australia , says Rahul Dravid Virat Kohli was India 's best batsman in the four-Test series but replicate that form in World Cup 2015. After his century against Pakistan , Kohli could n't get the starts he hoped for . Last updated on Monday , 30 March , 2015 11 : 29 IST Total Shares Virat Kohli celebrates after India beat South Africa in their World Cup match . © AFP Melbourne : Dismissing criticism against Virat Kohli for his early dismissal in the World Cup semifinal against Australia , former Indian cricket captain Rahul Dravid said barring the one blip , the star batsman has been sensational Down Under. ( Team India members arrive home ; Kohli-Anushka land in Mumbai ) " We have short memory. He did play his absolute best at the Test matches. In fact , he was sensational , " Dravid said on the sidelines of an event in Melbourne. ( Complete coverage of World Cup 2015 ) " I can not think of an Indian batsman who had come to Australia and played as well as Virat Kohli in the Test matches. We did see his absolute best. Unfortunately we did n't see it the other night ( semifinal match ) . But thats part and parcel of the sports , " he added. ( Do n't blame Anushka for Kohli 's form : Ganguly ) On India losing the semifinals against Australia in Sydney , Dravid said he was not very disappointed by the defeat. Dravid said the two teams which played the finals were the best teams to have reached there. ( 'Kohli , Rohit 's exit hurt India in semis ' ) " Realistically , India did n't beat Australia at all during these four months at any Test matches and tri-series and New Zealand did play some fantastic cricket at home , " he elaborated. ( MS Dhoni defends Kohli after dismal show in World Cup semis ) " I think the two best teams made to finals , " Dravid said adding , " India did as well as they could and it was quite difficult to get to the semifinals. " " They were a young team and with these kind of conditions , it was going to be difficult to get over the Australian hurdle , " he said . Story first published on : Monday , 30 March 2015 10 : 24 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
