After Cricket World Cup Win , Australian Team on a High in Breakfast Radio Show After Cricket World Cup Win , Australian Team on a High in Breakfast Radio Show The Australians know how to party and after the cricket World Cup win they called in to Tasmania 's Heart 107.3 to talk to the Dave &amp ; Kylie breakfast show . Last updated on Monday , 30 March , 2015 17 : 58 IST Total Shares Celebrations - Aussie Style ! © Getty Images On Sunday , the Australians crushed the New Zealanders to clinch the 2015 World Cup at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. After a fine performance on field , the Aussies got into party mode . They celebrated at the MCG by splashing drinks at each other. They went back to the hotel and the party went deep into the night and continued till the wee hours of the morning. ( Haddin Defends Sledging ) After a few cans down , the Aussies called in to Tasmania 's Heart 107.3 to talk to the Dave and Kylie breakfast show. ( Warne Under Fire for 'Thirsty ' Questions ) George Bailey , James Faulkner , Shaun Marsh , Steve Smith and coach Darren Lehmann called up the breakfast radio amidst the cacophony of laughter from their hotel roof-top celebrations . " We 're on , we 're live ! We 're going live ! Mate I am , I am , I am ... Dave , I 've always looked after you , but tonight , I 'm ... [ interruption ] Today ? This morning ! " - said the team in unison . " I 'm guessing none of you guys have been to bed ? " Kylie , the presenter of the show , asked the team . Darren Lehman , the coach , took control of the situation and said , " Yeah , look , sometimes you just have to do that. It 's not every day you win a World Cup for Australia ... the boys are making the most of it ! " The Australians know how to win a cricket World Cup. They have done it five times now . They also know how to celebrate a World Cup win. Evidently ! Better than the herald sun ! ! ! Love my boys pic.twitter.com/y7ZwzikrzQ — Darren Lehmann ( @ darren_lehmann ) March 29 , 2015 Still going with the Kings and going hard ! ! Love Australia xxx pic.twitter.com/M0ChhSonad — Darren Lehmann ( @ darren_lehmann ) March 29 , 2015 Sorry Bails was MIA pic.twitter.com/oaOt2MsDgw — Darren Lehmann ( @ darren_lehmann ) March 29 , 2015 Story first published on : Monday , 30 March 2015 16 : 46 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
