Shahid Afridi Sings 'Mauka Mauka ' After India 's World Cup Exit Shahid Afridi Sings 'Mauka Mauka ' After India 's World Cup Exit India registered seven wins on the trot in World Cup 2015 before losing to Aussies in the World Cup 2015 semis. Pakistan , on the other hand , barely managed to reach the quarters and were knocked out immediately after . Last updated on Wednesday , 01 April , 2015 10 : 26 IST Total Shares File photo of Shahid Afridi . © AFP Veteran Pakistani cricketer Shahid Afridi may have failed to shine in the recently-concluded World Cup 2015. Lack of runs and wickets however , did not stop the all-rounder from singing 'Mauka Mauka ' after rivals India crashed out of the tournament in the semifinal. ( Also read : Azhar Ali appointed new captain of Pakistani ODI side ) During the World Cup , a viral marketing campaign titled 'Mauka Mauka ' had poked fun at Pakistani fans. The national cricket team 's rather dismal performance had not helped matters with the side losing to Australia in the quarters. Arch-rivals India had been in great form since beating Pakistan in their first Pool B match but eventually lost to the Aussies in the semis. On a Pakistani chat show , Afridi was asked how he reacted to India 's defeat and the 35-year-old reacted by singing the popular jingle. " I got a clip from Saudi that showed the 'Mauka ' ad after India lost , " clarified Afridi . Not just Afridi but fans and the media in Pakistan had found some solace in the fact that defending champions India could only fare slightly better than their team Down Under. While Pakistan had barely managed to enter the quarters , India had registered seven wins on the trot before losing to the semifinal. In the end though , hearts were left broken on both sides of the border as India and Pakistan had to book early return flights home. ( Related : Pakistan fans , media seize their 'mauka ' ) Story first published on : Wednesday , 01 April 2015 09 : 06 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
