Haroon Lorgat Says Charges of SA selection Interference are " Utter Nonsense " Haroon Lorgat Says Charges of SA selection Interference are " Utter Nonsense " Responding to reports in Afrikaans daily 'Beeld ' , Lorgat denied that he had sent instructions to Proteas coach Russell Domingo at 1 in the morning , insisting that the coach , who is also a member of the CSA selection panel , add one more player of colour to the squad . Last updated on Wednesday , 01 April , 2015 18 : 14 IST Total Shares Vernon Philander was called into the South African XI in place of Kyle Abbott for the World Cup 2015 semifinal vs New Zealand . © Getty Images Johannesburg : Dismissing reports of interference in team selection ahead of South Africa 's World Cup semi-final against New Zealand as " utter nonsense " , CSA Chief Executive Haroon Lorgat has clarified that no late-night instructions were given after the playing XI was announced . Responding to reports in Afrikaans daily 'Beeld ' , Lorgat denied that he had sent instructions to Proteas coach Russell Domingo at 1 in the morning , insisting that the coach , who is also a member of the CSA selection panel , add one more player of colour to the squad . It was widely speculated that coloured player Vernon Philander was included in the team ahead of Kyle Abbott for the last clash . " This is utter nonsense reporting with false allegations being made , " said Lorgat . " There was no SMS , WhatsApp or BBM sent by me to the coach , and why would I want to do that when I know the team was confirmed and already announced to the players and team management at their usual 18h00 team meeting that evening ? " Our media policy is not to respond to speculative or false media reports where unnamed sources are quoted , but in this case , due to the damage being caused to the reputation of the Proteas , CSA and individual players soon after a painful exit from the World Cup , I feel it necessary to speak out and make it clear that this report is false , " added Lorgat . The cricket boss however said he had not spoken to any reporter from Beeld . " It is very sad to read such poor and false reports which I believe are no more than an attempt to discredit the Proteas and CSA. " CSA last week made known its plans to transform cricket in South Africa by teams at all levels having to include more Black players , who were disadvantaged during the apartheid era . Story first published on : Wednesday , 01 April 2015 09 : 42 IST For the latest Cricket news , Score , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and get the NDTV Cricket app for Android or iOS
